{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1847__anonymous___record_of_cases.pdf","mytitle":"Record Of Cases","mylang":"de"}
RECORD OF CASES
TBEATED ur THE
MESMERIC HOSPITAL,
FBOM
NOVEMBER 1846 TO MAY 1847:
WITH
REPORTS OF THE OFFICIAL VISITORS.
PRINTED BY ORDER OF GOVERNMENT.
CALCUTTA:
W. RIDSDALE, MILITARY ORPHAN PRESS.
M. DCCC,XLVIJ.
Digitized by Google
REPORT OF CASES TREATED IN THE CALCUTTA MESMERIC
HOSPITAL,
From 9th Novemher to the 31st December 1846.
I REGRET that there isno novelty in the nature of the cases treat.ed
last month, and for this reason: in ci>nsequence of the success I
have met with, in removing the tumors so common in this country,
while the J>&tients were in the Mesmeric trance, persons affiicted
with this disease resort to me from great distances, and a notion has
gone abroad among the people, that my "charm,, is only applicable
to such cases: add to this, that the natives are totally ~orant of
the efficacy of Mesmerism in medical diseases, and it will explain
the sameness of my proceedings since coming to Calcutta. The
field will gradually open, however, and in proportion as the public
become familiar with the subject, and it.a extensive a~~jtion to
medical as well as the generality of surgical diseases, I be able
to communicate more varied and interesting matter.
In recording last month's proceedings, I shall put th~ reader in
possession of the facts, and then make some comments on them.
Novem/Jer 9th.-Doahmony, a peasant woman, aged 50, has come
from Benares to get an immense schirrous tumour of the right ~reast
removed. It commenced two years ago, and is moveable, hard, and
elastic ; there is no enlargement of the axillary glands, and she does
not look in very bad health.
On the 7th day of Mesmerising, she was entranced, her arms
were partially cat.aleptic, and she was insensible to pricking. Next
day she was again put to sleep, and two-thirds of the tumour remov-
ed without her moving or appearing to feel it. She then awoke up,
and appeared to recover her senses before the or:ration was finished.
No manual restraint was used during the excision of the mass, but
she became very violent immediately after, and required to be for-
cibly held down while the arteries were being tied.
The breast weighed 7 lbs.
Decemher 29th.-Discharged, at her own request, her frienda
having come for her from Benares. The sore is nearly healed.
B
..
Digitized by Google
3
N<nJeTnJJer 2lst.-Sheik Manick, a husbandman, has come from
Bnrdwan to have an enormous scrotal tumour removed. He is
subject to fever twice a month, but his constitution appears to be
wonderfully little impaired. We succeeded in entrancing him on the
third day, and for four days aft.er, but. fever, followed by diarrhrea,
then attacked him, and the process was discontinued. On the 4th
December he was again Mesmerised, but it was found that we had
t.o commence de novo, his system having thrown off the Mesmeric
influence in the interval I determined on account of the periodic
derangement.a of his system, to operate on the first occasion that
offered.
~ 12th.-His arms, which were crossed upon his breast.,
were rigidly fixed in that attitude, .and could not be extended; prick-
ing ·hini all over did not disturb him. I therefore proceeded to
operate.
I ought to have noted, that after testing him, I awoke him daily,
to ascertain if he had been conscious of any annoyance in his sleep.
The tumour was so immense, that no attempt could be made to
save the deep-seated organs; I therefore performed the operation in
the manner described by Dr. Stewart, in a similar case on which I
operated in the Native Hospital
Abo~t the middle of the operation, he cried out, and showed other
signs of suffering; but his exclamations were unintelligible, ur hadno
refer~ to kU frresent p<nition. Soon after all was over, he vomited
a full meal, and his pulse became imperceptible. He answered
questions in a wild distracted manner, and all we could make out
was, that ke could not see,.although his eyes were wide open. When
I tried to give him a cordial, his teeth were found to be firmly
clenched, and considerable ~dity still remained in the arms. He
continued to complain in a distracted, unintelligible manner for an
hour that I remained with him.
The tumor weighed 100'lbs.
He was operated on at 12 o'clock P. M., and I returned to see him
at four o'clock. He was sleeping soundly, and I awoke him; he
said that he was in full possession of all his senses, that he saw
very well, and he spoke loudl1 and earnestly as usual He had
slept soundly since 10 o'clock (his Mesmerisi,Jg time), he said, and
was awoke this moment by me. I asked him when he last saw me?
and he replied, "yesterday when you awoke me as umaL" He had
no recollection of having been disturbed, and said that he certainll
had not vomited to-day. Being farther pressed to remember if
nothing had alUloyed him when asleep, he said, "Ah I yes, now I
recollect being awoke for a moment by the a!}t.s biting me, but went
to sleep again till you awoke me this moment."
Digitized by Google
4
He now missed the weight of his burden, and sat up to look for
it ; on seeing the altered state of things, he expressed the greatest
surprise, and said, " Why did you not tell me you were going to do
it to-day?"
I desired him to go over the events of the day up to the present
moment, and he did this with the greatest minuteness till 10 o'clock,
his Mesmerising time, but after that he only recollected. beingannoy-
ed by the ants for a moment, and slept well till awoke by me just
now. He repeated that he had not seen me since yesterday. I .
found him entranced when I came t.o the hospital to-day, and there-
fore was not among his waking recollections--his existence from 10
till 4 o'clock was a complete blank. He seems to me to have awoke
up from the most intense degree of the Mesmeric trance into som-
nambulism, (of which the patient has no recollection in his waking
state) in which there was a disturbance of the instinctive powers of
life caused b1 the sudden and profuse loss of blood, but the life of
volition continued torpid and enchained till the moment that I awoke
him.
December 13th.-The wound was stitched to-day, and there was
no want of ~eaning in his exclamations: they were most emphatic
and appropriate, and he abused everybody in the most expressive
Bengatee terms.
December 28th.-He has had no difficulty in recovering, and has
been walking about for several days.
December 4th.-Sheik Nemoo, a Khitmutgar, ~ 30: he has
got a small scrotal tumour. He was entranced on the 8th day, and
the operation was performed two days after. .
The operation was very difficult and severe, from the almost
cartilaginous hardness of the skin, and its adhering closely to the
subjacent organs.
Towards the end of the operation he exhibited the usual signs of
pain, and asked for water and a punkah, but on coming thoroughly
to his senses, in about 10 minutes after, he asked wnen and by
whom it was done? The organs all saved.
December 3lst.-Is doing well.
From the foregoing, it will be seen that two, if not three patients
awoke into consciousness before the end of the operation. The
extraordinary case of Sheik Manick I e.onsider to have been as
satisfactory as if he had acted the part of a corpse throughout. For
when the convulsive movements often seen leave no memory of them
in the brain, and no trace of suffering in any part of the system is
visible when the person comes to his senses, such cases are surely
for all practical purposes painless operations. If a man has had no
Digitized by Google
5
apprehension of an operation, and knows not that it has been per-
formed when he awakes, what is this to be called if not a painless
operation?
As a practical man, I am quite satisfied if my patients assure me
that they felt no pain, especially when every look, word, and action
correspond with their statements. To the careful observer, those
vague convulsive movements are as specific and characteristic of an
extraordinary state of the system, as a co~like endurance of the
most cruel torture. When the trance is only disturbed, but not
broken, the motions often seen are as objectless as those of a galvan-
ised corpse, or the fluttering of a fowl after its head has been cut
off: the spinal nerves seem only to be irritated, without involving the
brain, or voluntary part of the nervous system, and <U long aa there
ia no volition, there ia no conaciousnesa <ifsensation, <U will he shortly
aeen. There is no attempt to witfidraw the part from under the knife,
the patients never try to remove it with tbeir hands, and it is quite
evident that they have no idea of the aource of their discomfort. If
the will had prompted the movements, some memory of them would
remain, hut there ia uaually none. I think it very probable that this
muscular irritability might be generally extinguished altogether by
prolonged treatment., but it is not worth the trouble, for th.e system
suffers as little as when there is not a quiver of the flesh. This I
have been long aware of, and acted up to, but I now come to an
equally practical fact., in working out which I have usefully spent a
considerable part of last month.
It is no small triumph of science, and no triflitl2 boon to humanity
to render men insensible even to halfthe horrors orterrible operations,
but having been long accustomed to save my patients all knowle<4?e
of the injuries inflicted upon them, I was dissatisfied with the haff-
successes that occurred last month, and suspected that there was
some disturbing influence at work which had been overlooked, or
that I was ignorant 0£ As many imperfect operations happened in
one month as in the last year and a half, and I resolved not to move
a foot farther till the disturbing cause was detected.
In the hot weather, the patients are all but naked, and in this state
are entranced, and operated on. But last month they were mesmeris-
ed under two blankets and a sheet., with their faces only exp<>sed.
Having been tested in the Mesmerising room, they were earned on
their beds into the Operating room, through which a current of the
cold North wind blew; and that every movement of the body might
be seen, they were exposed sta.rk naked to the spectators. I remark-
ed on several occasions, that a deep inspiration, and other involunta-
ry movements immediately followed this exposure of the body to the
cold air, although the persons had a moment before been quite in-
different to the loudest noises, pricking and pinching. The demes-
Digitized by Google
..
6
merising inftuence of cold, when artificially applied, was familiar to
me; as Will be seen in my "Mumerima in India," and it will appear
surprising that I should not have been more on my guard against it
as a natural agent. I can only plead in extenuation, the stupifying
influence of a successful routine; but failures, when improved, are
often more instructive than complete success.
I suspected that cold was the secret enemy at work, and lost no
time in det.ermining the point by actuaJ experiments. Two men
being in preparation for operation, were subjected to the following
course of experiment.
Mothoor, a ~ from Cuttack, has got one of the usual scrotal
tumours. He was sent to me by his brother, Bogobun Doss, from
whom I removed a fifty pound tumour in the trance, a year ~' at
Hooghly: he also sent Morali Doss, on whom I operated m the
Native Hospital, in presence of the Mesmeric Committee.
Decemher 27th.-Mothoor being entranced to-day, was subjected
to the action of the ·electro-magnetic machine with the central mag-
net in it, his hands and body trembled in synchrony with the shockS,
bttt his countenance remained perfeetl,r, placid; in about 10 minutes
his head turned convulsively to one Slde, but his features were not
disturbed, and he slept on.
When handling his arms, I saw a boil on one of them, and made a
crucial incision into it, without his shrinking in the least. He was
then carried under the blankets, and his bed placed in the North
door of the hospital; the blankets and sheet were suddenly pulled.
off, and he was exposed naked to the cold air ; in about two minutes,
he shivered all over, his breathing became disturbed, and he clut.ch-
ed right and left for the bed-clothes, but still sleeping ; they were
supplied .to him, and he huddled himself up under them with the
greatest satisfaction, still sleeping however. The bed was then car-
ried back to the Mesmerising room, and he was artificially awoke.
He had slept profoundly without a dream, he said, and awoke this
moment from feeling cold. When shewn the wound in his arm, he
was greatly surpri8ed, and showed the usual signs of pain, saying,
that he had struck the boil against something in his sleep, he
supposed, and it.had burst.
Decemher 28th.-The magnetic machine awoke him to-day on the
second application.
Decemher 29th.-He was more deeply affected to-day, and lay
unmoved for several minutes in the open air; he then shuddered all
over, his breathing became irregular, and he immediately awoke into
the full possession of his senses: the cold had awoke him, he said.
December 30th.-! covered the wound in his arm with nitric acid
to-day ; the flesh became instantly white, but he did not shrink in
Digitized by Google
....
8
Decemhn- 28th.-~ exposed t.o the cold air, after inflicting
different test.s of sensibility. After shivering, and seeking for cover-
ing, ae yesterday, hut finding none, he rolled him.selfup like a hec4te-
hog, and tried t.o make the most of it., but soon awoke, and from the
cold, he said.
Decem/Jer 30th.-Acted precisely the ea.me ae yesterday.
Decemher 31st.-! stuck a pin int.o his nose, and left it there a
moment., before drawing off the bedding. He awoke exactly as he
had done on former days, and from the same cause, cold.
When getting up he rubbed his nose against the bed, and the pin
fell out t.o his great surprise.
·After he got up, I gently pricked his nose with the pin, which he
resented as much as any one in the company would have done.
Next day, he was operated on without knowing any thing about
it., and although the operation was not the formidable one expected,
it wae very curious, and will be related next month.
From the foregoing fact.s, I consider myself entitled to say, that it
hae been demonstrated, that patients in the Mesmeric trance may be
insensible t.o-
The loudest noises.
Painful pricking and pinching.
The cutting of inflamed parts.
The application of nitric acid t.o raw surfaces.
The racking of the Electro-magnetic machine.
The most painful surgical operation, and yet be aroused int.o full
consciousness by the exposure of their naked bodies, for a few
minutes, t.o the cold air.
All the persons admitted last month for operation have been
disposed of, except one.
JAMES ESDAILE, M. D.
Calcutta, lat Janua171 1847.
Digitized by Google
REPORT OF CASES TREATED IN THE CALCUTTA MESMERIC
HOSPITAL,
For January 1847.
IN the prosecution of the Surgical Department of Mesmerism, I
hope that what I have published, as the result of my observations at
Hoo~hly, will be borne in mind. "It is impossible to say to what
precise extent the insensibility will befriend us : the trance is some-
times broken by the knife, but it can occasionally be reproduced by
continuing the process, and then the sleeper remctmbers nothing ; he
has only been disturbed by a nigh~mare, of which, on waking, he
retains no recollection." (Memier. in India).
And the conclusion come to by tlie independent examination of
the ' Mesmeric Committee in Calcutta,' is thus stated :-"But in all
these cases (where signs of pain appeared) without exception, after ·
the operation was completed, the patients expressed no knowledge or
recollection of what had occurred; denied having dreamed ; and
complained of no pain till their attention was direCted to the place
where the operation was performed. (Mesmer. Rep. para. 19)."
It ought also to be-remembered, that short of the most intense
degree of the trance, which reduces all to the level of corpse-like
insensibility, every person has his mesmeric constitution and peculi-
arities, just as he has his natural temperament ; and in the same
room, lying side by side, will often be seen patients exhibiting
the most opposite states of catalepsy, rigidity, and complete flaccidity
of the muscular system.
January lst.-Chand Khan, one of the men e~rimented on last
month, to ascertain the effect of cold on the mesmeric sleep, was
f?Xposed to-day to have his tumour carefully examined. It was
found that the greater part of the swelling was watery, arising from
hydrocele, and did not require, at present, the formidable operation
?f ~xcision. 1:he t~our wa~ tapped, an~ .t?e usual st:Unulating in-
J0ction thrown m, without a sign of seDSib1hty appearing. After a
considerable time, he awoke spontaneously, said nothiilg had dis-
turbed him, and he felt no pain anywhere. He was desired to sit up
and shew the part, and he was much surprised to see the bed wet,
and the diminished size of the ttupour. The hole made by the
trocar was pointed out to him, and it was suggested that the bag had
probably burst when he was asleep, and he seemed to consider this
a likely solution of the problem. But it is for the Physiological
History of such cases that this is related, and not as an example of
insensibility under the knife, for the operation is only a prick. Every
medical man knows, however, that the first contact of the acrid
c
Digitized by Google
10
injection with the spermatic nerves, causes very considerable, and often
very great pain, which is pro~ted to the loins. Now, in all the
cases in which I have operated, and they amount to about a dozen,
this first pain has never been felt, and the patient onl1 begins to
feel pain in about 10 hours ~. when the artificial inflammation
commences.
But this is not all that is to be learned from this simple operation. In
five or six days, when the fever has subsided that usually ensues, it will
be found that the patient is very easily entranced again. The inflamed
Fm. is still very tender, and the least pressure causes great pain, but
m the trance the parts can be rudely handled and severely pressed,
withbut eliciting a ves~ of sensibility, after which, however, it
returns in all its natural mtensity the moment the trance is dissipated.
This disease is so common that every medical man can find plenty of
cases for actual experiment ; and in the .presence of candid observers,
I would willingly rest the proofof the reality and power of Mesmerism
on the frequent exhibition of these pheno~ena alone. Having wit-
nessed the frequent suspension ofartificial inflammation by the trance,
I was Jed to infer the possibility of subduing natural inflammation by
it. Soon after ascertaining the above facts, a case of natural inflam-
mation of both testes occurred, and was completely extinguished by
keeping the man in the trance for 24 hours, with very short intervals
of wakiDQ'.. I only mention this to shew what can be done under
the most l'avorable circumstances, when a person is sensible to the
influence to the necessary degree, and this brings me to the subjectof
MEDICAL MESMERISM.
The medical branch of the subject was entered upon in my Hospi-
tal last month, and I shall here introduce it, as if I were becoming
acquainted with it.for the first time, and had not already proved the
efficacy of mesmerism in medical as well as surgical cases. I have
purposely kept its medical pretensions in the back ground, knowing
how difficult it would be to get people to believe in the exist.ence and
· activity of an infJUib'le rem«ly.
But I trust it has been proved by ocular demonstration, that we
possess, and can wield a subtile vital agent inherent in our constitu-
tions, and that it produces effects on the human frame that cannot
be approached in intensity bl the most powerful ~ without ac-
tually poiso~ the patient. The existence of a VIt.al agent being
proved, which 18 capable of reducing a living man, temJ?Orarily, to
the insensibility of a corpse, and without subsequent inJury to the
system ; it is evident that such an infi~ence possesses the essential
conditions of a remedial agent, puwer and aafety in its applicatima.
It is also clear, that its influence is primarily exerted over the ner-
• Ether bad Do\ been heard of.
Digitized by Google
11
vous system, and as this is the animating principle of the whole
body, we might expect it to be pre-eminently serviceable in nervous
and many functional diseases. In short, the discovery of such a
~ power opens out a new means of modifying the human frame
to an extent that can only be determined by actual and varied ex-
periments.
The importance of Mesmerism in Medicine is ~t.er than in
Surgery even, in proportion to the great.er frequency ofMedical over
Surgical diseases, and the benefit may be often derived with much
less labor. It is a false position, however, in which Mesmerism is
placed, when it is dissevered from the healing art as already known;
1t is only an ext.ension of our knowledge of the human constitution
and the laws of nature, capable, it is true, of effecting wonders alone,
but where this is not the case, it readily ent.ers as an useful assistant
into numerous combinations for raising the general vitality of the
syst.em. It cannot therefore be too soon inoorporated into the gene-
ral body of the healing art.
But reason must often, for a time, yield to prejudice and the force
of necessity, and, however unwilling I am to submit to the unnatural
divorce of natural and harmonious curative powers, I shall, in the
hope of the more firmly establishing the truth, submit to this curtail-
ment of my usefulness, and rely exclusively in my hospital practice
on the unaided power of Mesmerism.
The public are already familiar with the extreme degree of the
sedative influe~ce of Mesmerism, as exhibited in painless operations.
The trance also plays an important part in the treatment of medical
cases, but it is a great and general mistake to imagine that itis indis-
pensable. During the successful treatment of chronic affections, the
only remarkable phenomenon oft.en observable, is a marked and
steady improvement in the health of the .patient, and the ultimate
cure of the disease. This is attributable, r presume, to the stimula-
ting effects of Mesmerism on the nervous syst.em, and which are
distributed by it to the whole bodily economy.
That the effects of this agent are caused by a vital action of the
patient's nervous syst.em, is evident from the fact, that persons at the
approach of death become insensible to this as to all other natural
agencies, although at an earlier period, they have been affected
and reduced to any desirable degree of the Mesmeric condition : like
wine and opium, Mesmerism has various effects on different constitu-
tions, but generally res~mbles them in first stimulating, then deranging,
and ultimat.ely torpifying the brain.
In illustration of the first effects of Mesmerism on the nervous
sys~, I shall here quot.e the descriptions given by two gentlemen of
their feelings, who were mesmerised at their own request by the
Rev. Mr. Townshend, for the express purpose of observing and
Digitized by Google
12
reporting their sensations. Profes8or Agassiz says : " After at least
a quarter of an hour, I felt a sensation of a current tlmo~h all my
limbs, and from that moment my eyelids grew heavy ; 1t was an
irresistible heaviness of the lids which compelled me to shut them ;
and, by degrees, I found that I had no longer the power of keeping
them open, but did not the less retain my consciousness of what was
going on around me. It appeared to me that Mr. Townshend was
endeavouring t.o put me int.o a sound sleep; my movements seemed
under his control, for I wished several times t.o change the position
of ml arms, but had not sufficient power to do it; or t\Ven reaily to
will it; while I felt my head carried t.o the right or left shoulder,
and backwards or forwards, without wishing it, and, indeed, in spite
of the resistance which I endeavoured to oppose: and this happened
several times."
This is the account given by Signor Ranieri : " After he had
moved his hands thus alternately from my eyes to my knees for 10
minutes, I felt an irresistible desire to close my eyelids. I conti-
nued nevertheless to hear his voice, and that of my sister who was
in the same room, whenever they put questions to me. I always
answered him correctly, but the whole of my muscular system was
in a state of peculiar weakness, and of almost perfect disobedience to
my will.; and, consequently, the pronunciation of the words with
which I wished to answer had become extremely difficult. Whilst I
experienced to a certain point the effects of sleep, not only was I not
a stranger t.o all that was passing aronnd me, but I even took mor~
than usual interest in it. All my conceptions were more rapid; I
experienced nervous startings t.o which I am not accustomed, in short,
my whole nervous system was in a state of exaltation, and appeared
to have acquired all the superabundance of power which the muscular
system had lost." Ifsuch singular revolutions in the nervous systems
of healthy and calmly observant men can be Qi-ought about in a short
time by this means, we may readily imagine how much greater the
effects will be on more prepared and sensitive subjects.
For the observations of the last 70 years, in different parts of the
world, all go to prove that a certain dewee of nervous debility pre-
disposes to the easy reception of the influence. A man in health
may be likened to a full sponge ; his nervous system can hold no
more nervous fluid, and rejects it when offered: but let his nerves
be weakened and rendered. sensitive by disease, and then they will
eagerly accept the nervous matter proffered t.o them, and ~eedily
absorb it, as a half filled sponge imbibes the neighbouring flwds.
But it is time to proceed to the illustration of the subject by facts.
Digitized by Google
14
The swel~ and pain of the joints are much diminished; he allows
them to be liandled freely, excepting the ankles, which are still
slightly swollen and painful; he can walk out of the room without a
stick.
January 23rd.--Has no pain in the joints, he can move them
without pain; he walks·about without a stick, but limps a little, the
pain and swelling of the ankles nearly gone. .
January 25th.-He feels quit.e well, has no pain in the ankles.
He walks, runs, and leaps without the least pain, and was discharged
to-day at his own request, quit.e well.
CHRONIC RHEUMATISM AND STIFF ELBOW JOINTS.
January 15th.-Mr. Des Bruslais, a Frenchman, a merchant in
Calcutta, aged 32. He has been suffering from rheumatism for the
last six months, the left elbow joint is much enlarged, very t.ender
and stiff; it is half bent, and can neither be bellt nor ext.ended
farther. Numerous enlar~ glands surround the joint, and the least
pressure is exquisit.ely painful ; the wrist is also quit.e stiff. The
other elbow is a little contracted and ~ but not enlarged, and
there are two unhealthy abscesses at the top of the breast bone, where
the surrounding parts are swollen and very t.ender.
The left elbow is scarred all over by blisters and caut.eries, from
which he derived no benefit, and he has abandoned all medical
treatment.
His nights are very_ restless, and he can with great difficulty turn
himself in bed, and he cannot, without help, take off or put on his
coat. His spirits and appetit.e are bad, and his nervous syst.em is
much broken. To come to the Hospital daily for an hour to be
mesmerised, locally and generally.
January 16th.-The.abscesses were opened to-day, and a quantity
of unhealthy matter let out. , -
January 18th.-He slept d~ the mesmerising yest.erday, and
had a good night afterwards; .to-day the pains are much less.
January 20th.-He can move the left wrist freely, the pain in the
elbow joint is much less, and he can dress himself without help.
January 25th.-Nearly all pain has disappeared from the left
elbow ; he can bear it to be freely pressed, and even struck with little
pain, and can bend it nearly to the natural degree : he also extends
his arm better, and the wrist is quit.e free. He sleeps well, turning
in and rising from his bed easily ; his spirits and appetite are mucli
improved. He has slept daily for the last week dunng the mesme-
rismg, and bears considerable extension of the arm witliout awalcing.
Digitized by Google
0
'§:
i'i
CD
c.
-'!
("')
0
~
-
rv
t:I
Date of
Admission.
No. J Date.
1847.
Namee.
Jan. 7, I Shaik .Ameer,• ............
"
10, Kan.00,••••••••••••••••••••••••
"
14, Wolemohmud,•••••••••••••••
"
14, Tarachund Mullick,t ......
"
15, Jloteeoollah, ....•••,••••...•.
"
17, Modooeoodun PauJ.t •••...
"
17, :M:ra. Woolfe, •••••••••••••••
"
lll, Mn. Frances Ann Elliot,
"
ll7, Mn. Goodall, •••••••••••••••
"
15, I I>ee Bl'U81ais, ••••••••••••••••
Cute. Profeasion.
~
55 K. •••.•. Boatm.an,.........
35 H. .••••. Bearer,•••••.••••••
30 M.•••••. Boatman, .........
45 Brah.••• Writer,...••~······
50 M..•.••. J'eJDadar; .........
16 IL •••••• Pai&ter, •••••••·····
28 Ear••••
···•······•··········
30 E.L ... .....................
38 Eur....
···•·················
32 French, Merchant, ........
Dlseue.
Hypertrophied Scrotum,•••
Ditto, •.•....• •••••····•••••••••
Rheumatism.,•••••••..•••.••••.
Hypertrophied Scroium,.••
Ditto,••••••••••••••.••••..•.•••.
Fungus Hematodee,•••••••••
Hysteria, •••••••••············
Rheumatism,..................
Cured. I 'i
t
=
~
.........
..•......
Jan. ll5,
Epilepey' ..................... , .........
Rheumatism Chronic,...... Jan. 31,
• He wu on the point of going home cured, when mer and diarrh12& came on and carried him oft
I
Jan. 26,
Jan. 31,
Jan. 26,
~
t Discht.l'2eli on aocount of hi.a ayatem being too weak to bear an operation. .
t He coula not be subdued on aocouni of fever and pain. The arm wu therefore taken off at the shoulder in hie natural state.
(Sd.) J. EaD.uI.B, II. D.,
S.pritta4ret M....nc 1hpila1.
-
-..
21
clwi:ieie several times, and hia matis was eeverely squeezed witlJ.
out <listnrbing him in the least.
3d.-He was deaf to the loudest noises and calling, but heap-
peared to be disturbed on his testis being squeezed.
4th.-He was very deeply entranced.; a large brass basin was
twice thrown down on the stone floor close to his bed, causing a
very great noise without rousing him; his body was pricked all
over for about four minutes, and his testis severely squeez.ed with
no more effect.
He has a gi-eat objection t.o be operated. on in the Hospital, and I
told him that I was about to do it now, if he did not object: silence
seemed to give consent.
5th.-The same repeated. to-day with like results. As another
security, I sent for earb. of ammon. and ap&!!i,ed. it to hia nose. This
disturbed. him somewhat, without awaking · : after he awoke and
had dressed himself, I put the bottle of carb. of ammon. to his noee
which was as ~hie to him as to me. He was asked if he
had ever smelt thi$ befo~ ; he said, it was like smelling salt.CJ, but
that he had never smelt it before in the Hospital.
6th.-I operated. on him to-da;r, in the _presence of numerous
persons, among them were Dr. Thomson, Dr. Mouat, and Mr. R.
O'Shaughnessy. His pulse on several occasions had been counted
in the trance, and was found to be always 120; it was so to-day,
but hia natural pulse is 80. I cut at once down upon the right
testis to ascertain its state: it was involved. in a large hyd.rocele,
and was much enlarged and adherent to the sac; it was therefore
let alone, and after freeing the other testis and penis, it was removed
along With the general mass, which weighed about 16 tbs.
His legs were separated, and placed one on each side on a
chair : as usual, no one held him. I was told that the operation
lasted 4i minutes, and I was not conscious of the s¥test quiver in
the man's whole body all the time. The only thing that distin-
guished. him from a corpse, was hia breathing becoming disturbed.
about the end of the operation, but it very soon became quit.e
tranquil again. This, which is frequently seen, arises, I presume,
from an instinctive effort of the lungs and heart to accommodat.e
themselves to the altered stat.e of the circulation. The pulse, I was
told, remained unchanged. till the fall of the mass ; it then sunk to
85, and when he awoke it had settled at 58.
After the arteries were tied, hia Mesmeriser was desired to desist,
and he awoke spontaneously, just about hia usual time daily. In
reply to questions put to him, he said that he had slept very well;
had not been in any way disturbed, not even by a dream ; that he
felt no pain any where, and was not weaker than usual; upon saying
Digitized by Google
22
this, he prepared t.o get up as usual, but I laid my hand upon bis
shoulder, and desired him t.o lie still, and list.en t.o what I said. I
told him, that although he had been led t.o expect that he should be
operated on at home, I did not think it proper t.o comply with his
wishes, as it ~ht make him anxious and watchful, and so defeat
our object, and that fin~ him in a fit state, I had taken the
opportunity t.o operate on him here. He started with surprise, and
was about t.o examine the part, but I begged him not t.o do so, as it
would bring on pain which he had not yet felt, and accordingly, he
said, " I now feel a burning about the part." In conclusion, he was
asked if it was true that people could be cut UJ in their sleep
without knowing it, and he replied, " It seems so. Shortly after,
some vessels reqUired t.o be tied, and he showed more than the usual
signs of pain during the process.
7th.-·He has had no pain in the part since the first half hour
after he awoke : has had some pain in the loins since the evening,
which increased at night, preventing his rest; had a slight fever at
8 P. llrl., no motion.
He was feverish for a week. The fever gradually left him by
the occasional use of laxatives and quinine. The wound now
appears very healthy; and is rapidly contracting. He now sits up
in his bed and walks about ; be eats well, and is daily getting
strength.
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
Jan. 9th, 1847.-Manoo, a bearer, aged 35, has come from Cut-
tack, a distance of 200 miles, in consequence of having learned from
one of his friends that he had undergone an operation at Hooghly
without ~ put t.o pain. This is another example of a healthy
man being reCluced t.o the most intense degree of insensibility. He
is an active, hardy looking man, and has travelled 10 days conse-
cutively, at the rate of 20 miles a day, and the majori?' of patient.a
operat.ed on since I came t.o Calcutt.a, have been men m apparently
good health. If they cost us more than the usual trouble, our
success is the more satisfact.ory, on account of the difficulti04 t.o be
overcome.
This man was very speedily subdued, and might have been
operated upon on the 4th or 5th day, but for a peculiarity in his
mesmeric condition that I observed, and which I greatly wished t.o
understand, or at least get rid of. Although he was strikingly
cataleptic, and bore with perfect indifference the electro-maw.ietic .
shocks for many minutes, and coula be t~!ked all over without
aw~ him; ·yet on att.empting t.o draw · down t.o the end of
the bed on his mattress, he oft.en awoke instantaneously into the full
Digitized by Google
23
possession of his senses. Raising his legs and letting them fall
suddenly on the bed, awoke him in the same manner. I regret to
say, that I have not been able to account for this riculiarity of his
mesmeric constitution, but we succeeded in extinguishing it by
prolonged treatment. Every practical Mesmerist is aware of such
singular anomalies, and that the patient may be able to bear severe
pain of one description, although he is awoke by apparently inferior
disturbing causes. If their weak. point is noted and avoided, the
necessary liberties may often be safely taken with them with im-
punity, and I might have disposed of this man at a very early period,
if I had not wished to reserve him for experiment and observation.
The case of the Baboo is an illustration of this; the day before
the operation, he was annoyed by the fumes of ammonia, but this
did not prevent me from operating on him next day, without testing
him with ammonia, and he lay like a corpse throughout. Manoo
has got the usual tumour, but of a small size, rendering the organs
useless, however : to be mesmerised.
lOth.-Slept for a few minutes only.
l lth.-He appeared to be in a profound natural sleep.
12th.-He was partially affected, arms cataleptic; not disturbed
on being handled freely.
13th.-He was found entranced, perfectly cataleptic. He was
insensible to pricking.
14th.-He slept a little, and was roused when called.
15th.-He was deeply entranced, a pin was thrust into his hand
and left there, on awaking he was confounded to find the pin in his
flesh.
16th.-He was placed under the action of the electro-magnetic
machine. It produced convulsive movements of his hands; he stood
it well for several minutes. From his exhibiting s]kht movements
of the face, the machine was removed, and soon at'ter, he awoke,
and when asked, said that nothing had disturbed him in his sleep.
17th.-He stood the a{!tion of the machine for about three minut.es.
18th.-He awoke on the mattress, on which he lay, being carried
down to the bottom of the charpaie.
2lst.-He was found perfectly entranced; and was subjected to
the action of the electro-magnetic apparatus, which he bore for
about three minutes without the central magnet, and with it, for a
minute. It only produced strong convulsive movements of his arms.
He was then pulled down on his mattress to the bottom of the
charpaie; the mesmeric process being carried on. Both legs being
supported on two chairs, the tumour was exposed, and the test.es
were freely handled. The part was shaved and covered with a sheet.
Digitized by Google
24
He waa then pulled back to his uaua1 sl~ position, and awoke
some time after OD my opening his eye; notbing had disturbed him,
but this.
22d.-Bein2 found insensible it was attempt..:d to drag him down to
the bottom ofllls charpaie, but while it was being done, he awoke.
23d.-He awoke to-day oD a piece of live coal being put into
his hand..
Feb. 6th.-Mesmeriaing was intermitted. for nine days, on account
of the patient ~ atta.Cked with· fever and diarrhma,-astringent
and febrifoge medicines were prescribed for him.
6th.-He was found well, the process was recommenced, and he
slept profoundly, and waa roused by a cooly touching his body
somewhat rudely. ·
7th.-He awoke on his nipple being severely pinched.
lOth.-He was subjected to the action of the electro-magnetic
machine for several minutes, and his testes were sev~ly piessed
without awaking him. The above was done in the presence of His
Highness the Nabob of Moorshedabad, Mr. Torrens, Dr. Grant, and
several other Mahomedan and European gentlemen.
l lth.-He was very deeply entranced to-day, his legs were raised
in the air and thrown down on the charpaie several times, .and his
testes were severely squeezed. He was complet.ely insensible.
12th.-He awoke on being pricked.
13th.-He bore several tests 0£ insensibility well, but awoke on a
bit of live charcoal being put on his ancle.
14th.-He was put to sleep on a charpaie that divides in the
middle, and allows the lower part to be taken away without disturb-
ing his trunk. Both his legs being lifted up, the lowerhalfof the bed
was removed and his legs were then placed on two chairs; the tumour
was exPoSed. and a hydrocele found in the left side, was punctured,
and a farge -quantity of serum let out. The testis oD this side was
examined and severely squeezed without distur~ him. The bed
,was re-adjusted, and he was left to sleep. He awoke about 15
minutes art.er. and said, when questioned, that nothing had disturbed.
him in his sleep. He was confounded when the sheet, on which he
lay, was pointed out to him wetted with blood and water, he said it
was not so before he fell asleep. As desired, he handled, and looked
at his tumour, and was surprised to find its bulk much reduced.
He said it was much larger when he went to bed. The opening of
the puncture was shown to him, and he was told that the tumour
had probably burst of itself, and the water and blood escaped through
the opening. All this he said might have been the case, but he was
perfectly unaware of what had happened, for he was fast asleep.
Digitized by Google
27
nearer the shoulder than I could before ; no pam during tl1e day or
night ; sleep unbroken for the first night for many months.
l 7th.-Arm painful and stiff; mesmerised locally for half an hour,
and generally for the same time; felt very drowsy during the
latter operation; was roused by a violent shock through the whole
of my body; arm slightly painful all day, no pain during the night;
slight nervous headache during the afternoon ; slept soundly; can
shave easily.
18th.-No pain; mesmerised locally and generally for half an hour.
Elbow continues contracted, no headache. Towards evening felt a
slight pain in left elbow, which increased during the night and pre-
vented my sleeping. Slight pain also in right e1bow.
l 9th.-Severe pain in left elbow ; muscles outside the joint slightly
swollen; no pain in right arm, but it still continues contracted; mes-
merised loQally in each arm ; no perceptible effect ; slight pain in
left arm during the night. Mesmerised generally; fell into a deep
sleep; have no idea of what occurred during the trance ; how long it
lasted, or how I was awakened ; no headache.
20th.-Slept soundly, pain very slight in left arm; none in the
right, but it continues slightly contracted; mesmerised locally and
generally; no sleep produced.
28th.-Mr. Johnson had taken his passage for Singapore before
he came to the Hospital, and had only a few days to spare. He has
not returned since the 20th, and then he was without pain; the con-
tracted arm scarcely differed from the other, and could also be much
more freely flexed.
ENLARGED GLANDS.
Feb. 18th.-Sarah Goodall, aged 11 years. For the last eight years
she has been subject to a periodic attack of inflammation in the
glands of the neck and ear, every six months. The glands at the
angle of the jaw first become painful and enlarged; the ear is next
involved, and she is not relieved till suppuration takes place; as
soon as one ear is well, the other is attacked in the same way.
Her mother' never recollects the glands swellin~ without tl1e ear-
ache following, and this is a.bout ths time for her half-yearly attack.
There was much fever during the attack which was never sub-
dued without leeching, and her eye-sight has been injured in conse-
quence. The words in a book often seem all one line. She looks
pale and lymphatic.
To be mesmerised locally and generally.
22d.-'The tenderness and enlargement of the glands m1der the
ear disappeared after two days mesmerising, and the ear has not
28
~ at all aft'ect.ed, '!hich.never happened before. She looks more
lively, and her ey&-Sight is natural; when she came here it was
very dim and imperfect. This girl's syst.em has been exhausted
by periodic leecbinj? for many years; I have therefore ordered a
gentle course of cb.8.lybeates after the mesmeric treatment.
SOMNAMBULISM.
Feh. 3d, 1847.-Suroop, a Shop-keeper, aged 53. He has got
one of the.usual tumours. His health is not impaired, and he lool:s
a strong robust man.
He has been sleeping profoundly daily, for about eight days past,
and has great difficulty in rousing himself after being examined. For
some time before coming to hissenses, he answers questions in hissleep,
straining all the time to open his eyes, which is only effected aft.er
much ruobing. Persons in this stat.e can be easily converted int.o som-
nambulists, and although I have amply illustrated this at Hooghly, I
thought it would not be amiss to repeat the same thing here, in order
to prove that the same phenomena occur every where under similar
circumstances. The forced simple somnambulism, now spoken of,
consists in iµaking the patients speak, act, and walk with c;lifferent
d~ of freedom, according to the ext.ent one pleases to affect them.
This condition of the body is usually att.ended with a cat.a.leptic dis-
position of the muscular syst.em : the sensibility of the senses is
greatly blunted, often ex=e<l even, and a ~rson may be
operated upon while he is · to the operat.or without knowing
any thi~ about it. On coming to their senses, they have no recol-
lection of any thing they have said or done. This half-torpid stat.e
of body and mind is very different from µie spontaneous somnam-
bulism often induced in the chronic treatment of medical diseases by
mesmerism as a nervous stimulant. In this state, there is ~eat
general exaltation of the nervous system, and during it the higher
mesmeric phenomena are exhibited. But in my surgical cases, the
first stimulating effects are, ifpossible, avoided, and the system pushed
at once into the extreme, or narcotic degree of the influence.
27th.-Suroop was mesmerised t.o-day, sitting in a chair,• and in
about eight minutes he showe<l all the signs of a person going to sleep
in spit.e of himsel£ His eyes were halfopen and glazed ; he had great
diffi.cult1 in opening them wider, when desired, and he could not
speak distinctly on account of his lower jaw being rigid: this soon
went off with a little practice, and he was able to speak in~bly,
but slowl;r and drowsily. When ordered to rise from the chair, he
made fruitless att.empts to do so, and had to be lifted and set upon his
• Preaeni-Mr. Halliday; Dr. Clarke, lnapector General o( llospitala Her M.'11
Forces; the ReT. Mr. Lacroix; the RcT. Mr. Mackay; Mr. Mawson; Mr. Wilby.
Digitized by Google
29
feet. Be~ left alone, he continued to sleep standing, and looked
like a man m the most abject and helpless state of drunkenness : he
was roused up a little, and made to follow me, which he did with the
awkwardness and unwilli~ess of a sloth. I awoke him up a little
more under the centre skylight of the room, so that he could open
his eyes to their full extent. A rupee was put into his hand, and he
was desired to tell us what it was. He handled it very attentively
for some time, but could make nothing of it, and at last he looked up
to the bright light above, then down to the rupee ; tried it at different
distances, and in new )khts, but all was dark to him, and he could
not tell what was in hisliand. A watch equally puzzled him under
a br_ight noon-day sun falling distinctly upon it from above. · I now
awoke him, and put the rupee into his hand : he at once chucked it
with his thumb nail into the air, in the true money changer's style,
and said with a laugh, "it was a rupee, and a ~ood one too," but he
said that he had not seen a rupee or a watch m the Hospital to-day
before. I again put him to sleep, the rupee was put into his hands,
and he again uselessly tried to discover what it was : on deepening
the influence he became motionless and speechless, and the rupee fell
from his paralysed hands to the ground. He was now awoke up, and
restored to alacrity of speech and motion, and to all appearance, to
clearness of vision: to a common observer, he was like other men.
We now told him that he might go home, and he salaam'd and made
for the door. I requested the gentlemen to observe him carefully,
however, and begged the Revd. Mr. Lacroix, who is a perfect
Bengalee scholar, to conduct the conversation anew. Suroop walked
half way across the room, apparently in the full possession of his
senses, but he soon stopped, looked bewildered, took the bearings
of surrounding objects, seemed to reflect profoundly, and then
wandered about helplessly, although urged to leave the room, and
directed where to find the doors, of which there were four facing him.
He had relapsed into somnambulism, and I was obliged to restore him
to his senses. This time it was done effectually, and Mr. Lacroix
enaal!ed him in an animated conversation about his trade, profits, &c.
Wliife this was going on, he was mesmerised from behind, and in
about ten minutes he suddenly stopped talking, ceased to answer
questions, and sunk helplessly to the ground.
He was then stripped naked, and set upon his feet: shortly after
he was demeamerised by squirting cold water in his eyes from
a distance, and he was very mucn surprised and ashamed at the
exposure of his person.
In conclusion, when fully restored to consciousness, he had no
recollection whatever of any t~ that had taken place; he had
even forgotten the lucid intervals of his trance.
Digitized by Google ...
32
eyes ; the eyelids seemed glued together, and while beggi'% to have
his eyes opened, he was insensible to my pricking him assiduously.
It was now upwards of an hour since he had smoked the rether, and
we could not yet dissipate its effects. He was therefore also sub-
jected to the cold affnsion for several minutes, of whose action he was
quite unconscious, although he kept rubbing his eyes all the time to
open them, and occasionally answered questions correctly. He at
last suddenly awoke into the full possession of his senses, and recol-
lected nothing that had happened since he went to sleep.
Here then is a most exact imitation of the physical phenomena
witnessed in the mesmeric trance ; and the sleep-walcing state caused
by rother, beautifully illustrates the distinction between sensation and
consciousness so often seen in the mesmeric state, and which I have
insisted upon so frequently, with little effect, I fear. These men
were capable of talking and acting, and made the reasonable re-
quest to have their eyes opened, Rlthough they were unconscious
of a deluge of water that was falling on their naked bodies from a
heighL
I am satisfied tl1at the man least affected might have been operated
on to any extent almost, not without appearing to feel it, but with-
out being conscious of it afterwards, juat as is seen every day in
mesmeric operations.
Here then is a prodigious engine for good or evil, according as it
is used or abused, for if the advantages are most striking, the evils
are not less so in the above examples.
The speedy induction of insensibility of long duration was most
satisfactory and complete; the pulse was natural during its greatest
intensity, and the breathin,g not disturbed, nor did the men suffer
afterwards from what they liad undergone.
I believe that any amount of mere pain might have been inflicted
without the knowledge of the patient, but I should be extremely
reluctant to perform a capital operation entailing a great loss of blood
on a person in this state, till I had obtained more command over my
too active ally.
In many ofmy late operations in the mesmeric trance, for example,
the pulse became insensible from the sudden and profuse hemorrhage,
and it became necessary to revive the sinking system by restoratives.
The patients were therefore awoke for this purpose, and this can be
generally very easily done. But in the coma from rother it has been
seen that there was no power of swallowing left in one of the men, and
that stimuli applied to the skin and nose had no decided effect on the
torpor : in fact there was no means of getting at the vital powers.
Now, if this man's life had depended on our being soon able to
restore him to consciousness and sensibility to ordinary stimuli,
Digitized by Google
33
I think it very probable, and Dr. Mouat agreed with me, that he
would have died before this could have been done.
But let us hope that we shall soon be able to regulate, as easily as
we can set in action, this potentinfluence. In the man most intensely
affected one-tenth of the power exerted would probably have sufficed
for all practical purposes, and more controul mi~ht therefore have
been preserved over the vital functions. By cautious ancl graduated
doses, and with a knowledge of the best antidotes, I think it ex-
tremely probable that this power will become occasionally a safe
means of procuring insensibility for the most formidable surgical
operations.
It is only of late years that the application of mesmerism to
surgery has been prominently brought forward, principally with
the view of affording an ocular demonstration of the existence and
power of this great vital agent.
But the great field for the display of its usefulness is in the
treatment of medical cli eases, where it often comes to our aid when
all other resources have failed, and it would take a library to contain
the volumes of well attested cures performed through its agency on
the continent, before it was ever heard of for surgical. purposes.
(Signed) JAMES ESDAILE, M. D.,
Supt. Mes. Hospital.
DigitzedbyGoogle F
Montltly Register of Patients treated at the Calcutta Me1meric Hospital, for the month of February 1847.
Calcutta Mes111eric Hospital, ht March 1847.
Date of I
Admission. al bi>
= .;
al "" :~
Names. Caste. Profession. Disease. Cured. = ...:
i I~ I
.. 0 :;i
., ;,: al
.,; ::l a 8
b.O
~
.r>
A ~ ~
< <
~~
1846.
Nov. 23, Ramlochun, ............ 60 Hindoo, ..... Weaver, ........ HypertrophiedScrotum, I 14th,
Dec. 3. Nundkissore Roy,..... 43 Ditto, ........ Writer,.•••••••• Ditto, ........................
" I 4, Neemoo, ................ 30 Mussulman, Kidmutgar, ... Ditto,........................ , •........ I.........I... I...... I...I I ~
"
6, Katick, .................. 45 Hindoo, ..... Washerman, .. Ditto,........................ 9th,
,, 16, IHaranund, ............. 25 Ditto, ••...••. Merchant, ..... Ditto,....•..••.•... ,•••......
"
23,
1
Muthoor,................ 40 Ditto, ..•..... 13ea-rer, .•••••••• Ditto,............ ···········' ......... I .......... I ••• I •••••• I •••
0
<ij"
"
23, Benedicta Gordon, ... 18 Xtian,........ E.I. Woman, Scrophula,..................
N.
CD . 1847.
c.
O"
Jan. 9, Manoo, .................. 35 Hindoo, ..... · Bearer, ......... ' Hypertrophied Scrotum,
'<
(')
17, Modoosoodun Paul,.•• 16 Ditto, ........ Potter, ......... Fungus Hematodes,...... I ......... I ......... I ... I 5th,
0 "
~ "
17, Mrs. Woolfe, ........... 28 European, •.
·················· Hysteria, ..................
-
(\)
"
21, Mrs. Francis,........... 30 E. L, ........ .................. Rheumatism,..,,,,,_,,,,,.
38
25th.-The operation was performed to-day in the presence of
a large company of spectators, Europeans and Natives.• Being
satisfied that the left testis was diseased, it was sacrificed without
being dissect.eel for, and it was found to have been convert.eel into a
sac full of water; not a tremor was perceptible in the man's whole
body from first to last.
Aft.er he had been cleaned, and covered with a fresh sheet, he was
awakened with some difficulty. On ~ questioned, he was uncon-
scious that any thing had happened to hfin ; he said that he felt just
as usual, and was ready to be operat.ed on now, if I pleased. Weight
of tumour 15 lbs.
CARTILAGINOUS TUMOURS.
March 29th, 1847.-Huro, a peasant woman, aged 25, has come
from Chinsurah, 25 miles off. Has been suffering from a cartilaginous
tumour on the J?inna of each ear for about two years; the leftone is
the largest, and 1s about 1 lb. weight: there is also a small excrescence
inside the right ear. The disease commenced with a warty excre-
scence causOO. by boring a hole in each of the ears for wearing
ear-rings: she enjoys very good health, and is a remarkable example
of natural sensibility to the mesmeric influence. To be mesmeriSed
daily for an hour and a half.
30th.-She appeared to be deeply entranced, her limbs were all
flexible, and were thrown about rudely without disturbing her. A
pin was also put into the tip of her nose and left there for a few
seconds and then removed; her jaw was locked, and could be with
difficulty partially opened: each ear was rudely handled, and the
tumour on the left side was marked with ink to show the outline of
the natural cartilage ; and all without disturbing her in the least.
She could be operat.ed on to-day to any extent, but a careful first
examination is so much time and power lost; she was therefore
reserved for to-morrow.
31st-The operations were performed to-day, at 12 o'clock,
in the presence of a numerous party of Europeans and Na-
• Nilmony Dutt, S. A. S.
Moulvy H. Ahmd. Kubeer.
Mr. E. D. Ba,Ptist.
Degamber Mitter.
Dr. Thomson.
G. Parbury.
G. Bryant.
J. Mawson.
Mr. Duncan.
.Prum-
Dr. R. Stuart.
J. E. T. Heatly.
W. OllitTe.
Mr. Wilby.
Dr. Stock.
Mr. Barry.
Dr. Grant.
Dr. Clarke, L G. H.
B. M's. Forces.
Prince J ulaloodeen.
Prince Md. J!rluhdy.
Mr. Hurry.
Revd. J. H. Parker.
Dr. Bermond.
Sir R. Barlow, Bt.
Dr. Jackson.
IS8et'Chunder Dutt.
IWmanauth Chatterjee.
Digitized by Google
.... ...
44
I was present at the Mesmeric Hospital yest.erday (31st March
1847,} when Dr. Esdaile operated on the following persons:
Huro, a healthy native womlftl, aged 25, from Chinsurah, cast.e
Bhagdee, admitted 29th March, affected with painless cartilaginous
tumours attached to the upper and posterior part of each ear: one of
a flattened irre~ form, and about the bulk of a middle sized
orange ; the other about on~ quart.er of that size: and both, of about
two years' standing, had been mesmerised daily for about two
hours each time, since admission. She appeared to be in a sowid
sleep, cowit.enance placid ; skin comfortabfy warm, and perspiring
gently, pulse about 118, full and of good strength, breathing quiet,
and in this stat.e exactly she continued during the operations, each
of which occupied about two minutes. Not a muscle moved; and
there was not the slightest indication of suffering from pain. No
ligatures were required ; and there was but little blood lost. About
ei~ht minutes after the operation, Dr. Esdaile separated her eyelids
with his fingers, when the eyes were seen turned upwards into the
orbits. He then rubbed h~ eyes quickly, and blew forcibly upon
them ; but she was not fairly roused until cold wat.er had been
thrown in her face two or three times. She then said, when ques-
tioned, that iihe had not felt the least pain, and, when the tumours
were shewn to her, expressed her gratitude by making a salam.
Sonatun, Mistry, aged 32, a strong healthy man, from Cuttack,
admitted 25th March 1847, with h~rtrophied tumour of the
. scrotum. Before operating, Dr. Esdaile pricked him gently on the
abdomen with the scalpel, which caused sli,zht contractions of the
muscles there. He seemed to be in a sound sleep, pulse 116, full
and soft, brea~ regular. About five minutes elapsed in per-
forming the ~peration, and when it was about half over, he began to
breathe heavily, compressed his lips, grasped my hand firmly several
times, struggled a little, and called out twice or thrice a,s if in pain.
He was, however, evidentl,Y not awake; and remained quietly asleep,
whilst the arteries were bemg tied. When the operation was finished,
the Native Mesmeriser discontinued his manipulations; and about
a quarter of an hour afterwards he awoke. When questioned, he
said, he had experienced no pain during the operation, but that he
had then a slight smarting in the wowid ; and applied bis hand to
the part. Towards the close of the operation, the pulse fell rapidly
to 62, and became weak, but not remar~ably so ; and not more
blood was lost than might be expected from so large a wound. The
tumour weighed 16 pounds, including the testicles.
(Signed) R. M. M. THOMSON,
Marine Surgeon.
(True Copy,)
J. FORSYTH, Surgeon,
Secy. Medi. Board.
Digitized by Google
REPORT OF CASES TREATED AT THE CALCUITA .MESMERIC
HOSPITAL,
For the Month of April, 1847.
PALCULUS-LITHOTOMY.
April 2d.-Bhugeeruth, a husbandman, aged 32, came to my house
this morning, complaining of all the symptoms of stone. He has been
suffering for two years, and for the last year has been in constant
misery. He walks with the greatest pain, seldom sleeps, and when
he does, it is by pressing one of his heels into his perineum which
gives him some relief. I sounded him, and found a stone: he suf-
fered much, and com_plained loudly during the examination. He was
desired to go to the Hospital. .
3d.-Came to the Hospital to-day ; the constant state of suffering
this man was in made it extremely doubtful whether he could be
rendered insensible, but it was resolved to try. To be mesmerised
daily for three hours by different persona, one hour each.
Sleeping profoundly, his arms became cataleptic, and could be
thrown about rudely without awaking him : he was insensible to
pric~ but was found moving his limbs, and turning his head
mstinctively; he groaned and shrunk when his right nipple was
severely pinched. He awoke about halfan hour after his Mesmeriser
left him.
4th.-He was not conscious to pricking; a sound ~as gently intro-
duced into the bladder, and the stone detected, he was then brought
down to the edge of the table with the mattress, a staff was pasSed
into the bladder and then withdrawn, and his perinreum was next
shaved. All the above was done without awaking him, but some
convulsive movement.a were observed in his features. He was then
with some difficulty awakened, and when asked, he said, that he had
not felt any thing since he went to sleep.
6th.-His arms were rigid, particularly the left one, and were ·
lying across his breast ; a sound was passed into his bladder, and I
then introduced my ~r into his rectum, and the stone was felt.
He was then placed in tlle position used for the operation of lithotomy
without tying his hands and feet as usual ; a staff was next put into
the hlad~er and held in the usual position for a few minutes, it was
then withdrawn and he was made to lie down again ; nothing had
annoyed him, he said when he awoke.
6th.-He was operated on to-day.• The mattress with him upon
it was pulled down to the edge of the table, and he was placed in the
• Preaeni-.Dr. Fonyth, Dr. Cuwan, Dr. Tatlock, Mr. Heatly, Mr. Wilby, Mr. Burry.
o;9;1;zedbyGoogle ,,,.
46
usual attitude for lithotomy ; his arms loosely passed around his legs
below the knees; no ligature was used, and I requested him not to be
held. Before commencing, I imprudently pricked him around the
anus, which broutrht _on an instinctive contraction of the anus and
blad<ler, followed 'f>y the expulsion of the urine around the staff, but
not a sign of general sensation or consciousness appeared. This was
an unpropitious commencement, and it would have been better to put
off the operation a day. I injuditiously proceeded, however, and
having injected the bladder, performed the operation ; not a sign of
sensibility appeared, I believe, till my finger was pressing the stone
against the fundus of the bladder. He now became disturbed, and
moved and moaned while I was trying to get a proper hold of the
stone, which was very difficult from its bei~ of so oblong a form.
He opened his eyes when the stone was passmg through the pelvis,
and seemed to be in the possession of his senses, but when all was
over, he said that he was only conscious of having felt something
give way in his inside, followed by some heat in the seat of the
wound. As in former instances, he did not see for some time after
his eyes were wide open, and the first thing l;ie saw clearly was the
stone when presented to him. He then only became aware of the
presence of the gentlemen around him. The stone weighed I and
t ounces, 20 grs. With a little more patience this would have been
as complete a case as any on record.
With reference to the eye being insensible to external objects when
wide open, and apparently nattiral, I beg to refer to the case of
Suroop, a somnambulist. I had frequently observed the same
phenomenon before it occurred during operations, and have thus
spoken of it in my " ~lennerism in India.•
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
April lat, 1847.-Shaik Koochill, a cart-driver, mt. 50, residing at
Karawa, in 24-Purgunnahs. Has got a common scrotal tumour for
eight years. To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
8th.-He is subject to fever twice a month, and as he wa.'\ labour-
ing under a paroxysm, when admitted, mesmerism was commenced
only this day: sleeping profoundly, his arms were flexible and were
• " That the mllllmeric torpot' of the net'Vllll and brain does not arise from aanguine
congeal.ion, is often strikingly and beautifully illustrated by the first actions of persons
suddenly awakened.from the tt'llllce. 1'.h~Y open their eyllll '!"~e, ~d at the. same
moment their facult1llll are t'eStored, bnt 1t IS seen that the pupil IS dilated, and maeo-
aible to light : this they also immediately become aware of; they know that theit'
eyea Are open, and that they ought to see, but do not. The thought fills then with
horrot', and, with a fearl'ul cry, they bury theit' faces in their _hands, like {K'l'llOnl
st.ruck blind b,Y lightning ; but this soon paaaes oft', and the retina recovers its sen•
sibility by a little rubbing uf the eyea."
Digitized by Google
48
striking. He remained for 24 hours in the greatest pain, while the
other did not experience an ache even. This poor fellow·suffered
from my taking too much for granted.
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
April 6th, 1847.-Bonmallee Bhuttacbarge, a Brahmin, mt. 26,
residing at Sookchur, in 24-Per~s, has been troubled with a
scrotal tumour for nine years. Ife was not mesmerised until the 13th
on account of an attack of periodic fever to which he has been subject.
13th.-His arms were flexible, and tosa!ng_ them about did not
awake him, he was partially insensible to pricking.
14th.-He awoke on his right nipple being pinched.
15th.-A metallic basin was thrown on the stone floor close to bis
bed, his body was pricked all over, and his tumour exposed, and
thrown up to the aDdomen with a jerk without disturbing him.
20th.-He was disturbed on being rudely handled, and was there-
fore mesmerised for an hour more than the usual time, aft.er which
he appeared deeply entranced; his tumour was severely squeezed,
and he was pricked all over without exciting the least movement in
his system.
2l8t.-He appeared to be deeply entranced, and was therefore
with the charprue removed to the operating room; he was made to
sit up on his bed in a strong current of air without disturbing him in
the least. His mouth was with difficulty opened, and it remained
fixed wide open. lle soon after awoke with a start., and said that
the air rushing down his throat had awakened.him.
22d.-The operation was performed to-day.• The parts were all
saved: weight of the tumour 30 lbs. Towards the end of the
operation he moved and cried out unintellWbly, but on the fall of
the mass became perfectly tranquil, and did' not awake till after he
had been covered with a clean sheet, and all traces of the operation
removed. Nothing had disturbed his sleep, he said, he felt just as
usual, had no pain any where, &c. The lump was then shewn to
him, he recognised his property, and said it made him sick to look at
it. He had no pain in the part for an hour aft.er.
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
April 14th.-Shaik Morad, a tailor, mt. 40, residing at Sobha-
bazar, in Calcutta, has got a scrotal tumour for six years.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
• Preaent.-Captain R. Hunt.er, Mr. W. F. Campbell, Mr. John Worrall, Mr. J.
Bathun'- Mr. Strettell, Mr. ·N. Paliologua, R. &uart, M. D., Ramchunder Mitter.
Digitized by Google
60
at night, and cannot possibly sleep without it; she commenced with
4 drops, but now takes 38 every night at bed-time. Her general
health is broken down: catamen. reg. but scanty, and she lias dis-
tressing palpitations on lying down. To leave oft' the hemp, and be
mesmeriSed daily for an hour.
Mrs. Goodall kept a diary of her case, which is too Jong and mo-
notonous to give m full; I shall therefore only extract a few of
the entries which show a break or change in the diseased chain of
action.
"Jan. 28th.-Went again to the hospital t.o-day at 12 o'clock,
found· a little change in th.e arm, slept from 10 till 4 o'clock.
29th.-The creeping in the finger• ha6 dUa~ tremhli02 in
the body rather lE!SS, slept from i past 10 till i past 3 (this trem'61ing
which was a new symptom, probably arose from the disuse of the
hemp, but it is also often a mesmeric symptom.)
Feb. lat, 1847.~" Went at 8 o'clock, and was mesmerised for f
of an hour, but could not remain on account of the trembling and
heaviness of the head, night restless." ·
2d.-" The pain in the lower part of the stomach that has been
present for the last six years has left me for the fu'St time : night
quiet." (No tendency to fits during this month.)
March 20th, 1847.-" Very much troubled with pain in the arm
to-day ; at ni~ht got up with a tingling feel, which causes me always
to start in my sleep before the fits come on ; slept for 4 hours after ; .
(when I used to have that sensation before, I was obliged to sit up
all night.)"
In all A\>ril there is only a record of nervous aches, &c., without
any epileptic symptoms, and at this date, 30th April, the alteration
_in her state amounts to this. The sensation of creeping in the fingers
and the pain at the lower part of the abdomen have not returned ;
during three months there has been only one epileptic symJ>tom,
and this for the first time was not followed by a fit: she sleeps
enough to refresh nature, 3 and 4 hotl.rs at a time, without the use of
narcotics, and her general feelings are improved. This is ~haps as
much as could be expected in so shattered a system, and so mveterate
a disease, and is enough to show, I think, th.at mesmerism is a new
source of relief for Mrs. Goodall.•
That we may not be in danger of falling into the "po8t hoc, ergo
propter hoc" style of argument, it is necessary to multiply examples,
and I can spare no more labour on this case, my time for experiment
being limited.
• There has been no epileptic symdtom up to this date, 10th July. Mrs. G. when
restless Minds fur her mesmeriser, an the pl'OCHI alwaya aecures her a night's rest.
Digitized by Google
0
'§:
i'i
CD
c.
-'!
("')
0
~
-
rv
~
Monthly Return of Patient1 treated at the Calcutta Menntric Hospital, for the month of April 1847.
Calcultn MelfMf'ic Hoapital, lit May 1847.
Dilcharged. Deaths and Agee.
Duuua. 1 i U" .:
1
l u~ ~
taO
'i 0 g 0 g 0
a
ai ! ·a
·i l l~§
a
t§i ... .. <O
l "! t ..!
! 'i
ltlc;
s .s s .s .s ·a
::I s- s
~ ~ :-t:J ~ ~ A :~B :: 0 0 0 0
~
< ~s ... ") .. .l)
< <
... J...
........ • ... ... ... ... ......... ...
Calculus in the Bladder,••••••••• ......
Cephalalgia, ..............................
......... ... ... ... ... ... ......... ... ..
::: I::: ~ I th
2121 •1 ... ,.............. ... ... ... ......... ... ... ... ... ~
10 5 15 2 130 l ... ... • ... ......... ... ... ... ... ... ... 8
21 2 ... 1 ......... - ••• I •• ... ... ••• I ••••••••• ••• I•• ... I ... ... ... 2
I>eafiiesa, •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Epilepsy,...................................
Htpenrophied Scrotum,...............
lnaanity, .................................
1
21 3
... ..•...... ... 1... ... 1 ... ......... ... ... ...1 ... ... ... 2
2
..~ ~
... ......... ... ... ... 1 ... ......... ... ... ... ... ... ... 6
1 ... ......... 1 ... ... ... ... ......... ... ... ... ... ...
Neuralgia,.................................
Paralysis, ••••••••••········•••••••••••••••
Rheumatia:l, ...............•••••••·••••••
Scrophula, ................................
Tu.m.0111', •....•••••••••...•••••••••••••••••• 1 ... l 1 ......... ... ... ... ... ... ......... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
- - - - -- - - - - - - - - -- -
-=-1-u
19 18 37 3 130 3 7 ...
-- ---
Total,......
ATerage number or lick,......... 15,
I
(Sd.) J. E8DAILB, M. D.,
Soperiattiult11t M_.ic Ho.pital. .
REPORT OF CASES TREATED AT THE CALCUTTA MESMERIC
- HOSPITAL,
For the Month of May 1847.
HYPERTROPHY OF SCROTUM.
Myzoodeen. This will be found to be a very curious and int.er-
esting case, from its haljng given rise to a series of impromptu ex-
periments exhibiting the anodyne as well as narcotic power of mes-
merism, and therefore its curative virtues ; and it also introduces us
to an extraordinary mental phenomenon, which had not occurred
before in my Calcutta practice.
I allude to the invasion of the waking by the sleeping stare, which
will be seen in this and the following case ; and to sho"' that this is
not an accidental phenomenon, but is a specific symptom of the mes-
meric state, I will cite some examples in which I had observed it at
Hooghly. The first occasion on which it occurred was in a lady
whom I entranced on the first trial in ten minutes, in the hope of
relieving long standing nervous headaches. I awoke her with great
difficulty, and she felt very much ashamed at ha~ been ca~ht
napping by me, as she supposed: she had no recollection of havmg
seen me that day before. The headache had disappeared, and never
return,ed. Several months aft.er this, the lady was tormented with
one of her wisdom teeth, for which there was not room in her jaw,
and the gum at the angle of the jaw had in consequence become
ulcerated and indurated. I entranced her for the purpose of cutting
away the offending gum, as easily as on the first occasion, and left
her lying undisturbed on her couch. . In about two hours afterwards,
she awoke as if from a natural sleep, and went to arrange her hair
at the glass: she then saw blood about her mouth, and cried to her
husband that the boil had burst when she was asleep, and she won-
dered why I had not come to relieve her that day as I had pro-
mised: not only had she no recollection of having seen me that. day,
but it was found that every thing that had happened during the half
hour previous to the trance had been blotted from her mind.
Some months subsequently to this, I was sent for by this lady
who had just been delivered, and was suffering from severe after-
paina. i entranced her as readily as on former occasions, and left
her sleeping. I returned in an hour ~r, and found her still asleep,
but she awoke when I touched and spoke to her. She had enjoyed
a refreshing sleep, she said, the pain was gone, and she felt much
stronger. 1 held my fingers before her eyes for a minute or two,
and she went off to sleep again ; slept for two hours, and on waking
Digitized by Google
57
had no recollection of our last conversation. This lady was only
mesmerised these three times, and each time this mental phenomenon
was developed.
Dr. Bedford having seen an ulcer covering the whole of a
woman's right temple, covered with muriatic acid while she was in
the trance without her feelin~ it, returned to my Hospital ten days
after, and begged to be pernutted to touch the sore with the acid in
her natural state. Whatever I ~ht think of such a proposal, I
assented, and he touched the sore With the end of a e;lass stopper
wetted with acid. The woman almost immediately cned that her
head was on fire, and walked about the room distracted with pain.
As the best anodyne, I threw her into the trance, performed an
operation on her in it, and when she awoke she had no recollection
of the burning even.
May 4th, 1847.-Myzoodeen, a Khidmutgar, iet. 25, residing at
Kalitollah in Zillah Hooghly, has got a small scrotal tumour for two
years. It came on as usual with fever, occurring twice a month at
the change of the moon.
To be mesmerised for an hour daily.
5th.-Sleeping profowidly, his arms be~ flexible were tossed
about, his right nipple was severely pinched, hi8 testes were squeezed,
and he was subjected to the weakest power of an electro-magnetic
machine without making any impression on his system. When the
power ofthe machine was increased to the second aegree;which could
with great difficulty be borne by a robust man for a few seconds
only, he was found to move like a man in an wieasy dream, and
when he awoke, a few minutes after, he said, he had not been dis-
turbed by any thing while sleeping.
6th.-Deeply entranced, he was for the second time made to bear
the action of the electro-magnetic apparatus with power of the
second degree without showing any sign of voluntary movements.
He awoke about half an hour after, and said he had not been in any
way disturbed whilst asleep.
7th.-He stood very well the action of the electro-m8g!letic battery
with the power of the third degree for a few minutes. He was then
made to sit upon his bed, and was suddenly thrown down upon it,
and his eyes were opened without breaking his slumber. He was
then left sleeping.
8th.-He was made to sleep on a divided charpaie, the lower part
of which was removed, and his legs were placed on two chairs, and
the tumour exposed. But before commencing the operation, he was
pricked with aknife, which made him shrink. A metallic basin was
then thrown down on the stone floor close to his bed, which made
him start suddenly. The operation was therefore deferred.
I
Digitized by Google
58
9th.-The operation was performed to-day, no sign of eensibility
appeared till I had nearly dissected out the 2d testis, he then moved
convulsively, but without attempting to close his legs or interfere
with my proceedings, and as I made the last cuts he screamed out.
He· shrunk during the tying of the arteries, but I desired the lad to
continue to mesmerise hini, and in a few minutes he was again
entranced. In half an hour after (his Mesmeriser having desisted),
he awoke of his own accord, and said that he had slept soundly since
half-past 10 o'clock, that no~ had annoyed him in his sleep, and
he had no ·pain any where. lfe had no sooner said this than he
exclaimed, "There IS a heat between my legs. Oh l it burns, what
have you put upon me, Dr. Sahib?" and he appeared to be in very
great pain. I ordered him to be again mesmerised, and in ten
minutes he was fast asleep. At this moment Dr. Veitch entered the
room, and I told him what had happened, and that I expected on the
man's next awaking that he would have neither recollection of the
operation, nor of his suffering from the effects of it, and so it turned
out. He again awoke as if from a refreshing natural sleep, and told
us that notliing had disturbed him since he went to sleep as usual,
and that he had no pain any where. The sheet was now lifted to
look ifthe bleedizti? had ceased, and he only now became aware that
the operation had '6een performed. While some vessels were being
taken up, Mr. Lindstedt, the man's master, joined us, to whom he
repeated what I have just said. After he was bandaged, and had
been allowed t.o smoke, I proposed to the gentlemen to make a third
experiment if they would stay to see the issue. This was assented to,
and he was again mesmerised. In about a quarter of an hour, he was
entranced the third time, and I plucked hair out of his moustache
without his min~ it. It cost me considerable trouble t.o awake him,
and in reply to his master's questions, he said, that he had this mo-
ment awoke and felt very well, he had not seen his master t.o-day
before, nor Dr. Veitch, nor myself, &c. in a word, the transactions
of the last hour and a half, in which he had acted so prominent a
part, had not left a trace in his brain.
HERMAPHRODITISM.
May 7th, 1847.-Bhugeeruth, a hermaphrodite, by profession a
writer, living in Zillah Mymunsing. As this person wishes to be
considered a man, I shall speak of him as such. The $eneral ap-
pearance of the body, before and behind, is decidedly femmine. He
calls hinISelf 19, but looks 25, his countenance being that of an
elderly Hindoo woman; the pomum adami is ill developed, and the
voice resembles a woman's. His breasts are well developed, and the
chest is short like a woman's; the abdomen is also womanish, the
pubes decidedly so, and the resemblance extends to the thighs and
pelvis; but he has well formed normal testes contained in a deeply
Digit zed by Google
......
60
action of an electro-magnetic machine, first with the power of the
second degree, and then with that of the third, for about two minutes
and a half each time, without exciting the slightest voluntary move-
ment& He was placed on his feet, and slept standing a good while.
He was afterwards put to bed and left to sleep. .
11th.-He was electrified to-day in the presence of Dr. Jackson,
with no more effect than yesterday.
12th.-The same repeated to-day in the presence of Mr. Halliday,
Major Sage, Mr. Simms and Mr. Fraser.
13th.-The operation was performed to-day• and all the parts
saved. He lay like a corpse throughout; weight of tumour lOlbs.
One testis was involved in a hydrocele, which was left till aft.er all
the vessels were tied. I then opened the sac and leisurely disseded
off the thickened tunica vaginalis, to which he was as indifferent as
to the first part of the operation. He began to awake gradually, with
the assistance of fanning in about half an hour. After all was over,
Mr. Kemp, who is an excellent Bengallee scholar, q~estioned him
minutely, and he was in total ignorance that any thing had been
done to him. He answered with reluct:.mce, and wished to go to sleep
again. I placed my fuigers on~·
s e cs for a minute, and on lifting
tliem, he was asleep. I now the Messrs. Kem ' attention,
telling them that they would proba ly find on his seconTwaking that
he hail totally forgotten his first, and so it happened. We awoke
him, and he said that he had not seen one of us to-day before, and
that he felt just as usual.
l4th.-The pain, since the operation, has been very trifling.
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
llfay 15th, 1847.-Ramessur, a husbandman, mt. 35, residing at
Tatowladaspore in zillah Burdwan, has got a moderate sized scrotal
tumour for twelve years. Both legs are affected with elephantiasis.
He has been subject to the usual periodic fever coming on twice a
month, but now only once in six months. To be mesmerised for an
hour and a half daily.
l 7th.-No sleep was induced to-day.
18th.-Sleeping soundly; the tumour was exposed and severely
squeezed, and his right nipple was pinched without breaking his
slumber. ,
19th.-Apparently in mesmeric sleep, he was subjected to the
action of the electro-magnetic machine, with the power of the second
degree, which produced strong convulsive movements of his arms,
and caused sharp shocks to persons touching his body. When he
• Preaent-Mr. A. D. Kemp, Mr. H. C. Kemp.
Digitized by Google
61
awoke about half an hour aft.er, he said he had not been in any way
disturbed during his sleep.
20th.-Deeply entranced, he was pricked all over for several
minutes, and his tumour was severely squeezed without disturbing
him in the least.
2lst.-He was operated on to-day• one te tis was found to be
atrophied, and was removed, the other was saved : not a sound or
sigh escaped him, and the only movements visible, I was told, were
some slight contractions of the toes and face. After all the vessels
were secured, and he was covered with a clean sheet, I awoke him.
He said that he had no pain in any part of his body, that he felt just
as usual, and was waiting to be operated on.
22d.-He has had no pain since the operation.
CHRONIC RHEUMATISM, ENLARGED GLANDS, AND
BURS1E.
Jan. 21st, 1847.-Frances Ann Elliot, aged 30, an East Indian by
birth ; has been suffering from enlargement of the Bursa on the inner
side of the right ankle for about two years. It is about the size of a
hen's egg, soft and painful to the touch. In the courso of the last
fortnight the left one has been similarly affected, and is exceedingly
painful, especially at ni~ht, preventing her sleep; the skin covering
it is discolored, and can t be touched without making her scream. A
like enlargement also occupies the back of her left hand, and the
middle and ring finger of it; the latter is much swollen, very tender,
cannot be bent, feels as if bursting, and gives her great pain at
ni ht.
¥0 be mesmerised locally and generally for an hour daily.
On the 3d day the smarting of the tumour on the left ankle dis-
appeared, but the throbbing remained, and the skin was greatly
discolored.
Ordered to apply poultice thrice a day.
27th.-She complained of much throbbing in the swelling of
the left ankle.
To have ten leeches.
28th.-She is not relieved by the leeches, the pain rather in-
creased.
3ht.-The swelling and pain of the left ankle, and on the back
of the hand, and the ring and middle fingers 'much diminished.
She allows them to be handled without c:k)laining of much pain.
The tumefaction and pain in the right e remain in the same
state, she feels much pain on being touched at that pa.rt.
• Preeent-Dr. Lamb, Inspector General of Hospitals, Dr. Bennond, Dr. Jackson,
Dr. Stuart, Captain SmiLh, Mr. Johnawn, Mr. Ricketa, Mr. Greenfield, Biaaonautb
Mitter, Bhyrubchunder Bole.
Digitized by Google /
'
64
his spirits are dejected, and he is disinclined to all active exertion.
There is pain in the loins and back of .the shoulders, causing great
difficulty in walking. He becomes occasionally violent.
To be mesmerised for an hour daily.
28th.-The pain in the loins and shoulders much mitigated, his
health is rt1y improved, and he looks much more lively. He is
tired of being idle, and therefore wishes to be allowed to act as cook.
5th .illay.-The pain in the loins and shoulders entirely gone, he
now walks without any inconvenience.
lOth.-He addressed a Bengallee letter to me to-day asking
permission to go home as he was perfectly cured.
2lst.-He is much more lively than when he came, and says he is
again able to manage his business. Seeing no reason to detain him
further, he was dismissed to-day. The Native Doctor of the Lunatic
Asylum found him to be much improved.
EPILEPSY AND INSANITY.
Nobin, a labourer, ret. 30, a native of Joypore in Zillah Cuttack,
was transferred to our hospital, on the 4th April, from the Lunatic
Asylum. He has been suffering from Epilepsy for two years; fits
come on two or three times a month, generally at the change of the
moon, and last for about 10 minutes. After which, he becomes
insane for 8 or 10 days, and behaves very violently, and spoaks
incoherently.
To be mesmerised for an hour daily.
15th.-Had a fit at night with severe convulsions lasting about
10 minutes, and followed by heaviness and pain in the head, but no
symptoms of insanity followed.
23d.-A fit came on in the first part of the night with strong con-
vulsions; it remained for 6 minutes, butwas followed by no heaviness
·and pain in the head, or derangement of mind.
29th.-This day, at 10 o'cfock while he was being mesmerised,
he was threatened with a fit but it did not come on.
l lth.-A paroxysm occurred at about 11 o'clock, lasting about
5 minutes, and attended with convulsions, but followed by no symp-
toms of insanity, nor by heaviness and pain in the head.
20th.-He has been impatient to get home for ten days past, and
made his escape last njght by climbing over the wall. A remarka-
ble revolution had taken place in this man's symptoms. Formerly
the fits were alwa9s followed by 8 or 10 days insanity: since he
has been mesmerised, this never occurred.
(Signed) J. ESDAILE, M. D.,
Supt. Mesmeric Hospital.
Digitized by Google
0
'§:
i'i
CD
c.
-'!
("')
0
~
-
rv
Jill
M01tthly Regiater of Patimt1 lrtattd at tht Calcutta Mumme Holpital, /<n' tht month of May 1847.
Date of
Admiaelon.
.s. Is
~1~
.i 9,
5!; 17,
~ ?! 111,
j
A,.: ~ :r:
... 114,
~ 25,
f l,
11,
j
2,
4,
4,
..: 6,
: 7,
~l!!:
~ 14,
19,
20,
20,
22,
l'lll,
Nunee.
~
llao.oo,.....•.••.....••••••• 35
Mn. Woolle, ............ ll8
Franoee .Ann Elliot, ••• 30
Mn. Goodall, ............ 33
Bhyrubohnnder Does, .. 40
BonmalleeBhuttacharge, ll6
Sonatun,................... 8ll
Koochil, .........-......... 50
Bhugeerut.h, .............. 30.
Torab, ..................... 40
Kylu Chatterjee,........ ll8
Nubeen Does,............ 30
Bhoobnnmohnn Day,... ll5
MunmohnnBoee,......... llO
Morad. ..................... 40
Ruhman,•••••••••········· 35
Beeja, ....................... 35
SibchunderPaul,......... 55
W. Martin, .••••••••.....• 20
Bamloll Boee, ............ llO
Kooenmdou, .............. 39
Moorledou, ............... 30
Calcutta Melfftlf'ic Ho#pital, lit J,_ 1847.
Cute. Profeaion. Diaeue.
Hlndoo,...... Bearer,............ .HypertrophledScrotum,
E., ........... Woman,........... Epilepsy, ..................
E. I., ••••••••• .Ditto,............... Rheumatism, .••.•••.••..
E., ........... Ditto,............... Epilepsy, ..................
Hindoo, ..... Wuherman, .... HTPt'rtrophledScrotum,
Ditto,......... Brahmin, ......... Ditto, .......................
Ditto, ..... Mistry,............ Ditto, .......................
M1188Ulman, Cart.ariTer, ...... Diito, .......................
Hindoo,...... Husbandman, ... Calculua Llt.hotomy, •••
Muaaulman, Labourer,......... HypenrophiedScrotum,
Hindoo,...... Brabmin, ......... Inaanby, ..................
Ditto,......... Bearer,............ Epilejllly and Ditto,.....
Ditto,......... &n.eeah., •........ Paralysis,•••••••••••••.••.•
Ditto,......... ·Moherer, ......... Epilepsy, .................
Musaulman, Tailor, ............ lfypertrophledScrotum,
Ditto,..........Bh-ty, ......... Rheumatilllll, .............
Hindoo,...... Syoe,............... Stift'Elbow,...............
Ditto, ........ Writer,............ Paralysia,..................
Christian,.... Ditto,............... I>eafnesa, •••••••••••·••••••
Hindoo,...... Moherer, ......... Epilepsy, .................
Ditto,......... Bearer, .........••• Rheumatism,..............
Ditto,......... Ditto, .............. Ditto, .......................
J
Hd,
9th,
30t.h,
20th,
30th,
2llt,
20th,
19th,
1
~
~
......
2d,
IUh,
] "°
~11 J
8th,
~
0
~:
N.
~
~
C)
0
~
-
rv
lit.
Monthly &tum of Patient• treated at the Calcutta MeatMric Hoapi,tal, for the month of May 1847.
D1uuu.
Calculus in the Bladder, ...........
l>eafneaa, ...•.•.•...•..•.••••••••.•.•••
EpileJMly................................
Fistula perinei, .......................
Hypertrophied Scrotum,...•••.•.•.•
Hermaphroditism, .........- .........
Insanity, ................................
Paralysis, .............................
Rheumatism,...........................
Total, .........
.AYer&ge number Of Irick,...... 25,
(True Copies,)
Calcutta Mt1'1Mric H<Hpital, lltJuna 1847.
·~ l
·1 -
&! ~ l
1
' 4 I 1 I 5
' 1 l... 1
I ..~ I ~ 16
9 ... ' 2
l
2
2
t~.J
t§i
~ "8 f
~ri= b
60
193
97
48
Discharged.
l
;:I
&!
J
~ 1
:!
=
!IJ
t:s.i
t.,, =
§ ..
~"81
••p::1i
Deatha and .Age1.
il g g g g g "°
.s
:: 0
i 0 0
·~
"" .. ..,
!~ !~ !g !~ !g,!g J
4
14
3
5
: ~ 1
: I2
I 77
I 2
I··· 1 ..· 1 •
---------------1-1 !--·-·-·-·-·-·-'
25 15 40 8 ......... 4 ... ... 2 ••• I ••• I ••• I ••• I ••• I 26
--•--•--•--•----1--1--1--I I I 1---•--•--1
--1
--1
--1
--'
• By mistake not entered in last month'• Return.
J. FoBSrTB, s.,,_, (Signed) G. Lum, (Sd.) J. EaDAILB, M. D.,
&cy. Medl. Board. Offg. S"Pt. s.,,_. S•pt. MUflW'i.c llo6pital.
•
Q)
-ol
72
The diseased mass weighing 30 lbs. was carefully and deliberately
removed by Mr. O'Shaugluiessy, who di88ected. out two flaps of
healthy skin, and preserved the testicles.
Directly the operation commenced, the expression of the man's
count.enance was changed to that of a person prepared to undergo
an operation, viz. the orows corrugat.ed, the lips firmly compreseecl,
the muscles of the neck and anns tense and rigid, the pulse greatly
accelerated and diminished in fullness, and the pulsation in the neck
disa peared.
~e first incisions were home without any expression of pa.in, but
on the commencement of dissecting out the testicles and cord, the
man cried out, and continued to do so until the tumour was com-
plet,ely removed.
When de-mesmerized he declared his inability to see, and the
power of vision was apparently only restored by frequently blowing
upon the exposed surface of the eye-balls, and dashing cold water
upon the face. Upon being quest.toned as to his feelings and sensa-
tions, he stated that there was much burning in the wound, and that
he was not conscious of any thing unusual, until he felt the separa-
tion of the tumour from his body.
The other patients are doing well.
There are several cases of scrotal enlargement in the hospit.al, but
no examples of any other diseases appear at present to present them-
selves.
No. 4.
K nda Deo. 14 1846 Visited the Mesmeric Hospital at a little
0 :y, ' • after 11 A. M., and found Kartick, the man
operated on a few days since, suffering from irritative fever and
slougbilij? of the preserved skin of the scrotum. He appears to be
a man of febrile, irritable constitution, unlikely to get on well.
I was informed by the Sub-Assistant Surgeon, that an operation
was performed successfully in the mesmeric trance, on Saturday last,
upon a man named Sha.ik Manick, ~ 40, a husbandman and
native of Aboolara, in the Burdwan Z'illah, from whom a scrotal
tumour, weigbilij? 100 lbs., was removed. He was loo~ cheerful
and well, and intOrmed me that he was quite unconscious o? suffering
during the operation.
No official visitor was present. A pressure of public duties pre-
vented my going.
Three other cases of scrotal enlargement are under preparation,
but none are yet sufficiently under the mesmeric influence to un-
dergo operation.
Visited the Mesmeric Hospital at a little
Tueeday, Dec. 15, 18'6. fte
a rllA.M.
Shaik Manick's wound was dressed, and is looking healthy.
Digitized by Google
74
A strong healthy Baboo with an enlarged scrotum, has been for
some time subjected to meamerism, and appears .to be gradually get-
ting under its influence. He bore pricking, a weak current from the
electro-magnetic apparatus, a loud noise, and considerable mani-
pulation of the diseased mass without exhibiting any sign of sensibility.
The day afterwards he was awoke by the second current from the
electro-magnetic apparatus, more powerfully charged; and two or
three days subsequently b;r. the sudden falling of the chimney attach-
ed to the stove, which I did not witness.
Visited the hospital to-day, after the patients had
January l7th. awoke.
Four patients undergoing the mesmeric
Tuesday, Jan. i&th, 1847• manipulation-three scrotal cases, and one
a fungoid disease of the arm in a lad from Hooghly.
They were all readily roused. . .
Subsequently a respectable East Indian came for treatment. He
had laboured under a severe rheumatic affection which had nearly
deprived him of the use of his arms, and produced a stiff and swollen
state of the elbow joints. He had previously been subjected to very
active treatment by blistering, the application ofcauteries, &c., without
any relief. When he first entered the Mesmeric Hospital, his arms
were so painful as to render it difficult to examine the state of the
parts. The flexion and extension ofthe limb are now nearly restored,
and he can bear it to be somewhat roughly handled without suffer-
ing. He declares that he has derived the greatest benefit from mes-
merism, and that he experienced no sort of relief from any other
remedial measures employed.
Thunda Jan. 28th 18, 7• The same patients.undergoing mesm~c
y, ' treatment ; none withstood tlie wakiJ12
tests. The Anglo-Indian with a rheumatic affection, again in attend-
ance. No signs of inflammation in his elbow joints, of which he has
nearly regained the use-a slight stiffness only remaining.
A lady said to be in attendance for the purpose of being mesme-
rized on account of severe epileptic fits. I did not see her.
&turd J sOth Unable to attend on account of a meeting
ay, an. • of the Council of :Education.
Tuesda , Feb. 2c1, 1847• Reached t!ie h°!'pital w4ile Dr. Esdaile
1 was~ m testing the state of the Baboo
with a scrotal enlargement. He resisted noises, pricking, loud talk-
ing, &c., but awoke upon Dr. Esdaile's squeezing his testicle forcibly.
The other patients had all awoke.
Feb. 3d to the 19th. Visited th~ hospi~ occasionally, but a pres-
sure of public duties prevented my regular
attendance. On the 6th, the Baboo above referred to was operated
on, and the details of the operation are subjoined.
Digitized by Google
....
76
carefully wat.ched this case for some time, and it appeared to present
some peculiarities worthy of notice.
There was usually observed a curious local sw2· apparentJ7
confined to the feet and ankles. He exhibited a · y cataleptic
condition of the upper extremities, and always, w en test.ad, awoke
suddenly and without an adequate cause. He withstood the wmal
tests without flinching, except that offire, and yet was unaccountably
restored to consciousness by minor disturbing causes, as appeared
d~ my visit to the hospital on the day preceding the operation.
I arrived late in the room, and found several persons assembled
round the bed of the patient. I was informed by a medical officer
present (Dr. Flet.cher, of the Bengal Army,) that prior to my appear-
ance Dr. Esdaile had aft.er several tests, pronounced the man fit for
operation. ·
He awoke suddenly as usual, and in a manner which was not
explained, a few moments aft.er I had been at his bed-side. I merell
felt his arm to ascertain the state of the muscles, and then raised 1t
to its fullest extent by means of the middle finger.
Monda Feb. 22d. F!>ur or five patients in the hands of the m~
:y, menzers. Two scrotal cases of men otherwtse
in health, who were easily roused. A case of stiff ankl~joint of
long duration, which the individual stated had been considerably
benefit.ed by mesmerism, and which he was now capable of mo~
as well as of placing firmly on the ground. The mesmerizer, in addi-
tion to breathing upon the part, was subjecting it to passive motion.
A Jew from Egypt, wlio had suffered frOm an acute attack of
hepatitis, for which he had been actively treat.ad, as he said without
any benefit ·in the Native Hospital, was also being mesmerized. The
disease had orWnally been produced by a blow on the head, and he
appeared consi4erably reduced. Dover's powder had been adminis-
tered since his admission, which had afforded him much relie£
The mesmeric breathing and passes were being performed over the
hepatic region.
The OOriah whoee scrotal enlargement had been removed on
Saturday the 20th, was doing well, with the exception of a slight
attack of fever.
I met the Jew referred to yesterday, in the
Tueeda;y, Feb. 23d. hospital compound, and he told me that he was
a little better. .
The other cases were in about the same state as yesterday.
A new case was in the room. A blind and very frightened
Maltomedan, with apparentl7 a double hydrocele. He had not been
influenced by the mesmensm, and was much agitated upon his
scrotum being examined by Dr. Esdaile. He was assured that he
would be cured when he was thrown into the sleeping state. I did
not see any other case.
Digitized by Google
77
Wedneeday, ~ on duty at the public distribution of pmes
Feb. 24Lh. at the~TOwn Hall, and therefore unable to attend.
Thanday, One new case said to have been admitted of neuralgia
Feb. ll6Lh. of the face. He was not present at the time of my
visit.
Dr. Esdaile mentioned that the Jew previously referred to, was
well, or declared himself to be so.
A patient was also reported to ha'V'e disappeared, carrying with
him a sheet belongi,!!ir the Hospit.al
The case of stiff 1 e-joint appeared to be progressing favourably.
That of the blind man with double hydrocele, was little advanced.
His extreme dread seemed to have diniinished.
Friday, l!'eb. Three cases were being subjected to the mesmeric
ll&Lh. passes in a novel manner. The individuals were seated
in arm chaini, and three mesmerizers linked hand in hand were
• Surroop, Jumun, e~ on each. Their names are noted in the
and Hurchand. margin.• I remained until a quarter to l P. K., at
which time no perceptible effect had been produced, all of the patients
exhibiting signs of consciousness.
The Jew, I was informed by Baboo Budden Chun4er Chowchy,
bad returned from a relapse of bis ~ but he had been mesmerized,
and left before I reached the Hosp1t.al I saw no other patients.
Looked through the small sliding panel in the door, and saw the
SMurday, Feb. same patients ait_yest.erday, being subjected to mee-
ll7th. meric passes. Was told by Sub-Assistant Surgeon
Budden Chowdry that there was nothing new, but that the blind
Mahomedan had yesterday, after I had left, been in a st.ate of som-
nambulism. He did not mention the nature of the symptoms and
phenomena seen in that state.
Having au engagement connected with the distribution of prizes
to the Hooghly College, I was unable to remain until Dr. E8daile
arrived.
Sanday, Feb. Two men were undergoing mesmeric manipula-
tsdl. tions, but were not much under the influence of the
The man wi:r!t.stiff ankle-joint still complains of a little pain
in it, and is unable freely to bend the joint. He can stamp np<>n
the floor with considerable force, which he could not do some time
since.
The Baboo and Ooriah are both doing well.
Dr. Esdaile mentioned to me the case of Surroop, the somnam-
bulist., who exhibited yesterday in the presence of Mr. Hallida:y,
Dr. Clarke, H. M.'s Inspector General of Hospitals, Messrs. Lacrom
and Mackey, &c. some of the peculiarities of this condition. From
Dr. Esdaile's account it could not have been so complete a state of
somnambulism, as ~me of .thoee which I have wit.neSsed in Europe,
o;9;1;zedbyGoogle .r
a
78
and others which are described in works on physiology as occurring
spontaneously. •
I asked Dr. Esdaile if any cases were being sent to him from the
public Dispensaries in Calcutta, and told him that I had given strict
mjunct.ions for all suitable cases in the Medical College Dispensary
being transferred to him. As they do not appear to go, I request.ea
him to send down one of his mesmerizers every morning to whom
the cases should be duly made over, that he might take charge of
them to the Mesmeric Hospital.
At about half-past one P. M., Dr. Esdaile called and asked if I
should like to see a person rendered insensible by the vapour of
sulphuric ether.
He kindly took me to his hospital, where I saw two coolies in a
perfect state of insensibility. One of them named Mohamed Alie
Lad passed throl_:lgh a st.age of complete catalepsy, and was then
becoming partially conscious on be~ spoken to and roused. His
pulse was small and frequent., his Jaw somewhat stiff, and the
eyeballs turned intensely upwards and immoveable : previous to
this he had lost the power of deglutition, and his lower jaw was
firmly fixed. He was at this time insensible to all external stimuli,
snch as pricking, pulling, &c.
Upon being forcibly roused, he stat.eel that he felt nothin2, but had
become stone blind and unable to open his eyes. Every d.emesme-
rizing process resort.eel to, failed to open them, and in this, as in other
respects, he exhibited appearances so exactly identical with those
of the mesmeric stat.e, that it would have been perfectly impossible
without a prior knowledge of his having inhaled the vapour of ether
to have distinguished between them : even to the tremulous move-
ment of the eyelids, all was present., but in a more intense degree.
The vapour of ammonia roused and irritated him, and raised his
pulse, but did not relieve the violent spasmodic closure of the eyelids,
and turning upwards of the ~lobe of the eye. He was then taken to
the outer steps of the hospital, and a mussock of cold water was
poured upon his head, neck, and the region of the spine, as well as
dashed upon his face. He at length openedhis eyes, but was wiable
to distinguish object.a and individiials, and appeared likely to relapse
into his previous condition. At last he suddenly started up, havmg
evidently for the first time become conscious of the falling of water
upon hi8 body, sensible and able to see, and exhibiting considerable
anger at the bheestee for having thrown water upon him. He
retained no recollection of what has occurred, and only suffered from
a slight degree of giddiness.
The other coolie, named Dhannea, exhibited the same phenomena,
but in a much less intense d~ Although capable of being
roused, there was a peculiar rigidity about the liiµbs, which, however,
Digitized by Google
REPORT BY DR. R. O'SHAUGHNESSY.
As I knew a case of scrotal tumour was likely t.o be operated
upon in the Mesmeric Hospital this day, I attended at the usual
hour. On entering the operating room with Dr. Esdaile and the
other visit.ors who had assembled in the outer room, I found the
patient, who was t.o be operat.ed upon, lying on his back with a
man sitting at the head of the bed, who rest.ad one of his hands
spread out upon the patient's chest, and the other crossed the upper
part of the face as if to shade his eyes from the light, his head was
bent over the patient's, and he was breathing upon his brows and
forehead, but making no passes or movement of any sort with his
hands.
The patient appeared t.o be sleeping, his breathing was regular,
pulse quick, strong and equal, the temperature of the skiri was
natural, and there was no throbbing of the carotids. His age was
about two or three and thirty, and lie was a healthy looking muscular
man. Dr. Esdaile drew out both his arms from under the blanket,
he bent the fore-arms, and allowed them to remain erect resting on
the elbows.
The lower half of the bed being removed, the patient's legs were
drawn wide apart, and placed resting on chairs ; no change t.ook
place that I could see, in the state of the patien4 which in any way
. mdicat.ed he was conscious of what was passing while these pre-
parations were being made, but the moment the concealed bistoury
was passed up the pre1;mce, before it was opened, and therefore
before he could, if ilenBlble t.o external impressions, experience any
pain, there was an evident shrinking, a slight movement indicative of
sensation, which a few seconds before, he evinced no sign of, while the
Doctor was " testing" him, by pricking the lower part of the abdomen,
and inner sides of tlie thighs with the point of a sharp knife. During
the remainder of the operation, however, while the prepuce was being
dissected from the penis, and the testicles from their coverings, he
shewed no sign of suffering. There was no compression of the lips,
no moaning, no movement of the arms, and the breathing continued
natural. The fina:ers of the right hand became slightly stiff, and
very gently and sTowly closed on mine, as I was fee~ them. The
hand became cold and the pulse sunk remarkably dunng the opera-
tion ; it was very slow and weak by the time the operation was finish-
ed. The parts removed weighed about two pounds.
o;9;1;zedbyGoogle ~ J
APPEND IX.
(No. 190.)
(No. 19or1847-48)
FJ&O• TBB MBDJC.U. BoAllD,-
To TBa HoR'BLB Sta T. H. MAoooc1t, KT.,
Ikpw, d__. of Bntpl.
HoR'BLB Sua, Furt William, 14tA JWM, 1847.
We do ourselvea the honor to aubmit copy of a letter dated 14th
imtant, from Dr. R. O'Shaughnesay, a Government Visitor of the Mesmeric
Hospital, containing a summary of hia observatioDB on the transactioDB of the
Hospital, during the time he bu officiated as one of the Government Visitors.
We have the honor to be, &c.,
(Signed) B. F. Hovoe, PAya. Gnil.
., Wx. PuroR, Swrp. Gnl.
., Q. LAiia, Iupr. Gnil. ofHOlpilall.
Fort W-.UUU.. Medical Board OJJice, 171A J.,,. 1847.
FJ&Ox R. O'SeAVGBIIBSH, ESQ.,
VUitor oftM Murrwric Boapilal,
To J. Fo•HTB, EeQ.,
&cnra,., Medical Board.
Sua,
Being informed that the Government ie about to publish the Reports of
&be Mesmeric Hospital for the last six months. I conceive it to be my duty, in
obedience to the inatructioDB contained in Mr. Halliday'• letter, appointing me
one of the official visitors of that imtitution. to report to you the result of my
obeervatiom from the date or my appointment up to the preeent time.
Soon after the receipt of Mr. Halliday's let~ in the end of November, I
commenced my visits to the Hospital, and continued them as regularly as the
nature of my other public duties would permit; but until the 13th of December
I saw nothing going on there of any interest or importance except the
mesmerizing process, by which patients were said to be prepared to undergo
painleas opera&ions. These manipulatiODI and "puaes" have been already ao
frequently described. I do not think it nece1Bary to detail them here. The only
thing that struck me regarding the proce111 was, there appeare4 to be 10
Digitized by Google _
r ·
ii
little uniformity in the proceedings of the Mesmerieen. One man made puses
in one way, and another in a different manner, and some made no passes at all,
but merely placed the fiat of the hand on the chest or abdomen, bending over
the patient at the same time, and breathing upon his face.
O~ &he date before mentio~ed, I was requested by Dr. Esdaile to operate
upon one of his patients in the Hospital with hypertrophy of the scrotum. The
man was so perfectly mesmerised in the Doctor's opinion, that, to use his own
words, "he might be cut into mince meat without feeling it." Dr. Esdaile was
unable to operate himself, owing to his right hand being disabled by a
sore finger.
When I went into the operating room where the patient was, I found Dr.
Eedaile in the act of" testing" him by pricking dift'erent parts of the body with
a pin, and be then placed a small piece oflighted charcoal on the chest and back
of the hand. The instant the fire touched the latter, I observed the patient
JDOYed the hand a little, but he did not shake the charcoal off, or give any
other sign of sensation for the second or two it was allowed ·to remain on.
Notwithstanding this, there·was something in the patient's countenance, as well
as the constant varying of the pulse, and nervous-like throbbing of the carotid
arteries, which led me to suspect he '\fa& not so perfectly insensible, and wrcon·
lcWru as Dr, Esdaile appeared to think. I made this remark at the time to
Dr. Mouat, Dr, Peanon and other11, then present..
I commenced the operation by slitting up the prepuce, and then the left. tes-
ticle was exposed by cutting down uron it ; but before I had time to free it
from the tough tissue in which it was imbedded, the man cried out mast bitter-
ly. I spoke to him to encourage and promise him a speedy termination tO his
(in my ignorance) supposed sulferings, but Dr. Esdai1e interrupted me, saying,
there was no use in my speaking, as the man was still fast asleep, and perfectly
.insensible. I finished the operation, however, as rapidly as I was able, the poor
man crying out a1 if from pain the whole time; but the moment the tumour
dropped, aner the last stroke of the knife, and before any questions were put to
him, he said, " I see nothing, I know nothing, I was sleeping and felt no pain;"
such at lesst I thought was the meaning of the words I heard him utter.
The next operation I was present at in the Mesmeric Hospital, was on the
30th December. The disease was the same as the last, but the tumour was
much smaller-Dr. Esdaile operated himself on this occasion. I noticed in this
case the same peculiar throbbing of the carotids before mentioned.. The breath·
ing too was irregular and uneasy, but the pulse was both regular and good.
Dr. Esdaile commenced the operation by pusing a co11j:le8led bistoury up the
elongated prepuce. The instant it was introduced, and before a drop of blood
could lw.ve been drawn, Uie patient lifted up one of his lega 11 if from pain, or
Digitized by Google
... .....
iv
a patieot for operation, thereby rendering it unavailable for all cues of urgency,
or emergency. The number of disturbing causes which are aaid eo to afl"ect it,
as completely to prevent the necessary action, such ae temperature, current.I of
cold air, noise, &c. (according to Dr. Eedaile's Statement.I at the Hospital.) It.a
inapplicability to all cuee attended with fever, much pain, or cough, or general
disturbance of the system; and fiom it.a total failure to produce any efl"eot upon
two boys, who were admitted into the Mesmeric Hospital, one with fungus
hoomatodes of the arm, and the.other with diseue of the thigh bone, ("1ey were
labouring under that disturbance of the system usual in all such severe eurgical
cases, which was given as a reaeon by Dr. Eedaile for his want of nccees with
them,) I ~ dispoeed to think it never can be made available for general amgical
practice.
Ali to the cure ofatifl"joint.e by memeriam, I think fiom !'hat I saw at Dr.
Esdsile's Hospital, the same amount of daily rubbing and working the afl"ected
part, would be equally 11ucceeaful, whether the patient was sleeping or awake
during the process, and·therefore I attach no value to mesmerism in BUch cues.
The efftlCtl ofmesmerism in medical case11 I can give no opinion on, as thoee
I saw in the Hospital were merely caaea of rheumatism, sciatica, epilepsy, and
paralysis ; as for the two former it is difficult to judge whether the patients are
better or wane, as we can only tell by their own report, and I know well an
Hospital patient is not always to be depended upon. As to epilepsy, the Hospi-
tal Reports alone mn11t be our guide in judging the efl"ect.e of any remedy em-
ployed, as they record the force and frequency of the fits, and the changes which
may take place in them, BO that.as the Reports of these cues are, I have no doubt
faithfully and carefully recorded in the Mesmeric Hospital, all who read them
are in the 1&1De poeiuon as· a visitor to form a judgment upon the remedy
employed. Cases of paralysis are a1ao unsatisW.-tory, as a change of diet, and
bett.er shelt.er riom the weather often produce effect.a upon them, which medical
men too frequently attribute to their treatment, and the 118Dl8 may be aaid
where mesmerism ill subetituted for medicines.
(Signed)
141A Jae, 1H7.
I have, &c.,
R O'SB4uoenan, l+o/euor of&rgwy,
O.ffe:Wl Viaitor o/tlte Mmtteric Hoapilal.
(True Copy,)
(Signed) J, FouYTB, SurgtHY11,
&crdarg Mtdical Board.
Digitized by Google
•
vi
little good I should think could be expected from mesmerism or any other
remedial agent used " by iuelf alone" in such cases.
Little or no progre98 appears to have been made in the investigation of the
ejJicienJ cmue of mesmeric agency in producing " insensibility to pain" in eome
cases, while it fails in others.
Until extensive experiments are made of the nature suggested by the late
" Mesmeric Committee," upon masses of individuals of all classes and constitu-
tions ; of all ages and both sexes ; on pereons in sound health, as well as on the
sick and suft'ering ; on pereons of education and good sense, u well as on the
ignorant and credulous; on pereons who are already fast asleep, as well u on
those who wide awake resign themselves to its manipulations; till experimentll
have been made on brute animals as well as on man, it is evident that no theory
of its action can be worth listening to, and no dependence placed by the Pro-
fession at large upon mesmerism as a therapeutical agent. • • • • • •
. . . . . . .. •.
I have, &c.,
(Signed) D. STBWAllT, M. D.,
Preaideneg Surgeon and ProfellJOt' of Midwiferg.
Cakidto, 23d JUfU!, 1847.
Digitized by Google
vii
To F . J. H.tLLIDAT, EsQ.,
Secretary to tllt Govtrmn.enl of Bengal.
Sm,-Since His Honor the Deputy Governor has determined upon printing
the Reports of the Mesmeric Hospital for the last six months, I hope that
I may be permitted to take this opportunity to make a few remarks on the
working and prospects of the Experimental Hospital so liberally and benevo-
lently established by the Government.
For some months we were almost exclusively occupied with surgery ; the
fame of painless operation having eclipsed the less strilr.ing, but even more
important medical relations of the subject, but these are now becoming more
generally known by the public, and medical results have been already obtained
of an important and highly encouraging description, and other cDSes now
in hand of the gravest nature, such as palsy, epilepsy: madness, and painful
nervous aft"ections promise to repay our labours amply. But these cases are so
old and inveterate that it requires long treatment to make an impression ori
them, and protracted observation before we can be sure ofour results.
The surgical cases, for reasons well known to you, are almost all of one
description, but fortunately for the demonstration of the anodyne and narcotic
power of mesmerism, the operations required to be performed have generally
been the most severe and dangerous that are required to be performed on the
human body.t A greater variety of both surgical and medical cases is
however desirable, and could be easily found in the public Hospitals ofCalcuttL
It is in the practice of large Hospitals with their ever-varying patients and
incidents that the general utility of mesmerism will be best and most speedily
illustrated, and I hope that a Mesmeric Corps will soon be reckoned as indis-
pensable to a general Hospital as it.a allowance of dressers, who may very well
combine both cbaracten. Ifso much has been done for the prevention of pain
and the cure of diaeue with ten lads,-the number allowed me for making this
experiment-:-what might nor be expected from the well-directed efforts of the
youths training for the public service at the Medical College. It is as easy
to make hundreds of skilful Mesmerisers as ten, and if the Government think it
9esirable, I could soon make the Native Doctors throughout the service aa
skilful _as my own assistants.
Some failures will be seen recorded in my reports, but these are happily few,
and are clearly attributable to the ignorance and imperfections of the operator,.
and not to a defect in the power of nature. In the first month's proceedings,
certain conditions required for success were overlooked, and disappointment
was the necessary consequence, but it happily resulted in increaling our know·
,
• Since this was writt.en, I have heard from Dr. Kean of Berbampore, that he baa
found the mesmeric treatment very efficacious in iDlaoity and epilepsy.
t Dr. Goodeve in VoL Vfil ofthe Transactions ofthe Medical and Physical Society,
Calcutta, thus ~ of the operation for the removal of scrotal tumors. "It is clear
that. thia operation ie one of imminent danger~ in whicil hitherto It bBS appeared thaf
the chance& for and against the recovery of the patient are almost eYenly balauccd." ·
N
Digitized by Google
viii
ledge of the subject. On other occasiollll I received some checks Crom riakiog
something rather than dieappoint the spectators. AB our knowledge of the
subject increues, and when mesmeric phenomena have beoome • mere matter
of course to be witnessed daily in any Hospital, these disturbing causea will dis-
appear, and nature be permitted_ to dnelope all her benignant power under the
most fayorable circumstances.
In conclusion, I would beg leave to direct respectfully the: attention of the
Government to the medical statistica of the ·subject; it being a point otmuch
interest to ucertain the ratio of mortality under the old and new llChoel or
surgery. For this purpose, I haYe the honor to append a retum ofall the mes-
meric operations performed by me, now amounting to 133, and I hope that the
Government will think the subject of snfiicient importance .to call for the
necessary means of comparison from the ditrennt Hoepitabl in Calcutta.
It may perhaps be allowed me to say a few words regsrding my experience
of ether u a substitute for mesmerism in surgery, 88 I lost no time in teating
its pretensions; and the results are, that I aee no reuon to prefer art to nature,or
to believe that it will ever be anything but a CCJm'le imita&ion of the eft'ecita or
mesmerism, and which ought only to be resorted to wben the other bu failed,
or in sudden emergencie11 where it bu not time to act.
l'he objections to it are-
ld.-It is so disgulting, that it is utterly impoesible to get many penons to
inhale it at all.
2d.-It often only.produces intoxication in thole who can penevere to the
necessary degree,
Sd.-The etfecta are very uncertain, being often transient, or IO inteme 88
to be alarming, and with great difficulty recoTered from.
4tA.-We have already heard of dangerom, and even fatal, reeulta ensuing: it
alt.era the constitution of the blood.•
6tk,-It ia inadmissible in numerous caaes where there isgreat debility of the
system, or diaeaae of\he lungs, heart, brain, &o.
• The etumpa of amputated limbs here ht.Ye been aeen to spout otily black blood,
" M. Lauaigne found that in venous blood before inhalation the Clot Wllll to the
eerum as 65 t.o M, while after inhalation it wu as 59 to 40 ; hence there wu a greai
increase ofserum."-Medical Gautte., No. 99.
The Medical Ouette when announcing the discovery or ether, headed the article:-
.. M-0-in& nperHfkd," and the month after, thus writes or ether-" Do we know
of any evil oouequenoee whioh have up to thia time reeulted from its use P-and are
they of 10 9eriOU8 a character 88 to make a prudent man he1itrJe in J"800lll"Ml"ding
hie patient to become 1111bject to its influence ? .
"Great excitement or the nervous ayetem, aometima a~ t.o apopluy,-an
asthmatic condition of the respirat.ory organa,~iUmg of blOod, syncope,' are
UDong the results which have been observed ; but these are by no means the woret.
In many instances-already we are aware or six or seven-death has followed quidd7
upon operations ao performed.
" We are sorry to say it, but we believe it to be the fact, tha& none or th- - ,
•ith the excejltiOn or that reported by .Mr. Nun, have been recorded in dlil coun&r.J...
Med. Gaz. No. 98.
Digitized by Google
ix
Taking all these drawbacks into consideration, it seems to me that the suc-
ceues have eomething of the nature of escapes.
Let us now see ifmesmerism is open to the above objections ; on the contrary,
it will be found that it ia easily taken by all, and any feelings experienced are
agreeable.
Its in1luence is sedative, instead ofbeing intoxicating.
The mesmeric coma is pretty uniform and perfectly manageable, and can be
dil!aipated in a moment, when neceasary.
I have never seen any local or general bad e1fecta follow tlie employment of
mesmerism in surgical operations, nor any one else; or we should have heard
ofit. It fortifies the system for the operation, preserves it during it, and 1BBista
in die recovery or the patient.
The circulation is not aft'ected by mesmerism.
It is especially applicable to the cases where ether is inwlmiuible, and is
universally allowable. /
It therefore appears to me that the only advantage that ether hu over
mesmerism, isthe rapidity ofits action, tcAer& it nctted6. But in nine-tenths of
the caaes requiring operations there is no hurry, and the preparation is advan•
tageous by eoothing and strengthening the system.
But many ofmy operations have been performed on the first day of mesme-
rising, and more might have been so, u will be seen from these reports, if
circumstances had not made it prudent to make aBBUl'ance doubly sure.
In a word, nature bountifully presents us with a power combining in perfec-
tion all the requisites (except general quickne111 ofaction) which medical men
all over the world are now racking their brains in vain to discover united,-an
agent that can produce insensibility to pain without the inconveniences or
int.oxication or the dangen of asphyxia, The practical and satisfactory con-
clmion from my experience is, that with our present imperfect knowledge of
mesmerism, we can even now secure painless operations to the great majority
ofpenons who are admitted to our Hospitals for surgical relief, and that the
agent is perfectly 1a/1, maaageable, and curatittt, As we advance.in knowledge
of the subject, we may hope to discover the means of developing its action in
the syst.em more speedily.
I have, &:c.,
·(Signed) J. Ea»ilLB, M. D.,
Cabtta MenMric HOlpital, the 2llt June, 1847.
Supt. Mu. Holpilol.
The ped.ents not accounted for in the Registers were entered for,treatment,
but immediately disappeared, being probably diaheart.ened by getting no physic.
Tbe proper sphere for .Medical Mesmerism is in General Hospitals, where the
patients from the 11eTerity of their diseaaes are compelled to remain for a length
or time 1UMler regular treatment.
Digit zed by Google
0
t§.:
i'i"
~
CT
'<
C')
0
~
.........
(i)
4. R~tur11 of tltt Mt1mtric OpwdtioM pa-formed by Dr. Eadailt at tlat Jail and CAarity Hoapilal, Hooglily, and at the
NatifJt and Mumwic Ho.pitala, Calcutta, from May 1845 to May 1847.-(Continutd.)
Results.
-
11
Nature of Operations. .: :Remarks.
i a!
- z 15 ~
Serb:~
:o::::.~~..~..~~..~~.~..~..~?~l
~ A man with a tumour of 100 lbs. recovered jkrfectly, and was about to
40 1 39 leave the Hospital at the end of six week&, w en a violent fever attacked
him and carried him oft
Tumour in the upper jaw removed, ............
~ It passed under the cheek bone and orbit as fa.r as my fi:f'n could
l 0 l reach, and having destroyed the bones of the noee, descend into the
throat.
[ 1';. • wri.,,. "",.., lho"""" """'notrocill.... .,...tioM on '"'
StifF legs straightened, •••••••••••••·••••••••••••• 3 0 3 eye. The eye-ball ii generally turned upwards, downward&, or into either
Ditto arms, .......•..••••••••.•...........•...•...... Ii 0 Ii angle 80 far that the cornea ii out of sight or only partially visible. The
CaWact8 operated on, ............................. 3 0 3 ~ also often rotates about the orbit 80 as to be with difti~ fixed.
Hydroceles ditto, .................................... 11 0 11 en the eye is fixed, and the cornea is in front, it is of\en g like a
Tapping for dropsy, ............................... 3 0 3 dead man'a, preventing a view of the iris. When the latter is visible, it is
Actual cautery applied to a large sore, ........ I 0 1 usual!y dilated or contracted to a pin-point, but sometimes its mobility
rem~ns. .
A large sore C<>Tered with muriatic acid,...... 3 0 3
Unbealth/ sores pared down,..................... 9 0 9
Sinus an fistulas laid open, .................... 9 0 9
Heels fl~ed, ......................................... 3 0 . 3
End of umb.cut.o~ ..................... ....... I 0 I
- - -
Canied over,..... ...... 106 Ii 101
~.
•
..
,.
0
<ij"
""
N
(I)
Q.
~
CJ
0
~
,.........
rv
4. &tvf'fl of tlu MelfMric Opwatiotu per/ortMd by Dr. E1daik at tlu .Jail attd Claarity Hoapital, Hooglaly, attd at tAe
Nati"e attd Menaeric Hoapitau, Calcutta, from May 1845 to May 1847.-rconti1111etlJ
Resulta.
Nature ol OperatiODL
I ~l1 Remarks.
Brought over, ...... 106 5 101
Teeth extrac~ ...•••..•.••........••...........,.. 5 0 5
Gum cut away,...................................... 1 0 l
!'rel>uee remoTed,•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••..••••• 6 0 5
Hypertrophy of penis ditto, ..................... l 0 1
Sappuratin~e ditto, ............................. 1 0 l
Great toe n cat out by the roots, ......"••• 5 0 6
Seton Ill inches long introduced, ............... I 0 l
Cartilaginous tumours on ean cut o~ ......... ll 0 ll
Lithotomy, ............................................ 1 0 l
Abtc.eaeel opened., •••••··••••••·•··.................. 6 0 5
Total, 1iial-
5
-lwl { Senn of the pauen'8 became conscious before the end of the operation,
............ l but thia was from Inexperience or milmanaeemea&.
(True Copies,) J. FOBITTO, Surgeott.
Mumeric HOBpital, tk lat Jwu, 1847. Seq. Met!l. BoanL
!lad. Jwl, 1847.
Since theee pages went to press, 1Ooperatio11.1 have been performed.
. Sc-rotal iu.mon, ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••..••••••...••••••..• 8
Schirru.a teetinm,....•••••••••••••••••••••.•....•.·•••••••••••••• I
Great toe 1D1pui&ied,.......................................... l all doing well.
'..ULB, IL D..
Mu.1rit: Hwpilal.
S:
•
• •
Digitized by Google
•
'.
.. ...
,
•
•
Digitized by Google
\
RECORD OF CASES
TU.I.TED Ill
THE MESMERIC HOSPITAL,
J'BOK
JUNE TO DECEMBEll, 1847:
WITH
REPORTS OP THE OFFICIAL VISITORS.
l'BOITED BT OBDBB OF OOVBRlOO:lCT,
CALCUTTA:
W. RIDSDALE, MILITARY ORPHAN PRESS.
1848.
Digitized by Google
Eztract frota a ktm' aJdratied to IM PraiJn1 of IM MUIU1'ic Co-iuu, by IM
&crdMy to tM 0---t ofBertgal, tlauJ 411 NolJOflJer 1846.
Pan. 6. With this new His Honor baa determined, with the aanction or the
Supreme GoYernment, to place Dr. FAdaile for one year in charge of a am.all expe-
rimmtal hospital in eome faYorable aitaation in Calcutta, in order that he may, aa
l'900lllJDellded by &be Committee, extend hie inYeStigationa to the applicability of
this alleged agency to all delcriptiona of cues, Medical aa well aa Surgical, and all
c1- of patient., European aa well aa N&tiff. Dr. Esdaile will be directed to
.encourage the reeort to hie hospital of all respectable penona deeirona of aatiafying
&1.naelftl of the nature lllld the eft'ect of hie experimeate, especially Medical and
Scientific indiYidaala in or oat of the Serrioe ; and Bia Honor will nominate from
among the Medical Oftioen of the Preaidency, " Vi.aiton," whoae duty it will be to
Tisit &be hoapital from time to time, inspect Dr. Eedaile'• prooeedinga. without exer·
ciaing any interfereuoe, and oocuionally, or when called on, report upon them,
daroagb the Medical Board, for the information or Qoyernment. On theae Repona
will mainly depend wba& further lteps the Go1'91'1111U1nt may deem it expedient to
&Ake in the matter.
In 1CCOrdance with the aboye, the follo~ gentlemen were named official Tisiton
of &be Meemeric Hospital.
B. M. M. TROJll!IOlf, E&Q.
D. 8TBWilT, EeQ., M. D.
J. J.lCK801'. EeQ., M. B. F. R. c. s.
F. J. Mou.lT, EeQ., M.. D. F. R. C. S.
B. O'SIU.UGll.1'.KSllY, EeQ., F. R. c.s.
Digitized by Google .
.I
2
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
May 29th, 1847.-Gobind Chunder, a beggar, aged 32, residing at
Ramkistopore, has been suffering from a scrotal tumour for 8
years. It was preceded by a periodic fever coming on twice a
month, and lasting for about two days. .
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
31st.-Slept naturally.
June lat.-Sleeping soundly, hair was torn out of his moustache
and head, he was pricked all over, and the tumour was next
exposed and thrown up to the abdomen with a jerk several times,
his testes were severely squeezed, and his eyes were opened with
great difficulty without breaking his slumber.
· 2nd.-He was to-day subjected to the action of the electro-
magnetic machine for about two minutes and a half; his arms were
strongly convulsed, and a shock was felt by those who touched his
body.
3rd.-Again electrified to-day without his waking.
4th.-He was operated on to-day.•
He was perfectly still and motionless throughout, and it is useless
to say quite unconscious that any thing had been done to him. He
awoke of his own accord a quarter of an hour after the operation.
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
June 1, 1847.-Kheturmohun Sen, a pedlar, aged 21, residing in
Calcutta, has got a scrotal tumour for about 8 years. His legs
are also affected with elephantiasis, particularly the left one. He
has been subject as usual to periodic fever.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
2nd.-Sleeping profoundly, the tumour was exposed and the
testes severely squeezed. He was then made to bear the action of
an electro-magnetic machine with the power of the highest degree.
It only brought on strong convulsive movements of the arms, and
communicated shocks to persons touching his body.
3rd.-The same as yesterday.
•Present-Dr. Starton, Mr. McCarthy, Mr. Filby, Mr. Jackson, Mr. Thomu,
Mr. Bolst, Mr. McKie, Mr. Laing, Mr. Warwick, Mr. H. C. Kemp, Mr. Dyson,
Mr. D'Cruz, :Mr. J. Rebeiro, Mr. King, Mr. Mayer, Mr. Gregory, Mr. Minoea,
Dr. R. Stuar~ .Mr. Smith, Dr. Thomson, Mr. R. O'Shaughneaay, and Mr. A. D.
Kemp.
Digit zed by Google
3
4th.-He awt>ke from one of the conductors of the machine sud-
. denly falling on his body.
5th.-He was as indifferent as a corpse to the shocks to day.
6th.-The same to day.
7th.-He was operated on to-day;• the dissection was excessively
severe and tedious from the great thickness and hardness of the walls
of the tumour, and its encroaching high upon the pubes. The
penis was six inches below the surface, and was with difficulty
extricated. I then cut down on both testes to ascertain their con-
dition, but found them atrophied and useless, as is usually the
case in elephantiasis. The man lay perfectly passive and still till
towards the end of the operation when he began to moan and writhe
his bodv considerably. After the fall of the mass, I begged that
he might not be disturbed, and he immediately relapsed into the
trance. He was soon after demesmerised, and on waking was
unaware that any thing had happened to him in his sleep. There
was a large hydrocele on each side, and the tumour before it was
emptied must have weighed upwards of 30 lbs.
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
June 8, 1847.-Mudhoo, a 'Mallee, aged 32, a native of Kandapore,
in Cuttack, has contracted a small scrotal tumour for 3 years.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
9th.-Insensible to pricking and pinching; his arms were rigid,
the tumour was exposed and the testes were severely squeezed.
He was next subjected to the action of an electro--magnetic
machine with the power of the second degree without disturbing
him.
lOth.-He was electrified with the highest power of the machine.
Mesmerism was interrupted for five days, as he was attacked with
a fit of asthma.
15th.-Sleeping profoundly; he bore steadily the galvano-mag-
netic shock of the second degree, but showed a slight sign of in-
stinctive movement in his face under the third.
16th.-He was again electrified with the highest power of the
machine.
18th.-I did not intend to operate to-d~y, and only tested the
man severely. Dr. Palmer having come from Hooghly on purpose
• Preeent-Mr. Higginson. Mr. Dyson. Mr. Simson, Mr. Leslie, Mr. McCarthy,
Hr. Jackson, Mr. Sedgwick, Mr. Mendieta, Mr. Jacob, Mr. .McDonnond, Mr. Byrne,
Hr. Edwards, Syd Kuramut Ally, Mina Kadirbeg, Mr. A. D. Kemp, Mr. Thomson,
Mr. Piua, and Mr. Lindstedt.
Digitized by Google
4
to witness an operation, begged me to gratify him, and I consented to
do it sooner than I intended. The case is only a repetition of the
last, exhibiting perfect insensibility till towards the end of the opera-
tion, followed by vague movementa and moaning ; the most perfect
subsequent repose, and total oblivion on awaking. He awoke a
quarter of an hour after all was over, and felt just as usual, with the
exception of a slight heat between h~ legs: all the parts were saved,
no pain till next day.
STIFF ARM•
.April 14, 1847.-Ruhman, Bheesty, aged 40, a native of Dacca,
has been afB.icted with a stiff arm for four months. It came on
from a chronic inflammation- of the elbow caused by the friction
of the water bag. The arm was bent at a right angle, and did not
admit or either flexion or extension. The joint was much swollen
and painful; so much so, that the least touch made the patient cry
out.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
30th.-The joint is less painful and bears moderate pressure,
and admits of being slightly moved in both directions; the tume-
faction slightly diminished.
May 10, 1847.-The joint admits a good deal of motion; the
swelling and pain are considerably diminished, and he allows it to
be gently rubbed.
28th.-The arm can be extended to an obtuse angle, and the
pain and tumefaction are nearly gone.
June 10, 1847.-The arm is nearly straight, he can bend and
extend it with facility ; the swelling is disappearing, slight pain
only remains at the anterior part of the joint.
26th.-The arm is perfectly straight and like the other, he says
that he can now use his arm without the least inconvenience-dis-
chlil'ged, cured.
PARALYSIS.
Ma'll 21, 1847.-Wuzeer, a tailor, aged 40, residing at Kisto-
J><>re, m Zillah 24-Pergunnahs, has been troubled with paralysis of
the light side of the body, f&rticularly of the limbs for 6 years.
It followed chronic rheumatism. He can walk a little with the
aid of a staff, and limps a good deal at the time. He can only
separate the affected arm a little from his body. There was a
decided loss of feeling in the fore-arm and leg.
To be mesmerised locally and generu.lly for an hour daily.
Digitized by Google
0
~:
N.
~
~
C)
0
~
-
rv
Date of
Admission.
-5
=
0
)I 1~
1847.
May, 27,
"
2'1,
"
29,
"
29,
"
29,
June I,
.. I,
"
fl,
"
10,
"
12,
"
15,
.. 15.
.. 15,
.. 20,
"
22,
" 124,
.. 2",
,, 80,
al
.,,
al
Caste. Profession. Diaease. Cured.
i:I
Died.
Names. ..
!
~
to
411
Siboo, - - - - . - - so H. - - Mallee,- - - Rheumatism, - - -
Gobindchunder Doss,
Gobindchunder Bra, -
Lalloo Do88, - - -
Ramdeen, - . .. .
Bheekhun Khan, • .
Kheturmohun, Sein •
Mudhoo, - . . .
Madhub Ro~ - . .
Ramdial Mo h. . .
Munoojohu, . - -
.Aroottee, - . . -
Mohundoss,- . . -
Suhoor, • . . . .
Katick Doss, . . -
Panoo Doss, . . .
Rujub, - • • • •
Chundechum Mookh.
- - 35 H. - - Sirkar,- - - Ditto, - - - - -
. - 82 H. - - Beggar, - - :irpertro,PhiedScrotum,
- - 27 H. - - Bearer, - - eumatll!m, - - -
. . so ......... Mehtur, . . Ehilepsy, - • - . .
. . 22 M. - . Khidmutgar, • R eumatism, . . .
. . 21 H. • . Pedlar, - • H1pertrophiedScrotum,
- . 82 H. • . Mallee,· . . Ditto, • • • • • •
. . 35 H. . . Shop-keeper, - Ditto, • . - . . -
. . 40 H. • - Bramin, • - Ditto, • . - . . .
- . 40 M. WO•
man, . - . . - Nuralgia,. . . . .
. . 86 H. • . Mallee,- . . Tetanus, • . - . .
. - 40 H. . . Barber, . . Rheumatism, • . - .
. . so M•• . Syce, • . . Hypertrophied Scrotum,
. . so H. - . Barber, . . Ditto, - - • - • -
. . 84 H. • . Kahar, . - Rheumatism, • . . .
. . so M.• . Husbandman,- HyE:'rtrophied Scrotum,
. . 29 H. - - Moherer, • - Ep' epsy, - - - • •
(a) His constitution too bad to permit an operation.
(b) He was subdued. but has gone home on urgent business.
(c) Unfit for operation, on aooount of fever.
16th, - - - - -
- - - - - - -
- - - - . - -
- - - . . - -
. - 10th, . . .
. - . - . . .
. . . - - . .
. . - . . . .
. . . - - . .
. - .. . - -
. . . . . . .
. - - . . - .
. . .. A . .
. - -. . . -
. - . - . . .
- . . . . . .
. . . . . . .
. . -. . . -
(Signed) G. Lum, (Signed)
Ojfg. Suptg. Surgeon, Preaidmq.
J. EllDAILB, M. D.,
Superinteruk11t Mumuic HOl]lital.
-
-
-
.
.
.
.
-
.
.
.
.
.
-
.
.
r
.
Iii>
.9
·i
~
- -
--
..
-.
. .
- .
..
. . .....
. .
..
..
..
-.
..
..
..
. .
. .
0
'§:
i'i
CD
c.
-'!
("')
0
~
-
rv
MontAly Rtturn of Patimt1 trtattd at t'M Calcutta Mtnnmc HOlpital,/or tlu Monti& ofJvu 1847.
...
Dl8.IU8B. ~
i
!Al .I
.9 ~=!ii
·~
=a
j
l f-g "C;
l
! ~
:.i::;
< <
Epilepsy, ................................. 4 1 5 ... ...
Hypertrophied Scrotum, .............. I• 7 21 4 80
Neuralgia, ........••....•••••••.•••.•••••• ... 1 1 ... ...
Paralysis, ·••••••••••••••••••••............. 8 ... 8 1 24
Rheumatism,............................... 5 3 8 2 45
Teta.o.aa, •••••••••••• •....••.•...........• ... 1 l ... ...
- - -
Total, ......... 26 18 39 7 ...
- -1-- ---
Average number of lick, ...... 2•,
(Sigued) G. L.um,
Offg. Suptg. Swra-, Pruillotq.
Calcvtta, MUJIW'ic H08pit.ol, lat July, 18'7.
Discharged.
..:
1
11
1 ~
..,
g
.8
~ J
~
0
~
z <
2 ... ... ...
... ... ... 8
... ... ... ...
2 ... ... ...
l ... ... ...
... ... ... ...
-
5 ... ... 3
- -
Deaths and .Ages.
... :E i g 0 d g
!Aj..i 3 .. ..,
r=!ii .&J ;., 0 g s s 3
::s j
a!:
0 0 0
~
1! ., "g " a . co C') ..
IS l> •i:; ;
~s ~~ d d 0
d
< ~
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
- - - - - -
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
- - - - - -
(Signed) J. F..eDAILB, M. D.,
Superifltendtnt MUllW'ic B<Wpital.
]
~
8
14
I
CX>
...
5
1
-
24
-
DETAILED ACCOUNT OF CASES TREATED AT THE
CALCUTTA MESMERIC HOSPITAL,
For the month of July, 1847.
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
June 30, 1847.-Kartick, a carter, aged 30, residing at Bhow-
bazar, in Calcutta, has got a common scrotal tumour for 6 years.
' Both the legs are affected with elephantiasis, particularly the right
one.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
July 1, 1847.-He was pricked and electrified severely without
awaking or disturbing him, and might be safely operated on to-day.
He was then l~ft to sleep, and awoke about three hours after of his
own accord.
2nd.-This is one of the most perfect cases that I have operated
on• in the trance. He bore the knife like a corpse, and only began
to move a little at the tying of the arteries. After the vessels
were all eecured, the testes were carefully examined, and the right
one being found diseased and useless, was cut off; the left one was
involved in a hydrocele, out of which it was leisurely dissected and
left. He was now covered with a sheet ; in about half an hour
after all was over, the sheet was raised to see if there was any
bleeding. The sudden exposure to the air disturbed him ; he sud-
denly raised himself, opened bis eyes, seemed to see the wound,
and stretched out bis band to it, but instantly fell back into the
coma. This bas been repeatedly seen and described. About an
hour after the or.'ration, as I was attempting to open bis eyes, he
awoke. He said he felt as usual, and not in the least weak ; nor
was there any pain in bis body, and he wanted to know why so
many people were gathered around him. A few minutes after he
complained of a sensation of heat in the wound, and suspected
from it that he had been operated on like others when he waa
asleep.
SCIRRHUS TESTIUM-EXTIRPATION.
Jul9 lO, 1847.-Shamchuncler Dutt, a shop-keeper, aged 40, re-
siding at Zingrapolasee, in Zillah Hooghly, has been troubled with
hypertrophied scrotum and scirrhous testes for 6 years. It commenced
• Preeen~Mr. Bees, Mr. Turner, ud Mr. Wilb7.
0
Digitized by Google .r
10
with a periodic fever coming on twice a month. The paroxysm
was very violent, and produced active inflammation in the part,
which 1uppurated and terminated in an ulcer. It was very_ irri-
table, disturbing his rest at night, and impairing his general health
by keeping up a copious discharge.
1lth.-Although in exceeeive pain, he was entranced brday in leu
than an hour; his arms were perfectly cataleptic, and he was in-
sensible to both pricking and pinching ; this was reported to me
the same evening.
12th.-I saw him for the first time in the trance to-day, and as
the case was urgent, the operation was at once performed.• Both
testes were found to be diseased and useless, and were therefore
removed. He was as still and quiet under the knife as a corpse, till
towards the end of the orration when he moved slightly like a man
in an uneasy dream, an moaned a little. The mesmerising was
continued till all the bleeding vessels were secured. He awoke of
his own accord about three quarters of an hour after the operation,
and felt some smarting in the wounded part; when asked, he said
he had not been in any way disturbed. while sleeping, nor bad he
any dream, bnt he £elt a little weaker than usual.
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
July 7, 1847.-Moteewoolla,jemadar, aged50, residing at Alelom-
pore, in Zillah Burdwan, has got a moderate sized scrotal tumour
for 8 years.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a hall daily.
8th.-He has got chronic bronchitis, than which there can be
no more disturbing cause, for it is impossible for a person to sleep
under any influence who has to clear his windpipe frequently, bat
fortunately he is not obliged to cough often. Appeared insensible
to pricking and pinchin~ ; the tumour was exposed, the testes were
severely squeezed, and has eyes were opened without disturbing him
in the least. But he awoke on his left nipple being severely pinched.
9th.,-He was severely electrified to-day without awaking him.
10th, 11th, mtd 12th.-The same repea&ed with liule variety.
13th.-He was operated on to-dayt at the usual hour, 12 <>'clock.
The operation was excessively severe from the great hardness of
the mass, and the d8J>th at which the testes lay. All the parts
were saved: weight of tumour 20 lbs. He was perfectly motionless
and unresisting as regards my proceedings, but I was informed
• Present-Mr. W. Sw-ab, Mr. Campbell, Mr. l'orbet, Mr. Sneed, Mr. Simeoa,
Mr. Filby, Mr. H. H. Swerwaka, Or. Mouat.
f Prelent-Mr. Forbee, Dr, Moua&.
Digitized by Google
11
that sundry movements of the feet and chest were seen towards
the end of the operation. The mesmerising was cont.inned a few
minutes after the operation. He awoke of his own accord, about
half an hour after all was over; on awaking, he complained of great
smarting in the part, which he could not account for, and begged
to be allowed to sit up on the bed, to ascertain the cause of the
smarting; this he did, and was surprised to find on putting his
hand to the part, that the tumour was ~one. He was then told that
it was cut off, and the part removed was shown to him. He
blessed me, and hoped that God would give me a golden palanqueen
and a golden carriage.
AMPUTATION OF THE GREAT TOE.
July 12, 1847.-Bideadhur, a labourer, aged 16, residing at
Budruck, in Zillah Cuttack, has got his weat toe of the left foot
contused, being crushed accidentall,r by a large country boat; the
accident happened two months ago. The wound now appears gangre-
nous and unhealthy. It is necessary to remove the second joint.
To be mesmerised an hour and a half daily.
13th.-Deeply entranced, and fit to be operated on.
14th.-The joint was cut off »-day, and as there was no skin
for covering the end of the bone, about haJf' of the fint phalanx
wu sawn off.
The boy lay like a log, and did not awake till half an hour after
the operation, and then said, that the pain was less than when he
went to sleep. This is another example of the extinction of acute
pain by mesmerism, for he was in great pain when first mes·
merised ; yet this was subdued, and he was ready to be operated on
in one hour.
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
July 16, 1847.-Shaik Ackber, a coolee, ~ 30, residing in
Doomoordoh, in Zillah Hooghly, has been troubTed with a moderate
sized scrotal tumour for 3 years. It commenced with periodic fever
coming on 3 or 4 times a month; the last attack was very violent:
it brought on an acute inflammation in the part, and ended
ultimately in an ulcer, which being very irritable, prevented hia
rest at night.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
l 7t/i.-Fast asleep, he was insensible both to pricking and pinch·
ing.
o;9;1;zedbyGoogle f
12
18th.-Again severely t.eated satisfactorily.
19th.-The operation was performed to-day,• and was peculiarly
severe from the thickened tnnica vaginalis requiring to be dissected
off the testes and cords. All the parts were saved. Tbe tumour
weighed about J2 lbs. He lay perfectly motionless throughout, as
far as I was concerned, and awoke a quarter of an hour after all
was finished, and of course knew nothing about it. I was told that
his neck and face were convulsed towards the end of the operation.
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
July 16, 1847.-Ramgopal, a husbandman, aged 50, residing in
Furreedpore, has been troubled with a small scrotal tumour for 2
years. It commenced with hydrocele on the left side, and was pre-
ceded by fever coming on once in two months.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
On the 3d day he was entranced, and indifferent to the electro-
magnetic machine.
19th.-No effect was produced on him to-day.
20th.-Hearing that the man was alarmed in consequence of
seeing a patient operated on yesterday, and wants to leave the
Hospital,-! put him under the action of the battery for a few
minutes, and then at once commenced the operation.t He remain-
ed perfectly passive under the knife, making no movement whatever.
His breathing alone, which became a little disturbed towards the
end of the operation, particularly when the arteries were being
secured, gave signs of life. He awoke of his own aecord about a
quarter of an hour after the operation was completed, and he had
l>een covered with a sheet. He said, when asked, that be felt as
usual. He protested that he would on no account allow himself
to be operated on, unless he was made insensible like the other
people.
When told that the thing was done, he said that he waa the more
glad of it, as he had intended to run away to-day.
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
July 21, 1847.-Ramdial Chaterjia, a writer, aged 40, a native
of Sewree, in Zillah Beerbhoom, has got a small scrotal tumour for
5 years.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
• Present-Lieut. Russell, Artillery ; Dr. Tatlock, Dr. Cowan, Mr. Elcock, Mr.
Madge, Dr. Mouat, Mr. O'Shaughnessy.
f Present-Dr. Mouat.
Digitized by Google
13
22d.-He was pinched, pricked, and electrified without his mind-
ing it.
23d.-All that was done to him yesterday was repeated to-day.
24th.-He was operated on to-da!.• The operation lasted about
4 minutes. It was a mere repetition of the above: no dead body
could be more perfectly passive, his breathing, which was not dis-
turbed, only distinguished him from a corpse. He awoke about
an hour and a half after all was over, and he had been dressed and
carried to a clean bed : on awaking, he put his hand to his loins
and complained of pain; when asked what caused it, he said he
could not possibly account for it ; it was probably produced by his
sleeping for a Jong time; when asked whether he felt any pain in
the part, he said no.
26th.-There has been no pain in the wound.
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
July 24, 1847.-Akoy Doss, a wood-cutter, aged 35, a native of
Balessur, has been subject to.a small scrotal tumour for two years.
Before operating on Ramdial, I examined this man whom I had
not seen before, this being his first day of mesmerising. He had
been acted on. for about an hour, and l said that I thought he
might be operated on to-dar, but that another was more advanced.
Having disposed of Ramd1al, the spectators were desirous to see
a man operated on the first day, and believing that we can now
afford to make a doubtful experiment, I consented to make the
attempt. I had not proceeded far before he became disturbed and
8000 woke ue completely, deriving little advantage from his sleep.
I hope this will be the last time that I shall be seduced into a doubt-
ful proceeding.
26th.-Unlike Ramdial operated on the same day, he has been in
great pain ever since.
TETANUS.
The irritation of the nervous system is so extravagant and inces-
sant in this disease, that I attempted its mesmeric treatment rather
that nothing might be lef't untried, than from any great expectation
of success. The almost momentary convulsions are so distressing
and disturbing that no interval of rest occurs in which to make the
desired narcotic impression on the system. I have little doubt that
if the trance could be established, it would act like a specific on the
• ~~Lieut. Thomson, Artillery; Lieut. Buuell,Artillery ; Mr. F. J. Halliday,
Mr. A. B. Yowig, Dr. M.ouac.
Digitized by Google
14
disease, for when the irritation of the voluntary and sensorial p~
of the nervous system is extin~uished, organic life is left undisturb-
ed to restore the nervous equilibrium that had been deranged. But
although we may not be able to induce the extreme narcotic effect
of the mesmeric influence, any degree of its sedative power would
be a great boon in the treatment of this most intractable and danger-
ous disease. My opportunities have not yet been sufficient to
enable me to speak with confidence of the curative powers of mes-
merism in tetanus, but what I have seen is rather encouraging.
In the case about to be related, will be seen an example of the
disease in its worst shape, getting daily worse under active orthodox
treatment, but very soon improving, and at last recovering under
mesmeric treatment exclusively. An indispensable dose of opening
medicine being the only complication in the treatment. At Loodi-
ahna, I had an opportunity of treating a case of traumatic tetanus
in an European, which is perhaps worth recording. W. Shea, a
Private in H. M.'s 50th, was wounded at Aliwal by a musket-hall,
on the 28th January. It went into his right leg at the inner side of
the tibia, and was cut out of the calf on the 30th: the wound went on
well for 10 days and was nearly healed, but spasms then came on in
the instep of the wounded leg, and by the 24th of February the
whole bOdy was severely convulsed by each spasm, and medicine
had given no relief. Being present when Dr. Murray, Field Sar-
geon, and Dr. Barlow of the 50th, were consulting about the fur-
ther treatment, I learned that the man bad been mercurialiaed,
received large doses of opium and the wound had been laid open,
but without any retie£ The actual cautery was propoaed, rather
for the sake of doing somt:thing than from any reasonable hope of
relief, but it was rejected as being cruel and. doubtful. All the
usual resources being exhausted, I offered to try the effects of mes-
merism, and was allowed to make the experiment. The spasms
occurred every one and a half minutes and literally pumped the
sweat out of the poor fellow every time. It is useless to say that
he never slept. After some time, he expressed great relief' from
my proceedings, and during the day slept aeveraf times and had a
good night afterwards. Next morning he was free from spasms,
and said that I was the only person who had given him any relief.
He continued perfectly free from spasms for 24 hours; got up and
declared himself confident that he was cured, and we all be~an to
hope so too. But the disease returned and rapidly carried him otr.
In another case of traumatic tetanus, I got no satisfactory results.
June 1O.-Ahroot, aged 36, my gardener. He applied to me
to-day, in consequence of a moat violent attack of rheumatic fever.
The smallest movement was agonising, and he dreaded to mon.
Digitized by Google
16
19th.-The spasms have nearly left him, he was seen to walk in
· the ward with a staff. In the evening while he was walking in
the ward, the spasms came on and threw him on the stone Boor, this
produced a severe contusion on the occiput about the size of a
rnpee, cutting and bruising the scalp down to the pericranium.
His bowels bound for the last two days.
To have a black dose.
20th.-The bowels moved four times by the purgative. His
body was warm and pulse quick ; the spasms are again strong and
frequent, occurring two or three times in an hour; the sterno-
cleiao-mastoidens and rectos became very bard.
To be mesmerised for three hours daily by two different persona.
24th.-No change for the last three days, the spasms became
much more severe and frequent, coming on several times in an
hour. The wound was very unhealthy and the discharge thin and
watery, having an exceedingly disagreeable footer; a sinus was
fonnd, and laid open. Fears of lock jaw are entertained.
Bark poultice to be applied to the wound.
30th.-Bowels rather regular, the spasms less in frequency and
severity and rather local ; confined more particularly to the right
side ; the wound bealth7 and the discharge good ; he had no
fever, and walked well with a staff.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
July 7.-The wound granulating well, the spasms have left him,
he can walk without a staff', but feels a little uneasy on extending
his legs ; the sterno-cleido-mastoideus and the rectos abdominis of
each side less rigid. ·
20th.-The wound is perfectly healed. He is gaining strength
daily : all the muscles are soft and pliable.
'
(Signed) J. ESDAILE, l\f. D.,
Supt. Mu. HoqntaL
Calcutta, Menneric Hoqntal, ht Aug., 1847.
Digitized by Google
0
<g:
N t:l
<1l
Q_
CT"
'<
C")
0
0
00
,..._
(V
MorttAly Bt,Utw of P11timt1 trtattd at tilt Ca/CMtta Mtnnme HOlpital, /or tilt Monti& of J•ly, 1847.
Date or
Admiuion. I
.ICute.
-5
I~ I
Namee. Profeulon.
~I
a
~
1847.
Jan. I11, I.1i1n. Woolte,(a)............... I 28 E. wo-
man,. I..................
Karchl 24,
April 7,
May ••
JO,
"
I 15,
24,
24,
" 128,
"
29,
.. 29,
June I,
"
1,
"
7,
Bonmallee Bhut. ...............
1
. 26
Munmohun Bose, ..••• ...... 20
Myzoodeen, ..................... 115
Gopaul Dou, .................. 40
Rameseur, ..................... 35
Muoeeroodeen, •••••••• ...... 30
Buddeochund.,r, ............... 60
Gobiodchunder Dose,........ 25
Gobiodcbunder Uggur, •••••• ' 32
Laloodou, ..... ............... 27
Bheekhuo Khan,............... 22
Khetunnohun Sain, ......... 21
Mudhoo, ........................ 32
Hin.... Moherer, ......
Hin.... Diuo, .........
Mus.... Khidmut.gar,...
Hin.••• Bearer, ••••••••
Hin. ... Husbandman,..
Mus. ... Labourer, ......
Hin. ••• Writer, .........
Hin.... Sirkar, .........
Bin.... Beggar,.........
Hin•••• Bearer, •••••••••
Mua.••• Khidmut.gar,...
Hin.... Pedlar, .........
Hin.•.• Mallee, •••••••••
CalAtta, Memeric Ho.pital, l•t .Awgut, 1847.
'i
1
...,
Diaeue. Cured.
~
..
;::
~
Epilepey, .................. I ...... I lat
Hypertrophied Scrotum,
Epilepey, .................. I I··· I
...... ......
Hypertrophied Scrotum, I ..,...
Ditto, .....................
Ditto, ..................... , 25th,
Ditto, .................... 31st,
Ditto, .....................
Rheumatism. ............ I ...... I10th
HypertrophiedScrotum,
Rheumatism, •...••••...• I ...... I10th
Ditto, .....................
HypertrophiedScrotum,
Ditto, ················-···
('-') Not p-.rmaneatly benefited.
Died
I ......
~
I:
·a
·;
!
1 ... 1 -
~
0
~:
N.
~
~
C)
0
~
-
rv
Date of
Admiuion.
1F
Namee.
~
1847.1
June 10, Madhub Roy, (a) ............
12, Ramdial :Mookh.(b) •••..•••.
"
1 15, , Munnoojohn, ••••••••••••••••••
"
HI, Ahroot,...........................
"
16, Mohun Dose, •••••••••••••.••••
"
20, Suboor, ( c) .••••••••••.••.......
"
22, Katick DoBB, ..................
"
24, Panoo Dou, ( d) •..............
"
28, Rujub, (e) .....................
"
30, Chundeecbum :Mookh. ......
July 2, :Moteelall,........................
"
..
2, Shamchunder Dutto, (f) ...
ll, Sooduraun, ••.••••••...••••...••
(a) Gone home on account of feYer.
(b) Ditw DiUo.
( c) Ditto Ditto.
Cute.
to
-II
35 Bin••..
40 Bra. •.•
40 :M. wo-
man,
36 Hin. •..
40 Bin. •..
30 Mus.••.
30 Hin.•••
34 Hin••••
30 Mus....
29 BrL •••
4!J Bin. ..
30 Hin.•••
411 Hin••••
j
'i
Profeasion. DiaMae. Cured. ..
~ <
Shop-keeper, ..
~tro~~-~~~~~~I.....
I::: I~.i.&th,
Brahmin, •••.•• ......... 15th•
Neuralgia. ............... I
..................
Mallee, ......... Tetanus, .................. 1 31st,
Barber,•••..•... Rheumatism, ••••..••••• ...... r.t.h'
......
Syce,............ Hypart.rophied Scrotum, 24th,
......
Barber,......... Ditto, ......................
K.ahar, ••••••••• Rheumatism, ••••.•••••• , ...... 1···1 1st,
Labourer,...... Hypertrophied Scrotum, ...... .... 22d,
Moberer, •••••. Epilepsy, ..................
Ditto, ......... Paralysis,..................
Ditto, ••••••••• Inaane, ••••.••.•.••...•••..• 1 ...... I ... I 21d,
Kahar, ......... Bheum.atimn, ••••••••••••
( d) Not treated after examination.
(•) Thia man is still incapable of being thrown into the profound trance, but remains Yery sensitiYe to the influence.
(/) Comidered hopel-. Given up.
tiii
.,.
Died.
·a
·;
!
I ...... 1···1 -
CIC
0
<g:
N
<1l
Q_
.5?"
C")
0
~
,..._
(V
Date of
Admission.
-5 Is
~ i!
1847.
July I 4,
"
I
4,
"
7,
"
7,
" , 7,
"
12,
"
16,
16,
17,
" I21,
"
24,
29,
Names.
~
Caste.
Punnah Bai, .................. 40 M. wo-
man,
Premchnnder Dutto, ......... ao Hin....
Moteeoolla, ..................... 50 Maa. •••
&m Doss, •••••••••••••••••••·· 40 Hin••••
Nbbinkiato, ··••••••••........... 15 Hin....
Bidead.hur, •••••....••••••..•••• 16 Hin. •••
Ranlgopal, ••••••••••••••••••••• 50 Hin. •••
Ackber, ........................ 30 Maa. •••
Ramdhun Nundee. ............ 45 Hin. ...
Ramdial Chatterjee, ......... 40 Bra. •••
Akadussee, .................... 35 Hin....
Radhanath Bhadooree, ...... 45 Bra. ...
(Signed) G. Lum,
Ojfg. Suptg. Surgt01t, Prtndrttcy.
ProC-ion.
..................
Moherer, ••••••
Jemadar, •••••.
Kahar, ........
Sirkar, .........
Labourer,......
Husbandman,
Coolee, .........
Moktar,.........
Writer, .........
Wood-cutter,
Writer, .........
Ditease.
Neuralgia, ...............
Rheumatism, ............
HypertrophiedScrotum,
Rheumatism, ............
Deafileaa, ••••••••••••••••••
Contusio, •••••••••··•••••••
Hypertrophied Scrotum,
Ditto, .....................
Ditto, ......................
Ditto,
Ditto,
Ditto,
CuM 1 I
20th
15th
J lliUl
(Signed) J. EaDAILB, M. D.,
Siperilltmdntt MIWIMric H06pital.
-
CQ
~
,
0
cg:
N.
;g_
CT
'<
(')
0
~
.........
rv
MontAly &ttm1 ofPatia.t• treattd at tlt.t Calt:11tta Meammc Hoapital,/or tM Montlt. of Jv.ly, 1847.
Calcutta, MU1Ml"1i: Ha.pital, lit A.gut, 18'7.
Diacharged. Deatha·and Agel.
DJDAllL Iii>
·~ j
·~ ... , j
_qi l 0
~ ~ e-..
~§j
'i 1t.t .I 1
~ : ... ~i :!
o ~ o..., e ~
Contuaio, ................................. l ... i 1l 1I ...
Deafness, .................................
Epilepsy, ................................. I 3 I ••• I 3
Hypertrophied Scrotum,............... 14 7 21 I 2
Neuralgia,................................. I I 2
ln11&11e, ........................... ........ ... I I
Paralysis, ................................. , ••• I I I I
Bheuma&iam,.............................. 15 3 8
Tetanus,•.•••.••.••.•................••.•..
68
I .
I
•
.!! 'i
11
.:
J
~
.•• 1 ...
•
:i §J ;5s Is .s s 's .
i . :a~ 0 z! g I! 0 r! 0 f! 0 fl
p.., ... ~ - 311"' 31 ...... ii ... ! .
-3 .. = SS:. P...SP...SP...SP...SP... ii
~ I~-o~ s~ ~ !~ ~~ £~ ~~1ll:gI~
I ...
... ,...
... ...
.:: I:::
ll
115
2
3
--·-·--·--·----·--·--·--•--1--1 ·--·--·--·--·--·--·--
Total,......... I ll4115 I391 31 ... I6 , ... I... 6 ••• ... ••• ... ••• ... ••• I ··· ~
DailyaTengenamberof Patienta,ll5, , - -- - - - - - - -1-- ---------------!--
(Signed) G. Lum,
Ojfg. Swptg. s,,,.,_., PreaJnccy.
(Signed) J. EllD.UJ.B, ll. D.,
S11peri11terulntl M--"e Ha.pi141.
~
DETAILED ACCOUNT OF CASES TREATED IN THE
CALCUTTA MESMERIC HOSPITAL.
For the Month of Augwt, 1847.
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
Augwt lat, 1847.--Seetaram, a porter, aged 50, residing at Ke-
lore, in Zillah Kuttuck, bas got a small scrotal tumour for 22 years.
To be mesmerised for an hour and half daily.
3rd.-Slept apparently naturally.
4th.-Not mesmerised to-day as he took a dose of opening
medicine.
5th.-Deeply entranced, arms cataleptic, he was indifl'erent to
pricking; pinching, and to the shocks of an electro-magnetic
machine.
6th.-He was again electrified to-day ~thout being disturbed
in the least.
7th.-He was operated on to-day,• and all the parts were saved;
he bore the operation as passively as ·a corpse ; I was told that
when the arttries were being secured, a slight movement was
observed in his ltft leg. He awoke about an hour and a half
after the operation, and after he had been put into a fresh bed.
He was surprised to find that he had been removed from the place
where he went to sleep, and on preventing his attempting to sit
up on the score of weakness, he said he was not in the least weak,
but felt as usual. He was not aware of having felt any/ain while
asleep, but now complained of smarting in the part, an was then
told that the tumour had been cut off.
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
July 17th, 1847.-Baboo Ramdhun Nundy, aged 45, the man of
business of a Rajah, has been troubled with an immense scrotal
tumour for 14 years. He is a rtmarkably strong muscular man, as
his portrait best shows. The tumour is only a local annoyance to
him, and has been often deeply cauterised by native doctors in the
hope of discussing it. Mesmerism, which has been called "the
Medicine of Nature," was not intended for the healthy, but for the
• ~t.-Mr. A. Thomu, Dr. Jacbon, Mr. R. O'Shaugbneeay.
o;9;1;zedbyGoogle /-
was placed on a chair on either side, and he was pricked all over
with a scalpel for a few minutes. He was then re-adjusted, and
knew nothing about it when be awoke.
17th.-The great concourse of people in the Hospital for seve-
ral days past, has had a very injurious effect upon the patients,
making them fearful and anxious, which is extremely detrimental,
and often destructive to our influence. The people are agitated
by having their conduct in the trance related to them, and are led
from what they hear, to infer that the operation is about to be
performed; this is a great evil, but can hardly be prevented in my
present circumstances, as the /ublic have been invited to resort
to the Hospital to be convince by the evidence of their senses.
This poor fellow has come \Veeping to the Hospital for the last two
days, and fears to go to sleep in the operating room. I have there-
fore let him remain in the small room, in which he has been
hitherto treated. I saw him lie down to-day, at lOt o'clock, to be
mesmerised, and as he was composing himself, a Brahmin, who is
also waiting to be operated upon, came to his bedside, and whis-
pered in his ear. I followed him out of the room, and asked him
what he had said to Ramdhun : He answered that he had only
desired him to call upon "Doorga," and this he accordingly con-
tinued to do till 20 minutes to 12 o'clock, when I examined him.
He was moaning in his sleep, as usual,1but as I considered this a
constitutional peculiarity, I resolved to operate, if he stood some
preliminary pricking to-day. This he did, and as his only safety was
in expedition, I made the operation as much a case of decapitation
as possible.* Having freed the penis, I transfixed the neck of
the tumour with a long two-edged knife, and struck it off right and
left by two blows. He cried out as I was making the last cut,
and the moaning deepened into groaning, but bis eyes remained
closed, and no articulate sound escaped him, nor did he interfere
in the smallest degree with my proceedings, and, as usual, no one
held him. The bleeding was frightful, and after securing the
principal vessels, I thought it necessary to awake him to adminis-
ter a cordial, as his pulse had disappeared. He opened hie eyes,
but did not see, he said, and drank some wine at my desire. For
the next hour, his f.ulse fluctuated greatly, but at last became
pretty rejllllar at 2 o clock ; he was still in a half conscious state,
having become delirious from loss of blood. I now felt him,
ordering no one to speak to him till I returned, and Mr. Kemp,
who ia a thorough Bengalee scholar, kindly promised to return
with me at 4 o'clock-when we came back, the equilibrium of his
• Preeent-Mr. H. W. Jonea, Dr. Tatlock Mr. G. Cowan, Dr. R. Bhlart, Mr.
Picachy, Mr. F. J. Halliday, Mr. R. O'Shaughneesy, Mr. C. Beadon, Revd. Mr.
Hornett, Dr. Thomas, Mr. J. Wyatt, Mr. R. Young, Mr. A. D. Kemp, Mr. A.G.
Kemp, Mr. Ricket&e, Mr. J. 8. Bpankie.
o;9;1;zedbyGoogle /
. ...
24
brain was not ,Yet restored; and his friends informed us that the
only intelligible words he had uttered were, "don't cut me-don't
cul me,-put me lo sleep; and he continued in this state for the
uext half hour. During this time, he was removed to a dean bed,
and whilst some small arteries were being tied, his senses com-
pletely returned, and he for the first time, became aware of his
altered condition. His case is almost parallel with that of Shaik:
Manick, related in my report of December, 1846, but Shaik
Manick died many months ago, and he could not have got his cue
from him. All was a blank from 11 till 4 o'clock, and he said,
that he had not seen me since the morning, and had no recollec-
tion of any thing since he went to sleep. He had no pain in the
. wound but complained of bis back. 'J'be mass weighed 70 lbs.
18th.-He is incredibly well to-day, and does not look exhaust-
ed even. He repeated that he recollected nothing, except going
to sleep yesterday as usual, and ~waking at 4 o'clock, when he
found us to be tying the arteries.
His mesmeriser, one of the graduates of the Medical College,
hereupon asked him, "when did you last see me yesterday?" He
answered, "just before going to sleep, and I have not seen you
since till this moment." This corresponds completely with his
own history 'of his feelings; for his mesmeriser, although he was
present when I returned at 4 o'clock yesterday, did not wait till
he had been removed into a clean bed ; the moment when, as he
stated yesterday, he came to bis senses, and consequently he only
remembered seeing him in the morning. Those who did not
observe the whole course of this case, will probably not be satis-
fied with the conclusion, but it is perfectly satisfactory to the person
principally concerned, who had often declared, that on no account
would he consent to undergo the operation in his natural state,
and he now says-"That Brahma is above all, and I am next to
him." I do not pretend that this man did not suffer during the
operation, but I believe from attentive observation of the case
throughout, that he had no recollection of the operation, when he
recovered from the state of delirium at 4 o'clock.
RHEUMATISM•
• Ju™; lat, 1847.-Bhekbun Khan, a ki~mutgar, aged 22, residing
m ShaJehanpore, has been tormented with acute rheumatism for
R days, attended with high fever in the evening which remains 3
or 4 hours. Al.I the larg~ articulations of the ~y are much
swollen and pamful, particularly the knees and hips which are
~so very hard. ~e ca?not move or turn on his bed, and can only
he on h18 back with thighs well supported by pillows, he cannot
Digitized by Google
for a cure. The tendency of mesmerism to procure local criau
in constitutional disease, is much dwelt upon by the early mes-
merisers, and I have observed it also.
CHRONIC RHEUMATISM.
June 15, 1847.-Munnoojohn, a peasant woman, aged 40, resid-
ing in Calcutta, has been suffering from chronic rheumatism for
a year, with pain, weakness, and partial loss of feeling of both
legs extending up to the waist. It is attended with a peculiar
pricking sensation of the legs, and the left one is much wasted,
she can walk a little with the assistance of a staff, but limps much
at the time, she cannot raise herself up from the sitting posture,
even with the help of a stick. The shoulders are painful and
swelled, and do not admit offree motion, the least movement makes
her scream loudly, she is somewhat reduced, her bowels regular ;
pulse rather weak and of natural speed, tongue slightly loaded,
and appetite impaired, sleeps ill.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
There was for some days an aggravation of the symptoms, and
this was followed by a severe fever, from which she did not recover
till the 20th July.
20th.-The fever has left her, the pain and swelling of the
shoulders are gone, she can move the arms freely, the pricking of
the limbs is much less, and the pain has disappeared, but slight loss
of feeling in them continues, she feels no pain in the loins and can
rise from her bed with the help of a staff. •
28th.--She walks pretty well without a staft', and does not limp
much at the time. 1'he sensation in her limbs has returned, and
the pricking is nearly gone, her appetite much improved.
A.ugu1t 13, 1847.-She is imptoving daily and walks like any
other person, slight pricking of the limbs remains, she said that
she bad now got well and wanted leave to go home, discharged.
NEURALGIA.
July 4, 1847.-Bebee Punnah, a peasant woman, aged 50, resid-
ing at Taltullah, in Calcutta, has been tormented for three months
with neuralgic pains shooting from the neck down to the waist,
both before and behind, and increasing much at night, preventing
her sleep, the least movement increases her suffering, and she is
therefore obliged to keep her trunk fixed like a piece of wood, she
can walk a little slowly, hut cannot bend her head forwards or
backwards.
Digitized by Google
28
the right aide of the face is much diminished, the apaam of the
hands is also leas, and he can hold things firmly with them.
8th August.-He is getting atrength in his affected limbs, and i11
nearly free from the pricking sensation; the feeling in the affected
aide of the face and his vision, are much improved.
15th.-He appears very lively, the pricking sensation has left
him, he now and then feels it only in his feet and hands, his sensi-
bility and vision are perfectly restored, the right side ofthe face has
regained its usual feeling, he sleeps in the night longer than he
used to do.
3lst.-The pricking of the hands and feet entirely gone, be
walks like any other man, and has regained sufficient strength to
enable him to discharge his duties as Sirkar.
ACUTE RHEUMATISM.
Auguit 12.-0n visiting the medical ward to-day, I found
Radanauth, one of the mesmerisers, lying on a bed undergoing
the proceBB. He was asleep, and as 'he did not awake on being
called by name, I examined him, and found him to be cataleptic
and insensible to pricking, I was told that he had complained of
his neck being quite atift' and very painful this morning, and had
asked one of his companions to mesmerise the back of his neck,
and this manipulation had entranced him in leu than an hour;
when he awoke the pain was much better.
13th.-! found him again entranced to-day, and the pain was
nearly extinguislied when he awoke. He was mesmerised rather
for experiment than any thing else for the next two days, and on
each occasion was profoundly entranced. Whether his mesmeric
sensibility Wl\8 in consequence of the nervous affection, or was con-
stitutional, I cannot pretend to say, for he had never been experi-
mented on in health. This is not the only occaaioR in which local
mesmerising has affected the constitution in the most intense
degree. On one occasion a patient became insensible and as stiff
as a log from head to feet in my bands, in consequence of my
merely mesmerising one of his knees for rheumatism, and he could
he always entranced afterwards, by mesmerising any part of his
body for a few minutes.
RHEUMATISM.
August 6, 1847.-Dewan Allee, a boatman, aged 35, a native of
Dhurmpore, in Zillah Chittagong, baa contracted a rheumatic af-
fection of the knees and weakneu of the limbs for two months.
The articulations are much swollen and very tender to the touch ;
Digitized by Google
..
,.
MontAly Regiater of Patimt1 treated at tAe Calcvtta Meammc HOlpital, for t!u Mont/a of .dug1UJt, 1847.
Calc.ua, MUllleric H1»pilal, i.t Sep~. 1847.
Date or I I
~'
admission.
'i
a! =
I~ I
Names. Cast. Profeseiou. Dise1111e. Cured.
'1'
Died. ·a
"'
Cl
.. j 'ii
~ ..
to :=
!
Cl
~
0
< <
~
1847.
March H, Bonmallee Bhutta, ............ ll6 Bra. ... :Moherer, ...... Hypertrophied Scrotum, I 10th,
.April 7, :Monmohun BOie, ............ llO Hin. ... Ditto,............ Epilepsy, .................. .... hoth
"
4, MyzoOO.een, ·-········•••••••••• ll5 :Mahod. Khi&mutgar,... Hypertrophied Scrotum,
"
10, Gopaldou, ..................... 40 Hin. ... Bearer, ........ Ditto, ..................... , ll5th, I... I ...... I ...... I··· I ~
"
I 24, Buddun Chunder Koouwur, 50 Hin. ... Writer,••••••••• Ditto, •••••••••.••••••••••• .......
29, Gobin Chunder, .............. 32 Bin. ... Beggar,......... Ditto, ..................... 1 20th,
June I 1, Bheekhun Khan,............... 22 Mus. ... Kidmutgar, ... Rheumatism, ............ 20th,
1, Kheturmohun Sain, ......... 21 Bin•••• Pedlar, ......... Hypertrophied Scrotum,
0
" I 7,
:Mudhoo, ........................ 32 Hin•••• :Mallee, ......... Ditto, ....................
<g:
"
15, Munnoojohn, ••••••••.••••••••• 40 M. WO•
N
man. Neuralgia, ............... I 20th,
<1l
··················
Q_
CT"
"
22, Katick Dou, ......•........... 30 Hin. ... Barber, ........ Hypertrophied Scrotum,
'<
Chundee Chum Mook, ...... I29
C") "
30, Bra. ... .................. Epilepey, ...............
0 July 2, Moteeloll,........................ 45 Hin.... :Moherer, ...... Paralyaia,..................
0 "
2, Soodunun. ••••• ·•••·•••• ••••• 45 Hin... Kahar,,•••••••• Rheumatism, ............ I ...... I sth
00
"
4, Punnah Bebee, ............... 40 M.wo-
,..._
Neuralgia, ............... , ll3rd,
(V man,
··················
4, Premchunder Dutto, ......... 30 Hin.••• :Moherer,...... Rheumatism, ............ · ...... I 6th
Date of
Admillion. I
:! ~
Names. Cast. Profession. Diaease. Cured. 1 Died.
.5
f l! I .Q <I> 8 -~
= ~
s
11(1
~ ~
~
•
1847.
July 7, Moteeoollah,..................... 50 M111. ... Jemader, ...... Hypertrophied Scrotum,
.. 12, Bideaclhur, ......••• ••••••••••• 16 Hin• •• Labourer,.•.•.• Contueio, .•••..•.•••..•..•.
.. 16, Ramgopal, ..................... 50 Hin. ... Husbandman, Hypertrophied Scrotum,
16, Ackber,.......................... 30 Mus..... Coolee, ••••.•••• Ditto, ••••••••••••••• .....
.. 117, Ramdhun Mundy, ............ 45 Hin. •• Agent, ......... Ditto, •..•..••••••••......
.. 21, Ramdinl Chatterjee, ....... 40 Hin••• Writer,......... Dittc>,••••••••••••••.•.••••••. , ...... ,... ,...... I ...... ,.. I ~
24, Akadasse,........................ 35 Hin. ... Woodcutter,... I>itto,.••••••••.•••• ••.••..•. -
29, Radhanath Bhadoree,......... 45 Bra. ... Writer, .•••••••., Ditto, ••••••••••• ••-..•.•..
•11, Shamachunder Dutto,......... 45 Bin. ... Shopkeeper... Dittc>,.•••••••••••••••••• ...
A:g· 1
1, Seetaram,...... •. ••••••.•. ...... 45 Hin. ... Harcarah,•••••• DitM>,•• ,•••••• .•••••••••••••
3, Amnoo,........................... , 35 M. WO•
man,
·········•········ Neuralgia, •••••·........ I ······ h4th
.. 3, I>ewan Allee, •••••••••••••••••• 31 Mua. ... Boatman, •••••• Rheumatism,........ ••••. I 31st,
.. 7, Bholanath Paul, ............... 50 Hin. ••• Shopkeeper, ... Hypertrophied Scrotum,
0 .. 9, Ramchunder Does,........... 25 Hin. ... Wuherman,••• Rbewnatiem, ••••••••••.•
'§: .. 10, Luckynarain, •••••••••········· 35 Hin. ... Pedlar, ......... Hypertrophied Scrotum, I ...... I ... I 14th,
i'i
CD
12, Hurochunder Ghoae, ......... 51 Hin.... Sirkar, ....... Ditto,................. ......
c. ..
0-
18, Jadul>chunder,. ••••••••••······ 30 Hin. ••• Shopkeeper,... Dit.to,.•••••••••••••••••.••••.
'<
..
("')
0 • Omitted to insert in last month's Register.
~
-
rv
~
0
cg:
;::;·
~
-:?"
C')
0
~
..........
rv
'Ill
Montltly Rdamt of Patitttta t~tcd at tltc Calcwtta Mcamwic Hoapital, /or tAc MotttA o/ 4ugrut, 1847.
Calc11tta, Muraeric Hoapilal. bt Septniba, 1847.
DiachupL Dea&ba and Agel.
:f
u., 'i t... .,
i: s s s s s
D1a.u1:1.
1 ts• I ~
~=
11
...,
t§i S? ~ g Q
f6
l 1! ~
...
l !
.. .!
~ Ji Jg ~ .
i~ ~o ~o
s :.,J ~
= ..1 !
&!
0
., ,&l
.. "E: ~~
< 0 < ll< = < < ~..,
~"'
....
Cootusio, ·········-···········............ l ... l ... ......... ... ... ... ... ... ......... ... ... .. ... ... ...
Epilepsy, •••••••••··············· •....... 2 l 3 ... ......... l ... ... ... ... ......... ... ... ... ... ... ...
Hypertrophied Scrotum,• ............ 16 9 25 3 97 ... ... ... l ... ......... ... ... ... ... ... ...
Ne~ ................................ ll 1 3 ll 4ll l .... ... ... ... ......... ... ... ... ... ... ...
Paralysis, ................................. l 2 3 ... .......... .. ... .. ... ... -········· .. ... ... ... ... ...
Rheumatism,.•• ••.•.••••••••••••••••••.•. 3 5 8 2 53 ll ... ... l ... ......... ... ... ... ... ... ...
- - - - --- - - - - - --- - - - - - -
Total,......... ll5 18 43 7 .......•• " ... ... ll ... ......... ... ... ... ... ... ...
- - - - --- - - - - - - - - - - - -
Daily averapnumberofPiitiente,38,
• l. Sbamacbunder Duteo, admitted on the lUh July Jut, but by mistake not inserted.
(Signed) G. L.um, (Signed) J. EaDAILB, M. D.,
O.ffg. S"'Pfl. Swrgf1111, Pruidat:y. Swpt. MU'llieric Hoapilal.
!
1
2
21
...
3
3
--
30
-
""
""
DETAILED ACCOUNT OF CASES TREATED AT THE
CALCUTTA MESMERIC HOSPITAL,
For the Month of September, 1847.
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
September 5, 1847.-Dabee Ghoi;e, a milkman, aged 25, rei;iding
at Bhowanypore, in Zillah 24-Pnrgunnahs, bas got a small scrotal
tumor for two years.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
6th.-He was entranced on the second day's trial, armR parti-
cularly cataleptic ; he was unconscious both to pricking and
pinching.
He appeared indifferent to the severest shocks of an electro-
magnetic machine.
Being put in the position for the necessary operation, he wa
again electrified and pricked all over with a scalpel for a few
minutes. He was then left to sleep.
The operation was performed to-day,• and the organs were all
saved. He remained tranquil throughout, but howed toward
the end a slight movement of his toes, and turned his head gently
from the right to the left side like a man in an uneasy po ture.
Me merising was discontinued. After the arteries were secured,
he seemed to awake just when the bed had been re-adjusted, as
he then raised his head, looked at the wound and defended it from
being hurt by lifting up his sheet, but again relapsed into his
"comatose'' state. A few minutes after be opened his eyes, and
came completely to his senses, when he said that nothing had
annoyed him in bis sleep, and that be bad awoke this moment of
his own accord.
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
August 7, 1847.-Purancbunder Some, a writer, aged 23, a
native of Juggutdul, in Zillah 24-Pergunnahs, has contracted a
small scrotal tumor for two years. It originated from a hydrocele
on the left side, preceded by a periodic fever coming on twice a
month at the change of the moon.
•Present-Mr. T. B. Smelt, Mr H. melt, Mr. W. J. Judge, Mr. Hudson, Mr.
J . B. Young, Mr. P. A. Cavorke, Mr. J . G. Bngram, Mr. M Zorah, Mr. S. Wrickie,
Kyllll!Chuuder Bose, Dwarkanath Mitter and Dyalchunder Busack.
Digitized by Google
35
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
15th.-Slept to-day more than usual.
16th.-Found perfectly insensible to pricking, pinching, and to
the severest shocks of an electro-magnetic machine. He awoke
whilst the part to be shaved was being wetted with water.
17th.-I catalepsed his arms, put him into the proper position
for the operation, pinched his right nipple severely, and pricked
him with a scalpel for a few minutes ; as a further security, I
placed live charcoal on his hand, which he did oot mind, but
became disturbed when it was placed on his abdomen, though he
remained still asleep. He awoke a few minutes after naturally.
18th.-He was operated on to-day, and all the organs were
saved. A large hydrocele was found in each side, and the bags
were dissected out entire from the enclosing mass. After all the
principal vessels had been secured, the hydrocele sacs were slit
open, and the thickened tunica vaginalia was slowly dissected off'
the cords and testes ; so that we had in this case three distinct
severe operations. To all this he was perfectly indifferent, and
only made a slight grimace towards the end. He awoke about
a quarter of an hour after the operation was finished, and he had
been put into the position in which he went to sleep in, and had
been covered with a sheet. He said when asked, that his slumber
broke naturally, and that he had felt no pain while sleeping. He
then perceived a smarting in the part, the cause of which he could
not tell. The mass was then shewn to him, and he hid his face
under the bed-clothes in disgust, and when again asked if he had
felt any pain, he replied, "If I had felt pain, would I not have
cried out?" .
A SECOND OPERATION-THE SAME MAN.
September 12, 1847.-Setaram, who was operated upon on the
7th ultimo, went on very well for some time, but at the period of
the usual fever, it came on very severely, and sloughing took place
in the wound. As the testes merely irritated the wound, I re-
solved to remove them.
He waa entranced in i of an hour, and I broke up the recent
adhesions, cut through granulating surfaces, and rudely squeezed
the raw testes, without a sign of sensibility appearing in any por-
tion of his body. After the vessels were all tied, he awoke as if
from a tranquil sleep, and felt no pain in the part. He had been
suffering much for several days from pain in his elbow-joints,
which local mesmerising much relieved.
Digit zed by Google [
.. .
36
13tA.-1 desired him to be put to sleep to-day, bothe could not.
be subdued, which I considered a very bad sign.
14th.-He died to-day.
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
September 21st, 1847.-Shaikh Gopal, a tailor, aged 45, resid-
ing at Mirzapore, in Calcutta, has got a moderate sized scrotal
tumor for 30 years.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
22d.-Slept naturally but awoke on being called by bis name.
23d.-Perfectly insensible to pricking, pinching and to the
severest shocks of an electro-magnetic machine : he could not be
in a more aatisfactory state for operating on, but this first examin-
ation consumed much time.
24th.-No eft'ect was produced upon him to-day.
25th.-The operation was performed to-day,* although he wu
not 80 deeply affected as on the 23d ; the organs were all saved.
About the middle of the operation, he began to cry out, and con-
tinued to do 80 uninterruptedly, but unintelligibly, till I had
finished. He moved his legs from their extended position, but
never closed his knees or attempted to interfere with my proceed-
ings. After the arteries were all tied, be became more quiet,
but still continued to moan. As he was an old man, and had lost
much blood, his pulse became ver7 weak, and I thought it advisable
to bring the voluntary powers o life into play, and proceeded to
demesmerise him. After a short time, he began to complain
intelligibly, and lamented bittterly (his eyes still firmly closed) his
hard fate in living to witness the death of his son. ff£ beat his
head and breast, and weeping profusely, said he was destined by
God to outlive all his children, and to be ruined, but not a word
about himself, or his actual situation, escaped him. On rousing
him still further, a change came over the spirit of his dream, he
clasped his hand&, and protested before "Allah" that he would
never get drunk again, would never drink taree any more, which
was the cause of all his misfortunes. I continued to bl<tw upon
and rub his eyes, which he resented, and desired to be let alone;
on my not minding him, he tried to strike me, and abused me
furiously. A few minutes after, on my blowing strongly into his
eyes, rubbing them roughly, dashing cold water on them, and
df'siring him to open them, he did so with great difficulty. I then
• Preaent..-Mr. G. Rose, Rajah Pertaubchunder Singh, Raja Issurchunder Singh,
Proasondronauth Tagore, Rummanauth Tagore, Peareemohum Sen, Hurreemohuu St!n,
Gungagobind Sen, Radapenaud Roy.
Digitized by Google
38
but all this has only caused cartilaginous adhesion& between the
testea and the walls of the tumor.
29th.-He waa mesmerised at i past IO o'clock to-day, for the
first time, and at 12 o'clock I found him ao deeply entranced that
I proceeded to operate upon him at once,* I have never had a more
severe operation to perform from the diseased state of the parts,
and the firmness of the adhesions. The glans penis could hardly
be recognised from several large warty excrescences that sur-
rounded it, and all the neighbouring parts were fi11tulous and
indurated. It was therefore very difficult and tedious to free
the penis, and the left testis was so embedded in a cartilaginous
cicatrix that it could not be extricated, it was therefore given up,
but the other not being so much implicated was saved. He lay
perfectly motionless the \Vhole time, and only made a slight gri-
mace as I was finishing. He awoke half an hour after the arteries
had been tied, and had no suspicion that any thing had happened
to him till he saw the mass. He was greatly alarmed and horrified
at first, but soon expressed his gratitude, saying that I was a God,
&c. Weight of tumour IO lbs. ·
NEURALGIC PAIN.
September 17, 1847.-Shamachurn Mitter, a writer, aged 35,
residing at Conenugur, in Zillah Hooghly, has been tormented with
neuralgic pain in the middle thirdof the spine forfour months,which
disqualifies him from discharging his duty as a clerk, as the pain
often becomes intolerable, and compels him to walk about and
squeeze the part. It becomes very severe at 4 o'clock, when he
goes home from the office in the evening, and at night; he then gets
slightly relieved by shampooing the part, but cannot sleep without
putting a pillow under his back which gives him a little ease.
To be mesmerised locally for an hour daily.
20th.-The pain in the spine is considerably diminished, and he
can bend his head freely, and sleeps at night without having a
pillow under his back, but he feels slight pain on keeping his head
bent for a long time.
25/h.-He can bend his head and keep it in that position for a
long time without feeling any pain ; but he now and then feels it
slightly in the spine at night, especially when he turna in his bed.
28th.-He can freely bend his head and keep it stooping for
any length of time he pleases, like any other man. There is no
pain in the spine, he considers himself cured, and baa resumed his
usual business.
• Present-Buddioath Bromo, a paaeed 1tudcot of the Medical College.
Digitized by Google
....
40
From thi11 it appears, that this man could not be reduced to
insensibility to the extreme degree of pain. His convalescence
was very protracted from his being attacked with aevere fever,
which induced sloughing of the sore. This was got over, and
when the sore was nearly healed, he was allowed to go home, but
not being yet fit for work, his master sent him back to the Hos-
pital, where he remained till the 25th August, and durin~ all this
time, he had not been meameriaed. Before discharging him I de-
sired one of my assistants to ascertain if he still retained bis mes-
meric sensibility, and it was found that he readily passed into a state
of somnambulism. This satisfied me, and I should have made no
further experiments upon him, but for accident. 011 the 25th
August, Mr. Heatly, the Editor of the" Calcutta Star," visited my
Hospital, and asked if there was any thing w1usual to be seen ; I
mentioned the fact of this man's continued sensibility, and pro-
ceeded to show it to Mr. HHtly; what he saw, I shall transcribe
in his own words. " After being thrown into the trance, and
" showing all the features of that condition, a very slight breath-
" ing on his eyes enabled him to open them, though their sense
" was shut ; they however, soon closed again. In the mean-
" whilt, he continued to answer with perfect propriety, questions
" that were put to him. When semi-mesmerised, he said that a
" smoke was before his eyes, which prevented him from discern-
" ing objects, but when the trance was deepened, he described
"himself as asleep. He was tested as to insensibility, by prick-
" ing him with a pin, pulling out ha~r from his moustache, and
" the application of the electro-magnetic battery ; of these
" tests he manifested no external sense, though the spasm pro-
" duced in the muscles by the action of the galvanic current on
'' their fibres was strongly marked, but just in the same manner
" as they would be in a dead body; the resemblance being pecu-
" liarly distinct at the moment contact was made and broken oft',
" or the spasms were produced and ended. While this qut"Stion
"' a peine forte et dure,' was carried on; to the verbal questions-
" put to him, the man answered that he was totally unconscious
his auft'ering from the efl'ects or it. aud so it tamed ouL He again awoke as if from
a ret'reehing natural sleep, and told U8 that nothing had disturbed him ainoe be went
to sleep as usual, and that he had no pain any where. The sheet was now lifted to
look if the bleeding Ud ceased, and he only now 1*ame aware tha& the operation
had beea performed. While some veuela were being taken up, Mr. Lindaf.ed&, the
man's master, joined us, to wbom he repeated what I have jua& said. Af\er he was
bandaged, and had been allowed to 1moke, I propoaed to the gentlemen to make a
third experiment if they would stay to - &he 188ae, this WU assented to, and he
was agam mesmerised. In about • quarter or an hour, he was entrauoed the third
·mne, and I plucked hair out or his moustache without his minding iL I& cost me
conaiderable trouble to awake him, and in reply to his master's questions, he IBid,
shat he had this moment awoke and feh very well, he had not -n his mllNer to-day
before, nor Dr. Veitch, nor myself, &c. in a word, the transactions of the last hour
and a half, in which he had acwd IO prominun& a part, had !MK let\ a uaou in his braia.
Digitized by Google
... ..
to subject it to tile senses and judgments of different unconcerned
persons, before it could be said that the man bad been " bunowet.4"
anglice, got up for the occasion.
August Z'J.-A number of gentlemen aasembled to-day at the
Hospital to witness the continuation of this case, and I hope that
it will be kept in mind, that beyond what I have already related, I
knew no more of the peculiarities of this man's mesmeric
constitution than the persons seeing him for the first time, and
that my object was to instruct myself further on the subject.
in their company. Nothing could have been easier for me
than to have ascertained all the singularities of the patient's
system, and to have tngaged confidently to perform a certain
series of experiments as a proof of the reality of the phreno-
mena. But I repeat, that I had nothing to prooe and simply
desired to ascertain in what respects this man differed from
others. I said that I should repeat all that had been already done,
to place the spectators on a level with my own knowledge of the
case, and that afterwards they would be at liberty to suggest
experiments, which would be as original to me and the patient as
to them, and that I would simply act upon the suggestions of
others, and try what could be done and what could not• . I very
soon exhausted the experiments made yesterday, and the company
now entered upon their original course of experiment. I was
requested to stiffen his legs as he stood, and make him incapable
of moving, which was very soon done, and in addition, l extended
both his arms and rendered them powerless also. I was asked if
he might be raistd from the ftoor to see if his legs \Vould remain
stiff, (I rather think th~t some expected to find him glued t.o the
floor.) " Please yourselves, gentlemen,'' I replied, and he was
raised by his stiffenf'd shoulder joints from the ground, and his
legs remaii1ed as stiff and straight as ramrods ; but mark the
unlooked for consequences. The raising of his body by the
stiffened arms caused such dreadful suffering, that it threw the
man into convulsions, but nevertheless, he never lowered his arms
perceptibly, and could not do it when ordered. To terminate this
painful scene, I, without a word said, struck down his arms by
, sudden transverse passes, and as the best means of soothing his
pain, threw him int.o the mesmeric trance. He soon with a lit.~le
demesmerising, passed from the total insensibility 9f the trance,
int.o the sleep-waking state, and was capable of understanding
and answering questions as if in his natural state, but the general
insensibility of the skin continued, and his eyes were spasmodi-
C'cilly closed. I put on the highest power of the electro-magnetic
machine, (which unfortuJ1ately is not strong enough to make every
one roar, but it requires very strong nerves to appear indifferent to
Digitized by Google
general trance, for be awoke in pain before the ·operation was
finished. Nevertheless, that it might not be said that I was
saving my phcenomena, I permitted fire to be applied to the back
of his hand unawares, having previously stiffened the arm. It
is necessary to recal to the reader's recollection, that he could
move the limb about an inch in any direction by the muscles
of the shoulder. When the fire was applit>d, the ann 1tarted to
the e:ctent jut mentioned; be cried out piteously, and yet could
not move the limb a hair-breadth further to get rid of his torture,
till I struck the arm down from behind by a sudden transverse
pass, and so relieved him. I thought it probable that he would
be very sensitive to the demesmerising effects of cold, but on trial,
squirting cold water on an affected limb made no impression what-
ever, and here ended the public examination to-day.
Although the general results corresponded singularly with my
expectations, yet some of them were as unexpected to me as to
any one present. The exquisite pain caused by loading the mes-
merised arm with a weight, was contrary to all I had hitht'rto
seen, but it must be remembered that the whole ayatem was af-
fected in all my previous experiments. When left alone, I ex-
amined into the cause of this, and the n!ason soon become very
evident. We had hitherto been considering the limbs as catalepaed
iu which state the muscles admit of free passive motion. I now
found that this was a case of mesmeric rigidity, and that the
slightest attempt to bend a rigid finger even brought on acute pain,
and no wonder therefore that the man was thrown into convulsions
when it was attempted to raise him from the ground by his rigid
arms. Let me ask what would be the effect of attempting to
bring down the rigid arm of a fuqueer to his side, or of trying to
raise an arm suddenly, that bad been stiffened by long disuse dur-
ing the cure of a facture ? Would this not be productive. of the
most acute distress ? This man's limbs were rigid and irfsensible,
and resembled so many wooden levers connected with the body
by delicate nerves, muscles, &c., and any attempt to move the rigid
member without the sympathy and consent of the connecting na-
tural parts, of necessity brought on exquisite pain. If, as often
happens, the rigidity had been general, and the effect of the mes-
meric trance, any liberty might have been taken with the rigid
members of the body, to the extent of breaking them even, with-
out causing pain, because gent>ral insensibility would have accom-
panied the muscular rigidity. Bnt the essence of this man's mes-
meric condition was, partial rigidity, with general conacioume•a,
and it seems to me that the phrenomenon of pain in bending a
rigid limb, was the necessaryconsequence of such a state of things ;
it is certain that it was so with him at least. On reflection, I
Digitized by Google
thought that I bad discovered why the experiment with cold water
had disappointed my expectations, the fact being that the water
was warm; the thermometer standing at 86° in it, I therefore
went home, and brought a piece of ice, and having made an arm
rigid, I rubbed tht> ice along it from the shoulder to the points
of the fingers, of course with the expected eft'ect ? With no effect
wbatever,-the man did not feel the ice even, till I reached the
line of demarkation between the natural and unnatural parts, and
this he accurately defined by mentioning where he felt cold and
where be did not. I cannot attempt to explain this like the pain
in attempting to bend a rigid limb, but it is clear that he did not
act up to my expectations in this case more than in the other, and
to my mind, what he did not do is aa demonstrative of the reality
of the phamomena as what he did do, and proves, that he was a
passive agent in the hands of nature, only doing what he was
permitted. I proceeded to experiment on the different senses, and
found that I could modify or extinguish them separately; one most
striking and unlooked for result was, that soon after I had made
his nose insensible to the fumes of ammonia, he complained of
Aeat in tAe cheat. This particularly struck me as combining in
perfection the force· of a moral and physical demonstration of the
reality of the phrenomena.
For surely it is impossible that a poor ignorant Bengalee could
improvi8e on the moment the distinction between the nerves of
smell and those of respiration, but the phyRical fact beautifully
corresP.?nded with what might have been predicted by al.hysio-
logist 1f the case had been submitted to him before ban , but I
only saw the reason after the fact. I brought this day's examina-
tion to a c101:1e by blindfolding the man, and mesmerising a limb
iu the attitude it lay in, and found that it had become rigid. I
thence inferred the possibility of repeating, all that had been done
without the man's knowledge, and as several persons, whose judg·
ment I wished to carry along with me, remained unsatisfied, I
asked if a repetition of the experiments in any order, while the
man was blindfolded, would be convincing, and was told, that
success under such circumstances must silence all objections ;
I therefore resolved to make the attempt.
AU!JU8t 27th.-Before advancing further, I beg leave to state
here, that every experiment made on this man hitherto, has been
related. Two circles of sticking plaster were formed large enough
to extend to a considerable distance round each eye, and a pad of
cotton was put in the centre of each. These were carefully appli-
ed by Dr. Jackson, and a second piece of the same size was placed
over the first to make all secure. The man was in the greatest
alarm, and kept crying out, " What are you going to do to me !
Digitized by Google
46
what are you going to do to my eyes ! I am now quite well.',
Having somewhat quieted him, he was made to sit down upon a
stool ; and after he had settled himself, his hands resting on
bis knees, I was requested in. a whisper (I bad. said at the
commencement that if it was suspected that the man knew
English, the spectators might express their wishes in French) to
try to render his right arm rigid as it lay. I took every precau-
tion that the man might not know where I was, and did not ap-
proach within six inche1 of his body. After a few long p888eS
from the shoulder to the points of the fingers, and down the front
of the leg, (the air could not have been sensibly diaturbed so slow
were my movements) the man was deaired to raiae his right arm,
but his hand was rivetted to his knee, and the whole arm was
found to be completely rigid, and that, as on former occasions, the
least attempt to bend even a rigid finger caused great pain, and it
was also discovered that he could not move the leg on which his
hand rested. Thia was thought very suspicious as proving too
much, but I pointed out that it arose either from the knee being
held down by the rigid arm, or that I had also involved the leg by
my downward passes. To ascertain which was the reason, I sud-
denly freed the arm, and the leg remained rigid, any attempt to
move a toe even made the man c7 out. While this was being
investigated, my esteemed and tried friend, Dr. Grant, the Apo-
thecary General, went unexpectedly to the other side, and mes-
merised the opposite arm una,vares, and on ordering the man to
lift it, he could not, it had become as rigid as the other. This
commenced a series of cross purposes, which went on increasing to
the end of the proceedings. · Those who knew our intimacy pro-
bably looked upon him as the "deus ex·machina" come at a precon-
certed signal to my rescue, while others considered that be had.
cleverly detected the imposture by an unexpected " coup-de-main.''
This vexed me, and I asked him to continue the experiments
himself as he had the power to do so.* Both his arms were next
rivetted to his knees, and by "particular desire," I tried to give
him a stiff-neck besides. It soon became apparent that I was
succeeding, by his neck gradually bending backwards till it became
as much arched as in opisthotonos, and he found it impossible to
move his head in any direction. I had included the spine to make
all secure, and it also was rigid. At this stage of the proceedings
the endurance and forbearance for which some have given me
credit on many trying occasions, broke down completely exhaust-
ed, I am sorry to relate. For, whatever might be the anomalies
• I have since learned that Dr. Grant's object was to show that All covld wot do
what I did, hut he succeeded just aa well, and tlinefort the man was an impostor.
O.ther gentlemen failed in making any impression on him, and, following out the
same reasoning, tlatrifort proved he was no impostor, such are tho inconsequential
reasonings into which we f&ll when we substitute our OWD will for Chat ohatme.
Digitized by Google
47
and appartnt contradictions, (only 80 to our ignorance) obaerved
throughout this case, there was one great consistent, ever present
fact before us from first to last ; the impombility of bending o
rigid limb without causing interue pain, and bringing on conwlnona
even, nevertheless, in spite of all experience, and my warnings of
the probable evil consequences, it was attempted to bend his rigid
spine and neck, and convulsions would have followed as they did
yesterday, if I had not interfered, and protested that I would not
be concerned In such proceedings. Half an 11our before this Dr.
Jackson had suddenly applied a bottle of carb. ammonia to his
nose, and he instantly drew back his head,-1 was now requested
to try what could be done with the senee of smell. In a few
minutes, he showed the most perfect indifference to the fumea of
ammonia held close to his noee for some time, and when he ap-
peared to feel the irritation, he said that he only felt a heat in JM
neck. Yesterday, it will be remembered, the heat was in the
eAeat. His nose was found to be also insensible to pricking, and
his tongue likewise. Seeing this, a large bodkin was given to
him, and he was desired to prick his body and face; and say where
it hurt him. He lightly touched his arm and shoulder, saying it
hurt him, and then carried the bodkin to his cheek into which he
stuck and bored it repeatedly (sometime& lifting up thick folds of
the skin twice transfixed) in 80 shocking a manner, that I waa
begged· not to allow him to perforate his cheek; so recklessly did
he stab about his face, that a apectator considerately diverted his
blow when he saw him about to stab his eyes through the sticking
plaster,-while he was boring his cheek like a piece of wood. I
demesmerised the part in a moment, and he instantly drew out hie
pin with an expression of pain, and complained of the holes he
bad made in his cheek. I pointed my fingers at his ears, and in
a short time, he said, that he heard very imperfectly on the right
aide, and that ear was found to be dead to all feeling. The left
ahoulder and side of the neck became rigid and insensible at the
eame time, and pinches of skin were actually tom out of the
shoulder without his appearing in the least conscious of it. What
followed was a chaos ; every one making his independent experi-
ments and drawing his own conclusions, and it was in vain that I
begged leave to be permitted to finish my course of experimetat
undisturbed by foreign and diatracting influences. One medical
spectator insisted on dividing the man's body in two, and kindly
made over one-half to me, while he worked his will on the other.
When I expostulated against such a game ofpully-hawley, I was told
that as the nervous system waa double, I ought to be satisfied with
iny portion, and, that the one'a experiment need not interfere
with the other's, and he went on mesmerising his half of
the body while I was trying te demesmerise the other. The
Digitized by Google
.. ...
man had been tormented for about two houra by thi1 time,
and hia amazing patience and endurance were at Jaat exhau1ted,
and he earnestly begged to be released. Although the idea of col-
lusion between me and the patient was politely disclaimed, it waa
still somewhat inconsistently thought, that there waa a aecret
mode of communication between us, and that he waa acting up
to my auppoaed wiahea in aome incomprehensible manner. The
real fact that I had been principally employed in executing the
wishea of others, was totally lost sight of, and the absurdity ovt>r-
looked that he bad been acting up to the supposed will of other•,
and not mine nearly all the time. It was therefore proposed to
me to· leave the room, and let the man suppose that I had lef't him
altogether, and that I should return unawares, and try to make
his right shoulder insensible. This was done, and although I
spent more than the usual time in the operation, the sensibility of
the part was not affected, aa on every other occasion it had been
from first to last. This, ofcourse, was looked upon as the crown- ·
ing demonstration of the imposture, but to my understanding,
it can be readily explained by one of two suppositions : the
man's sensibility had become exhausted or confused by his long
endurance, and the conflicting influences he had been subjected to;
a common and well known result; or being left to the mercy
of his enemies, (as he had good reason to think them) it had
created such terror and anxiety as to suspend the mesmeric in-
fluence for the moment. Thia we see in practice daily, and many
of my most promising surgical operations have been lost by tht'
invasion of a sudden panic which could not be subdued, even when
the patients had been previously reduced to the extreme degree
of the mesmeric trance. The man now became unmanageable,
and cried bitterly for me to come to his aid, and set him free. I
re-assured him by my voice, and proceeded to remove the plasters
from hia eyes, which caused him great pain. But I was stopped
before one corner was opened, and was requested to make him
insensible to the operation, if possible. I accordingly mesmerised
hia eyes carefully, and then drew oft' both the plasters rudely
without his showing a vestige of sensibility. Here a new phreno-
menon presented itself, and was the source of interminable con-
fusion and misapprehension. If I had been asked, " What will
·probably happen if you succeed in rendering him insensible to
the removal of the plasters?" I should have confidently replied,
" You will find his eyes spasmodically closed, and that he
will not be able to open them till I assist him to do so."
This was precisely what happened, every part of his system
was awake and in its natural state, except his eye-lids, and
these he could uot possibly open. Various persons trie~ to
demesmerise his eyes without effect ;-and it was said, " Oh !
Digitized by Google
50
submission to my will. He perversely persisted for 3 days, in ex-
hibiting pain when his rigid limbs were bent; (which he had no
right to do, it was said) although if he had been bent upon pleasing
me, he would have done quite the contrary, for by followmg this
course, he subjected himself to all the pains and penalties of sus-
pected imposture, exposed me to the imputation of being a fool, if
not worse ; made me lose my temper and credit, and it was in vain
that I tried to alter this painful rigid determination Tor his own
sake aa well as mine. If he was pleasing any body, it was certainly
only himaelj, and be had a peculiar taste of his own. But he
thwarted my anticipations in many other particulars besides ; a
most singular mode of pleasing me, it must be allowed ; and if I
calculated ·on absolute obedience to my precont"eived ideas in
my patients, this leason ought to have cured me, and shewn
that I trusted to a broken reed. But whatever my opinions
may be, if they are contradicted by facts, they fall to the ground
1111 if burnt up by tire, and I at once adopt an incompreheuillle
fact, in preference to the moat cherUhed idea. I began my
mesmeric studies by knowing and confe-ng my absolute igno-
rance of the subject, humbly questioning nature, and trying to
understand her replies, but when I did not, I preferred the
positive evidence of my senses to the weak uncertain light of my
understanding ; the thing was immutably ao, although beyond my
comprehension. If men will not condescend to learn of nature,
but maist upon teaching her, and make the realising of their deter-
mined wills the test of truth ; then every experiment will prove
thcfir infallibility; for, as has been well said by the Bishop of
Oxford, "They have a theory to maintain, a solution, which must
" not be disproved, a generalization which shall not be disturbed,
"and once posseased of this false cypher, they read amiss all the
"golden letters around them." My attention having been turned
to a consideration of the partial phrenomena exhibited in the case
of Myzoodeen, I sought for another subjt'ct of the same kind in
the Hospital, but though they all now knew what I wanted, not
one would stiffen a finger for me, or pretend that pricking was
leaa disagreeable than usual! But on the 13th September, a/erson
unexpectedly presented himself from without, who aft'orde me a ·
singular modification of the same phrenomena. Haranuodo Saha,
the former owner of the monster tumor (weight 103lbs.) occasion-
ally comes to the Hospital to make his aaldm, and did ao to-day.
He is as plump as a quail, and bids fair to acquire soon the digni-
fied rotundity of a Baboo. He knew nothing of Myzoodeen's
performances, nor had I ever attempted to mesmerise him
piecemeal in his natural state. I had only occasionally tried if he
still retained his mesmeric susceptibility, and found that he could
still be readily entranced, or thrown into somnambulism.
Digitized by Google
51
To-day, I took hold of his right arm without saying a word, and
mesmerised it from the shoulder downwards; on being desired to
move it, he said that it felt stiJf and heavy, and the movements
were very sluggish compared with the other ; from the first be had
been a cataleptic subject in the trance. I gave hin1 a pin and
desired him to ascertain if his arm felt as usual ; he pricked the
skin carefully from the points of bis fingers upwards, and said there
was no feeling in it till a little above the elbow. On demeameri1-
ing the/art' the senaibility of the akin, and the muscular activity
retume • The nme was done to the other arm with the eft'ect of
stiffening it to the eame extent, but its aeneibility remained un-
changed, he said. How could he imagine that such a " bizarre''
exhibition would be agreeable to me ! If he did, he wae greatly
mistaken, for I know nothing more disagreeable than to be com-
pelled to believe without a reaaon for the faith that ie in you. Ae
I always desire to compare my own impreuions with those of
others, I here stopped, and caused him to be further examined by
two friends. I reversed the experiment beginning with the left
arm first, but with the same result. One of the gentlemen did the
same, and then mesmerised hie right leg ; when ordered to lift it,
he did eo with much apparent ditncuJty, and could hardly uee it in
walking, the eame occurred to the other leg, but he eaid the right
leg alone wae inseneible, and that only up to the knee. So that
this man's suddenly conceived " art of pleasing,'' coneisted in
shamming insensibility in half the arm and leg of the right side,
and pretending that the muscular power of the left side was affect.
ed only! He wae now blindfolded, and after Mr. bad
mesmerised his nose for some minutes, he was given anuJf, and
desired to draw it up his nostrils : this he did with force, and said
be felt nothing. A bottle of carb. of ammonia waa placed under
hie nose, and he breathed it ae tranquilly ae common air, but the
moment he was demesmerised he showed the most violent airs of
irritation in his nostril& and eyes. He was again blindfolde , and
without mesmerising him, the bottle was put close to his nose with
the cork in it, with the usual non-effect, but the moment it was
opened, he drew back in disgust. The nose was again mesme-
rieed, and he now breathed the irritating fumes without a eymptom
of annoyance. He was next desired to put his tongue out, and in
a few minutes, a pinch of salt was put on it, and he was ordered to
shut hie mouth and swallow; he did so, and said that be tasted
nothing; aa soon as he was demes~erised, be be~n to epit, and
said there waa salt in his mouth. General insen11bility and cat;a..
Jepsy were then induced by the same gentleman and removed at
pleasure. But nothing short of the total extinction of eeneibility
in a living body will eatisfy eome observers of the mesmeric influ-
ence. Physiological revolutions in the system, altered bearing,
Digitized by Google
52
changed expression in featul1'8 and voice, the approach and advance
of sleep, the extinction of some senses, and the preservation or exal-
tation of others, the involuntary quivering ofthe eyelids, spasmodiC'
closing of the eyes, in persons a minute before wide awake, and re-
sisting perhaps, sleep-waking, sleep-walking,convulsions,catalepsy,
rigidity, in persona not subject to these affections before they were
mesmerised, are oneand all "confirmations strong as Holy Writ!'
of the existence of imposture ! It Reems that the gross fact of
painless surgery is the only mesmeric fact in which it is p088ible
to get half a dozen persona to agree, because all the spectators
start from the same premises, and when the ease is perfect, they
must admit that they saw it and believed, or that they saw it and
yet did not believe. But in judging of the finer mesmeric phreno-
mena, every one starts from a different point, each has arranged
before hand in his mind how the thing ahotJd he, and got up a
clever trick by which to test the accuracy of his conclusions, and
if the thing does not turn out in the expected manner, it is
denounced as imposture, and the experimentel'll never dream that
their disappointment arises generally from their prejudices, ignor-
ance of the subject, and unreasonable expectations. The result
would be different if they came to enquire of nature, and not to
put her to tM queation as an impoator.
If it be said that these are merely curious things of no prac-
tical importance, and are better let alone, I must take the liberty
to differ from such a view of the case. We have been ordered
" to gather up the fragments that nothing may be lost," and by
patiently collecting and putting together the broken sentences,
we may at last come to read and understand this most interesting
page of the book of nature, and every thing that modifies the
lmman system, even partially, is of practical importance. For
example, the wounds or broken limbs of such sensitive patients can
be handled without cauaing pain to them, by merely mesmerit1ing
the injured Jimb, and I hope it will be remembered that I have
never made curious experiments till I had cured my patient.
INSENSIBILITY OF HALF THE BODY, CAUSED BY
LOCAL MESMERISING,-A TUMOR MADE INSEN-
SIBLE BY LOCAL MANIPULATIONS.
It will appear strange that I should have to report in one month
three cases of the singular local phrenomena sometimes found in
highly sensitive mesmeric constitutions, and it may be suspected
that the supply has beeu in consequence'of the demand. But the
simple 111tatement of the fact, that two of these people were never
in the Hospital together, and therefore never aaw each other's
Digitized by Google
54
hie body toward• the right aide, he immediately indicated pain,
but the whole of the left side fiom head to foot had lost its sensi-
bility to ordinary impressions ; this was immediately restored by
the usual demesmerising proceHea. Mr. O'Shaughnessy soon
after came in, and I repeated the experiment on the right side with
precisely the same effects, and I then thought of turning this
man's peculiarities to some practical benefit to himself. I pro-
posed to ascertain whether the tumor could be rendered insensible
to pain by local ,mesmerising, and was gratified to find that it
could be so ; all but about two inches behind, close to the anus, and,
but for this isolated sensible patch, I would have tried the eft'ect
of an operation under such circumstance&, and will make further
experiments with this view. I plunged a knife half an inch deep
into the mass, without his feeling it..
September 24.-1 blindfolded him to-day, and mesmerised his
neck unawares ; the bandage was then removed, and he was de-
sired to investigate the condition of his body, and be said, the
sensibility of the ~kin was extinguished on both aides of hie body.
Here then is a Bengal cooly exhibiting on the instant, a demon-
stration of the double nature of the nervous system, and that one-
half of it may occasionally act independently of the other. If
this is a genuine and spontaneous natural phrenomenon, it is
surely time for the human physiologist to give up experiment-
ing upon frogs and donkeys, and betake himself to the study
of the laws of life in human intellig.ent creatures like himself,
who are capable of giving an exact account of their feelings,
and whose systems under the mesmeric influence often spon-
taneously analyse all the component powers, which, in the ag-
gregate, .make up the human being. But if what has now
been related, is a voluntary exhibition, and only another ex-
ample of a peculiar art of pleasing, then it is most gratifying
indeed, as it shows that the schoolmaster has gone further abroad
than was ever suspected, and we may confidently hope for the
speedy general enlightenment of the natives, if a Bengnl cooly is
capable of giving correct anatomical demonstrations of the con-
stitution of the nervous system on hie own pereon.
(Signed) J. ESDAILE,
Superintendent Mesmeric Hospital.
Calcutta, Mesmeric Hospital, 1st OctfJber, 1847.
Digitized by Google
..
0
'§:
i'i
CD
c.
-'!
("')
0
~
-
rv
~
JiontAly Rtgilter ofPatient• treated at tltt Caltt1tta Mt1mtric Hoqital,/or tltt MotttA o/Stpttmhtr, 1847.
Calcvtta, MUMeric H""Pilal, 1•1 October, 1847.
Date of
Admission. -g
Names. Cast. Profession. Di.lease. Cured. -g .,,
la J
-5 ti
t -g
:;
g IS
"'
< ~ <
1847.
May 4, MyaoOOeen,...•••••••••••••••••• 25 Mus. ••• Kbidmutgar, • Hypertrophied Scrotum, 20th, ... ...... ······
"
ll4, Buddenchunder Kowr, •••••• 60 Hin. •.• Writer,......... Ditto, ...... ... ······ ......
June l, Khetunnohun &.in, ......... lll Hin•••• Pedla, •.••••••• Ditto, 19th, ... ...... .....
"
7, M11dhoo, ••..•..•.•••.••..••••••• 82 Hin.••• Mallee, ......... Ditto, 19th, ... ······ ......
"
llll, Kariick Dc>ee, .................. 80 Hin••.• Barber, Ditto, 26th, ... ...... ······
"
80, Chundeechurn Mookerjeeah, 29 Bra._. ...........•... Epilepsy,
·-··· ... ...... ......
July 2, Muteeloll,
····················· 45 Hin..... Moherer, Paralysis, 8th, ... ...... ......
"
7, Mooteeoolla,
·················· 50 MUI. ••• Jemadar, Byportrophied Scrotum, 15th, ... ...... ......
"
19, Bidead.bur, •••••••-•••••••••••• 16 Hin•••• Labourer, Con_tuaia, ll6th, ... ...... ......
"
16, Ramgopal, ..................... 60 Bin. ••• Husbandman, Hypertrophied Scrotum, ...... ... ...... ......
"
16, Acber, •..•.....••••••.••••.•••••• 30 Mu.a. ••• Coolie, Ditto, ...... ... ...... -···
"
17, Ramdhun Nandy, ............ 45 Hin. ••• .Agent, Ditto, ...... ... ...... ......
"
21, Ba.mdial Choll, ............... 40 Bra. •••
······•·······... Ditto, ...... ... ··
····· ......
"
24, .Akadmaa, .............•...... 85 Hin.••• Wood-cutter, Ditto,
······ ... ...... ......
"
29, Radhanauth Bha, (a) •••.••••• 45 Bra. ... Writer, Ditto, ...... ... 5th, ......
"
11, Shamachurn Du$&, ............ 45 Hin. ••• Shop-keeper, Ditto, l~th, ... ...... ......
Aug. J, Seetaram,........................ 45 Bin•••• Burcarrah, Ditto, ..... ... ...... 1'th,
(a) Gone home on accoun.t ortever•.
~
.s
Cl
·;
s
..
p:;
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
g.
C1•
~
0
'§:
i'i
CD
c.
-'!
("')
0
~
-
rv
Date or
Admission.
I!
-5
a
~
1847.
Aug. 7,
.. 9,
.. Ill,
.. 18,
ff 20,
.. 21,
.. 22,
.. 211,
"
24,
.. 28,
.. 30,
"
30,
.. 30,
Sept. l,
.. 6,
Names.
Bholanath, (a).................
Ramchunder Dose, ............
HWTOObunder Ghose, (h) •••
Jadubohunder, ( c) ............
Prankisto Some,
····-······
Petamber, (d) ............. ...
Bingun, ..............,...•••••••
Kis&omohun, (•) ...............
Gobind Dose, (1' ............
Ramsagur Koondoo, •••••••••
Goneabchander Dose, ......
Muthoor Sing,......
Ramchurn Mitter,
Gholam Hosein,
Dabee Ghoee,
Cut. ProfeaiOD. Diaeue.
~
50 mn. ... Shop-keeper, Hypertrophied Scrotum,
25 Bin. ••• Washcrman ,. Rheumatiam,
57 Hin•••• Si.rc:a.r, ••••••••• Hypertrophied Scrotnm,
30 Hin. Shop·keeper,. Ditto,
27 Hin. ••• Shop-keeper, • Ditto,
30 Hin. Broker, Ditto,
40 Mus. Ayah, Rheumatism,
45 Hin. Blacksmi&b, Paralysis,
20 Bin. Shop-keeper, Ditto,
33 Hin. Merchant, Hypertrophied Scrotnm,
30 Hin. Diuo, Ditto,
52 Hin. Labourer, Rheumatism,
32 Hin. Sirkar, Epilepsy,
30 Mua. Kidmutgar, Deafness,
25 Hin. Gowallah, Hypertrophied Scrotum,
(a) Gone home on acoount of diarrhcn.
(h) Gone home on aocount or fever.
(c) Ditto ditto ditto ditto.
(d) Gone home to aiiend to bla aft'aira.
(t) Left too SOOD.
( f) Ditto ditto.
! ~b
l
a
Cured.
J :~
:= 'i a
~ iS ~
~
...... ... 14th, ...... ...
...... IOLh ...... ...... ...
...... ... 16th ...... ...
····- ... 16th ...... ...
..... .. ...... ...... ...
.....• ... 15th ...... ...
...... 30th ...... ...... .. 8)
...... 25th ...... ······ ...
...... 19th ...... ...... ...
...... ... ...... ...... ...
...... ... ...... ...... ...
...... 26th
······ ...... ...
...... 26th ..... ...... ..
...... .. ..... ······ ...
...... ... ...... ...... ...
..
,.
0
'§.:
N.
CD
"-
~
C')
0
~
,...._
(\;
MontAly Rtt11r11 ofPatimu tr1atttl in t/&1 Calcutta M11t11eric HOlpital,for t/&e Mont/& of Stplt!tnber, 1847.
DlO.lu.
.tili j
·I l
~ ~
Contuaio, .................................
J>oatneu, ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• I ••• l
8
3
~ l
5 I ••• I
Epilepsy, ................................ , 2
Hypertrophied Scrotum,............... lll 5 I 26
;I
Neuralgia, .............................. , •••
Paralysis, ................................. 8 I ••• 8
Rheumatiazn; •••••••••••••·••••••••••••••• I 8 I t I 5 , •••
o~
z §"'
g:,., ~
fP...B
..~ ..
~'a~
76
97
14
66
Calclltta, M-W H01Pital, bt October, 1847.
Dilcharged.
l~
ll
ll
s
.:
!
.!
~
j I.g
A
3 I l
...
~-8
§;;
g\,., ..
~-~!
'"""'!ft
<'ab
u
Deaths and Agee.
-ses s s·s s
:S!,2 ;: i ~ :;;
~~ ~c:S ~~ ~d ~d ~di~
ro-t .. ro-t""lii"'ro-t .... ro-t"'lii"" £--<
111 I 111 I 1•1 I••• I 111 I 111
4
14
I...
... 2
--·--·--·--·----·---·--·--·--·--· 1--·--·--·--·--·--·--
Total,.••••••••
Daily average number otpatientl, 23,
30 IIll 1· 4ll I 9 I ... 8 ••• I ... 3 l I ... ..; .. ... I ... ... I ... I lll
---l-1------------- ----1-
(Signed) G. Lulu, (Signed) J. EIDAILB, M. D.,
O.ffg. S11ptg. S~ Pruitk1tf:1. S11perintnvlntt M-W Hoapital.
~
00
had become imperceptible. He came immediately into the full pos-
session of his aensea, and said that he had slept to- day very well.
After taking some brandy and water, he complained of a alight
smarting in the wound, and carried hia band to the part to ascer-
tain the cause. He was now told that all waa over, and he
expre88ed his gratitude, declaring that I was next to God, that I
bad given him a second life, &c. In this case, as in many others,
a moat striking and characteristic feature waa obse"ed. The very
moment that perfect conaciouaoeaa returned, every trace of suffer-
ing in his countenance inatantaneotUly disappeared, and he looked
as fresh and unbroken as if he bad just awoke from a natural sleep.
25th.-He baa not had a disagreeable symptom, and bu never
looked ill even.
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
September 27, 1847.-Ramkisto Dosa, a waaberman, aged 35,
a native of Santipore, in Zillah Nuddea, has got a scrotal tumour
for 3 years. It is about the size of a child's head, and scarred all
over with caUBtics, which had been applied for discussing it. His
great sufferings on account of frequent attacks of fever and sub-
sequent local inflammations, to which he has been subject, have
induced him to come to us to undergo the dangerous operation of
excision.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
28th.-Could not be made to sleep.
October 8, 1847.-Since the last date, he waa not mesmerised
on account of an attack of periodic fever. He slept to-day.
9th.-Found to be in deep coma, arms partially cataleptic. He
was perfectly indifferent to the ordinary testa of insensibility, and
to the highest power of an electro-magnetic machine.
10th.-The same to-day.
llth.-1 intended to have operated on him to-day, and several
gentlemen were present, but as he appeared to be disturbed on
his testis being squeezed, the operation was postponed.
12th.-He was operated on to-day,* and all the parts were
saved, he began to moan and move about the middle of the ope-
ration, bent hia neck backwards, and drew up his cheat like a man
in opistholonoa, but did not make any attempt to interfere with
the operation, nor did he open his eyes. After the arteries had
been secured, he cried out for water, and the mesmerising waa
then diacontinued. He asked why be felt smarting in the part,
• Present-Dr. Mouat.
Digitized by Google
.discomfort. If the will had prompted the movements, some
memory of them would remain, but there .is usually none. I
think it very probable that this muscular irritability might be
generally extinguished altogether by prolonged treatment, but it is
not worth the trouble, for the system suffers as little as when there
is not a quiver of the flesh."
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
October 23, 1847.-Shaikh Durrah, a brokt'r, agt>d 48, residing
at Kasseepore, in 24-Pergunnahs, has got a moderate sized scrotal
tumour for 8 years. It had been deeply cauterised in the hope of
discussing it by suppuration. This did not produce the desired
effect, but brought on contraction of bis knees by obliging him to
be confined in bed for a long tin;ie.
To be mesmerised for an hour-and a half daily.
24th.-On the first day he appeared deeply entranced, and
was tested satisfactorily as to the state of his insensibility.
25th.-He was more strictly tried to-day, and found fit to stand
the operation.
26th.-The operation was performed to-day.* Before com-
mencing the operation, I explained to the medical gentlemen pre-
sent my reasons for not attempting to save the testes in this case,
although the tumour was not of great magnitude,-after excision
it weighed 28 lbs. I was convinced that the mass was solid
throughout and of great density, and this had been increased by
the cauterisings, to the cicatrices ofwhich the testes always adhere,
and the man was of a weak constitution. I said that in all proba-
bility the testes would be found to be not worth keeping, but even
if healthy, I thought it would endanger this man's life to attempt
to keep them. I there(ore first got out the penis, and removed
the mass at once by transfixing the neck and cutting right and left.
He lay perfectly calm and motionless like a corpse, but awoke
soon after the fall of the mass when the arteries were being tied.
I had good reason to congratulate myself on my diagnosis aud the
course adopted, for a few minutes after opening his eyes the man
fainted, and it was half an hour before bis pulse was re-estab-
lished; another minute's delay would probably have proved fatal.
On cutting up the tumour, it was found to be very dense in its
structure ; the testes were 6 inches below the surface embedded
in a semi-cartilaginous substance, and completely disorganised.
28th.-He is doing very well, and I hope to be able to straighten
his legs in the trance at a subsequent period.
• ~t-Dr. H. F: Hough, i:iysici~ General, Dr. Sawera, late Hember of
Medical Board, Dr. Edlin, Hr. C. l!. VonLintigy.
Digitized by Google
63
HEMICRANIA.
CtUt reported by the Patient.
· Headache. Sometimes in the right temple, at others in the left,
not on both sides at the same time, but alternately on each side.
Duration. Never Iese than 24 hours, often more.
Symptoms. Suddenly a violent throbbing of the temple which
is to be the seat of pain, accompanied by a slight pain in the back
of the bead, and the waist and spine, palpitation at the heart,
copious urinary discharges a few hours before the coming on of
the headache, severer on the right than when on.the left side. ,
Light Offensive. Noise, conversation, talk, or even enquiries,
hateful. Food of any sort nauseating. Dryness of the mouth;
saliva thick and gummy. Nostril, the right or left as the case
may be, shut. An unpleasant beat in the head, but the nether
part of the body, from the shoulders downwards, chilly, not cold
to the touch. The right or left eye rather smaller in appearance
to the one on the side not affected, with a little pain in the
eye-ball. An inability to sit up for any length of time, or to keep
the head erect without feeling a maddening pain and extreme
drowsiness, &c., slight delirium of the sensts; the only relief is in
sleep assisted by some pungent external application to the temple,
such as clove oil or cinnamon oil, or cinnamon bark ground down
with plain water or rose water; which very often slightly blisters
the part applied on. The sleep too is short, uneasy, and invariably
disturbed by dreams. An inclination to go to stool, and often one
or more evacuations unassisted by any medicine. No stated or
fixed time for its (the headaches) visits, but of late I have care-
fully remarked that they are greatly influenced by the moon, for
either at the new or full moon, and sometimes too during its first
or later quarters, I am generally attacked with it.
Treatment and Medicines resorted to have been as various as
the advisers have been numerous.
Leeching. Aperient and drastic cathartics, tonics, liniments,
embrocations, outward applications of ice, and poultices of dif-
ferent kinds, snuffing (to which from constant use I am now be-
come addicted), introduction of tobacco leaf wicks into the nostrils
to cause sneezing, and drawing out ofthe humours.
Pedeluvium. Hot and cold bathe, &c. &c., advised and pres-
cribed by professional men of different casts and denominations,
and even quacks ; all which have proved ineffectual, or afforded
only temporary relief.
General strength of body much affected by every attack, which
is sometimes bi-monthly, sometimes more frequent, but seldom
less than once a month, succeeded by extreme debility and languor,
Digitized by Google
64
but a good appetite occasioned perhaps Crom previous fasting, u
during the time the attack lasts, which, as has been observed above,
is never less than 24 hours, no food of any description, except.
slops is partaken of, and which even is often rejected and retched
up.
I have been subject to this severe malady Crom my younger days,
if my memory serves me right, I should say from the 10th year
of my age, aud I am now past my 32d year. I have been of a
constipated habit which was considered one chief cause of the
disease, but I am not so now, my bowels being pretty regular, yet
I still suffer; if it were owing to costiveness, it is to be supposed
that a purgative would, on its beginning to work out, remove, or
at least decrease, the violence of the headache, but it is not so,
for it bas been tried by me.
My more regular advisers have been Drs. Lamb and Taylor, of
Dacca-Dre. Green and Llewellyn, of Mymensing-Dr. Baker, of
Noacolly, and Doctors Vos, both father and son, of Calcutta,
besides several others in and out of the profession, whom I have
occasionally consulted, and who have ineffectually prescribed some
remedy in their own different ways. I have much pleasure in
annexing a summary, and final report of the remedial effects o£
me~merism in the case of chronic hemicrany, megrim, or balf-
headache, whichever it may be called, to which I bad been subject
Crom the 10th year of my age till the last month, and which I trust
has now altogether been removed through the beneficial agency of
mesmerism.
I have to expresa a hope that my case will be considered deserv-
ing a place in your periodical reports, and ultimately in the public
journals, so that. others suffering under a similar malady may be
informed where to find a remedy.
SUMMARY OP TREATMENT REPORTED BY TUB PATIENT.
From the 25th June 1847.-1 put myself under mesmeric treat-
ment for an hour every morning, and continued attending the
Hospital between the hours 8 and 9 A. x., for 1I days, exclusive
of Sundays, and one day (the 3d July 1847, or seven days after
the commencement of the treatment) when having risen from bed
with one of the usual violent attacks of the headache, I begged the
attendance of the mesmeriser at my house, and placed myself
under his manipulations for an hour; within this time the relief
was so great from a trance of three-quarters of an hour into
which I was thrown, that I felt abJe to attend office and go through
my daily duties, a thing most impracticable before mesmeric aid
Digitized by Google
65
was obtained; that day on my return from office, I, who loathed
food of any sort during the paroxyama, could partake of my dinner
and enjoyed a moat refreshing sleep at night, from that day then,·
I calcuate upon a break in the violence of the malady.
My private and public avocations not permitting me to continue
under the treatment without some interruption as to time and
days, I, on the 14th July, 1847, solicited and obtained the indul-
gence of Dr. Esdaile to allow the attendance of a mesmeriser at
my house at ·such times as I might require him, which being
granted, the man attended on me at intervals for 12 days more,
making in all his attendance 011 me and treatment of my case only
23 days, with various effects, sometimes a alight doze of a few
minutes duration, at others a trance of half an hour or more.
The return of headache less frequent with sensibly decreased vio-
lence. Yet not free from the attacks. My younger sister having
witnessed the sittings, and thereby learnt the manipulations per-
formed by the mesmeriser, expressed a desire to try to act on me,
and commenced in right good earnest. Her efforts bad the desired
eft'ect, and she has continued it every morning for an hour with a
very few breaks, but with decided good effect, putting me into a
trance almost every day for (often) about f of an hour, sometimes
less ; to this day she has mesmerised me, leaving oft' the breaks
about a full month, and during this time I have not had a single
attack of the malady, and find my general health improved, and
strength of body materially renovated.
(Signed) A. SPBROOS.
NEURALGIA.
August 30, 1847.-Muthoremohun Singhee, a writer, aged 32,
a nath·e of Gopalnugur, in Zillah Midnapore, has been suffering
from neuralgic pain of the right arm and leg for two months. It
increases much at night, and also on walking a great deal. He
cannot raise bis arm perpendicularly, nor can he bend it back-
wards, further than to touch bis spine.
To be mesmerised for an hour and half daily.
Sept. 7th.-He felt no perceptible change for a week, except
that he slept better than usual. To-day he was found to raise his
arm further than he used to do, but the pain continued in the
same state as before. ·
12th.-The pain of the leg is alittle diminished, bat that of the
arm continues. He can raise his arm higher.
Digitized by Google
66
20th.-He can raise hia ann naturally, and bend it a.ckwards
more than he used to do. The pain of the leg is gone, and that
of the arm much abated.
26th.-He has entirely regained the power of bending his ann
backwards without feeling any pain; he feels now and then a
slight pain in the arm at night.
October l, 1847.-The pain of the ann has entirely left him, he
can now use his arm freely in any direction like any other person.
He thinks himself sufficiently recovered to enable him to carry
on his business as a writer, he therefore ceased to come to the
Hospital from to-day.
"SOOL," OR NEURALGIA OF THE STOMACH.
Sept. 29, 1847.-MoRabeh Khan, khidmutgar, aged 40, a native
of Aligechore, in Zillah Furridpore, has been tormented with
neuralgic pain at the pit of the stomach for aeven years. It ia
called by the natives " sool," and is a moat agonising and intract-
able complaint. It appears to be a tic douloureuz of the nerves of
the stomach, and the only way the natives have of relieving it, is
to lean, for hours, the pit of their stomach against a stump of
bamboo till the abdominal muscles almost touch the spine.
So dreadful ia the torment, that one of my patients cut his
throat in despair, but as he only cut his windpipe across, he got
well, and had the satisfaction to get rid of his sool, but I do not
recommend this as its natural remedy. The pain in this case,
commences at 3 o'clock, and continues till 10 o'clock at night; a
slight pain remains in the interval, and increases on eating.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
Oct. 2, 1847.-0n the second day he found some relief from
the pain, he had slept for about two hours at night.
5th.-He did not feel the pain in the interval as he used to do,
but felt it in the evening, and it lasted about a couple of hours only.
7th.-Had no return of the pain since yester-eveuing; he can
now take a hearty meal without any inconvenience.
IOth.-As the pain has not returned for several days, he consi-
dered himself cured and left the Hospital to-day.
Digitized by Google
0
'§:
i'i
CD
c.
-'!
("')
0
~
-
rv
\
M011tlaly Betvrn ofPatit11t1 treattdi11 tlat Calcutta Menntrie HOlpital, for tAe M011tl o/ Oetobtr, 1847.
_Date of
Admiaaion.
.B
lj Names.
~
1M7.
May 24, Buddenchunder :S.:owr, ......
.. 30, Chuodechurn Kookerjee, •••
.TIUle 16, llamgopal, •••••••••••••••••••••
.. 16, Ackber, ........................
.. 17, llamdhuo Nuody, ...........
,, 21, llamdial Ch&Uer:jee, ........
.. 24,
Akaduaaee, •••••••••••••••••••••
Ang. 20, Prankiato Some, ~•.••••••••••••
,, 28, Bamsagur Kooodoo, •••••••••
n 30, Guoeechuoder Does, (a) •••
Sept 1, Gholamhoeein, ...............
.. 6, Dabee Ghoee, ••••••••••••••••••
.. 18, Juggurnath Ghose,............
- 19, H1188uo Khan, (b) ••••••••••••
.. 19, Sulaim,.••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Calculla, Me1merie HOlpi/41, lit Nooember, 1847.
d
i Diaeue.
~ 1
-II 0 ~
60 H. .••••• Writer, ••••••••• Hypertrophied Scrotum,
29 Bra. ••• Brahmin, •••••• Epilepsy, ••••••••••••••••••
50 H. ...... Husbandman,. Hypertrophied Scrotum.
30 M. •••••• Cooly, ......... Ditto, .......•.............
45 H. •••... Agent, ••••••.••• Ditto, .....................
40 Bra. ••• Brahmin, •••••• Ditto,
-···················
35 H ..•.••. Wood-cutter, • Ditto, •..•....•............
27 H. ••••• Shopkeeper,.•• Ditto, .....................
33 H. ..•.•. Merchant,...... Ditto. .....................
30 1:1.•••••• Ditto, ......... Ditto, ...••..••............
30 H. .•.••• .Khidmutgur,•• I>eafnesa, ..................
25 H. .•...• Gowalla, ...... Hypertrophied Scrotum.
..IH. •••••• Ditto. ........ Epilepsy, ..................
32 M. •••••• Painter, ...... Ditto, ..•..................
30 M. •••••• Hoabandmao,. Ditto. .....................
,
(a) Gone home on accouo' of fever.
(b) Noi beoefi&ed.
'i
Cured.
i
l
.!?
~
i
...... ... ...... .....•
...... ... ...... ......
26th, ... ...... ......
...... ... ...... .....•
12th, ... ...... ... ..
...... ... ...... .•....
24th, ... ...... .....
...... ... ...... ......
...... .. ...... ......
...... ... 4th, ......
...... ... •th. ......
...... ... ...... ......
...... ... 4th, ......
...... ... 29th, ......
...... ... ...... ......
tiO
:1
=
...
...
...
... a
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
..
...
..
71
DETAILED ACCOUNT OF CASES TREATED AT THE
MESMERIC HOSPITAL, CALCUTTA,
During the Month ofNovember, 1847.
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
November 7, 1847.-Gopeedoss, sirdar bearer, a native of Dur-
manugur, in Zillah Balessur, has got a small scrotal tumour for
five years. It is covered all over with warts, about the size of
peas, and is excessively hard. The prepuce is hypertrophied, and
forms a second pendulous tumor, the size of an ordinary cucumber.
He was sent to us by 11is country friend, Bhugwandoss, who was
operated on at Hooghly last year for a similar tumour. He has
made a journey of ten days in the hope of being relieved of bis
burden in the same way as his friend has been.
To be mesmerised for an hour and half daily.
Sth.-1 saw him for the first time at 12 o'clock to-day, and
found him to be in the most profound trance after Ii hour's mes-;.
merising, and he was severely electrified, pricked, and pinched
without disturbing him in the least. I then put a piece of live
charcoal on his chest, and a slight tremor of the skin was percep-
tible, which instantly passed off; but he made no attempt to
remove the fire: half a minute after, he suddenly opened bis eyes,
and supposing that he was awake, I struck the charcoal off his
breast. My assistant began to ask him in Bengallee what had
awoke him, but received no reply, and I immediately saw from
the fixed unwinking eyes, that though they were open, their sense
was shut. I said in English, " let him alone, be is not awake,"
and immediately after, his eye-lids quivered and closed spasmodi-
cally. I recommenced pricking him all over immediately without
exciting the slightest sign of sensibility. About an hour after, he
awoke naturally, and when asked said, that h~ felt no pain in his
sleep, that the black patch on his breast was caused by dirt he
supposed, and that he now saw me for the first time.
9th.-He was operated on to-day.* The parts were all saved.
The dissection was tedious and very severe on account of the firm
adhesion of the organs to the cartilaginous walls of the tumor.
He lay perfectly still and quiet, till I had nearly dissected out
both the testes ; when getting out the last of which, he began to
moan, draw up his chest and bend his head backwards convulsively,
but did notinterfere with my proceedings. When the general mass
was being removed, he cried out once, " Juggernath !" and imme-
• Present-Lieutenant Mouat, Mr. R. F. Hodgson, C. S., and Dr. Moua&.
DigitizedbyGoogle r
..... ..
diately after wanted to be fanned ; opened his eyes once, and
then instantaneously relapsed into his comatose state. He awoke
a quarter of an hour after, and said that nothing had disturbed him
in his sleep, and that he had not called on "Juggernath" to-day.
He very soon perceived a smarting in the part, and asked whether
it was removed or not.
The mesmeric phoonomena are so various and inexhaustible, that
no subject runs so much danger of being misapprehended and
misrepresented by persons drawing general conclusions from occa-
sional and interrupted observations of parts of it. For example,
if a person ignorant of the subject and prejudiced against it, liad
been present when this patient opened his eyes shonly after my
placing live charcoal on his chest, he would probably have gone off
saying," Ah! that was carrying the joke too far," and on reading
my account of what followed, be would hug himself in his fancied
acuteness of observation and superior strength of mind. But if
this very decided and self-satisfied spectator would condescend to
extend his observations for a length of time over a wider field, he
would find that the exceptions proved the rule, by recurring pre-
cisely in the same form, at long intervals in different individuals,
and under altered circumstances, and that the most startling
occasional phrenomena are links of one great natural chain, whose
continuity is only broken by our ignorance of the laws of nature.
But by supplying a link here and there, the gaps may at least be
diminished, and I am content that tiint" should decide whether
I have observed and recorded the finer mesmeric pboonomena as
accurately as the more gross and common ones.
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
October 23, 1847.-Horry, water-carrier, aged 30, has had a
small scrotal tumour for 5 years. He is come from Cuttack, in the
expectation of getting it removed without pain, as has happened
to many persons from that quarter. As the tumuor was small, I
dissuaded him from having it removed at present, but as he
expressed an earnest desire to have it done on account of the
constant attacks of inflammation in it, at the times of periodic
fever, I consented to his wishes.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
30/h.-He was found deeply entranced on the first day, and
bore pricking and pinching very well, but the first touch of a bit
of live charcoal made him shrink, he however became subsequently
inditrerent to it.
Digitized by Google
73
3lat.-He waa tested aatiafactorily with an electro-magnet!c
machine.
N(lf}em'/Jer 1.-Tbe same.to-day.
2d.-I operated on him to-day• and saved all the parts. He
remained perfectly /assive under the .knife, and I cut him as
leisurely as I woul a dead body in the dissecting room. He
awoke in about half an hour after all the arteries had been secured ;
the usual questions were put to him, and it is superfluous to say
that be knew nothing about the matter.
He is doing very well, and has not felt an ache since.
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
Octo'6er 28th, 1847.-Chundechum, aged 42, a pleader of the
Sudder Ameen's Court, in Sylhet, which is his place of nativity, has
been troubled with a considerable scrotal tumour for 5 years. He
read in one of the Bengallee newspapers that a Meismeric Hospital
had been established in Calcutta, with a view to afford relief to all
classes of persons afBicted with scrotal tumours, and it is from this
absurd misapprehension that my Hospital has been almost exclu-
sively supplied with such cases: but I hope the Europeans will
disabuse the native mind of this false impression, by making it
generally known that there are very few Surgical cases in which
painless operations may not just as readily be obtained. " When
any one goes there, it was said, he is made insensible"by some
magical process, and the part is removed without his feeling any
pain." He showed me the memorandum he took:. of my name and
the site of the Hospital, and said that he came in a boat after a
passage of 2'.l days.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
October 30, 1847.-He \Vas entranced on the first day's trial,
and was perfectly indifferent to the usual tests of insensibility,
and to the application of a bit of live charcoal.
3lat.-The ·same to-day.
Nov. I, 1847.-The operation was performed in the usual way*,
and all the parts were saved. As soon as the principal arteries
had been secured, the cords which were greatly lengthened were
examined, and as they were still embedded in the thickened
tvnica vaginalu it was dissected off their whole length. The man
thus stood two severe diSBections. There was not a quiver
obse"ed in his body from the beginning to the endof the principal
operation, but his countenance became slightly disturbed during
• Present-Major Boscawen ; Captain J. V. Forbes ; Mr. B. O'Shaughnesay ; Dr.
Moua&; GreMChunder GhOle; and-Hurroehunder Gbose.
L
Digit zed by Google
.. ...
74
the second cutting. When all was over, the mesmerising was
discontinued, and he wu covered with a clean sheet : a few minutes
after he awoke, as he said, naturally; and did not feel pain any
where, except a pricking in his limbs, and was in his usual vigour.
He next perceived a slight heat in the part, and wanted to know
the cause of it. It was then intimated to him that he had been
relieved of his burden, and the mass was shewn to him. He said
that he was more than compensatedfor his long and tedious voyage.
13th.-He was doing well, and the wound improvinJ daily, but
he was last night suddenly attacked with Cholera, and died oo-night.
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
N()tJ. 20, 1847.-Hurrochunder Chowdry, aged 36, a native of
Ballerah, in Zillah Burdwan, has been troubled with a considerable
scrotal tumourfor 12 years. He has had ittwice cauterised in the
hope of discussing the tumour. This has converted it into the
present solid cartilaginous state, and has broken down his health
by keeping up a discharge from some of the uncured ulcers. He
heard that Ramdhun Nundy, who had been troubled with a
monstrous tumour (70lbs.) had returned home quite recovered, and
having been encouraged by the account he gave of the manner in
which he had been operated upon in my Hospital, he was induced
to come to Calcutta in the hope of being cured in the same way.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily. .
2ht.-He was satisfactorily tested to-day as to the state of the
insensibility, and was found quite fit to be operated upon.
22d.-The operation was performed to-day*, and no attempt
was made to save the testes, as I was convinced that they were
useless from the treatment the tumour had been subjected to. The
morbid part, after it had been removed, was cut open, and the
testes were found to be exactly in the state that 1 had anticipated.
Weight of tumour about 15 lbs. The man lay like a corpse till
about 10 minutes after he had been covered with a clean sheet,
and all signs of the operation removed. He said, when asked,
that he felt no uneasiness in any part of his body, and was in his
usual vigour. I had retired out of sight before he awoke, and
Mr. Halliday asked him what he had come to hospital for? He
said, to have his disease removed. .Well, had it be done? Not
yet, he answered, the Dr. Sahib had looked at it yesterday, but he
bad not yet come to-day. He was then told that his tumour was
cut off in the same way as his friend Ramdhun Nundy's, and the
part was shewn to him. He recognised it by the scars, and said
that what Ramdhun Nundy had told him was quite true. If the
• Present-Mr. Halliday and Mr. Elliot.
Digitized by Google
75
reader will refer to the case of Ramdhun Nundy, he will 6nd that
it was one of the cases in which striking signs ofsuft'ering appeared
with complete subsequent oblivion of the whole transaction. As
his case agreed so completely with many others, I saw no reaaon
to disbelieve the man, and my simplicity was very generally pitied
on that occasion, I believe. Ramdhun has turned out the most
consistent of liars, at least, for ~e has sent two of his friends to
me aince be went home, and has been to present himself, and tell
the same story to the Magistrate of Burdwao, he writes.
EPILEPSY.
&pt. 19, 1847.-Shaikh Sulaim, a husbandman, aged 30, a native
of Boidpatee, in Zillah Hooghly, has been subject to epilepsy for
6 years. The tits come on five or six times a month, and last for
about an hour each time, followed by heaviness and pain in the
head, which remain two or three days after the paroxysm is over.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
25th.-He has had a fit daily for the last four days, which
remained for about an hour, followed, as uaual, by pain and heavi-
ness in the head.
Octolnr 2d.-A tit to-day and yesterday, but they were of very
short duration and not attended with head-ache, since that time
he had no tit up to the 2d November, when he left the Hospital as
he thought himself cured, and could not be induced to remain
any longer.
LUMBAGO.
Octo!Jer28, 1847.-ShaikArmon, a shop-keeper, aged 20, residing
at Khalasetollah, in Calcutta, baa been suffering from lumbago
on both sidea for 3 months. The pain increases much at night
and interrupts his sleep. He limps in walking, and cannot put
his feet firmly on the gound.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
NOfJ. I.-For the first three days he felt no chan~e, except that
he slept at the time of being mesmerised, and at mght more than
he used to do. To-daybe felt a little better.
4tA.-He sleeps at night as usual and the pain is diminished one
half. He can walk much more freely anddoes not limp at the time.
7tA.-He says that he is free from pain; can walk as he used to do
before, and carry on his busineBB,-so he left the Hospital to-day.
(Signed) J. ESDAILE, M. D.,
Cal. M. H. the lit Dec. 1847.
Supt. Mu. Holpital.
Digit zed by Google
0
'§:
i'i
CD
c.
-'!
("')
0
~
-
rv
\
Date or
.Admiaaiou.
-5
la
a
:a
1847.
No•. 17,
,, 18,
"
20,
n 25,
"
26,
"
29,
l
1 a
Died.
Names. Cast. Proreeaion. Dileue. Cured.
!
.!l
to
-<
Fudeali, . . . . . . 28 M. •• ""- . ·'Bhoomo..,., ... . .
Bulloo, • 30 M. •• . 1Sool, or Neuralgial . .
. . . . . . Khidmutgv, • or the stomach, •
Hurrochunder Cbowd17, • 36 H. •• Moberer, • • Hypertrophied Scrotum, . .
Chunder Saw, • • • • • 52 H. • • Bunneab, • • Paralysis, • • • • . .
Chunga Sing, • • • • • 10 H. •• Durwan, • • Rheumatism, • • • . .
Bolagee, • • • • • - 35 H.. . Shop-keeper, • Ditto, • . . . . . . .
(a) Fit to be operated on, bnt was obliged to leave the Hospital on nrgent busineae.
(b) Fit to be operated on, but was obliged to lean the Hospital on urgent busine11.
(c) Died otrever and Diarrh<lll.
(ti) Ditto or Tetanue.
(e) Ditto or Cholera.
(j) Diamissed on account.or strong renr and debility.
~
. . . . .
30th . . .
. . . . .
. . . . .
.. . . .
. . . . .
(Signed) G. Lum,
O.ffg. S11ptg. Svgttnt, Pruidericy.
(Signed) J. EaDAILJI, M. D.,
S~ M-U: H~itJJI.
.
.
.
.
-
.
Iii>
.s
a
·;
a
~
. .
. .
. .
..
--
. . ~
80
not affected. I went to see, ·and found him lying with half-open
eyes, quivering eyelids, and trembling hands ; I immediately said
that he was ready, and without any testinf' performed a severe
and most successful operation upon him. n one alarming case,
the trance lasted for 24 hours, and during all this time, the man
was as stiff as a /oker, and his eyes remained wide opeu, and
could not be close . This patient had been very frequently expe-
rimented upon, and in consequeuce had become exqu11itely sensi-
tive t.o the mesmeric influence.
HYPERTROPHIED SCROTUM.
December 3, 1847.-Luckhynarain Dey, a hawker, aged 37,
residing at Nabootullah, in Calcutta, has got a scrotal tumor for
IO years, followed by elephantiasis of both legs. It baa bet'!tl ae
usual, attended with periodic fever and local inflammation, twice
a month, at the change of the moon. This man had attended our
Hospital a few days in the month of August last, when he came
thoroughly under the mesmeric influence, and was about to be
operated on; he was suddenly attacked with severe conjunctivitis
and periodic fever, obliging him to return home, he was re-admit-
ted on the 3d December.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
3d.-He bore pricking and pinching very well to-day, but a
slight shiver took place on his being touched with a bit of live
charcoal. He resisted all the usual demesmerisin~ means, but
awoke instantly on having cold water squirted into his eyes.
4th.-Found deeply entranced to-day, he was pricked and pinch-
ed with the same results as yesterday, and could not be roused by
the loudest noises produced by throwing a metallic basin on the
stone floor close to his bed, and ringing it for several minutes
close to his ears. A few grains of sulphate of magnesia were next
pnt into his mouth with great difficulty, as his juws were firmly
clenched, as usually happens. The tongue remained quite passive,
and the mouth gradually closed again. His nose was also put
into a bottle of carb. of ammonia, and he inhaled the fumes like
common air. Repeated attempts were afterwards made to demes-
mt'risc him, his eyes were rubbed, -opened and sharply blown into,
he was laid hold of by his hands and lifted up from his bed, and
made to sit upon it for a few minutes, but without the least effect.
He was at last awakened by his eyes being constantly syringed
with cold water, and the moment he came to his senses, he retched
violently, and said that his mouth was disgustingly bitter, why he
could not tell.
Digitized by Google
82
7tA.-He was operated on to-day.* The dissection was very
severe and prolonged, aa there was strong adhesion of the walls of
. the tumor to the delicate organs below, which were all saved.
He was as passive as hie predecessor from first to last, and could
only be distinguished from a corpse by a slight twitching of hit
toes. He awoke of his own accord about half an hour after all
was over, and he bad been put under a clean sheet, and said that
be had slept uninterruptedly up to this moment, and that he had
come here to get rid of his burden by the advice of his friend,
Ramlochun, who had wonderfully recovered from a similar disease.
He was then told that he was cured in the same \vay, but he could
uot be made to believe it till the mass was shown to him.
18/A.-'nle wound is healthy and cicatrising, and he has com-
plained of n.o pain since.
INSENSIBILITY OF THE SKIN REMAINING FOR SOME
TIME AFTER THE RETURN OF CONSCIOUSNESS,
PORTIONS OF THE BODY MADE INSENSIBLE BY
LOCAL MESMERISING.
December 8th.-I was told at I2 o'clock to-day, that a new patient
had been taken in, and that he had bE'ell mesmerised for an hour.
I went to see him, and found a healthy looking man of 40, lying
on the bed; be had a considerable scrotal tumor. He remained for
a good while indifferent to pricking, but at length was disturbed,
and languidlf opened his eyes ; he waa much disinclined to speak,
and while domg so his eyes would suddenly roll upwards; the eye-
lids quivered, and then closed. He opened hie eyes, when order-
ed to do so, but with difficulty, and while he was apparently awake
and speaking to me, I began to prick him all over, but he said
that he felt nothing. When left alone for a few minutes he fell
asleep again with the same motions of the eyes ; this was done
several times during half an hour with the same results. I at last
roused him thoroughly, made him get up and walk about till he
aaid he felt as usual; he said, at first, that his bead was giddy. I
now began to prick him, and he was insensible to it from head to
foot for about 10 minutes, when the sensibility gradually returned.
Afwr his skin was in its natural state, he was carefully blindfolded,
and one of his arms was mesmerised with every precaution that be
might not feel any thing. A pin waa then given him, and he waa
desired to test the condition of his akin ; he said it was all as uanal
except the arm operated on. The other was next manipulated,
and he said both were now inaenaible to pricking, aQd heavier than
• Preaenl, Mr. Beedles and Mr. Hume.
Digitized by Google
usual: it took a great deal of rubbing and blowing to restore the
parts to their natural state. I was in this case tempted to break
a practical rule I have laid down, that is, never to experiment upon
persons before they are cured, and I had to regret it. This man
ht-came excited and alarmed, and earnestly begged to be allowed
to go home, supposing himself to be posseesed, I dare say. He
was allowed to go, as this condition of the system is very unfavorable
for our purpose. Perhaps it will be said, as on a former occasion,
that this man was acting up to my wishes, although I had nevet
seen him before, and my wish was to find him as insensible as a
corpse in e\"ery respect. Or, which is equally probable, he merely
came to the hospital to mystify me, and is now laughing at me
with his friends,-those who know the analogous state produced
by the derangement of the brain caused by ether, will probably see
no reason wby this should not be done by mesmerism also.
GENERAL LOSS OF SENSIBILITY, AND PARTIAL
PAR.µYSIS.
Nooem/Jer25th, 1847.-Chunder Sen, a labourer, aged50, a native
of Patass, in zillah Midnapore, has been suffering for four month•
from weakness of the limbs up to the knees, and total loss of sensa-
tion all over his body, from head to foot. He does not feel the
slightest pain on his body being severely pricked all over with a
scalpel; he walks slowly and insecurelr., but requires no help at
the time. His bowels regular; appetite good, and he sleeps well
at night.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
30th.-He felt no change during the first four days, but slept
1ou11dly at the time of being mesmerised. When his body was
examined to-day he felt slight pain in his right breast only, and he
was found to walk a little better.
December 7t!a.-He walks much better, and feels pain in his legs
and hack when his body is pricked, but appean rather weaker on
account of being attacked with diarrhrea.
IOt!a.-The sensibility of his skin is restored except in the arms,
which appear to be as destitute of feeling as a piece of wood. He
walks more securely.
13th.-He walks and feels like any other man, and complains of
pain on any part of his body being pricked and pinched. He feels
much stronger and is gaining strength daily, and as he thinks
himself perfectly recoverP.d he was discharged to-day at. bis own
request.
Digitized by Google
84
ACUTE RHEUMATISM.
Novem/Jer 17th, 1847.-Shaik Fyzoolla, a klassee, aged 28, a
native of Hallishur, in zillah Chittagong, has been troubled with
acute rheumatiMm for two months. All the larger lil'ticulations
are exceedingly painful especially the wrists, anclcs and knees,
which are all much swollen and admit of very slight motion. He
can neither walk, stand, nor sit down without excessive pain, and
cannot turn in his bed without help; his nights are very bad.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
20th.-For the first three days the pain in the joints somewhat
increased, but he slept well at the time of being mesmerised, and a
few hours at night. To-day he felt a little better, and could walk
without help, but still limped aC. the time. The pain in the wrists
and knees slightly diminished, and he could move the former freely.
He sleeps well at night.
24th.-All the articulations are free from pain and swelling
except the ancles and knees.
Decem/Jer 4th.-He sleeps well at night; the knees and ancles
are less swollen, and are only painful on being sharply struck.
l lth.-He can walk, run and jump like any other man, and
feels no pain in any joint even when severely pressed and struck
by the hand. He says he can easily discharge his business as a
klaasee, aud has left the Hospital to-day.
MESMERIC COMA PASSING INTO CONSCIOUS TRANCE,
WITH LOSS OF VOLUNTARY POWER.
Decem/Jer 21at, 1847.-A native of Dacca, aged 25, has got a
small scrotal tnmor, which he is very desirous to get rid of, but I
dissuaded him from having the operation performed at present. He
said, that it was not its size that annoyed him, but the inflamma-
tion that attacked it ~veral times a month at the usual times of
fever, and he so earnestlyentreated me to relieve him that I consented.
I examined him for the first time to-day, after an hour's mesme-
rising, and found him to be indifferent to severe pricking from
head to foot, and to pinching of his nipple. I next called for fire,
and applied a piece of live charcoal to his hand ; a slight shiver
passed over his skin, but he did not move his hand, open his eyes,
cry out, or move a limb. I then put a f1·esh piece of coal on his
chest, which he struck oft' convulsively with the other hand, and
instantly relapsed into absolute repose. His mesmeriser was
ordered to desist, and I put some epsom salts upon his tongue,
which remained motionless, and apparently insensible. In about
Digitized by Google
ten minutes after this, he was demesmeristd, and awoke with con-
siderable difficulty, and immediately began to spit, saying that his
mouth felt salt and bitter. On questioning him, he said, that his
sltep had been broken by something burning his hand and then
his breast, but that nothing ha.d annoyed him before this; he also
knew that something was put into his mouth, but felt no taste till
after his eyes were rubbed, and blown into. When asked why he
did not open his eyes to see what burned him, or get up to avoid it,
he replied, that he tried to open his eyes and to move, but could
not, his whole body felt dead and powerless, and that he was only
able to move after bis eyes were rubbed.
I have already had occasion to remark that, like learning " a
little mesmerism is a dangerous thing," and the case now related
illustrates this. A spectator who had come only to detect imposture
and to regard all as such that did not jump with his notions, would
have been gratified to .the utmost by this clumsy affectation of in-
sensibility, and gone away fortified in his unbelief and self-com-
placency, and even an unprejudiced looker on for the first time, if
not similarly affected, would probably not have known what to
think of it. If I had seen nothing of the kind before, I should not
have been able to decide upon the reality of the scene without
more extended observation, although the fact th.at this was his
first day of mesmerising-that he had never seen a person in the
mesmeri<' state,-and that it was a transparent farce for the
man to sham insensibility after giving such striking signs of the
contrary, are presumptive proofs against the probability of this
being a scene conceived and executed on the spur of the moment.
But having seen a precisely similar case of coma passing into con~
scious trance with inability to move or speak, in the pel'tlon of a
lady, the wife of a clergyman here, I felt satisfied that the Ben-
galee.,s account of his feelings were as true as the lady's statement
made to her husband the moment she awoke from her trance.
For if the Bengalee was shamming, he must have been tutored by
Mrs. , she being the only person who has hithtrto
chosen this style of mystification ; it is too original to have been
hit upon by both independent of each other. The only difference
in their cases is, that the stimulus which restored them to inter-
nal consciousness, but not to the power of voluntary motion, was
in one instance addressed to the sense of feeling, and in the other
to that of hearing. The following case occurred at Chinsurah:
:Mrs.-----, an English lady, w,ished to be entranced, to
have a tooth taken out by the dentist, who was shortly expected
to arrive. I told her husband, that my labour would be in vain, if
she thought advantage was going to be taken of her sleep; fear
Digitized by Google
.. ....
86
and anxiety being quite deatromve to the production of coma;
and suggested that when the dentist arrived, I should then pro-
pose to make a preliminary experiment, telling her, that if it
succeeded she could then suit her convenience, and be entranced
at any time, to have the tooth taken out.
The dentist came, and his arrival being carefully concealed from
the lady, I proposed to test her rower of submisaion. At the end
of half an hour, ·her arms appeanng cataleptic, I desired her hus-
band to order the carriage, and go for the dentist. In a quarter
of an hour they arriv~, and I bent back the lady's bead, and
began to open her mouth without any attempt at resistance ; bu~
on the window being thrown open to give the dentist light, she
awoke with a sudden start, and said the dentist was present. She
thus described her feelings : she very eoon became unconscious,
after feeling a general sense of warmth and oppression on the
chest ; she felt me raise her arms, and leave them in the air with-
out the power to move them, but did not hear me desire her hus-
band to get the carriage ready. She heard the carriage wheels,
however, and then it flashed across her brain that her husband
had gone to bring the dentist, (although she firmly believed him to
be in Calcutta,) and this conviction, from that minute took com-
plete possession of her mind. She greatly wished to call back her
husband, or to get up and run, but she could not move tongue or
foot, and showed all the time the most perfect repose of body and
feature. She heard the carriage return, and knew it brought the
dreaded dentist; was 1mrf' it was he who was speaking to her
husband, and yet remained fixed to her seat, like a statue. In
this instance, the sense of hearing was the only means of commu-
nication with the outward world, but it excited a former train of
ideas ; and how accurately did fear and causality come to a right
conclusion, from the ear having transmitted a suspicious sound !
December 22d.-l intended to operate on this man to-day, but
he has receiv_ed the news of his mother's death, and says it is
imperath·e for him to perform her ahrad before he is operated on;
he was therefore allowed to leave the Hospital.
THE MIRACLES OF PARIS SUCCESSFULLY IMITATED
-A SORE COVERED WITH NITRIC ACID.
December 2ht.-Ramdoss, a man who was successfully operated
upon for a scrotal tumor on the first day of mesmerising, and who
had been discharged cured, returned to the Hospital a few days
ago with a foul aore, the size of a crown-piece, at the junction
of the scrotum and peniti, and I resolved to apply nitric acid to it,
if he could be deeply entranced. This wu the second time only
Digitized by Google
ff/
that he had been meemeriaed, and io half an hour he was aubdued:
the nitric acid wu applied t.o the margin of the aore only, to
teat hia t.oleration of it, and it might aa well have been warm milk,
for not a sign of feeling appeared in bia whole body, and when
be awoke, he said, that the pain waa leas thau before he went
t.o sleep.
22d.-I read to-day in the newspapers an account of the mira-
clu or •po11e1riona that have lately taken place among the nuns
and girls in different establishments in Paris. These consist in
nails, coins, &c. being found under the skin in different parts of
the body, without any wound appearing by which they could be
introduced, and the persons on whom these miracles have been
worked, declare themselves t.otally unconscious of the when, the
where, and the how they got sub-cuticular possession of the
different articles. The popular conclusion therefore ia, that the
Evil One baa been the operat.or.
Holy water and exorcisms are in great request, and the victims
of diabolic surgery are highly flattered at being singled out for
persecution and distinction above their fellows.
Similar exhibitions have taken place at various times and in
different countries, as in the case of the nuns of Loudon, to un·
bewitch whom, Urbaiu Grandier was burned at the stake; the
" conwlrionairea'' at the tomb of the Abbe Paris, who professed
perfect indifference to the most severe injuries, and invited the
lookers-on to do their worst; the extatic insensibility to pain exhi-
bited at modem religious Revivau, &c. All these singular and
frequently recurring anomalies have been generally easily explained
away, and summarily disposed of by the single word-fudge.
But I believe, that although many of these melancholy scenes
may have originated in villainy, or a diseased love of not.oriety,
the principal act.ors were often sincere, and real sufferers from an
unknown cause, and were actually callous to the tortures inflicted
upon them.
Thia condition of the nervous system is well known in the
history of medicine, in natural extasy, trance, and catalepsy, in
which all the organs ofthe tenses become torpid to ordinary stimuli
in consequence of an extravagant. excitement of the nervous
aystem in one direction ; and this natural derangement of nervous
equilibrium can be imitated, more or less, by various artificial
means.
Passionate addresses t.o the feelings ; violent excitement of the
pauions ; intense thought ; continued squinting, &c., and various
drugs, such as datura. hyoscyamus, oPium, hemp, ether, &c., all
prqduce symptoms closely resembling those of natural extasy,
Digitized by Google
88
trance, and catalepsy. But there i1 another natural agent which
much more perfectly imitates these natural derangements of the
system, and that is "'l_amerism, and if the recent miracles at Paris
have not been caused by a nervous epidemic excited among highly
susceptible subjects, I think that mesmerism is far more likely to
have been the agent used than ether, as was suspected. It occur-
red to me, that since the public cannot bl'! roused to a sense of the
practical utility and philosophic importance of mesmerism, it
would perhaps be bettei: to excite attention to the subject, by ad-
dressing the fears rather than the reason of the community, by
showing that mesmerism may not only have probably been the
means used to poaae88 the uuns und gids of Paris, but may also be
turned to more villainous purposes still, if the public ignorantly
persist in treating a power great for good or evil, according as it
is used or abutied, as a mere chimera or imposture.
The man whose case has been related above was an excellent
subject for the miracle-monger, and I determined to demonstrate
upon his person not only the reality of the Paris possessions, but
the possible honesty also of thl'! possessed persons: and if Mon.
Salverte, Sir Walter Scott, and Sir David Brewster had not despia-
ed or been ignorant of mesmerism, they would have thrown more
light on the history of the occult sciences, and on demonology, and
witchcraft than they have done.
In relating the following experiments made not to satisfy myself
but to startle the public into reflection, I hope not to be confound-
ed with viviaectora in general, for I knew that my experiments
would be painkaa and conclusive, while theirs are always cruel and
generally useless.
23d.-At 12 o'clock to-day, I found the patient entranced,
and having carefully introduced a long double edged knife under
the skin of the tbigh, I lodged a button at the extremity of the
canal with the aid of a probe, and skilfully closed the opening
afterwards. His left arm was, in u similar manner, enriched with
a small silver coin, and the lips of the wound brought together.
It is superfluous to say, that a man indifferent to the burning of
his raw flesh by nitric acid, was perfectly passive under these
small liberties taken with him. As the sore still continued foul,
I took thiR occasion to sponge the whole of it freely with undiluted
nitric acid : not a movement or symptom of life follo,ved, and I
left him, after half an hour, sleeping like a babe. Of all the
hellish torments that can be inflicted on a human being, this is
perhaps the worst.
24th.-He awoke an hour after the applications of the acid yes-
terday, and complained of no pain whatever.
Digitized by Google
89
25th•....:..The miracles \Vere completed to-day with laughable
success, in the presence of several gentlemen. In feeling his pulse,
a hardneBS was accidentally discovered in his fore-arm whe1·e the
coin was buried, and his attention was directed to it. The hard
substance was not felt in passing the hand along the limb, but by
pinching up the skin between one's finger and thumb, the coin
became well defined, and he was much puzzled at not having
detected 10 large a foreign substance before. It was suggested
that it must be a piece of wood that had entered his arm on some
occasion that he. had forgotten. He said, that it had perhaps got
there by striking his arm against the cot in his sleep, and that
he bad observed some marks of blood on his cloth several days ago.
I said that it might become troublesome, and ·it would be better
to cut it out, to which he replied, that I might do what I pleased,
as I had saved his life already. The skin over the coin was
accordingly cut, and while extracting it with a pair of fo1·ceps, I
exclaimed ; "This is very curious, it is not wood, but looks like
1ilver" ! and I presented it to him. He regarded the substance
with amazement and alarm, but as soon he recognised it, the
ruling passion of a Bengallee was strikingly exhibited ; and he
joyfully exclaimed, " It's a two anna piece !" Some one said that
there might be more, and he eagerly began to pinch his arm in
search of them. No more lumps were to be found in either arm,
however, and he was desired to search his legs : this he did, and
at last arrested his hand over the site of the button, which he said
felt a little painful. He was bid to pinch it up, and immediately
cried, "Yes ! here is another, cut it out !" The button was duly
cut down upon, and when laying hold of it I said, doubtingly ;
"this is strange, the thing is round, but it feels like bone." He
put out his hand to receive it, and cried in disgust, " It's I\ bone
button!" It was suggested that he must .have swallowed these
substances, but he said, " How could that be, as he had never
handled such coins or buttons." He was desired to inform me if
he discovered any more, and we left him pinching himself all over.
Although these miracles were commenced only two days ago, it
was only by the most minute attention that the breach in the
skin could be seen, and in 24 hours more it would not have been
detectable. Before the party separated, I said, that I hoped no
one present would suppose that I had been playing tricks merely
to amuse them, for, in my estimation, it was a very serious and
important exhibition, which I had only made in the hope of put-
ting the public on its guard against the abuse of this great power.
Many States have seen the necessity of prohibiting the exhibition
of ether to induce coma, except by the highest grades of the
medical profession, but the possible mischief that may be done to
N
Digitized by Google
90
.
11ociety by ether, i• triting in comparilon with the villainy that
may be perpetrated by the more aubtile power of mesmerism.
From the commencement, I have exposed the dangers aa well u
the advantage• of meamerism, and urged the public to take the
necessary step• for aelf-defence by only permitting it to be prac-
tised for medical purpo8e8 under the 1uperintendence of medical
men. Wilful ignorance is u certainly punished u wickedness, anti
when the evil comes unsuspected, like a thief in the night, it will
· be a satisfaction to me that no one can reproach me with having
been a " dumb dog."
ACUTE RHEUMATISM.
NOfJemlJer 26th.-Chunga Sing, a labourer, aged 30, residing at
Bura Bazar, in Calcutta, has been tom1ented with acute rheum&·
tism for 10 days. Most of the larger i.rticulations are consider-
ably swollen and painful, particularly the shoulders, right knee
and elbow, and the ankles, preventing his reat at night ; he does
not allow them to be touched, and cries out on being roughly
handled. He can scarcely put his feet to the ground, and limpe
much when he attempts to walk. His bowels regular, 11kin a
little above the natural heat and dry ; pulse quick and rather
atrong, tongue furred.
To be mesmerised for an hour and a half daily.
On the first day, a moqerate pel"lpiration broke out on his body
reducing the heat of the skin to nearly its natural standard, and
relieving his pain of the left. shoulder slightly. He alept pretty
well at the time of being mesmerised, and was roused on his left
shoulder being somewhat rudely handled.
December 8th.-The pain and swelling of the left shoulder and
ankle much diminished. He passes good nights, and aleeps pro.
foundly at the time of being mesmerised. The tongue is cleaner;
pulse of natural speed, and the temperature of the akin natural.
IOtA.-He walks much better, but limpt alightly at t.be time.
20tA.-He limps a little in walking, all the articulations are
free from pain, save the right shoulder and ankle, the latter is still
much swollen.
25th.-There is no pain in the right ahoulder, and but little in
the ankle when severely preued, the swelling baa nearly diup-
peared.
· 3lst.-He walks perfectly well, and can run and jump ~ly,
and considers himself entirely recovered ; he was therefore m.-
charged to.day.
Digitized by Google
91
PA&A.LYIJS.
December 1814.-Jhung Nathea, aged 10, states, that the night
before laat, he went to bed as usual in perfectly good health, but
found next morning hi• left arm 11p to the shoulder perfectly
pewerleaa. It hangs at bi& akte like a piece of wet rag, but now
and then qui""l'l J there le much pain at the elbow. His hand
remains always open, and he cannot close it.
To be metmerieed for an hour and a half daily.
2'Mr-He did ttot derive any benefit. on the first day, and did
ROt come on the 19th aa be went to the Mohorrum featinl.
On-the two subsequent days he slept a little at the time of being
mesmerised, could move and bend his arm 1lightly, and close
hi1 hand partially with difficulty, but could not grasp or lift up any
thing. To-day be had regained considerable command over his
ann, could bend it awd raise it up perpendicularly, ehut his hand
freely, and lift up moderate weights, as a Iota of water, but with
llOIRe difticalty.
3111.-He can now t11e his al'ftl freely like any other man,
.trike blows with hie uwal force, and lift up weights with facility
• he Uled to do; and aa he is perfectly recovered, he was
cliecharged to-day.
Many instances will be found recorded in these Reports, ill
which the moat severe operations might have been performed on .
the nrat day of me1D1eriaing, and the pouibility of doing this has
b~n 1ucces1fully ahewn. For various reasons, the operations
have not been performed 10 early in the Mesmeric Hospital as in
my former general hospitals, where I was much more free and
untrammeled in my proceedinga. For the convenience of the
official visitors and the public, I waa obliged to fix an hour for
operating, and it often happened that this was either too soon or
too late, the operation waa also sometimes unnecessarily deferred
for want of spectators, or from superftuous caution. Another
very great evil attending aurgical practice in a Show, Hospital is
the alarm and excitement created in the patients by the daily resort
or numeroua spectators to it. Many of my most promising cases
have been lost from this cause. One day I had three men all
ready at once, and only secured one of them ; the two others made
their escape, being alarmed at the crowd who came to see their
1teighbour cut up. On anf)ther day, me men were all ready, four
e the Ont day of Mesmerising, and I lost three of them from the
1llUH caute. But when mesmeric operations become the daily
routine in ~neral hospitals, all these vexatious and very disturbing
e>au8ell will disappear, ud pater j11&t.ice be done to the Smgeon
IUHl 'be 1ubject.
o;9;1;zedbyGoogle L -
92
In my "Mesmerism in India," published after eight months ob-
servation, I wrote as follows, regarding the proper time for opera-
ting, aud after two years and a half, I see nothing to alter in it.
" In my early operations, I availed myself of the first fit of
insensibility, not knowing whether I could command it back at
pleasure ; and when the coma is deep enough on the first occa-
sion, it is probably best for the patient that it should be taken
advantage of, as the fewer liberties we take with nature the better ;
the rule being never to do more than enough. But if the.trance ia
not profound the first time, the Surgeon may safely calculate on
its being so the next; and when operating in public, it is prudent
to take the precaution of a preliminary trance or two. I have
already said, that flexibility of the limbs, till moved, and their
remaining rigid in any position we leave them in, is characteristic
of the trance : but there are exceptions, and these are equally
diagnostic and to be depended upon. It some times happens that
the limbs become rigid as they lie, and, on bending them, they
are not passive and plastic, as in catalepsy, but the muscles always
tend towards a spasmodic extension of the limbs : and sometime&
the rigidity cannot be overcome at all,-at other times, there ia
complete relaxation of the whole muscular system, and the arms
and legs can be tossed about without resistance, like those of a
person just dead."
I have only to add, that in no instance have I seen any bad
effects follow the use of mesmerism in surgical operations, and if
they have been observed by others, we shall doubtless be told it.
(Signed} J. EsnAILB, M. D.,
Superintendent Mesmeric HolJ>ital.
Calcutta, Me•meric Hospital, the ht Jan. 1848.
(True Copy,)
Tc1 F. J. HALLIDAY, EsQ.
J. FORSYTH, Surgeon,
Secretary Medical Board.
Secretary to the Government ofBengal.
S1R,
The year of trial allowed for the Mesmeric Hoepital
having expired, I have the honor to.transmit you. a final ~port !>n
the subject of my late labours, which I hope will not be unaatia-
factory to the Government.
The great samenesa among the surgical cases has been a source
of disappointment to me as well as to others, for it has given rise
Digitized by Google
.. ..
Ml prt1etice in the boaphal1 of Beagal. That it ii not ...-."°*
ao, ie admitted, but thia waa nenr Yid er expected of it by ita
advocatea, at least. On an average, I have performed an operation
once a week with the aid of meameriam, ever aince 1 took up the
aubject, t¥To yean and a half ago, and in a large enough field, it
might be a daily occurrence. The operations required to be per-
formed, were also the very beet teat& of insensibility that could be
desired ; for I know no more 1&.vage and painful operation• than
the dialsecting out of the most aenaitive organs of the human body
from the centre of the mus in which they are bwied in these
scrotal tumora. In proof of the . applicability of meameriem for
general surgical practice, it is only nece88ary to refer to my notes
of cMes treated in the Government General Hoapitals, in which
all the usual pain and diaturbance arising from severe accidents
and dangerou1 diwaae often existed.
In a cue of compound fracture of the leg, ending in mortifica-
tion, amp'1tation of the thigh was performed after two hourt
mesmerising.
In another case of mortification of the leg from the foot having
been burned oft', amputation of the thigh was performed withiu
a give• time, 24 houn.
A woman suft'ering from disease of the ankle joint was subdued
on the firat, and the leg amputated on the third day.
An arm was amputated for open fungus hematodea at the elbow
joiut, after one hour's mesmeriaing.
Two open cancers were removed ; one on the first, and the
other oo the fourth day, of mesmerising•
.A prodifioua aclrtboua and inftamed testis, complicated with
.eretal beraia, which could not be returned on account of the
pain, wu removed after two boun meameriaing; the g11t bavinJ
i.een 6nt returoed without pain.
---
A prolapses ani in an adult, the 1ize of a child's head, which
W beea down for three daye, and could not by any means be re-
duced, waa returned with ease without the patient's kno.wle.,
after three hours mesmerising. '
A large ulcerated painful tumour in the groin was removed on
the 6rtt day of meameriaing.
Digitized by Google
96
reporters. Thia proposal was not acted upon, and the medical
cases related in my reportR must be judged by their own merits,
for there is not a medical visitor (with the exception of Dr. Mouat
perhaps) who has had the opportunity of watching a single case
throughout its progress. They have therefore, with one excep-
tion, abstained from giving any opinion at all on the medical
cases treated by mesmerism. Dr. Stewart is the only visitor
who has spoken with confidence on both the Rurgical and
medical branches of the subject, and in justice to the Govern-
ment which has so liberally supported this course of experiment,
to the public concerned in the result, and the subject under
investigation, I feel myself reluctantly called upon to examine
the grounds and value of his opinions. When Dr. Stewart
sent in his report, he knew that it was to be printed for public
information, and as a document so deliberately prepared must
carry with it an air of authority, it is necessary for those who
have had no opportunities of judging for themselves, .to know
whether the reporter has availed himself of his presumed advan-
tages of observation, and if his opinions are entitled to public
confidence from his long and patient examination of the subject
committed to his care.
In the 2d faragraph of his letter, Dr. Stewart says; "the opera-
tions which there witnessed, {in the Mesmeric Hospital, viz.)
were all of the same description as those which I had seen per-
formed before the ' Mesmeric Committee,' cases of elephantiaaU
1croti. They were all more or le111 successful, the patients evincing
no sign of pain during the operation, and denying all knowledge
of it afterwards." Unfortunately, the value of this \'ery ample
and favourable testimony is somewhat le11eoed by the fact, that
Dr. Stewart has not witnessed a single operation io my hospital
since it was opened, a year ago.
In the 3d paragraph it is said ; " of the medical cases, however,
I cannot speak so favourably. My impression certainly is, that
Dr. Esdaile greatly deceives himself in the amount of good effected
in these cases by Mesmerism." I beg leave to observe upon this,
that I had only the pleasure of seeing Dr. Stewart for a few
minutes, three or four times, during the half year included in his
first report, and if we are to be favoured with a second, I may
here mention that he has not entered my hospital for the last eight
.months. I presume that this was not the kind of " inspection of
my proceedings" contemplated when Dr. Stewart was named one of
the official visitors of my hospital, on whose report11 "the further
·proceedings of Government would mainly d~pend," as expressed
1n your letter addressed to the President of the Mesmeric Com-
mittee, dated 4th November, 1846.
Digitized by Google
- lrajltmatd tutn. Siddeaur Ghose bu been suft'ering lbr tbree
days from acute inflammation.of both testes, which are extremely
tender to the touch, and he is doubled up in walking. He wu
kept in the trance, with abort intervals of waking, for thirty-six
Jtours, and was then ditcharged cured.
lnjlamtd eye1. Nazir Mahomed baa been suffering from inftam-
ination of the eyes for four dayw ; the conjunctiva is deeply inject-
~d; there it constant lachrymation, pain over hatr the head, and he
cannot distinguish objects. He waA easily thrown into the trance,
three days in succession, and was then discharged cured.
Convulaiona. I was called to see a Hindoo lady, I found her in
dreadful convulsions, and all I knew of the resources of medicine
were useless, I therefore mesmerised her, and in an hour left her
aaleep and cataltptic, and the convulsions did not retum.
1ic doloureuz. Huro, a Hindoo woman, aged 28, she bas suf-
fered for three years from tic in the right eyebrow and temple ; it
i1 very intense now : she was entranced, and when she awoke an
hour after, there was no pain in the part, and it did not return.
4fter-paw. I wu called to see Mn. au hour after
her confinement, she wu auft'ering 1everely from after-pains, I
eoon put her to sleep, and when she awoke the pain bad gone and
never returned.
Acute RMumatilm. Mrs. - - has been suft'eriog for ten days
from a stift' neck and arm, and is in great pain. At the end of
twenty minutea meameri.ting, she could move her neck freely; all
pain left her, and it never returned•
.ActlU RAturnatina. Mr.- baa been troubled for three weeka
with severe rheumatism in his left knee; it is contracted, swelled,
ahiniug, and hot, and so tender that he dreada his children approach-
ing him, leat they touch his knee by accident. He cannot aleep,
has no appetite, and looks worn out and languid. I mesmerised b.ia
knee for a short time, and it gradually became straight. In twenty
minutes he allowed me to preH and strike his knee with violence,
without complaining, and then got up and walked without pain,
but there is thickeqing of the joint and stift"ne88. He had a crutch
by his side when I came in, and could not move without it.
Nf!W'algic. D. Canvan, aprivate_in Her Maieaty's50th Regiment.
He complains of gTeat patn all over the cheat, which feela con-
tracted, and he cannot breathe freely. The right knee-joiat ia
contracted; and the ankle and toes are immovable ; there is great
tenderness in the calf of the leg, and he cannot put his foot to the
ground. Without saying a word, or leading him to expect any thing
I began to mesmerise him. In a abort time he brea~ed more
Digitized by Google
99
freely, the pain left the cheat, and hia relpiration beeame natural.
The process wu extended to the leg, and without my touching it, the
knee gradually relaxed,-the ankle and toea became flexible, ancl
at the end of half an hour the leg waa perfectly etraight, and he
moved it freely in all directions without pain.
Painful Stump. G. Adamson, a private in H. M. 53rd Regi-
ment, has had his arm taken ofF at the shoulder, and it aches
severely. The Apothecary without speaking to me put him to
sleep. He told me next day, that h~ had tried all he could to keep
awake to watch the effect upon himself, but he very soon fell
asleep, and had a good night.
More examples of the immediate relief or cure of acute medical
diseases might be given, but enough has been said, if my statements
are received as facts, and if not, it is useleH to multiply them. If
the acute diseases, both surgical lllld medical, which have been
related, derived such striking and immediate benefit from the
mesmeric process, is it concdvable that the same persons would
have been insensible to the same agent in the treatment of chronic
diseases in which it waa resorted to, and that so active an agent
in acut.e disease, would have been inert u a chronic remedy ?
On the contrary, 1 am convinced that those susceptible patient.a
(all are not so unfortunately) would derive the greate1t comfort
and benefit from the mesmeric treatment of IDOlt of the painful
chronic at1ectiona to which they may be subject.
The persons susceptible of the m~smeric inftuence, and to whom
it is a valuable remedy, are very numerous, and this natural agent
often enables us to relieve or cure our patients when all other
resources are useless. It is therefore a valuable addition to our
medical knowledge, and those who reject its aid, dt'prive them-
aelves of a potent ally, and their patients of a valuable additional
IOW'Ce of health and coanfort.
No public act o, His Honor the Deputy Governor of Bengal
has met with more general approbation than his establishment of
an experimental Mesmeric Hospital, and it is to be hoped that the
Government will still encourage the study of the subject, and
secure to the public the advantages already derived from this new
curative power. These have hitherto been comparatively trifling,
but are capable of being infinitely extended by the introduction of
mesmerism into the general hospitals of the country. All that baa
been done in my hospitals might just as easily be enacted in every
hospital in India, and in a country where labour is so cheap, a few
Mesmerisers attached to each hospital would cost leu than the
price of the physic that would be saved.
Digitized by Google
...........
100
But the medical department of meameriam ia only: a fractional .
part of its interest to retlecting minds, for it ia replete with in-
atruction to the phr,siologist, the metaphyaician, and natural
philosopher, and it wdl soon be 88 absurd for writera on physics or
metaphysics to leave out of account the mesmeric phreoomena, aa
it would be at present to omit all mention of the circulation of the
blood in a description of the human body. It is surely not much
longer possible for the medical men and natural philOt10phen of
England to pride themselves on their ignorance of the existence of
a great natural power, which throws a new light in tlle nature of
man, disclosing his secret relations and sympathies with aurround-
ing nature, and exceeding in interest all the drugs of the Pharma-
copreia from its being an inherent power of the human system.
To show that Mesmerisers can be made 88 f1&1t 88 they are
wanted, it ia only necessary to say that all the nine paued students
of the Medical College who were ordered to attend my hospital
for two months to learn practical mesmerism, got their certificates
of proficiency in a month or six weeks ; St"ven of them having suc-
ceeded in producing the mesmeric trance in their patients, and
they have promised to carry their new knowledge into practice.
I hope that what has been done will not altogether disappoint
the expectation• of the Government, and that the imperfections in
the execution of my undertaking will be viewed with some indul-
gence, 88 few men ever undertook a more difficult and trying wk.
If I have been of auistance in establishing a valuable truth, I do
not grudge the sacrifices that it haa coat me.
I have tht" honor to be,
Sir,
Your most obedient Servant,
JAM&& EsDAIL&, M. D.,
S"f'I. Mumme HoapUal.
Calcutta, Mei. Hoapital, IM 3bt Dec., 1847. .
The five hundred rupees preflented to me by His Highness the
Nawab of Moorshedabad, in February laat, for the use of the hos-
pital, have been expended in hiring somt" additional Mesmerisers,
and in amall sums given to poor patients to carry them home.
Digitized by Google
102
circumstances attending this disease. It will be seen from my
reports, that with few exceptions, the patients suffered from severe
periodic attacks of fever coming on once or twice a month, and
sometimes once a week, and as a necessary cooaequence, the
restorative process was at these times arrested, or the sores took
on a sloughmg action, and it baa been observed that this tendency
to periodic disease was generally not overcome for two months.
When this did not exist, the cures were rapid, and the most
formidable wounds filled up in about six weeks.
Our mortality, considering the dangerous nature of the opera-
tions, was for a long time very low in the cases of scrotal tumors.
The operations performed for this disease now amount to 71, the
deaths to five.
A man with a tumor of IOOlbs., recovered perfectly, and was
about to leave the hospital at the end of six weeks, when he was
aeized with fever and diarrhooa, and carried oft'.
In the second the testes aloughed from the same cause, and he
died after a aecond mesmeric operation for their removal.
The third patient was doing well, but died of cholera.
The fo\lrth of tetanus.
And the fifth of fever and diarrhooa.
We had only two deaths till after the 60th operation, and the
three last fatal cases occurred at the worst time of the ye-ar for
weak constitutions, the commencement of the cold weather.
Appended is a retum of all the surgical and medical cases,
:which have been treated by mesmerism exclusively. The average
time of treatment can only be given in the Mesmeric Hospital, as
I have not the records of my former hospitals.
I have, &c.,
(Signed) J. EsnAILE, M. D.,
S~t Meameric Holpitol.
Digitized by Google
100
No. 'irl 01' 1847-1848.
FROM THE MEDICAL BOARD,
To THE HoN'BLB Sia T. H. MAnnoc1t, KT.,
Dqnay Gouenwr of Bmgal.
FORT WILLIAM, 27th Decembw, 1847.
HoN'BLE Sia,
We have the honor to submit herewith a letter, bearing
date 31st instant, received 24th current, from Dr. Esdaile, Su-
perintendent of the Mesmeric Ho11pital, which bu reference to
Mr. Grey'a letter, No. 2,443 of the 17th ultimo, directing ua to
call on Dr. Esdaile for a Return of the number of cases which
were not admitted to the l~stitution under hie care in consequence
of their being unfitted for treatment on the principles pursued
there, in order that by comparing it with similar Returns from the
other public Medical Institutions at the Presidency, an estimate
might be formed of the comparative success of treatment by Mes-
meric Agency, and by ordinary profeuional practice.
2. Dr. Esdaile states that he finds it impossible to supply a
statement of the kind required, and gives in his letter his reasons
at length for not having preserved any such record.
3. Two Returns are also annexed to his letter, exhibiting, one,
the entirenumber of surgical opt'!rationa performed from November
1846 to January 1848, the other the number of Medical Cases
treated from December 1846 to January 1848. .
We have the honor tic» be,
Hon'ble Sir,
Your Honor's most obedient,
and very bumble Se"antfl,
HY. F. Houoe, Phgftcian Gmual.
G. LAxe, Inapector Genl. ofHo.pital1.
Fort William, Medical Board O.ffice,
27th Dec., 1847.
Digitized by Google
104
Return of SKrgical Operatiou perforMed i" tlu Cakwtta Memerie
Hoapital, fr~ N6"nc6er 1846 to Id Jarauary 1848.
Di enses.
.Amputation of l
great toe,...... 5
" ofl
breut, ••••••• S
Cartilaginous ~
tumors of both
ears removed,.
Lithotomy, ........
Scirrhous testes l
removed, •••.•• 5
Sloaghing testes ?
removed, ...... S
Scrotal tamors t
removed, •••••• 5
2
46
Total,......... 63
Ca&a formerlg
reported.
Absces es opened,
Actual cautery l
~f~.i~..~....~5
A le.rge sore ~
covered with
muriatic Mlid,...
Carried over,.. .
5
3
62
2
0
33
5
3
i6 0 0
461 0 0
15 0 0
60 0 0
I
70 0 0
0 0 0
87 6 38
olo 0
0 I
0 0 0
5
This was a boy who had bis toe
crushed by o. boat, and was In
0 l great pain, but be was deeply
entranced the lat day, and wu
operaled on the 2d.
O It weighed 7tbs.
0 other 5 oz. The woman wu
~
One tumor weighed 1 lb., the
ready the first day, and was
operated on the 2d.
~
This man was in great paia, and
0 was entranced the lst day ; be
had hardly slept for o. year.
0 an very painful, the man was
?
The /arts were highly inllamed
ready the lst day, and operated
on the 2d.
The man was operated on for a
lscrotal tumor, fever came an
and caused sloughing of th
O testes. He was again entranced
in IO minutes, and the te res
were removed, but he died a few
days after.
~
Of all sizes from a few l:b • to
8 IOOtbs. one on the 1st day
several on the 2d.
0
0
0
Digitized by Google
... ...
)~
.A Retvm ofMdical Ctuta trtJattJd i11 tlu Calcwtta Muamc Hoapital,
from Dttmtht!r 1846 to l.t January, 1848.
Discharged.
,
U.: ...
DISB48E8.
u..i RKKABX&
~§j
l t'' !il
.: ::I .ft
j ] Ql 1 ! Ql1!
8 ...i::
&! ~-i:: ..
< ..
Ce
This girl was dreadfully disfigured,
the enlargedglands /.'.reventingmotion
to that side altoget er. All medical
rvicalglands en- i treatment bad been useless. The
larged,•••••••••••.
I ... ...... 1 37 swelling was reduced two-thirds in 5
weeks, when she foolishly gn.ve up
coming to the Hospital The cure
was at _least happily commenced by
mesmerism.
)o' This girl had for a great many
years been subject to inflammation of
the glands behind both ears, regularly
twice a year, and was never relieved
m..lgbond•~-i
without suppuration of first one ear,
larged and pain- and then the other. Leeches had been
ful with dimness I l 2 ... ...... as regularly applied, and her sight
of sight, ........ had become very indistinct in conse-
quence.
Ce
The J.>aiD and enlarment disap-
~eared m 2 days, an a few more
ays mesmerising quite restored her
sight.
Time must determine whether this
p;:;:: •••~~~•••~~l I 90
lady is cured of her fits. But they
I ... ...... have been sudYended for nearly a year,
and her con Lion much improved by
being enabled to leave off narcotics.
I received this man from the Luna-
E
ltio A•yfo~ Aft" -h fi• ho lwl
pi!epk and insa-}
always become insane and violent for
nity or 2 years, 1 ••. ...... I 16 8 or lO days. Ile had several fits in
my liospital, but n~ver was insane, or
ill after them. He made bis escape
after 16 days, unluckily.
pilepsy for 6 years, I .. ...... I 36
~ This man's fits were suspended, and
he insisted on going home.
I The fits have fe;adually become
Imore irregular and ess severe. After
each attack the left arm was always
pilepsy for 9 years, ~ exquisitely painful, e.nd paral~ ed
I .. . ...... I 180 for several days. This has not ap-
lpened fatcly, and he escaped the
monthly attack altogether le.st time,
his ce.se is very promising.
E
E
E
-
Carried oYBr,••• 6
Digitized by Google
' Mont'My &giatn- of Patienta trtattd at tu CalC'Utta MeMMric Hoapital, for t!&t Monti& of Dtcnnhtr, 1847.
Calcutta, Muw:ric H06pital, lat Jcunmry, 1848.
Date of
admission.
i !Iii
1
..
~~
Names. C'Aat. Prof888ion. Di-. Cured. Died. ·=
!
·;s
g, JI
!
~ A '< ~
1847.,
May. 24, Buddunchunder Chowdry, •• 50 I Hin. ••• 1Writer,......... , H~rtrophied Scrotum, SOtb,
June 130, Chundee Chum Mook, .••••• 29 Bra. ... ......... ......... Ep' epsy, ..............."" ....
Aug. 20, Prankisto Some, ............... 27 Hin. •••.Shop-keeper,. Hniertrophied Scrotum,
SOtb, 1··· 1 ......
I
------
I::: I -
Sept. 6, Dabee Ghoee, .••• • •........ 25 IHin. .. Gowalla, •••.•• Ditto, ..................... 15th, ••• ...... ...... -
,. 21, Sk. Gopal, ..................... 45 M. •••••• Tailor,......... Ditto, ..................... 25th, ..• ..... ...... ~
" 127. PrankiSto, ••••••••••••••••••••• 35 Hin.••. Washerman, •• Ditto. ••••••.••••.••••••••• 20th,
Oct. 28, Hurry Dosa, .................. 35 Hin.••. Labourer,...... Ditto, •....•••.•••••••••...
Nov. , 8, Gope Doss, •••••••••............ 30 Hin•••. Sirdar Bearer, Ditto, ...•.••••.....•••••••
17, Fuzle Ali, ..................... 28 M....... Cl11.S1ee, Rheumatism, ............ 12th,
20, Hurrochunder Chowdry, ... 36 Hin.... Moherer, •••••• Hypertrophied Scrotum,
0
" 125,
Chuuder Seu, ......_......... 52 Hin.... Baruee,......... P8ralysis, .................. 14th,
<g: .. 26, Chunga Sing, ................. 30 Hin. ... Durwan, ...... Rheumatism, ............ Slat,
N
" 29, Gooroochurn Sen. (a) •••••. 40 Hin••• Sirkar, ......... HlrurtroJlhied Scrotum, I I 10th
<1l ......
120Ui'
Q.
.. 29, Bolaqee, ........................ 35 Hin. ... Shop-keeper,.. R eumatillm, ............
CT" ......
"<
Dec. l, Kal!LeChum, .................. f5 Hin. ... Labourer,...... Ditto, 25th
C")
..................... ......
" l, Ack rally, ......•...•.•••••••• 30 M....... C1asaee, •••••• Paralysis, .•••............. , ...... 16th
0 ,,. 2, Kartick, ••...••••..•••••·-.•. 40 Hin. ••• Labourer,.••••• Hniertrophied Scrotum,
0 "
3, Luckynarain Dey, ............ 27 Hin•.•• Pedlar,••••••••• Dit.to, .....................
00 "
4, KllleDatb Ghoee, ............
'° Bin. •.• Herdman, ••••
Ditto, ••••••··••·····••••••
,..._
(V
(a) Fl& &o be operMed on, but. obliged &o i..,. the BOlplcal on urgent. atraln.
ii
to any thing the doctor thought proper. The apparatus for inhal-
ing was accordingly being prepared for use, when he was stated
"to have begged off for that day." The form of apparatus intend-
ed to be employed by Dr. Esdaile is clumsy and imperfect in con-
struction, and well calculated to secure an unfavorable result. It
has been ascertained in Europe that faulty construction, and an
imperfect knowledge of the right method of causing the vapour
of ether to be inhaled, are among the most frequent causes of its
failure; the chief of which, however, is impurity of the agent itsel£
mecUoal Ward The same cases as before, with the excep-
• tion of the epileptic patient, who, having been
threatened with a fit, had been previously mesmerised and was
absent.
The tetanic case appears to have improved, the two rheumatic.
patients to be in statu quo.
Friday, 25th June.-Lectured from 11-12, and theref'ore unable
to attend.
Sa.rpoal Ward. Saturday, June 26th.-1n the surgical ward
was an European,who appeared to have suffer-
ed for some time from severe rheumatism in the right leg, which
he said had derived no benefit from a persevering course of treat-
ment by Dr. Vos. When he first entered the mesmeric ward, the
leg was so painful that be could not bear it to be touched: now,
after six days abstinence from drugs and subjection to mesmerism,
he was nearly free from pain, and could allow the limb to be hand-
led without suffering.
He had previously suffered from a similar attack in which he
could not bend the knee, and which had been cured by Dr. Vos.
Only one of the natives with hypertrophied scrotum was being
mesmerised, the two others having had febrile attacks, which are
said to contra-indicate the employment of this means of producing
iusensiblity.
The solitary patient mentioned, appeared to have become more
deeply affected, and did not awake upon plucking hairs from his
chest and arms. I made a sustained traction upon the little finger
of the left hand, when he immediately awoke. Upon being ques-
tioned as to whether any thing had disturbed him, he said no, and in
reply to a query as to what awoke him, answered "a noise."
The Portugueze (Mr. Jolly) is said to be strongly opposed to the
nse of ether, having been dissuaded from its employment by his wife.
He exhibits no advance.
mecUoal Want. The same cases as before, and apparently
in the same state.
Digitized by Google
iii
The tetanic patfont was absent walking about, the epileptic
being mesmerised. I did not enter the convalescent ward.
Surgloal Ward. ~~y, June 28th.-The same Native
patient m attendance, and the two others
absent from fever. He was readily awoke, and seemed to be less
affected than before. Mr. Jolly was suffering from a slight attack
of fever, which he states returns at every change of moon. He was
wide awake.
me41oal Ward. The tetanic patient is said to be better, and
to be able to extend hia right leg more than
he could before.
The wound on his head is in a very bad state, pale, unhealthy,
extending beneath the scalp, and accompanied with a fetid dis--
charge. The periosteum appears to me to be separated, and the
bone to be severely injured. It was laid open by free incisions.
The rheumatic patient declares the pains in the upper part of
hia body to be diminished, those in the lower half to be as before.
Dr. Esdaile was engaged in applying local mesmerism to the wrist
\vhen I was obliged to leave. I could not wait for the examination
of the case of epilepsy and that of the woman with rheumatic
pains and pricking sensations in her legs and feet.
Surpoal war4. Tue1day, June 29th.-Two of the Native
cases of scrotal tumor under the hands of
the Mesmerisers. From the noise connected with the .administra-
tion of ether to another patient, named Rujub, they awoke without
any examination, being, in fact, but little affected. The European
suffering from rheumatism was present, and said he was exactly as
when I saw him last.
Rujub a patient who had previously resisted both ether and
mesmerism, and had failed to be affected by either, returned to the
Hospital
Some pure ether, prepared by Mr. Robertson, was given to him
to inhale, but produced such violent coughing and irritation as to
prevent its introduction into his lungs. The apparatus was clumsy
and ill contrived, and the gradual inhalation from greatly diluted
to pure ethereal vapour was not practised. The individual appear-
ed to have recently taken a full meal, and to have an extremely
irritable epiglottis.
He was thrown into the state of trance by Dr. Esdaile, and ex-
hibited the usual phc:enomena of partial catalepsy, but retained
power over some voluntary muscles, and managed when placed out
of equilibrium, to steady himself so as to prt:Vtmt his falling, which
Digitized by Google
v
ed immediately to relapse into his former state of passive indiffer-
ence and repose.
Dr. Esdaile comlidered him to be quite unconscious and regard-
ed the movements as automatic. I cannot coincide in this opinion,
and deem him both to have suffered pain and to have been consci-
ous of it, as exhibited by his movements, the expression of his
countenance, and ultimately his groans and cries.
I did not wait to see him awoke.
The man Rajub, mentioned in my note of the 29th June,
appeared to be deeply entranced, and resisted the pulling out of
hairs and pricking with the point of a scalpel. He was unable,
however, to withstand the repeated shocks of an electro-magnet
set in action by two tolerably large cells. The shocks were
powerful and rapid.
Sargtoal Ward.
Saturday, July 3d, 1847.-Tbe man ope-
rated 011 is doing well. Rajub and the other
surgical patients awoke up easily.
medical Ward. In the medical ward, in add!tion ~ the old
cases, there was one of hem1cra01a, one of
paralysis, and one of epilepsy. It was impossible to judge of the
progress made in cases so obscurer The old cases appeared to be
exactly in the same state as when I last saw them.
&urgtoal ward. Tue1da.11, July 6th.-;--One new patient in
the surgical ward \Vlth a very large scrotal
tumor. He appeared to be considerably under the influence of
mesmerism although it was his first day, and bore plucking of
hairs as well as handling of the diseased part to some extent,
before he awoke.
The other cases appear to be in the same state as before.
medloal Ward The same cases in the medical ward, and
• apparently in the same degree of advance-
ment.
The man with tetanus looks better. He was originally actirely
treated by Dr. Esdaile fora severe attack of rheumatic fever, with-
out effect, by ordinary means, but on account of the excruciating
suffering produced by mcwement of any kind declined takiug
purgatives. Upon the failure of the attempt to cure him he went
to his own home, whence after an interval of a few days he made
bis appearance at the Mesmeric Hospital, suffering from a severe
attack of idiopathic tetanus.
He was purged freely and then mesmerized, the remainder of
the treatment being exclusively mesmeric.
Digitized by Google
vi
Sargtoal warct. Thuraday, July 8th, 1847.-In the surgical
ward was one new scrotal case, which ap-
peared considerably affected from one day's mt'.amerizing. He
bore pricking, plucking of hairs, &c. tolerably well, and wheu his
eyes were opened was supposed to be unconscious, notwithstand-
ing his having changed their axes and directed them towards Dr.
Esdaile.
The other patients were absent, with the exception of Rajub
who was easily awoke.
A man with a large tumor attempted to inhale the ether, but
failed from the irritation which it excited.
medloal war4. The sam': cases as before, with t~o new
nervous patients. I could not perceive any
change in them, and their own statements are too loose and inexact
to be worthy of much consideration.
Saturday, July 10th, 1847.-0ne new scrotal case in the surgical
ward, but little affected and easily awoke. 1'he other cases pre-
sented no new features requiring record.
In the medical ward appeared to be the same cases, some a little
improved, others as they were before.
Monday, July 12th, 1847.-ln the surgical ward was a new case
of diseased testicles, which had been mesmerized for the second
time. There was a deep excavated ulcer on the left side of the
scrotum, the other testicle was enlarged and hardened, and the
man much emaciated and reduced. His arms were cataleptic and
he exhibited no sign of sensibility on pricking, &c. Immediately
the operation commenced, his countenance became agitated and he
moaned throughout. The right arm lay still, but the left, which
I held in my hand, was rigid and moved about with rapidity, in
the manner of a person wringing the hands. The pulse became
low towards the end of the operation, but soon rallied on the
vessels being tied. After the operation, the man was quiet and
tranquil. I did not wait to see him awoke.
One other patient appeared sufficiently insensible to be operated
on, but it was deferred.
In the medical ward the patients appear to be improving.
Tueaday, 13th July, 1847.-There were three patients in the sur-
gical ward. One ne\V one, a lad with a fungoid disease of the
great toe who slept well, and permitted the diseased part to be
examined without waking, although mesmerized for the first time.
A man namedMootee Oollah, whoseoperationwaspostponed from
yesterday, was examined. Hie pul.ee and respiration varied more
Digitized by Google
nii
!t/onday, July 19tla, 1847.-A man·with a small scrotal tumor
which had ulcerated and who had been subjected to mesmerism
only tw.ice previously, was operated on. He was apparently a
tolerably healthy, middle aged individual. During the preliminary
examination the pulse and respiration were accelerated, and the
brows of the individual became strongly corrugated, but he exhi-
bited no more direct and tangible signs of sensibility. The dis-
section was a tedious and evidently painful one, which was borne
without any flinching until towards the end, when the man became
restless, moved his arms, and took one leg from the chair upon
which it was placed, but immediately himself replaced it. He also
moaned, and the muscles of hie neck and face were violently
convulsed.
I was compelled to leave before the ve11ele were taken up, and
aaw no other cases.
7'ueaday, July 20th, 1847•....'...In the aurgical ward three patients
were under the hands of the mesmerizers, all of them scrotal cases.
Two awoke readily, the third resisted the two-celled electro-
magnetic apparatus and pricking with a knife, as well as rough
handling of the disease. The tumor was of about two pounda
weight, and the penis only partially involved.
The man moved once or twice during the operation and exhibited
aigns of suffering in the countenance. He did not awake how-
ever, and subsequently a hydrocele was opened and the diseased
tunica vaginalis of the left testis carefully dissected oft' without
bis moving a muscle.
medloal want. The medical patients are the same as
before : they had been mesmerised and dis-
persed before the operation was concluded.
The convalescent surgical patients appeared to be doing well.
Wednuday, Thuraday and Friday, July 2lat, 22d and 23d.-En-
gaged on public duty and unable to attend.
Saturday, July 24th, 1847.-Three casea of diseaae of the
acrotum undergoing mesmeric manipulation. One man with a
very small tumor was operated on, after having been in hospital
three days. The dissecting out of the testicles was tedious, and
he did not exhibit any external sign of sensibility or suffering
from beginning to end. The pulse and heart's &ction were
accelerated at the commencement of the operation, and the
breathing became abdominal as well as much increased in frequency.
All were restored to their natural standard upon the termination
of the operation, which lasted from four to five minutes.
Digitized by Google
ix
· ·The other man bad only been once mesmerized, and suffered
throughout the operation. He was brought so far under the
inftuence of mesmerism, that one more trial would probably have
rendered him completely insensible.
Monday, July 26th, 1847.-Nothing new, the old patients gene-
rally getting on well.
Friday, July 30th.-Nothing new to record.
(Signed) F. J. MouAT, M. D.,
77ae 3d Augrut, 1847.
Vintor, Menneric Hogpital.
(True Copies,)
J. FoaSYTR, Surgeoa,
Secretary Medical Board.
lteport tor aurutt.
Monday, .AugtUI 2d.-All the patients in the convalescent ward
doing well. ·
Four cases of the usual tumor under preparation : not much
affected yet.
In the medical ward were-a case of neuralgia of the back and
breast in an old woman, who said she had already derh·ed consider-
able relief, a case of rheumatism much as before, a case of
epilepsy, and one of double vision as well as of neuralgic pains in
various parts of the body ; the latter has been long under treat-
ment with decided benefit according to his own statement.
Wedneaday, 4/h.-Three cases of the usual tumor under treat-
ment; all refractory as yet. A new case presented itself of ap-
parently a semi-idiotic individual with double hydrocele, a small
enlargement of the scrotum, and a general tetanic affection of the
trunk. There was an open wound on each knee, bot the indivi-
dual was unable to give any connected account of himself.
The case was pronounced to be unsuited for mesmerism and
directed to be dismissed. I requested that it might be sent to
the Medical College Hospital.
I cannot understand why, if mesmerism possessea the power o(
relieving tetanic apasm and producing insensibility when they
exist separately in ditferent persons, it should not be exerted
where .the two are combined in one system. Dr. Esdaile has not
recorded in his published report, nor has he entered in his Hospital
Journals ao far as I can ascertain, the number and nature of the
c
Digitized by Google
cases which he is in the habit of dismiaaing aa unfit for mesmeric
treatment. To establish a fair and just comparison between the
relative and absolute value of different plans of treatment, all
these matters should be candidly stated and fairly recorded.
There are many cases for which medicine and surgery, as ordi-
narily practised, can do nothing. If mesmerism can relieve or
cure these, it is clearly a most valuable and useful therapeutical
agent; if, on the contrary, mesmerism is incapable of accom-
plishing any thing that cannot as speedily and as permanently
be·effected by ordinary means, the advantage gained by the intro-
duction of a new agent, the nature of which is utterly unknown,
and its results apparently as various in degree as the subjects upon
whom it is exercised, is more than problematical.
Few diseases exist without complications of one kind or other;
and if these interfere with, render inert, or positively interdict
the use of mesmerism, the sphere of utility of this agent will be
found to be extremely limited.
. There were no medical cases present, and I was informed that
all had been dismissed for the day.
Saturday, 7tli.-Visited the Hospital, but arrived too late to
witness the removal of a scrotal tumor which had been accom-
plished. The patient had not awoke, and was lying, when I saw
him, in a deep tranquil sleep, apparently undisturbed by dreams
and unaccompanied by movements of any kind. A case of diseased
testicle and scrotum in an old emaciated man with redematous
legs and feet was rejected by Dr. Esdaile, as unfit for either
mesmerism or the knife.
Four new medical cases under treatment, which had been exa-
mined before I reached the Hospital.
Monday, 9th and Tue1day, IOth.-No case yet fit for operation.
In the medical ward, I saw a case of stiff-neck which the patient
declared her previous inability to move in any direction for nearly a
year. She was then able to bend her head backwards and for-
wards, and to rotate it to a small extent.
The other cases were chiefly former patients with rheumatism,
partial paralysis, epilepsy, &c., all cases of which it is impossible
to form any definite opinion from a mere casual inspection, and the
'patients' loose and confused descriptions.
The rheumatism seemed to me to be following the usual course
of that disease when subjected to no treatment.
Friday, 13th.-The cases of scrotal disease are all so unyielding
and refractory aa to lead Dr. Esdaile to believe that they are not
Digitized by Google
xi:
likely to be iubjected to mesmerism. Ether bad ·been tried with
one, and failed, as might have been expected, from the imperfect
nature of the apparatus employed.
Few lungs can bear the·sudden introduction of thf' undiluted
npour of such a powerful substance, without in the first instance
exciting irritation.
In Dr. Esdaile's apparatus, which consists of a species of metal•
lie hookah bottom to which the upper part or a Nooth's apparatus
is attached, the vapour of ether collects at the bottom of the ves-
sel from its great density, and is at once drawn into the mouth
pure and unmixed with atmospheric air.
Even under such unpromising circumstances as this, a little
more perseverance in the use of the agent would have produced a
tolerance of the vapour of ether, which would then have doubtlesa
exhibited its ordinary effects.
The phrenomena witnessed in first attempts to inhale chlorine,
ammonia, and other irritant as well as stimulant gases, together
with the effects which they produce upon the mucous lining of the
nares, fauces, trachea, and bronchi, may be referred to in proof of
the accuracy of the foregoing observations.
In the medical ward was only one new case of stift'-neck in a
mesmerizer, who, upon being subjected to the influence, was said
to have become cataleptic. The phrenomena of this state appeared
to me to be obscure and unsatisfactory. A case of nervous head-
ache, . supposed to be dependent upon the state of the stomach;
was dismissed as unfit for mesmerism.
The other patients were much as usual, some better, others with
no apparent change about them.
Saturday, 14th.--,-The scrotal cases a little more subdued to-day,
two having borne the plucking out of hairs without awaking.
In the medical ward the stiff-necked mesmerizer was able to
bend his head, and one of the rheumatic cases walked about toler-
ably well. I have seen severer cases of both one and the other
exhibit the same results from no treatment at all, in the same
length of time. I need scarcely add that I consider them both
particularly unsatisfactory examples of their kind. .
The other patients presented nothing calling for remark.
'1Ue1day, 17th.-Four cases of scrotal enlargement were being
subjected to mesmeric influence, and two were supposed to be ready
for operation.
Digitized by Google
.........
One was that of a middle aged respectable looking Babu of
stout, robust, and healthy frame, with a large tumor, weighing
probably about ~ lbs.
Before the operation his pulse was slow and regular, be was
moring 110IDewhat loudly, and appeared to me to exhibit unmis-
takeable signs of consciousness when pricked with a knife, u
exhibited by movement.II of the bands, the snoring increasing to a
moan, performing more than once the act of deglutition, and the
expression of pain in the countenance.
Before Dr. Eadaile began I recommended him not to operate,
but he was satisfied with the state of apparent insensibility as it
then existed, and said he did not expect the man to lie quite
quiet throughout the operation.
The tumor was rapidly removed, nothing being saved except
the male organ. The Babu appeared to me to be sensible from
the commencement of the very first incision, and soon uttered the
usual cries of agony of those who auft'er intense pain.
The hemorrhage was considerable, and the patient became pale,
cold, and nearly pulseless shortly after the removal of the mass.
He had rallied a little when I leh about halfan hour afterwards.
The mesmerizer (Tameez Khan) told me that the poor man
bad been considerably agitated the whole morning, as he bad heard
that this was the day fixed upon for his operation.
Wednuda111 18th.-Arrived too late to see any of the patieote
examined.
The Babu operated on yesterday has rallied wonderfully, and
appears to be doing well. His state, I am informed, ftuctuated
several times, and he more than once appeared to be sinking, but
from about 5 o'clock this morning he began to mend, and now
appears to be cheerful and in a promising way.
Dr. Esdaile mentioned to me that his state had been identical
with that of Shaikh Maoick, that the wandering delirium apparent
yesterday was entirely effaced from his recollection, and that he
uow declares hi1D11elf to have been unconscious of suffering at the
time of the operation, and to recollect nothing about it.
I cannot possibly coincide in the accuracy of this view. The
attitudes, gestures, expressions of intense agony, hopeless feeling
of despondency in declaring himself to be dying and requesting
that he might be taken to the ghaut, u well as every other
circum11t.ance connected with the patient, prol'ed him, in my
opinion, to have been in full po88eflsion of the powers of con1ei-
oueness, and to have suffered as acutely aa any person I have ever
Digitized by Google
xiv
·arrivingat ·any other conclusion,than that he undel'\ffnt an unusual
amount of suffering during the operation, and that he was fully
conscious of the same at the time.
The perceptions of pain are ·undoubtedly seated in the •euo-
rium commune, and the only method of explaining their absence
in the present instance, appears to me to be by the application
of the principle adopted by Locke with reference to personal
identity, viz. that it consisted in remembrance; from which it
follows that a man must lose his identity with regard to every
thing he forgets. - ·
So in respect to pain, if the case above narrated p088t'88e8 any
degree of truth, pain muet consist in remembrance, and a man
can have suffered no torture with regard to every degree of agony
which he has forgotten, from whatever cause it might have been
produced.
If I .understood Dr. Esdaile rightly, the phrenomena exhibited in
this case presented also a considerable degree of analogy to those
eeen iu Myzoodeen, whose case is recorded in pages 56, 57 and 58
of the first published half yearly report of the Mesmeric Hospital,
viz. that the mesmeric alternated with the natural delirium,
and that both were accompanied by intervals of complete coneci-
ousness and a rational state, and that all' these conditions were
followed by oblivion of each and all of their several occurrences
upon the final waking of the patient. There is eomething so con·
tradictory and BO incomprehensible in all this, that I am unable to
understand it. That the occurrences of the condition of deli-
rium, whether mesmeric or otherwise, may be effaced nnd produce
no permanent impression can be readily .understood, but that
those of what may be termed a " lucid interval" are equally eva-
nescent and shadowy, is opposed to common sense, and subver-
•ive of all our present knowledge upon the subject.
The enquiry is confessedly one of great difficulty, and there-
fore requires the exercise oC a corresponding degree of caution
either in admitting or denying the statements that are advanced
concerning it. " Success in an enquiry of this kiud," says an
elegant and acute writer, "it is not in human power to command,
but perhaps it is possible by caution and humility to avoid error
and delusion. The labyrinth may be too intricate and the thread
too fine to be traced through all its windings, but iC we stop where
we can trace it no Curther, and secure the ground we have gained
there is no harm done. A quicker eye may in time trace it further.',
Thur1day, 19th Augwt, 1847.-The Babu appears to be doing
well, and has a cheerful contented look.
Digitized by Google
xv-
The medical cases were of the usual kind, and need no special
remark.
Three cases of the ordinary scrotal enlargements were under-
going the mesmeric proceSB, and all readily awoke.
Saturday, 2lst.-Five scrotal cases in the preparation ward, all
easily awoke. One man had a partial obscurity of vision upon
first opening his eyes, but it rapidly pused away.
In the medical ward were the usual cases, with one new
neuralgic patient.
The old case of rheumatism in a scrophulous subject with the
formation of abscesses and metastasis from one joint to another,
was ordered to be discharged for admisaion to aome other hospi-
tal, as he now required only diet and regimen to complete a cure
for which meameriam could do no more.
I have carefully watched thi11 caae throughout, and am decidedly
of opinion that mesmerism has done nothing for it, that the
diaease has run its natural course unaided and unchecked, and
that under the usual method of treating such a case, the patient
would much more rapidly have experienced relief than he has
done from the uncontrolled collection of unhealthy matter, and its
evacuation by operation. He is now thin, reduced, and in nearly
as bad, if not a wors~ state, than when I first saw him, with the
exception of no longer suffering from the acute pain that accom-
panied .the early stages of the diseaae.
Monday, 23d.-The same cases under treatment, and I could aee
no appreciable difference in their state.
Four cases of scrotal enlargement in the preparation ward. One
only exhibited any signs of being under mesmeric influence, and
in him they were developed in a minor degree.
This individual also seemed to present some obscure signs of the
cataleptic condition, not sufficiently marked to need any detailed
notice.
One experiment performed by Dr. Esdaile and the conclusion
which he derived from it, appeared to me to be erroneous, and to
be founded upon imperfect observation. A two-celled mRgneto-
electric apparatus was charged so as to develop a rapid, but by
no means powerful current of electricity. The opposite poles
were placed in the hands of the patient, and his fingers were bent
lightly round but did not graap them. As might have been
expected, and as would occur under similar circumstances in
persons not under mesmeric or any other influence, the moment
the circle was completed and the current traversed his frame, he
raised his ·fingers and hands ~rom the holders, Thia Dr. Esdaile
o;9;1;zedbyGoogle f
xvi
regarded as an opposite condition to the- forcible and involuntary
tenacity of the grasp, which characterizes the same experiment aa
performed under ordinary circumstances. He denominated it a
state of repuUion, to distinguish it from the condition of attrac-
t«m usually seen. Theo experiment as performed warranted
no such conclusion, t'or being unconvinced by reasoning of so
loose and unsatisfactory a nature, I requested Dr. Esdaile to
re-establish the current, and attempted to make the mun grasp
the handles, which he resisted quietly, resol~tely, and effec-
tually, as if conscious of the unpleasant nature of the effects
that would ensue. Had his hands been firmly fixed, instead
of being lightly and imperfectly in contact, and had they been
confined with a wet cloth, I am quite convinced that no repul-
sion would have been exhibited other than the natural repug-
nance of the patient to the process. The charge of the two cells
was one which I could have sustained easily even with firm
grasping of the hand, and was insufficient for the object desired,
the solution being weak, and the action very gentle upon this
occasion, as I ascertained by examination after the contact was
broken, lest I might have been mistaken, for the same amount of
metallic surface with brisk action, is quite capable of producing a
most painful current.
In the medical ward I saw nothing new.
Monday, August 30th.-Two new scrotal cases under treatment
with no perceptible effect as yet, the others are in atatu quo.
In the medical ward there was nothing new, nor did I see any
thing requiring remark in the old cases.
(Signed) F. J. MouAT, M. D.,
Vuitor, Mumme Hoqittll.
(True Copies,)
J. FORIYTR, !Jwgeoa,
Secretary Medical Board.
From Al.Utant Surgeon F. J. Mouat, M. D., 'Vuitor, Mennnic
Hospital, to the Secretary to the Medical Board, dated 28t4
September, 1847.
Sia,
As I am ordered up to Hooghly at day-break to-
morrow morning, to superintend the annual examination of the
College of Mahomed Mohsim, which will last for eight consecu-
tive days, I shall be unable to revisit tbe Mesmeric Hospital during
the remainder of the present month.
Digitized by Google
......
the nberty of mentioning eome of them in connection with the
experiments in which they auiated.
Plasters had been placed over the eyes of the indh-idual so as
effectually to exclude the light, and therefore to intercept the
power of vision. The patient was stripped to hie dhotee, aud
placed upon a stool in the centre of the railed quadrangle which
is set apart for the performance of surgical operations.
Dr. Eedaile read from a paper the programme of his intended
proceedings, stating that although Myzooddeen waa highly and
peculiarly susceptible of mesmeric iniluence, he could not under-
take to decide positively upon the nature and extent of the resulte
that would ensue, as the subject was somewhat new to himself,
and the experiments performed under novel circumstance&. Thie
I took to be the meaning intended to be conv~yed by his addreu.
He then proceeded to at.ate that be would mesmerize particular
parts of the body in &uccession, so as to produce local and iaolated
result&, such as rigidity, insensibility, the greater or less diminu-
tion of the nrious faculties of sense, &c., the remainder of the
body and system being unaft'ected.
The aequence of these events was to be decided by any of the
spectators, and if possible, in a language unknown to the peraon
to be operated upon. English was adopted as the medium ofcom-
munication,. from a belief that he was entirely ignorant of that
language, an assumption which there was, subsequently, aome
reaaon to believe wu ill growded. •
The 6rst experiment wu bing the right arm and hand, which
waa ac~omplished in a few moments. 'fhe man was desired to
remove the arm from the knee, but was apparently quite unable
to do BO. He was then told to raise the .leg, but this also seemed
impouible, aa it had apparently become int"olved in the influence.
The muscles of the shoulder and upper arm \Vere Aaccid and
pliable, the Bexor mueclee of the fore-arm and fingers alone werY
rigid, for I felt the whole of the fore-arm and ascertained that the
extensor& and supinators were soft and apparently in a natural
at.ate. The fingers were fixed l~htly around the knee, and upon
Mr. Halliday and Dr. Jacksons attempting to raise them and
llandling them in as quiet and gentle a manner as possible, the
man shrieked as loudly and exhibited a& intense. an expression of
agony in his countenance, as if the phalanges were undergoing
amputation : indeed I have seen many cases of amputation of the
fingers and toes, crushed and painful, without the manifestation
of one-half the suffering ostensibly exhibited by Myzooddeen.
Dr. Eadaile strongly and earnestly begged that 1Uch cnwl and
Digit zed by Google
barbaroua triling with the feelinga of the unfortunate victim might
be desisted from. Dr. John Grant then stepped forward, pretend-
ing to be busily en~d at the left band and arm of the patient
and making a few passes over them, when, apparently to his sur-
prize, the left arm and leg took on the rigid form, and refused to
obey the voluntary efforts of the khitinutgar or the repeated in-
junctions of the by-standers to remove them. Every attempt to
raise these also caused excruciating agony, energetically interdicted
by Dr. Eadaile. At this time Mr. Halliday bent his body forward1
and both his (rigid ?) elbows bent easily.
The man's pulse at this time was quick and small. .
Dr. Jackson proposed raising him bodily from his seat for the
purpose of better ascertaining the real nature and extent of the
assumed rigidity, but Dr. Esdaile objected to it as it might (I
believe had, he said, on a former occasion) produce violent and
agonizing convulaions of the' whole trunk, and he declined being
responaible for the result. Dr. Jackson undertook the whole res-
ponsibility of the operation and attempted to raise him accordingly,
m which he had onlf very partially succeeded, if he did so at all,
when the &creams o the aufl'erer and Dr. Eadaile'a alarm and agi-
tation induced him. to deaist.
No convulsions resulted as had been apprehended, and the
khitmutgar was immediately reatored to bis former equanimity.
The anna were then demesmerized, and the man complained only
of pain in the loins. While the left arm waa beingfreed, the right
having,revioualy been let out of bondage, I attempted unaucce88-
fully, verily believe only because unknown to the patient, to
mesmerize it by making many times more of simple passes over it
than had succeeded with Dr. Grant on the other side. Dr.
Esdaile stopped my proceeding under the plea of its interfering
with him, and because such antagonism could not exist in the
system at the same time : a conclusion, which if correct, essentially
vitiated hie own reaulta-for as the two arms are independent of
each other, and derive their nerve& from different aidea of the
epinal cord, the affection of the one ought not to influence the
other, as in the caae of the firat experiment performed, wherein
the right arm was fixed while the left remained free, movable,
aud in its normal state.
I have no doubt whatever that the whole of the effects above
mentioned were feigned. The man was perfectly aware of what
was being done ; the movement& of the mesmerizing and demes-
mf'rizing processes were audible ; and the amount of apparent
agony quite incommenaurate with the cauaee from which they
seemed to result.
Digitized by Google
xx
The next experiment was that of fixing the neck, which was
accomplished in an equally unsatisfactory manner by means of
passes and breathing upon the skin, and was so analogous to the
former in its fallacies and sources of error, as to need no further
detail.
Upon some one proposing to bend bis bead forward, Dr.
Esdaile exclaimed that his neck would ·be broken, and that he
would not be responsible for the result. I immediately enquired
as to what parts had really been mesmerized, for breaking the
neck under such circumstances I regarded as a physical impos-
sibility. If the muscles of the back and neck which draw the
head backwards had alone been influenced, and these alone were
rigid (with the exception of those of anterior aspect of the neck
which were in the state of antagonism,) the worst results that
could ensue would be the laceration of a few muscular fibres.
If the cervical portion of the spinal cord and the medulla
oblongnta were paralyzed (and this was the expression made use
of by Dr. Esdaile in reference to the other parts of the body)
respiration and the heart's action ought to have ceased, and tlae
poor man would indeed have become the victim of a cruel experi-
ment-but no such appearances were presented and no such risk
incurred.
The organs of sense were then tried, that of smelling being
:first subjected to experiment. A bottle of the carbonate of am-
monia of the shops was placed to his nostrils : he bore it for a
moment or two, and then expressed pain, which he first referred
to his nose and ultimately to bis throat and abdomen, as elicited
by Mr. Mytton; on no occasion did he a~tribute it tn or speak
of a warmth in his chest, as evidently expected by Dr. Esdaile,
who more than once requested that the direct question might be
asked, which it was, without eliciting the anticipated reply. Had
he complained of beat in the chest I should certainly have dis-
credited his statement, for any attempt to inhale or inspire the
ammonia would have excited its usual effects upon the epiglottis,
and as the nerves of respiration were not mesmerized would have
caused the convulsive breathing and cough that invariably attend
upon the attempt to introduce irritant gases into the lungs.
The ammonia was very weak : I bore it for a much longer
time than Myzooddeen without causing any pain or further effect
than slight lachrymation, my. eyes being just now rather weak
from constantly reading and writing for some hours every night
by candle-light.
The next experiments· were upon the organs of hearing: these
were alternately and simultaneously mesmerized, and each time
Digitized by Google
xxi
the hearing of one or both ears was aff'ect.ed in no great degree
of intensity, for he was able throughout to hear what was
aaid to him, and carried on a conversation in Bengallee with
Mr. Mytton, who was requested to engage his attention.
. While this gentleman was so employed, be attempted to raise
the man's hand and arm, which produced a remonstrance from Dr.
Esdaile, accompanied with a declaration that the sense of touch
had no relation to that of bearing then under investigation.
The only evidence of the diminution of the power of hearing
that was afforded, was by the declarations of the individual expe-
rimented on, and the means usually resorted to for the purpose of
ascertaining the l.resence or absence of deafness in malingerers,
were not applie • I suggested that a pistol should be fired off'
behind him, when the sense appeart>d from other t>XpPriments to
be partially or completely deadened by long continued mesmerizing
of both ears, but my proposal was rejected as altogether inadmis-
sible, upon grounds which I do not clearly understand. Works
on medical jurisprudence and treatises on feigned diseases abound,
with examples in which every means have been tried for the
purpose of ascertaining the fact, and I am not aware that where
they are sure to be productive of no injury to the individual, that
they have ever been objected to. The discharge near the individual
of some detonating compound from a pistol, has frequently been
resorted to in such cases.
While the auditory nerves, however, appeared to be refractory and
unyielding, the superficial branches of the cervical plexus were
readily affected, the head was drawn violently to one side, and that
side became instantaneously insensible . to pricking and severe
pinching.
The sensibility or insensibility of various portions of the integu-
ment had been made matters of experiment during the course of
the other pr:>ceedings, generally with the result that pricking and
pinching of the surface to any extent caused no exhibition of sensi-
bility or suffering, while the most gentle attemptR at traction, or
the removal of affected parts from their fixed positions, excited
manifest and noisy exhibitions of suffering.
The subject of insensibility alone now became the object of ex-
amination; Dr. Esdaile proposing to render any particular portion of
the skin on any part of the body insensible, without the patient's
being aware of the spot selected. So long as the man was conscious
that Dr. Esdaile was near him and could ascertain the probable
parts affected, the experiments were completely satisfactory and
successful. The mesmeric passes and breathing could be distinctly
perceived, and the exact region over which they were practised easily
Digitized by Google
ascert.ained. Pricking, even to the running of a gold breast-pin
deep into the true skin, was bornf' without flinching, and inflicted
by the insensible subject upon himself with a degree of calmneu
and absence of agitation that might have excited the admiration
and envr of a Stoic or of a North American Warrior. Mr.
Hume pinched the pinna of the ear until be nearly forced his
nails through it, and actually removed a minute portion of skin
from the back of the neck, without causing the slightest visible
perturbation or distre88. It was then suggested by Mr. Hume,
I believe, that the party should disperse and carry on a conver-
sation upon indifferent subjects, and that the patient should
be given to understand that Dr. Esdaile was absent, all of which
was exactly performed. Dr. Esdaile then came quietly and with-
out speaking behind the man, and mesmerized the back or the
right shoulder and cervical region for a considerable length or time
(very much more than bad been previously sufficient to produ~
the utmost intensity of etrect that had been observed,) but without
any appreciable result, the sensibility being as complete in that
as in any other part of his body that was tested by Mr. Hume and
myself. The result of this e:cperimentum cruci8 appeared to stag-
ger the belief of even those who bad held out thus far.
Mgzooddeen now begged /iteously that the plasters might be
removed and his eyes opene , and upon Dr. Esdaile's proceeding
to remove them carefully and slowly by one corner, which adhered
to the left eyebrow, the man groaned and stated that it pained him.
He was then mesmerized by Dr. Esdaile, and the plasterR were
removed at once and with rapidity without extorting any evidence
of suffering. The eye-lids were found to be firmly closed and
resist.ed every attempt which he (Myzooddeen) made to open them
upon being requested to do so, the usual mesmeric trembling, cor-
ru~ation of the skin of the fore-head, and firm adhesion of the lids
bemg seen.
Mr. Hume, Mr. Simms, and I b~lieve one or two other gentlemen
besides myself, attemptecl in vain by every demesmeriziug and
other process to open them. Water, a powerful demesmerizing
agent, was thrown upon his face and poured upon his head, with
no other result than that of causing a very perceptible downward
movement (depreaaion) of the upper lid, which it had hitherto
been found impossible to induce him to raise. Mr. Hume opened
his eyes to ast"ertain the state of the globe and pupil, both were
found to be in a natural condition. The admi88ion of light
I had heretofore been accustomed to regard as a certain and
speedy demesmerizer, but it now produced no effect. He was
told that Dr. Eadaile bad again gone away and would not
return for a couple of hoW'll, and that he would be left in his
Digitized by Google
. utii
present condition. All wu in vain, and he begged and implored that
his own doctor might retum, as he alone could restore him to
eight. Dr. Esdaile accordingly aftt>r some hesitation and pro-
testing against auy inference that might be drawn from it, as well
as declarintr that he expected considerable labor and difficulty in
accomplishing the result, complied with his request, and one or
two rapid transverse passes with about as many quick blowiuge
upon the closed lids opened them, to the full conviction and satis-
faction, I believe, of moat of the spectators then present, that
Myzooddeen was a clever, and had very nearly proved a successful,
h1P08TOR.
During the course of the conversations which were held with
him, it was elicited that he had been a pilot's khitmutgar, and
although be stoutly denied the fact, there was reason to believe,
from the known peculiarities of almost all ship-board servants,
that he understood English. He more than once prevaricated in
his account of himself, and to prove to me that he did not com-
prehend English, stated that he had only been in the service of
his last master, a pilot, a few months. A little further question-
ing extracted the information, unwillingly yielded for he was cun-
ning enough to see that it would damage his character fur trust-
worthiness and veracity, that be had bt>en for longer period&
in the service of other pilote.
To attempt to establish any scientific fact upon the evidence
of a witness eo little deserving of trust, appears to me to be essen-
tially unphilosophical and inconclusive.
The early experimente of the sitting, and those relating to
extinction of eensibility and loae of the power of hearing in ooe
or both ears, were not sufficiently te.ted completely to prove
their accuracy or fallacy, from Dr. Esdaile's extreme fear of inju-
rious consequences resulting to the individual, in the first instance;
and in the experiments upon audition from tbe utterly unsatisfac-
tory nature of the tests employed.
Their truth could only therefore be established upon the testi-
mony of a worthleu witneea, and from the undue exhibition of
suffering manifested by manipulations which. could barely have
produced the same eft'ecta upon an organ or limb in a state of active
inflammation•
.FridaJ, &pt~ 3d.-It was the opinion of eome gentle-
men present during the first part of the proceedings "that the
" unfortunate patient was handled with a degree of rou.fhness,
" which made them apprehensive of serious consequences.' Thie
appeared to me, and I was close to the patient when eome of
these eo-called cruel experimenta were performed, to be a complete
Digitized by Google
..
xxiv
fallacy, of which there was no more satisfactory proof than the
cries of the pseudo sufferer, and the distrees which they produced
in the feelings of those who sympathized ltith his apparent agony.
With the single exception of Dr. Jackson's attempt to raise him
from the stool, (and even this was unaccompanied by anrviolence)
the effects made to raise his fingers and hands were o the most
gentle nature it is possible to imagine.
In my own case, I can declare that I merely firmly touched the
lower surface of one of his fingers without attempting to raise it,
when he groaned and I immediately desisted. He, subsequently,
when experiments were being performed upon other parts of hiR
body to which his attention was then evidently directed, and when
his whole frame was declared to be influenced and his knees were
just aa firmly grasped as at first, permitted the entire hand and
wrist to be raised with some muscular reRistance on his part, but
no expression of pain, as I ascertained personally by repeating the
experiment two or three times.
It was subsequently suggested, and seemed to be desired by
some of the early spectators, " that the operator should, in all
"his experiments, be left entirely without interruption; that his
" allegations should be carefully noted and compared with the
" occurrences, and that every test of supposed collusion or impos-
" ture should be reserved for a second experiment, after the facts
" observed had been in the first instance carefully recorded."
1'his line of argument does not appear to me to be perfectly
sound and free from objection. In the first place, with the ex-
ception of my unsuccessful attempt to mesmerize the right arm
while Dr. Esdaile was demesmerizing the left, and from which I
immediately desisted when it was objected to as an interruption
and undue interference, I am not-aware that Dr. Esdaile was in any
way interrupted in the performance of his experiments. He very
properly stipulated that he should first perform his experiment,
and that its results should then be subjected to investigation ; the
former condition was strictly complied with, but the latter was
very imperfectly eft'ected in consequence of objections on the part
of Dr. Esdaile himself.
Surely no one is bound in cases of this kind to trust to the un-
aided evidence of the sense of sight, for to enable him .to arrive
.at any just conclusion, be should be permitted to analyse the ap-
parent fact in any way which may appear to him to be most satis-
factory and to be best calculated to elicit the truth, as well as to
correct the errors of one sense by the evidence of another.
As well might a spectator be called upon to surrender his judg-
ment to the sleight of hand of a conjurer, because his eight ie not
Digitized by Google
.xxv
aufficienttr perfect to enable him to detect the source of the de-
lusion which he knows to exist. To decide upon the accuracy of
a primary experiment, by the subsequent performance of another
apparently identical with it, would be objected to by the mes-
merizers themselves, and I think with good reason, inasmuch as
with so subtle and protean an agent, it would be in the present
state of knowledge impossible to declare that the requisite con-
ditions had been so fully complied with in the second case, as to
be in every way correspondent with those that produced the first
result.
The proceeding itself, in addition to this objection, is not re-
quisite, for the persistence of the phoonomena in each case depends
upon the will of the mesmerizer, and may be prolonged for any
le1igth of time that may be deemed necessary for the performance
of test experiments, which ought therefore to be instituted at
once, when no objection can he raised as to the reality of the ap-
pearances presented and then existing.
I have been thus particular and minute in recording the results
of this case, because it presents many interesting circumstances,
which, if accurately established, might have been useful in future
investigations, and because it thrO\VS a new light upon several
doubtful points in other cases, and proves that the greatest degree
of caution is requisite to detect and discriminate the limits be-
tween error and truth, as well as completely justifies the hesita-
tion with which all so-called facts ought to be received that
militate alike against the doctrinP.s of common sense and reason,
that are in direct opposition to all the known laws of nature as
ascertained from the study of the structure and functions of the
human body in health and disease, and that in their occurrence
present irreconcilable contradictions.
Saturday, 4th September, 1847.-In the convalescent ward the
few cases remaining were recovering rapidly.
Seven scrotal cases under preparation: only one affected and
that very slightly.
lu the medical ward, which I have not visited for some days,
were several cases.
One of neuralgia of some of the branches of the right supra-or-
bital nerve, of short duration but great intensity, lasting day and
night and producing complete insomnia. He was directed to be
thrown into the mesmeric trance.
The old epileptic patient had'a fit last night, but it was single,
not as generally occurs, a succession of fits, and was less in inten-
sity. It took place a week before its period of recurrence, and
e
Digitized by Google
.. ..
the painful affection of the left arm was also stated to be le88 in
degree. Another epileptic case had just been admitted.
The old ayah with stiffness and enlargement of the elbow-joints
is decidedly better: the swellings are softer and she can nearly
permit the arms to be straightened without complaining of pain.
Tameez Khan, who has been mesmerizing her, told me that be
united this agent with passive motion in the treatment.
A new case of deafness or rather of ringing of the ears which
prevents sounds from being distinguished, giddineBB, and appa-
rently rheumatic pains in the upper extremities, was being mes-
merized. No effect has yet been produced.
' A Jew was also in the Hospital, who stated that he had been ill
for nearly three months, and had lost the power of sensation in the
lower half of his body. He appears to have regained it in three
days, and now complains of pain in the loins and in the groins
from enlarged glands. He mentioned that he had been unable to
walk without a stick since the commencement of his illness, and
that he had felt considerable relief since his admission to the Mes-
meric Hospital.
Tue1day, 7tla.-Arrived at the Hospital at a quarter to twelve,
and found most of the patients examined : Dr. Esdaile stated that
he had found the sensibility of the patients to vary so considerably
as to induce him to believe that some were left too long without
being subjected to examination, when a portion of the influence
had began to pass off, he had therefore determined to teat them
at an earlier hour.
One new fatient with a small scrotal enlargement was being
tested when entered, and resisted pricking, pinching, and the
pulling out of hairs without waking. There was a rapid trembling
of the eyelids and eyebrows, increased when the scrotum was
pricked and the testicle squeezed, and accompanied with a violent
contraction of the brow. The arms seemed to be partially cataleptic,
and the breathing fluctuated in fulness and frequency. He did not
awake, that is to say, open his eres, but I am of opinion that he
was conacious during the examination and testing. He had only
been mesmerized for the second time.
The Jew was called in and questioned, when he declared himself
to be better, and to be able to walk without a stick, which he did
in our presence. His account of himself was a good deal confus-
ed and contradictory. He still complains of a dragging pain in
the groins, and says that the pain in his loin• has entirely disap-
peared.
The other cases had all been dismissed for the day.
Digit zed by Google
xxviii
· The Jew appears to be in much the same 1tate aa when I 1aw
him last, the pain in the loins having returned an~ the pain and
swelling ofthe inguinal glands being undiminished.
Sub-assistant Surgeon Sussihhooshun Seal, who mesmerized the
man operated on two days ago, informs me that he (the patient} was
quite sensible a very short time before be was examined, and
shrank from even the passing of a fly over the surface of his skin.
Ht> altJO told mt' that he cried out during the tying up of the
artf!ries after I had left, but upon hf'ing questioned declared that
he had felt nothing during the operation, his sensibility having
been restored by the pain cauaed by the application of ligatures
to the vessels.
Monday, 13th.-The surgical cases are still but little affected.
In the medical ward, the Jew declares himself to be a little
better, but appt'al'R to me to be in much the same state ; the epi-
leptic cases are said to have improved, inasmuch as the usual
monthly fit of one of them did not return at its regular time yes-
terday ; the deaf man is as deaf as usual ; the ayah with enlarged
and stiffened elbow joints seems to be much as she was when I last
saw and examined her ; and the other cases need no particular
remark.
In the convalescent ward, one poor man had 1loughing of the
urethra and perineum to such an extent as to oblige Dr. Esdaile
yesterday to remove the testicle which had heretofore been saved.
He was, it was mentioned, easily entranced in about ten minutes,
and the parts removed without any exhibition of consciousness or
auft'ering on his part.
One of the cases in the surgical ward Dr. Esdaile atated to
exhibit some remarkable peculiarities, being rapidly and perfectly
entranced, but the condition of insensibility pa11sing off so quickly
as to render it impossible at present to do any thing with him.
The man with severe tic bad left the hospital, having been
apparently unwilling to submit to further treatment. In this res-
pect Dr. Esdaile has to contend against disadvantages in the per-
sona of some capricious natives, which must not only embarrass
his practice, but render it difficult to say how far such cases might
or might not have benefitted by mesmeric treatment.
All native ~hospitals however labour more or less under the
same disadvantage, many natives being impatient if not rapidly
cured, and most somewhat erratic in their propensities.
Wednesday, 15th.-The surgical cases under preparation, with
one exception, awoke easily.
Digitized by Google
xxix
In regard to the CR8e mentioned in my notes of Monday, Dr.
Esdaile stated that he did not feel justified in subjecting a man
with so small a tumour to the risk attendant upon its removal.
He therefore entranced him, evacuated the contents of his hydro-
cele, and injected the tunica vaginalis very rapidly without elicit-
ing any indication of feeling or consciousness in the individual.
The man whose testicle was removed on Sunday, died yes-
terday.
A case of scrotal enlargement with considerable ulceration of
the surface produced by the application of the milky juice of an
euphorbiaceous plant, was yesterday transferred to the Native
Hospital, there being no reasonable hope of subjecting the sufferer
to mesmeric intlucnce in time to admit of the diseased mass being
removed before mortification has set in.
In the medical ward there was nothing new to record beyond
passive motion of the hip-joint having been ordered for the Jew,
whose groins are still painful, and who continues to complain of
suffering in his loins.
Mrmday, 20th.-The patients under preparation for operation
are progressing satisfactorily.
Three epileptic cases in the medical ward, one new and of a very
severe form in a painter, whose means of livelihood are injured by
the severity and frequency of the fits. He has been too short a
time under treatment to admit of any appreciable improvement.
A case of muscular pains in the back of a writer, which pre-
¥ented his stooping to his work, and which, from his statement,
appears to have been nearly removed by three days of mesmeric
treatment.
Two cases of rheumatic affections of the arm appear gradually
to be recovering.
The deaf man is as deaf as ever.
The same oost>s in Hospital.
Tuesday, 2Jat.-The Babu who has been so long under
preparation appears at length to be yielding to the mesmeric
mtluence. He resisted pinching of the nipple, the plucking
out of hairs, and a tolerably strong and rapid current of electricity
without waking, and was at last roused by pricking with a gold
pin. When sensible he was unable to bear the electric shocks
without suffering and distreu, although they were not powerful
enough to cause me any particular annoyance.
The medical cases exhibited no new phrenomena. The man
with muscular pains in the back represented them as having lasted
Digitized by Google
xxx
for four months, and stated that he was able to bend his back in
the morning, but that after a hard day's writing it became exceed-
ingly painful, and he had it regularly shampooed to afford him
rest and freedom from pain. Since his entrance into the Mesmeric
Hospital he has ceased to write or strain the muscles of his back
in any way, and now professes to have received a considerable
amount of relief.
The stiff arms seem to be much in the same state as before, and
I saw no difference in the other cases.
Thur1day, 23d.-Three scrotal cases under preparation, two of
them new. The Babu mentioned in my last report had bP.en
placed in the operating room, since which he has been much
less affected, probably from the natural excitement caused by
knowing that this proceeding is the prelude to operation; he
complains of severe pain in the nipple, caused by its being fre-
quently pinched to ascertain bis state of insensibility,
One of the new cases, a Mahomedan, an elderly tailor from
Mirzapore, with a tumor moderately sized of about 30 years
growth, was so deeply affected on this his second day as to resist
pricking, pinching, a rapid and strong current of electricity, and
the violent throwing up of his arms and legs without waking.
His pulse was soft, full, and free from agitation ; his breathing
almost entirely abdominal, but characteristic of the most profound
repose ; and his arms and legs were partially cataleptic. The eye-
lids were firmly closed, and required some degree of force to raise
them, the brow was corrugated and the anterior muscles of th~
neck were rigid.
There is a large cicatrix on the right side of the scrotum, and
apparently a double hydrocele with the usual thickening and
enlargement. He continued to sleep after being examined and
was left in that state.
The remaining case was little atrected.
In the medical ward were exactly the same cases as before.
The writer with lumbar pains declared himself to be completely
cured, the other patients presented no peculiarities or progres-
sive signs of amendment that need record.
The painter suffering from epilepsy described his fits as com-
ing on after intervals of seven days, during which he was well in
every respect. The first tit was usually violent and lasted for
more than half an hour; they then recurred daily for some days,
the stage of insensibility occupying but a few minutes and gradu-
ally decreasing in intensity, until they disappeared, leaving him
Digitized by Google
xxxii
most implicit (aith in witchcraft, magic, the power of spirits and
demons, and the efficacy of charme and incantations.
A recent and striking example of this occurred in the person
of my head table-servant, who was accidentally bitten in the foot
by a dog in the Dhurrumtollah Bazar. The part was immediately
cauterized and every precaution taken to prevent the absorption
of any morbific matter, but it preyed so strongly upon the man's
mind as to reduce him in the coune ofa few days, almost as much
as the most acute attack of fever or dysentery could have done.
I tried in vain to assure him that the dog was not mad, and that
no bad results would ensue, but he was evidently eo depressed
and thoroughly frightened, as to lead rue to entertain some fears
for hie life.
At the end of about ten days he told me that he had heard of
a magician in the .neighbourhood of Hooghly, who was celebrated
for charming snake-bites and preventing hydrophobia, and re-
quested three days leave to give him a chance of life, as he felt
quite sure that he should die of hydrophobia if he remained in the
state in which he then was. The leave was given, and he returned
at the end of the appointed time as well as he ever was, nor has he
aince had in six months the return of a single bad symptom. The
conjurer merely administered to him a single dose of some aromatic
substance resembling pepper in a small quantity of water.
He is an individual of more than the average intelligence of his
class, and a fair type of the state of feeling in Bengal in regard to
the " influence of supernatural powers in the prevention and cure
" of disease."
Most of the patients who resort to Dr. Esdaile's hospital, are
attracted by the fame which that gentleman's operations have
obtained throughout Bengal, and all come to him, impressed with
the fullest and firmest belief in his supernatural powers ; in fact
the common name under which the Mesmeric Hospital is known
among the lower classes is that of the lwue of magic, or jadoo
lwlpital.
That this amount o( faith and belief is capable of eft'ecting the
cure of many functional disorders of the ne"ous and vascular
systems, we have abundant evidence in the authentic records ofthe
effects of bread-pills, coloured solutions of inert substance, and
similar placebos, and even in formidable diseases attended with
organic changes, a similar result has occasionally ensued.
The following anecdotes extracted from the Pharmacologia of
Dr. Paris, well exhibit the truth of the abote statement.
Digitized by Google
xxxiii
" In the celebrated siege ·of Breda in 1625 by Spinola, the
re garrison suffered extreme distress from the ravages of scurvy,
" and the Prince of Orange, being unable to relieve the place, sent
'' in by a confidential messenger a preparation which was directed
"to be added to a very large quantity of water, and to be given as
"a specific for the epidemic; the remedy was administered, and
"the garrieon recovered its health, when it was afterwards acknow-
" }edged that the enbstance in question was no other than a
" little colouring matter."
"In my Life of Sir Humphry Davy, I have published an anec-
" dote which was communicated to me by the late Mr. Coleridge,
"and which bears so strikingly upon the present subject,* that
" I must be excused for repeating it. As soon as the powers of
" nitrous oxide were discovered; Dr. Beddoe& at once concluded
" that it must necessarily be a specific for paralysis; a patient was
" selected for the trial, and the management of it was entrusted to
"Dary. Previous to the administration of the gas he inserted a
" &mall pocket thermometer under the tongue of the patient, as he
" wa1 accustomed to do upon such occasions to ascertain the
" degree of animal temperature, with a view to future compari8on.
" The paralytic man, wholly ignorant of the nature of the process
" to which he wa1 to submit, hut deeply impressed, from the
"representations of Dr. Beddoes with the certainty of its success,
" no eooner felt the thermometer under his tongue than he con-
" eluded the talisman was in full operation, and in a burst of
" enthusiasm declared that he already experienced the effect of its
" benign influence throughout his whole body. The opportunity
" was too tempting to be loat. Da~ cast an intelligent glance at
"Mr. Coleridge, and desired his patient to renew his visit on the
"following day, when the same ceremony was performed and
" rer;ated every aucceeding day for a fortnight, the patient gradu-
" al y improving during that period, when he was dilmiued aa
" cured, no other application having been Uled."
Dr. James Gregory used to relate in his lectures an instance
of the power of the imagination in influencing the operation of a
medicine, which may be here aptly introduced.
"One of his pupils, who laboured under fever, being unable to
" obtain any rest, was told that an opiate had been prescribed for
''him at bedtime; but the student mieunderstood the doctor, and
" supposed that he was to take a purgative. AccordingJr when
"the physician saw his patient on the following mommg and
"inquired whether his opiate had procured for him any sleep,"
• Superatitiw.
f
Digitized by Google
......
xxxiv
~'Opiate;" exclaimed the patient, "I understood it was purgative,
" and very actively has it operated, and I am much relieved by it."
Upon discussing this subject a few days since with a gentleman
in this city, who was a distinguished Wrangler of Trinity College,
Cambridge, and i11 well known for his eminent acquirements, he
mentioned to me a singular instance of the effect of imagination in
his own case. During his childhood he entertained a deep rooted
disgust for castor oil, which he was in the habit of taking floating
on sherry and swallowing at a gulp with his eyes shut, to save
himself from the nauseating sensation caused by even the sight of
the oil. It once happened that he was sick on the lst of April,
and his brothers and sisters to amuse themselves at his expense
upon a day which is occasionally consecrated to acts of folly, gave
him a glass of sherry without the oil, which he swallowed as
usual without venturing to look at it. It operated as fully as any
genuine dose he had ever taken, and be only learnt afterwards the
trick which had been played upon him.
That pure imagination or some such influence has produced
much of the apparently curative result in many if not in most of
the medical cases which have derived any appreciable benefit, I
am strongly inclined to believe, from a statement made to me by
Sub-Assistant Surgeon Tameez Khan, a graduate of the Medical
College, who with others was placed by order of Government, at
the recommendation, I am told, of the Medical Board, under Dr.
Esdaile, with a view to render them practically acquainted with
mesmerism, and its modes of application aa a medical agent.
He (Tameez Khan} stated that during the time he was so en-
gaged, a period extending over nearly two months, the young
mesmerizers were constantly in the habit of falling asleep very
shortly after the doors were clo11ed, a result not to be much won-
dered at when the heat and quietude of the darkened chamber,
with the powerfully soporific influence of the unvaried movements
of the hands and arms are considered.
The period of viaitiog and examining the sick was known from
th~ movements in the adjoining rooms and the opening of the
doors, when the sleepy mesmerizers shook off the inftuence of the
drowsy god, and appeared active and alert in their operations.
Saturday, 25th.-The medical patients were not examined, Ra-
jub and the Babu awoke readily, the latter declaring that he
could never sleep towards the foll of the moon.
The old man from Mirzapore was operated on. Upon being
tested his breathing became audible and accelerated, but his pulse
was natural and quiet, and he exhibited no other signs of consci-
ousnesa.
Digitized by Google
•
xxxvi
F.aoM AsstsTANT SoaozoN F. J. MooAT, M. D.,
To SoaoBoN J. FoasYTH,
Secretary Medical Board.
Fort William, lat N~, 1847.
I have the honor to submit for the information of
the ·Medical Board a few brief memoranda of my visits to the
Mesmeric Hospital during the put month.
2. A pressure of public duties and absence from Calcutta pre-
vented my visiting the Hospital oftener, in addition to all the
patients who were able to do so having left the Institution during
the ten days' Doorgah Poojah Holidays, when there was nothing
to record, and consequently no use in visiting the Hospital.
I have, &c.,
(Signed) F. J. MouAT, M. D.,
Y-uitor, Mmneric Hoqiial.
lleport tor ettolln.
September 27th to October 7th.-Absent from Calcutta on public
duty.
Friday, Sth.-The patients had been examined prior to my
arrival at 12 o'clock. .
Two operations had been performed durin~ my absenc~, and
the chief additions to the medical ward were Bald to be of epileptic
cases•
. Saturday, 9th.-l again arrived too late for the examination of
the medical cases, although I reached the Hospital at a quarter
to twelve o'clock. Dr. Esdaile was engaged in testing the condi-
tion of two patients with scrotal tumors preparing for operation.
One of them had been a long time in band, and had only within
the last few days exhibited any signs of becoming subjected to
the mesmeric inftuence, he awoke however readily. The other
had only been four days under manipulation and was already
considerably affected, resisting pricking with the point of a knife,
&c. He was ultimately awoke by the shocks of the galvano-elec-
tric apparatus.
Sunday, IOth.-Three acrotal cases under preparation, two
readily roused, tire third apparently ready for a painles1 operation,
which Dr. Esdaile intends to perform to-morrow.
The only new cases in the medical ward were thoae of two
individuals atllicted with epilepsy, the hiatory and pbamomena
Digitized by Google
xuvii
connected with both of which were as oblcure and unsatiafaCtory
as mOt1t instances of this inscrutable malady are found to be ia1
every hoapital. The old patients who have been long under
treatment sometimes imagine themselve1 to be better, and at other
times to have derived no benefit; in one of them the fits are suid
to be leu intense, and the anomalous pains in the left arm and
shoulder to have diminished in an equal degree, but no one,
I understand, has seen him in these fitR, except the subordinates
attached to the hospital, and their testimony is ·of little, if of any
value.
The epileptic painter declared himself to be in much the 881De
state as when I left; and the ayah with stiff' arms waa unable to
extend them to a sreater extent than before, even upon my at-
tempting to straighten them forcibly.
Moflllay, l lth.-The same cues aa before.
The mesmerizer of the man who was to have been operated on
bad fallen sick, and his successor failed to produce the requisite
amount of effect upon the patient. He was seueible to squeezing
of the testicle, in consequence of which the operation waa post-
poned. · .
The other cases were not examined.
Tue1day, 12th.-The man was operated on to-day having failed
to exhibit any signs of sensibility from squeezing of the testicle
and pricking with the point of a knife. The very first incision,
however, elicited evidence of suffering, which continued to increase
until he raised his body from the bed, moaned and groaned, moved
his arms and legs, and exhibited the usual indications of 1evere
pain, which ended by his opening his eyes and behaving aa moat
persons do under similar circumstances. Upon being questioned
he could not tell exactly when he awoke, but stated that the pain
had broken his sleep. I am of opinion that he was sensible, con-
scious, and suffering throughout.
One other scrotal case was examined, but .the man awoke upon
his arm being raised. The patients in the medical ward were
witnesses of the operation and therefore not examined. There did
not appear to be any new face amongst them.
Thuraday, 14th.-One scrotal case, and three of epilepsy iri hos-
pital, the remainder having left for the Poojah. One of the latter
bad a slight fit this morning, of. which he remembered nothing.
The convalescents all doing well.
Saturday, 16th.-With the exception of the three epileptic
MahQmedana above-mentioned, all the patients have left fur. the
boliday1, there is therefore nothing to record.
Digitized by Google
....
xxxvili
Wedrauday, 20tla.-Two epileptic patients alone in hospital who
need no remark ; the convaleacenta llll appear to be doing well.
Monday, 25tla.-Reached the hospital in the middle of 011e of
the usual operations; the patient waa then writhing and appear-
ed agonized in countenance, but when the operation had ter-
minated quietly folded his arms upon his chest, declared he
had then awoke and'felt nothing, waa not conscious that any thing
had been done to him, had a calm and placid appearance, and
expreBBed gratitude when told that all waa over. I waa informed
that he lay perfectly motionless during the first half of the opera-
tion. A large number of Mahommedan and Hindu gentlemen
were present.
Tlauraday, 28tla.-Three new cases under preparation, none very
deeply affected aa yet. In the medical ward, in addition to the
old epileptic patients, there was nothing demanding or requiring
notice.
Another operation was performed on Tuesday laat which I was
unable to witness.
Friday, 29tla.-Five scrotal cues in the preparation ward; two
epileptics and one lumbago caae in the medical ward. None need
any remark.
The convalescents are doing well with one exception, in which
the wound has assumed a sloughing appearance. ·
(Signed) F. J. MouAT, M. D.,
Vilitor, Mesmeric Hoapital.
(True Copies,)
Faov: DR. F. J. MouAT,
To J. FoaBYTR, EsQ.,
J. FoBSYTR, Surgeon,
Secretary Medical Board.
Secretary Medical Board.
Fort William, J2tla November, 1847.
I have the honor to transmit for tbe information of
the Medical Board, the accompanying brief memoranda of my
visits to the Mesmeric Hospital up to the 9th, the annivereary of
the performance of the first operation within its walls.
2. I conclude, therefore, that the year of trial and experiment
contemplated by the Government has terminated, and trust that
Digitized by Google
xxxlx
I shall not be considered negligent in not reVisiting the'Hospital,
especially since the near approach of the winter session deprives
me of the limited leisure at my diapol&l during other seaaons.
· 3. I am preparing a general summary ofthe experience aft'orded
by the mesmeric dractice of Dr. Esdaile in those cases which I
have witne1Bed, an ehall forward the same u eoon ae I am able
to complete it.
I have, &c.,
(Signed) F. J. MouAT, M. D.,
Vilitur, Mumme Hoapital.
R.eport ofDr. F. J. Mouat, Vuitor, M~maeric Hoapital,from lat to
9th November, 1847.
Monday, lat Nowmher, 1847.-Four cases under preparation;
three were apparently ready for the knife, and one was operated
on. He had been four days in hospital, had resisted every waking
teat, even to fire, and had a moderate sized tumor, enclosing a
very large double hydrocele. He bore the operation remarkably
well, the only indications of /ain being contortions of the coun-
tenance, a alight moaning, an movements of the body towards
the conclusion of the diuection.
The man was awoke, declared that nothing had disturbed him,
that he was a Kaut and a native of' Sylhet, that he had read of
Dr. Esdaile'e wonderful cures in a Bengali new.paper (the Swna-
~la1JT .DKryuia,) had constantly dreamt of him ever since, and had
come down with full faith in his skill to be relieved of his burthen.
When informed that his wishes had been realized, he was profuse
in expreesions of gratitude.
One man in the convalescent ward, the last operated on, this
morning exhibited symptoms of tetanus, and appeared to be in a
dangerous state.
The other case, which had began to slough, was mending
again.
In the medical ward nothing but old epileptic caeea.
Tue1day, 2d November, 1847.-A very small scrotal tumor was
thiR day removed, the patient had been for some time in hospital,
and, as I understood, had not been early affected. He lay still
during the operation ; the muscles of the face and forehead were
strongly contracted KS were those of the hands and feet, his
breathing became rapid and audible, and a profuse perspiration
Digit zed by Google
.......
xi
bathed hia forehead. When he awoke he stated that he felt and
knew nothing, and had not been disturbed.
The two cases in the preparation room were readily rouaed.
In the medical ward I aaw only one, the oldest epileptic case•.
The tetanic patient died this morning.
TAur1dag, Noona/Jer 4th, 1847.-0ne cue of epilepsy, one of
lumbago, and two of scrotal tumor preparing for operation·; none
requires any particular remark.
Saturday, Nooemher 6th, 1847.-The eame medical cases u·
before, with one new patient suffering from an enormous scrotal
enlargement, the others had all left without being operated on.
Dr. Esdaile expressed an intention of taking in no new cues
until the fate of his hospital has been decided. .
'Jlueidag, November 9th, 1847.-A small scrotal tumor of
cartilaginous hardness requiring a tedious and very painful dissec-
tion was this day removed. The man had only been twice en-
tranced and lay perfectly motionleH until the right testicle had
been di1Sected out. During the freeing of the left testicle he
became restless, uneasy, moved his body and limbs, writhed gene-
rally, moaned, groaned, and when the mass was being finally
removed exclaimed, "I shall die, Sir." He subsequently relapeecl
into a state of quietude, in which I left him while the arteries were
being tied up. Had not unusual difficulties presented themaelvea
to prolongthe dissection, he would have suffered nothing, or rather
have exhibited no sign of pain.
, (Signed) F. J. MouAT, M. D.,
V"uitor, MenMric Holpilal.
(True Copies,)
J. FoaaYTe, SwglOll,
&cretary Medtcal Board.
Digit zed by Google
CONCLUDING REMARKS.
:IPhamomena ez- In the mesmeric treatment of · surgical
hlblted. c88es the chief phrenomena exhibited were
eleep and insensibility to pain. The former varied in inteusity
from the moat gentle slumber to a profound state of repose, appa-
rently bordering on coma, of which states the latter was very
rare, and seen in only a few cases. The great majority alept tole-
rably eoundly until awoke by the application of pricking, pinching,
plucking of hairs, and other similar teat&. Some continued asleep
during a portion of the operations to which they were respectively
eubjected, becoming conscious and exhibiting signs of suffering
before their ronclusion-to thia class belonged the greater number
of the operations that I witnessed. Some again, were, in my opi-
nion conacioua, and suffered throughout. A few were perfectly
insensible both during and af'ter operation. ,
The medical cases were eubjected to the 8allle amount of mani-
pulation 88 those preparing for surgical operation, and yet in very
few instances did it appear to induce sleep in the former, whether
locally or generally applied. I did not see a single c88e in which
a medical patient after receiving his daily dose of Mesmerism, was
not readily and e88ily roused without the application of any of the
means of demeemerization usualJy resorted to in the other wards.
Jn.one instance, that of the stiff-necked mesmerizer mentioned in
my notes, there were obscure, but very uncertain and unsatisfactory
eigns of a cataleptic condition. I am unable to account for this
dift'erence of eft'ect.
Disturbing The disturbing causes, or thoae supposed
oaaaea. to render the patient& inauaceptible of the
inftuence, were 80 numerous, varied, and opposite in character, as
well as so ftuctuating and uncertain in their effect&, 88 to place
them beyond the pale of any rational and intelligible explanation.
Draught& of cold air, changes of temperature, the slighteat accea-
eion of febrile diaturbance, the exhibition of a Ji>urgative, the
sprinkling of cold water on the surface, or its projection from a
eyringe against a particular part, the access of light, noiaea, and
a great variety of aimilar agenciea exercised a prejudicial influence.
The changmg of the meamerizer was also held to account for
the absence of the usual amount of eft'ect in one ormore cases.
In general the existence of any degree or amount of disease in
the syatem, appeared to be regarded 88 an efficient contra-indi-
cating and adverse agent : hence the field of usefulness of Mes-
merism in all cases of chronic disease requiring surgical interfer-
enee, if this view be true, mUit be extremely limited. For acute
caaea it is also inapplicable,·aince if ·immediate amputation, exci-
Digitized by Google
xi...
. lll
aion, or disseetion are required, Mesmerism is incapable of induc-
ing the requisite amount of repose and insensibility in the abort
time that can be allowed, while the progreaa of active inflam-
mation or febrile disturbance, invariably present in such cues,
would prevent its producing any effect at all.
Duration af ma- The length of time required for the pro-
:alp'lllatto1a requlr- duction of insensibility varied very remark-
ecl. Kbly. In some few instances the patients
appeared to be deeply affected on their first day of trial, in others
from two to six or eight days were required, and in several,
as many weeks passed before they were sufficiently entranced to
be operated on. The best marked cues of insensibility were exhi-
bited by those who bad been mesmerized for a considerable length
of time ; the least so, the instances in which operations were per-
formed shortly after the admiuion of the patients to the hospital.
Aa a rapid, speedy, and certain agent for producing the insensibi-
lity requisite for the performance of perfectly painless operations,
it does not appear to me, from the evidence afforded in the Mes-
meric Hospital, to be entitled to any degree of confidence. That
it is capable of causing complete and perfect insensibility in a
limited number of favorable cases, I look upon as a fact determined
beyond the reach of doubt or dispute ; but its general applicKbility
in Surgery for the same end, I regard as not merely doubtful, but
.chimerical and impracticable for reasons mentioned above.
Each Mesmeriser can, on an average, probably continue his
process for about six hours in the day, beyond which mere
physical fatigue would incapacitate him for further exertion-inde-
pendentlr of his system being exhausted of the nenioru fluid,
upon which the effect is conjectured to depend. Now supposing
the daily dose of Mesmerism necessary for each case to be an hour
and a half, every four patients would require a Mesmeriser to
themselves, which in a Hospital containing only 300 beds, would
give a mesmeric staff of seventy-five operators, exclusive of the
Physician and Surgeon in charge. The expense of maintaining
such an establishment of subordinates at the rate now paid by
Government, would be Rupees 7&0 per mensem, or 9,000 per
annum, exclusive of the coat of medicines, diet, clothing, &c. &c.,
incidental to every hospital. Were the result produced so certain
and satisfactory aa to exert a beneficial influence upon one-half
only of the caaea that present themselves, the cost would become
a matter of secondary importance aa compared with the large
amount of human sutfering that it would prevent; but as our
present Indian experience of the matter is in reality limited to
but one class of diseases (morbid enlargements of the scrotum)
and that by no meana the most frequent, formidable, or fatal that
Digit zed by Google
a
xliv
occurs in the general practice of a Surgical Hospital, I ant clearly
and decidedly of opinion, that no body of Medical Officers of
reputation or experience, could conscientiously recommend the
Government to continue so coatly an experiment for such an
inadequate result.
. Doe• meame- From the table published as a supplement
rlam lnoreaee the to the first half-yearly report of the Mesme-
oJaanoea of Uf'e to ric Hospital, and the remarks made in con-
patl.entaoperated . . h . D E d .1 d
01111114er I.tal.DAa.· nect1on wit it, r. s a1 eappears to regar
enoe t Mesmerism as increasing the chance of life to
patients operated on under its influence.
. This conclusion is not warranted by the facts exhibited in his
own practice, nor by a comparison with the results obtained· in the
Medical College of Calcutta. AB a statistical table, it is not
necessary to inform profeuional men that Dr. Esdaile's record is
of no value or authority, inasmuch as it does not specify that the
cases were to a great extent selected, that several were diamissed
as doubtful from the state of health of the patient, and that in a
considerable number, one or both testicles were (I think most
properly and judiciously) removed at once, so as considerably to
accelerate the rapidity of the amputation, diminish the amount of
hoomorrhage, and consequently increase the chances of life to
the patient. The protraction of the operation by the careful and
tedious diasection required to save the testicles, I regard as consi-
derably augmenting ita immediate and remote danger, both froni
the more profuse hremorrhage that ensues, and the greater effort of
nature subsequently required for the covering in of the parts.
After a certain age, and in all cases where t.he bulk of the tumor
renders it probable that the diseased action bas destroyed the
testicles, it would be well that the mass should be at once removed
without any attempt to save organs of which the functions must
have long ceased. Be that, however, as it may, I find upon careful
enquiry that during the last five years not a single case of scMtal
enlargement has been sent away from the Medical College Hospi-
tal in which the patient wished for its removal, and there was the
smallest hope of prolonging his life, or adding to his comfort by
ridding him of his burthen.
The number of scrotal tumors removed in the Calcutta Mesmeric
Hospital up to the present date, has, according to a memorandum
furnished to me by Sub-Assistant Surgeon Budden Chunder
Cbowdry, been 45, with 3 deaths, or I in 15 cases, or by adding
the sixteen previously removed at Hooghly without a fatal result,
61 cases with 3 deaths, or J in 20f.
From 1840 to 1846, the number of scrotal tumors removed in
the Medical College Hospital by Profeuora Egerton, Raleigh and
Digitized by Google
xl'f
R. O'Shaughneasy has been 37, with two deaths, or 1 in 18\, a
difference in mortality that would not warrant or justify the sup-
position of the prophylactic inftuence of Mesmerism, even had the
dhleaae been in all respects dealt with in the same manner, which
was not the case.
Statistical tables of the results of surgical operations are of little
value where the numbers are so small as those which can be exhi-
bited by the records of any Calcutta Hospital. l esubjoin for
comparison with Dr. Eedaile's record, the Tables marked Noa.
I and 2, of the operations performed in the College Hospital and
Out-door Dispensary. I do not consider them as of the slightest.
present value in a statistical point of view. Another half century
of careful record and observation will render them really useful in
every sense, and for this purpose, they are appended to the annual
printed reports of the Medical College and Council of Education.
&m~tloa fd The other Surgical cases that occurred in
SoJabircnaa •am- the Mesmeric HOtlpital were too few in
ma, 41.o. number, to admit of any deduction being
drawn from them either for or against Mesmerism.
The first operation performed in the Calcutta Hospital waa a
complete and entire failure as regarded its mesmeric character.
It was the amputation of a schirrous mamma. Dr. Esdaile's
record states that "two-thirds of the tumor were removed with-
out her feeling it." I had my finger upon the pulse of the right
arm, and ascertained that she suffered from the very moment of
the knife coming in contacl with her skin.
A case offungus hiematodes of the arm derived no benefit from
Mesmerism, and the amputation was practised at the shoulder-
joint in the natural state. The patient sank a few hours after-
wards.
The case of lithotomy mentioned at page 46, of the First Hnlf-
y early Report, I regard as a failure. I did not, however, see it.
Kedloal ..... The medical ('ases treated in the Mesme-
merism. ric Hospital were chiefly instances of
Epilepsy. Enlarged Glands.
Insanity. Paralysis.
Neuralgia. Hysteria.
Rheumatism. Deafness.
Scrophula.
The treatment of these cases and their results, appear to me to
be of the most incomplete and unsatisfactory nature. ·
The subject of Somnambulism I leave unnoticed, be('auae the
greatest of the cases appeared to me to be one of unmitigated im-
posture, the others to present irreconcilable contradictions, and
Digitized by Google
xlvi
the whole to have been of no service in the treatment of dUeae,
the only point that I feel bound to dwell upon in the present
report. .
Epi/epl1J is known to depend upon eeveral different conditiona,
some of which are curable, while others are incapable of being
removed in the preaent state of our knowledge, and are conse-
quently classed among the opprohria medicinti!.
The cerebral form of the disease is the most intractable and
difficult to manage, while the various species of Epilepna Sym-
pathico,*are more or leas under control, as their exciting cauaea
are known and capable of being removed.
Beyond the declaration of the patients themselves, and the im-
perfect observations of the subordinates in the hospital, there was
nothing to show that any real amendment occurred ; and in more
than one instance, I hal·e reason to believe that the patients pro-
fessed to have derived benefit, merely for the purpose of leaving
the hospital, of which they had become tired. Little pains ap-
peared to he taken to ascertain the exact exciting cause of the
disease, and most seemed to me to be exactly in the same state
throughout the course of treatment.
The history of the curative means adopted to remove this formi-
dable affection is one of the most curious in the annals of medical
experience, and proves that all statements regarding the supposed
virtue and efficacy of any particular plan of treatment require to
be received with caution. Charms, amulet.a, every imaginable
variety of empiricism, moat of the articles of the materia medica,
superstition, t'redulity, castration, and the amputation of the big
toe, have all been tried in turn, and each can boast of its miracu-
lous cures, with 88 much reason 88 Mesmerism.
. That the latter agency may be quite capable of diminishing the
frequency, of lessening the violence, and ultimately of preventing
the recurrence of the fit in some cases, I am not disposed to doubt
or deny; but the evidence afforded by the practice of Dr. Esdaile'a
Hospital during the past year, baa not convinced me that any of
those results were accomplished, and I am strongly inclined to
believe, that those cases which are incurable by ordinary means,
will be found equally unyielding to the mesmeric influence, and
that all the curable varieties will be more readily, rapidly, and
permanently benefited by the plans of treatment ordinarily adopt-
ed, than by any amount of unaided Mesmerism that may be
applied for their relief.
Hyateria comprehends so many different conditions of the
system that little or no value can be attached to the reaulta o{ any
•Cheyne.
Digitized by Google
..
I·
table baa been compiled by Mr. 9eorge Daly, the
Surgeon, from the Hospital records, and embracea
tha1e classes of .Medical cases which were treated in the
eric Hospital.
) The Nelll'lllgic cues are all Included under the head
'c Rheumatism, thoee admic&ed having uaually been
mixed charact.er.
All theCUM ofenlarged glands were of a ICl'Ophulous
and are therefore returned under that design&tion.
casea requiring In-door treatment were admitted to Hoa-
: the only ciu- rejected were thoee of a contagious
t.er, ll1ICh u amall-pox, ecabies, &o. &o.
FaBD. J. MouAT, M. D.
Secretary.
of t!&e Medit:al (
lE
i I
t
""
s:i.
=.J
'g =
·i:: ..
i ~
.,
!.a I
t
~I~ ~
..
.. ~
~
' 10 ...
8 8 ...
10 12 ...
8 7 , 3
9 17 21
12 802 59• :
15 1003 703
14 86 ...
16 54 ...
ighout the table, '
Digitized by Google
L
Except the occasional production of insensibility, which it can
no longer claim the exclusive power of effecting, I saw no advan-
tage, either to the patient or the surgeon, which could be fairly
attributed to mesmerism. The hremorrhage was as severe as is
usual in such operations. The nature of the operation was in no
instance modified, so as to improve the ultimate condition of the
patient. The ease, coolness, and deliberation of the surgeon did
not appear to me to be at all increased, by the apparently uncon-
scious state of his patients ; nor were the slow dissections, some-
times necessary for the purpose of preserving important parts,
had recoul'8e to more frequently, or indeed so frequently with
success, as I have seen in other hospitals ; on the contrary, the
dread that the patient might wake up, and spoil the experiment
before the operation was concluded, appeared to me, to act moRt
injuriously on the nerves of the operator, and to produce a hurry,
and want of precision in his proceedings, most unfavourable both
to himself and to his patients.
Contrast this with the newly discovered agent, ether. It is
equally efficacious, and certain in its effects, when administered to a
patient writhing in agony from a recent wound, or about to un-
dergo an operation for a painless tumour. It may be employed
with equal success in the most noisy as in the most silent situa-
tions, and therefore it is available for the most urgent cases, and
for Military, as well as for CMl Surgery. I have employed this
agent in every surgical case of the least importance requiring
operation, both in private and hospital practice, for the last nine
months, with the most satisfactory results. At first I occasionally
failed to produce perfect insensibility with it, owing to bad ether,
imperfect apparatus, and the timidity of ignorance {for I dreaded
to use, as freely as I might, a power of so apparently formidable a
nature); but I now find that in every instance it produces perfect
insensibility, which may be kept up, or allowed to pass away, at
pleasure, and I have not in a single instance had cause to regret
its employment.
I feel that I should apologise for offering my opinion of the u~
of ether, in a report upon Mesmerism as practised under Dr.
Esdaile ; but as that gentleman took much unnecessay trouble
(which no doubt was disinterested and well meant) both in the
newspapers, and in his official correspondence, to prejudice the
public and the profession against its use, I feel it to be my duty
to state the result of my experience of this inestimable boon, with
the hope of counteracting, as much aa my humble opinion may
tend to do so, the prejudice and alarm attempted tO be created
againat it.
Digitized by Google
If
The objections stated by Dr. Esclaile iri his letter t<1 Mr; Halli-
day, cannot be the result of a fair and full investigation of the
matter, or he could not fail to find out, that there was, 1st, no-
thing " disgusting'' in the inhalation of good ether. He would
also discover there was no difficulty in getting persons to inhale it.
2d. Although it may occasionally produce intoxication, it also
produces insensibility to pain, in the individual so affected, and
the intoxication of ether is not followed by depression, or any other
iujurious consequences.
3d. The effects are almost certain in skilful hands, with good
ether and a proper apparatus.
4th. The dangers are imaginary. The reported fatal effects
attributed to ether, all practical men now laugh at, and the tempo-
rary alteration in the constitution of the blood has not been proved
to act injuriously; or to retard the recovery of a single case.
5th. It is not "inadmissible" in cases with "debility of the
system," such as would be selected for surgical operations ; but it
is hardly necessary to caution the profession against its use, where
there is disease of the " heart, lungs and brain," as I believe no
surgeon, worthy of the name, would operate at all on patients so
affected.
(Signed) R. O'SHAUGHNBssv,
Professor of Surgery,
Official Visitor of the illeameric Hospital.
(True Copies,)
J. FoRSYTH, S"rgeon,
Secretary Medical Board.
Digitized by Google
lU
REPORT BY DR. R. M.' M~ THOMSON.
I was present at the Mesmeric Ho@pital when Dr. Esdaile ope-
rated on the two following cases: Ramchunder, aged 32, Brahmin,
a stout healthy man, from zillah Burdwan, admitted 29th May,
with hypertrophied scrotum of l2 years' growth.
The patient having been galvanized yesterday without waking,
the operation was ·performed at noon, this day, (4th June,) and
the tumor removed in four minutes and a half. There was no
exhibition of pain, except slight groaning during the last stage,
and the patient continued in deep sleep until about ten minutE-8
after all the blood vessels had been secured. The pulse which
was 118 before the operation, fell after it to 60, but was not very
weak, although the loss of blood was considerable. He gradually
awoke like a person from undisturbed sleep, but seemed to have
difficulty in opening his eyelids. When fairly awoke and ques-
tioned by one of the bystanders, be eaid be had felt no pain. The
tumor weighed eight pounds.
Kistomohun Sein, resident of Calcutta, agt'd 21, a boxwallah
by profession, affected with scrotal tumor of 8 yean' growth.
Admitted 1st June, and operated upon on the 7th, ha\'.ing been
subjected to galvanism the previous day without waking. Before
.the operation the patient was in a deep mesmeric sleep, and did
not awake when pricked with the point of the scalpel on the
abdomen and thighs. The countenance was quite placid, breath-
ing easy, pulse 118 and soft. The operation lasted five and a half
minutes, when about half finished, the patient breathed quickly,
groaned much, and cried out sharply several times, he also strug-
gled a good deal, and his distorted features denoted sufferings from
great pain, still he never opened his eyes, and did not, I helieve,
awake until some time after the principal bleeding vessels had
been tied. When fairly roused, he eaid he had not been sensible
of any pain, and that he was willing to have the tumor removed.
A few minutes after this he appeared to suffer from the lou of
blood, called for water and made signs that he wished to be fanned.
It was now found necessary to use several more ligatures, and to
apply matico leaves, to stop the hemorrhage ; during this process
he suffered acute pain, cried out loudly to be left alone, and shrieked
as each ligature was tightened. His pulse was then 62 and weak,
face and neck covered with cold perspiration. The tumor weighed
16 pounds.
(Signed) R. M. M. 'fBOMSON,
Marine Surgetm.
Digitized by Google
. ..
liv
10 or 15 minutes after the native mesmerizer had discontinued his
passes.
That deep sleep with insensibility to pain, and all outward im-
pressions can be induced by the mesmeric processes is, in my
opinion, placed beyond all doubt, when practised on the Hind~
and Mahomedans of these provinces; but I am not aware of a Rin-
gle instance wherein similar results have been obtained when the
mesmeric passes have been performed daily for an hour or two,
and continued even throughout a series ofone two or three months,
on Europeans and Eurasians in Calcutta ; I believe alRO it has fre-
quently failed in producing any effect upon many of the natives.
When Dr. Esdaile was first callf'd upon by Government to per-
form his mesmeric experiments before the Committee appointed
to report thereon, he stated his intention of restricting his per-
formances rigidly to native patients; and with this class of people
he has certainly succeeded admirably in producing a sleep from
which they could not be roused by the most acute pain, or the
loudest noises, and from which at the same time the patient can
be easily awoke by blowing upon his face and eyes, rubbing and
separating the eyelids, or by expot1ing his body to a current of
cold air; a sleep too, unaccompanied with stertorous breathing,
subsequent wandering, or head-ache. .
In every case which baa come before me when the fatient was
deeply under the mesmeric influence the pulse was 18 or 120,
and fell rapidly to about 60 before the operation was finished.
This remark is however directly opposite to what baa been made
by the Committee, who stated that in similar cases the pulse rose
remarkably during the operation.
In the unsuccessful case already alluded to, the pulse, if I recol-
lect right, was 84 before the operation, but became quieker during
its progress, and I believe it will be found almost, if not always in
every case, that the pulsations are about 120 when the patient is
fairly entranced; this being termed by Dr. Esdaile the mesmeric
pulse.
As to the loss of blood during operations performed in the in-
sensible state I am of opinion, that it is much the same as under
the ordinary method, and that the cure is not accelerated by
bringing the patient into the mesmeric state before each dressing.
With regard to the fears expressed by many, that persons once
mesmerised, are rendered more susceptible to its influence, and
that this susceptibility renders the patient more liable to many
nervous affections, I think there is no proof of this; but I be-
lieve there are peculiarities of constitution in which persons are
Digitized by Google
lv
more or less readily affected by mesmerism as well as by many
other agents, which, if applied generally, will produce no effect;
and also, that if the mesmeric process be discontinued for a month
or two, it will require the same length of time to bring the patient
again under its influence as was at first necesaary for its accom·
plishment. The principal objection to a resort to mesmerism in
surgery, is, in my opinion, the uncertainty of its po\ver acting
sufficiently on many of the natives, and its utter failure, so far as
I can learn, and so far as I have myself observed, when practised
on Europeans and Eurasians here ; to which must be added also
the uncertainty of the time required to produce deep sleep with
insensibility to pain, even in those natives who are ultimately
brought under its influence; thereby rendering it inapplicable,
whenever the operation requires to be performed speedily ; for
instance, in strangulated hernia, dislocations, or severe compound
fractures, &c. requiring amputation, in all which cases rether may,
if properly used, produce the desired effect in a few minutes.
The chief recommendations of the rether method then, is the
rapidity with which insensibility is produced, and the greater
number of persons who can be rendered entirely insensible by its
use than by mesmerism. However, I must confess, that were it
necessary I should submit to a painful operation, I would de-
cidedly prefer the mesmeric method, if assured that the neces-
sary deep sleep could be obtained, as I conceive I should be leBS
likely to experience any of the untoward symptoms which are, it
is said, occasionally produced by inhaling the disgusting fumes of
sulphuric rether.
With regard to the efficacy of mesmerism in the treatment
of diseases, I regret to be obliged to state, that I can bring
forward nothing in its favor. I sav this with reference not only
to the cases I have seen in Dr. Esdaile's Hospital afterwards
discharged as cured, but also as to some of his out-door pa-
tients, who came under my care, after they had been mesmerised
for one or two months without the slightest effect. About a
month ago a Mrs. E., a Eurasian, callE'd at my house for medical
a11sistance; having seen her frequently at the Mesmeric Hospital,
where she had told me she was getting better, I naturally felt sur-
prised that she should come to me with the request that I would
prescribe for her complaint, viz. rheumatism of the joints, for the
cure of which she bad attended Dr. Esdaile's Hospital, and been
daily mesmerised· for two hours, during a period of more than two
months. I asked her what effect the mesmeric process had upon
her? she replied, " None whatever, Sir, it never even produced
" sleep, and my pains are just as bad as when 1 first went there.
" When I left the Hospital the luHt time, I told Dr. Esdaile I was
Digitized by Google
lvi
" quite well, for I feared to offend him after giving so much trou-
" ble !" A few days ago, Mr. B., of the Harbour Master's De-
partment, called upon me, be was suft'ering from nervousness and
general debility, and said he had attended at the Mesmeric Hos-
pital, and been mesmerised twenty-five successive days without
experiencing the least advantage. He said, "When I went to the
" Hospital Dr. Esdaile promised to cure me, but I daily became
" worse, and Sir, I believe, if I had remained there any longer I
" should have been mesmerised into my grave !" I then asked
him what cases he had seen benefited by mesmerism at the Hos-
pital? He replied," Sir, I was anxious of cour1'e, to hear of auc-
" cessful cues in order that I might receive encouragement to per-
" severe, and be cured myself; but I found no persons get relief
" there but those fellows with the large tumours." Amongst my
'own patients I endeavoured to give mesmerism a fair trial, and
eelected five cases for that purpoae,-the first was a case of severe
nervous bead-ache, the second gastrodynia, the third tic douloureux
of the face, the fourth dysmenorrbrea, and the fifth ovarian dropsy,
the last mentioned case was seen by Dr. Esdaile who instructed
the husband how to mesmerize his wife. In all these cases the
husbands were the manipulators, and although they continued the
passes daily for one month, and in two of the cues for two months
with the utmost anxiety to benefit the sufferers, not the slightest
effect was produced, and not even common sleep induced. The
poor husbands however one and all complained of feeling very
much exhausted.
I have not stated these cases for the purpose of throwing di1-
credit upon mesmerism, far from it, for I deeply regretted their
failure, and it may be that they failed from want of skill on the
part of the operators; or, that, to obtain success, still greater per-
severance waa necessary, or that in all these cases there was the
absence of that peculiar idiosyncrasy of constitution, which is
neceHary for the development of the mesmeric phrenomena.
I have made these remarks more in detail, and with leas refer-
ence to any ideas of my own than to my experience of the facta
that have actually come under my observation, because mesmerism
is a subject I do not fully comprehend, and therefore I can offer no
opinion ; but I am anxious for the truth, and that every alleged
means of curing disease may turn out, not a fallacy, but a reality.
I have, &c.,
(Signed) R. M. M. THOMSON,
Marine Surgto'I&.
Calcutta, 2d August, 1847.
Digitized by Google
DR. JACKSON'S REPORT.
FROM J. JACKSON, ESQ.,
Surgeon to the Native Ho1pital,
To J. FORSYTH, EsQ.,
Secretary to the Medical Board,
Fort William.
Sia, ·
A year having passed since the establishment of the
Experimental Mesmeric Hospital, I have now, as one of the
visitors appointed by Government, and in obedience to their
orders, the honor of transmitting to the Medical Board, my report
on what I have witnessed.
I have also the honor of forwarding at the same time a state-
ment of the number and result of the operations which have taken
place during the last year in the Hospital I have charge of, which
the Government have called for at the suggestion of Dr. Esdaile,
in order that a comparison may be made between their results, and
those performed by Dr. Esdaile, under the Mesmeric Agency.
I have, &c.,
(Signed) J. JACKSON,
Surgeon to the Native Hoapital.
Native Hospital, Nov. 22d, 1847.
Faox Da. JACKSON,
Visitor Mesmeric Holpital,
To THE SECRETARY MEDICAL BoAan,
Dated-16th November, 1847.
Sia,
Since the establishment of the Mesmeric Hospital I have
been a frequent visitor, and have witnessed several operations per-
formed by Dr. Esdaile whilst the patients were in a mesmeric state,
but in none have I observed any feature differing from the account
given in the original Report of the Mesmeric Committee, of which
I was a· Member in the latter part of last year.
Hindoos, suffering from hypertrophy of the scrotum, with which
they had been aftlicted for years, were for the most part the class
operated on : the time required to bring them under the mesmeric
state was generally from five to fifteen days, . some few were
brought under the inftuence at an earlier period, whilst others were
;
Digitized by Google
lviii
altogether insusceptible. In some or the patients there was no
other appearance of consciousness than that indicated by ftexion
of the feet during the operation, and alight closure of the hand.
In others there was compression of the mouth, pressure of the
hand upon the abdomen, or firm grasping of the person who stood
near, but in none of these instances was there any necesRity for
the patients being held. The pulse generally became quickened at
the commencement of the operation, and continued so until it was
over, and the breathing was hurried. At times the body became
bedewed with cold perspiration, whi<>h stood in drops upon the
forehead, and the patient became faint and collapsed, as a patient
sometimes does, after operation in the usual way; but all these
patients expressed themselves as ignorant of what had been done,
and in some instances seemed surprised, when told, that the ope-
ration was over.
With all the appearance or perfect unconsciousness at the com-
mencement of the operation, some patients have been awoke at the
first or second incision, and have then writhed and cried out in all
the suffering of acute pain. The writhing of the body and much
inward groaning, I have also witnessed in other cases, where the
patient, after the operation, has stated that he had suffered
nothing.
Some of the patients have apparently possessed perfect insus-
ceptibility, and after undergoing the mesmeric manipulations for
a certain number of hours for a succession of days, have left the
• Mesmeric Hospital in disappointment, and have gone elsewhere for
operation. .
In the Mesmeric Hospital I have observed none but Hindoos
and Mussulmen, but I am aware that the mesmeric manipulations
have been continued for several weeks upon an East Indian with a
view to operation and without effect. The man complained
to me that he had " lost more than a month, and all for no good."
I havt> only entered into a detail of two or the operations, as
several have been before describt>d in the original Report, and
with the exception of one case of amputation of the breast, which
I considert'd most unsuccessful as a painless operation, I have wit-
nessed no others than those of scrotal tumors, and in not one or
these was the patient perfectly motionless, there was either com-
pression of the lips, distortion of the cquntenance, movement ofthe
hands or feet, and inarticulate sound!f~r groaning, but none of the
patients were held, and, with the exception of those who woke up
during the time of the operation and gave manifest signs of sulTer-
ing, they all asserted that they felt no pain. I am credibly
informed that some, in whom I did not witness the operation,
Digitized by Google
Ix
then to paralyse the several nerves of sense, such as smell, hear·
ing, sight and touch, but first those of muscular motion.
The eyes were then closed firmly by pieces of cotton fastened
down with circular portion of sticking plaster, an inch and a half
in diameter. An additional piece of sticking plaster was applied
over the whole, so as completely to exclude the light from enter-
ing, and preventing the patient being able to see any thing. The
patient was a kidmutgar, belonging to a seafaring man, and was
said not to understand English.
All being prepared, Dr. Esdaile began by mesmerising the right
arm, which he was requested to do by Dr. Grant, and after
manipulating for some time at a short distance, but never touching
the individual, Dr. Esdaile retired from the spot, and requested
some one to desire the man to raise the arm, the man made several
attempts to obey but without success. The leg appeared equally
fixed with the arm.
The arm was then attempted to be raised by one of the company,
and the fingers gently moved, but he cried out with pain, and the
attempt was desisted from.
Dr. Grant went over to the other side of the patient, and made
a few passes down the left arm, and very shortly after, this arm
together with the leg, became fixed like those on the right side.
The patient was desired to stand, had his head bent forward, when
there was a natural flexion of the elbows, but no raising of the
limb. When told to get up he said he could not, and when the
attempt was made he complained greatly of the pain induced.
After continuing in this state some time, Dr. Esdaile blew upon
tlie man, and made a series of rapid transverse passes, when by
degrees the stiffness of the limbs subsided, and the man moved the
arms, and then the legs, and was able t.o stand : he was then rais-
ed up, and told to walk, when he gently moved from the spot
complaining of the pain in his limbs, particularly the back.
The patient was then reseated on his couch, when it was pro-
posed to mesmerise tbe nerves of smell. A bottle, containing some
carbonate of ammonia, was applied to the nose 011 which he drew
back his head. Dr. Esdaile then began to mesmerise the nose,
and after performing a few passes, the ammonia was again applied,
when after a short time, he drew back his head, and when asked
if he smelt any thing, he pointed to his throat. Other enquiriea
were also made, but obtained no satisfactory replies. During the
process of this mesmerising of the special sense it appeared that
the whole frame, the upper and lower extremities, were rendered
motionless as before, and on this being remarked to Dr. Esdaile,
he stated that very possibly this might be the case, that he was
Digitized by Google
lxii
powera, with the universal helping hand and advocacy of the
press, both in the English and Native languages (for it is impos-
sible for the knowledge of any supposed remedy to have been
more diffused abroad,) it is a matter of some surprise that so few
have availed themselves of the Mesmeric Hospital, and that the
operations have been so limited and confined to Natives suffering
from almost one particular kind of disease.
The beneficial effects which I have observed, are thl" possibility
which it seems to possess, in certain cases of chronic disease, of
inducing such a state of deep sleep that severe operations can be
performed, Vlfhilst the patient is in a state of acknowledged uncon-
sciousness, and this no doubt is a very great blessing. But the
uncertainty again as to the time required to produce this state,
with the doubts, which always exist, as to the sleep being intense
enough, and the occasional insusceptibility in certain habits, and
in persons suffering from pain, cough, and fever, cause it to be of
little value as a general agent for hospital purposes: and depend-
ing, as its success does, upon the unwearied attention of the opera-
tor, and disturbed by many surrounding circumstances, as cold
air, noise, &c., it can never be an agent ofgeneral use in the pro-
fession, but will have its supporters, and be practised, I imagine,
like homrepathy and the water cure.
Since the above was written I have received a communication
from the Government of Bengal, at the request of Dr. Esdaile,
that I should forward to the Medical Board a statement of the
number and results of the &e\•eral surgical operations without the
intervention of mesmeric agencr, that have been performed at the
Native Hospital, with a view o instituting a Cllmparison between
them, and those performed by himself under the inftuence of that
agency, in number 133, and Dr. Esdaile has suggested that the
operation for the removal of scrotal tumors off~rs a fairer field for
forming a comparative estimate from the cases being of so similar
a character.
On referring to the details of the 133 cases of mesmeric opera-
tions in two years with only five deaths, I find included in that
list extractions of teeth, hydrocele, extracting of toe-nails,
opening of fistula, circumcision, and other trifting cases, amowit-
ing in number to about 80 in the 133.
Now amongst a catalogue of this nature the ratio of mortality is
scarcely to be looked for, and in Hospital Reports most of such
cases are either not noticed, or are grouped under the heads of
minor operation, and generally amount to some hundred during
the year. The ratio therefore of 4 per cent., or rather less,
excites no surprise when the .nature of the cases is considered.
Digitized by Google
lxiii
The proportion of operation for scrotal tumors and the success
attending them is very great (only one in 40 was unsuccessful,)
and deRerves all the praise to be awarded to a succeRsful series of
operations. But I do not consider this as the fairer field for
comparison, or as a proof of the beneficial inftuence of mesmerism.
It is to this kind of operation that Dr. Esdaile has paid especial
attention, and his fame for the removal of this particular kind of
tumor has been spread throughout Bengal, and has been the means
of filling his Hospital with patients.
But I have not considered the number of applicants and the
success of the operations, as attributable, in any way, to the use of
mesmeriRm, but believe that the same result would have occurred
had any common disease of the Natives received his especial care
and success ; in the Rame way as in the case of one of the Sub-
Assistant Surgeons, Moheschunder Nun, of Muttra, who has
obtained an honorable name for a aeries of successful operations
for lithotomy, amounting, I believe, to 36, without a death. As
an operation is repeatedly performed, greater ease and skill is
obtained, and dangers are obviated, which in the first few cases pre-
sented themselves. In some of the earlier operations of scrotal
tumors, noted by Dr. Goodeve and quoted by Dr. Esdaile, the
chances of life and death, after the operations, have been pronounc-
ed about equal, and in the earlier cases by others, deaths occurred
more frequently than in the latter ones. A desire to preserve, as
far as possible, the important parts, caused delay, and with it, loss
of blood, and eventually of life. The importance of saving time
was seen in the later cases, and is fully understood by Dr. EsdRile;
who in order to have the operation over, as quickly as possible,
makes no hesitation in removing at once the organs, insread of the
former tedious practice of dissection and securing of vessels.
What formerly occupied from 15 to 40 minutes is now completed
in 6, and this is I consider. the one great reason for the present
success.
Scrotal tumors are not for the most part favorite operations for
the Surgeon, nor do they require much more skill in their perfor-
mance than is requisite to cut through a large mass of flesh with
very slight dissection. Many persons with tumors of this nature
I know have been refused to be operl\ted upon by some Surgeons,
who considered that the present state of the patient was bette~
than their after maimed condition. But no doubt exists in my
mind, that when it is known that any one Surgeon is ready to
remove these tumors, that the Nath·es will ftock to him, and that
he will number as many as are enrolled in Dr. Esdaile's list, and
perhaps with the same success.
Digitized by Google
lxiv
Appended is the list of surgical operations, which have taken
place at the Native Hospital during the past year, in which it will
be found that J7 cases of scrotal tumors have been operated on,
without the aid of mesmerism, and that none have died.
I have, &c.,
(Signed) J. JACKSON,
Surgeon, Native Hospital.
No. J.
CASE OF OPERATION.
On the 15th of the month of May, I had an opportunity of
witnessing an operation by Dr. Esdaile for removing a scrotal
tumor from a man, who had suffered 11 years from it, as well as
from elephantiasis of both legs. The man, by name Ramess,
came from Burdwan, and was about 40 years of age. Before the
operation the pulse was l~, but during the operation, it
rose and became very frequent. On the first incision there
was constriction of the muscles of the face, especially round the
mouth, as if he was suffering from acute pain. The left hand
remained pres1ted upon the abdomen, the legs which were widely
extended to admit of the operation ·being performed, remained
still, but there was constant motion of the toes. The pulse after
the operation fell to 70, and was feeble, and the patient was
bedewed with cold perspiration on the forehead. After the
operation the patient was awoke, and df!nied all knowledge of the
removal of the tumor. The tumor would weigh about eleven
pounds.
No. 2.
Saturday, AugJUt 7th.-Visited the Mesmeric Hospital, and
witnessed one of the usual operations for removing a small scrotal
tumor by Dr. Esdaile, from a patient.who had been mesmerised
by one of the passed students of the Medical College, by name
Jaudubchunder Ghose. The legs and arms of th«> patients were
extended during the whole time of the operation an~ re-
mained in this state until its completion. The only motion
being that of ftexion of the feet, and towards the termination of
the operation the right hand was morf' closed than at the com-
menc«>ment. The patient never uttered a cry, or appeared to be
otherwise conscious than by the slight motion of the right hand
and feet. After the operation the legs were approximated, and the
patient left apparently asleep, the pulse was steady during the
time, the countenance bedewed with perspiration, which stood in
drops upon the forehead.
· (Signed) J. JACKSON.
Digitized by Google
0
'§:
i'i
CD
c.
-'!
("')
0
~
-
rv
&turn of Surgical Optratimu pn-formtd in tlit Cliandnty NatifJt H<npital,from 16tli N<>f'tmbtr 1846 to 15tli
NOtJtmbtr 1847 (ncltUiot.)-(Continutd.)
Calcutta, 16tli N<>f'tmbtr, 1847.
d
Result.
0
1
NATUJtB OP 0Plllt4Tl01'& ~ RBKAIUt&
.!
'i 1
a
" iS 8
z
Brought forward,.•••••••• 19 6 13
Amputation of =~.~.~~~~:.~~.i:?::l 1 0 1
- - of penis, (cancer)................ 1 0 1
Operation for strangulated hernia, ...." ... 4 0 4
~ Onecaee that troved fatal recovered from the operation, but was seized
tor llthotomy,.••••.•••••.•••••••••••. 5 t 3 with diarrhaia w ile in Hospital, and died 41 days after. The other died I
of diseue of the kidney.
- for lithotrity, ........................ l 0 l
- for atone im.Pacted in urethra, • 9 0 9
for punctunng bladder and f t 0 t
layi:f. open urethra, .........
for fiat a in ano, .................. 3 0 3
- for the removal or fractured~
~n~~~.•~~~~!
1 0 1
for~~:l,.~~..~:.~~..~l 1 0 l
tor ca&arac&, •••••••••·•••••••·•••••• 8 0 8
- - -
Carried over, ........ 55 8 47
-
><
!!.
