{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1847__bird___historical_researchs_on_the_dauddha_and_jaina_religions.pdf","mytitle":"Historical Researchs On The Dauddha And Jaina Religions","mylang":"de"}
HISTORICAL RESEARCHED
ON THE ORIGIN AND PRINCIPLES OF THE
BAUDDHA AND JAINA RELIGIONS
EMBRACING THE LEADING TENETS OF THEIR SYSTEM, AS FOUND
PREVAILING IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES;
$Uu0ttattft t>» Dcjjcnpttur accounts of tfjt ^cuiptmrg
IN THE
CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA,
WITH TRANSLATIONS OF THE INSCRIPTIONS FROM THOSE OF
KANARI, KARLI, AJANTA, ELLORA, NASIK, &c.
WHICH INDICATE THEIR CONNEXION WITH THE
COINS AND TOPES
OF THE
PANJAB AND AFGHANISTAN.
JAMES BIRD, Esq, M.R.A.S, & ER.G.S.
VICE-PRESIDENT AND SECRETARY OF THE BOMBAY ASIATIC SOCIETY.
A BOMBAY:
PRINTED AT THE AMERICAN MISSION PRESS.
T. GRAHAM, PRINTER.
1849*.
/BP y/U. S--
' r
To
THE RIGHT HONORABLE LORD VISCOUNT HARDINGE, G. C. B..
governor-general of british india.
My Lord,
In dedicating this volume to you, I acknowledge a proud feeling,
and gratified obligation, that, in your public capacity, you should have honored
my humble endeavours, to obtain clearer historical knowledge of ancient India by
recommending me to the authorities at home as a fit superintendent of the lite
rary investigation about to be commenced, under the sanction of the Court of
Directors. The compliment was as unlooked for, as it is gratifying ; and is a
proof of what every branch of the public service might have expected from a
continuance of your administration; characterized, as it has been by firmness
and decision in the hour of danger, and by equity and nobly generous feeling,
for the claims of the governed, in the time of peace.
With sentiments of the sincerest respect and regard, I subscribe myself,
Your Lordship's faithful and obliged servant,
James Bird.
Bombay, V7th November, 1847.
I
PREFACE
There is scarcely any subject in Archaeology which has excited more interest,
or is better deserving of investigation than the origin and progress of Buddhism.
The religion of so large a portion of the human race, which spread itself from the
Indus to the most eastern limits of China, and from Ceylon to the confines of Si
beria, carrying with it a knowledge of letters, and civilizing in its progress the
rude Nomadic tribes of Central and Western Asia, is surely well worthy the at
tentive consideration of every one interested in the history of mankind. It is gen
erally admitted that the dogmas of this faith had their rise in India, and were
propagated by its missionaries to the various regions where it still flourishes.
But while the caves of this country are existing evidences of the dominant influ
ence, in ancient times, of Indian Buddhism, it is scarcely comprehensible, as M.
Burnouf wrote to Mr. Prinsep, how our Government could have so long neglected
monuments of such historical importance, associated as they are with the former
state of India, and with the moral and religious condition of its people.
The Court of Directors have at length, however, responded to the Royal Asia
tic Society's representation of the duty imposed on us, as a nation, to preserve
these relics of ancient art, and have accordingly sent out orders, to each Presi
dency, that measures be adopted to keep them from further decay. They are also
about to institute an Archeeological commission, for investigating the architectural
character and age of the several monuments: an inquiry, which though long neg
lected, and left to other nations less interested than ourselves in India, is likely
to aid in dispelling the mist which for centuries has enveloped the historical age
of these excavations and the object of their structure.
If there be any merit in this volume, on the Caves of Western India, it is mainly
due to Mr. Wathen, formerly Chief Secretary to the Bombay Government; with
whom originated, in 1836, the idea of obtaining facsimiles of the inscriptions,
and of illustrating, by lithography, the architecture of the caves, and the frescos
which cover the interior of those at Ajanta. After causing several of the inscrip
tions at Kanari to be copied, he despatched a native artist to Ajanta, to make co
loured drawings of such fresco paintings as were to be found there. These, were
subsequently handed over to the author, in order that they might be accompanied
by a description of the caves, and form the basis of the present publication ; which
was advertised, by Mr. Wathen, in Prinsep's Journal for 1837, with a view to
obtain subscribers. The disadvantages under which these sketches were neces
sarily procured, and lithographed, will offer, it is hoped, a sufficient apology for
their imperfections ; though such are the less to be regretted, as Captain Gill,
since employed by the Madras Government, has succeeded in obtaining more ac
IV. PREFACE.
curate and better executed drawings. Captain Gill's sketches, with plans of the
caves, have been forwarded to the Hon'ble the Court of Directors, and will we
hope shortly be made public, to receive the favourable notice they deserve.
The Rev. Dr. J. Wilson, formerly President of the Bombay Asiatic Society,
having moreovor, with great liberality and kindness, placed, at the author's dis
posal, facsimiles of all the inscriptions at Karli, induced him to extend his re
searches beyond the Ajanta caves, embracing most of those situated in the Bom
bay territory. Arrangements were acordingly made for obtaining accurate facsi
miles of all the inscriptions at Kanari ; and, on application made by Dr. Stovell to
Mr. Reeves, of the Bombay Civil Service, copies of the Nasik inscriptions, along
with some drawings of the caves, were kindly forwarded by him for the author's
use.
A brief account of the minor Bauddha caves of Beira and Bajah, in the neigh
bourhood of Karli, with copies of the inscriptions was also communicated to the
author, through the kindness of Mr. N. L. Westergaard of Copenhagen, during his
visit to this country. This, with a translation of the inscriptions, was published
in the Bombay Asiatic Society's Journal for May 1844, and contains some im
portant additions to our religious and historical knowledge of the caves.
A visit paid to Ajanta and Ellora, by the author, in 1828, gave him an oppor
tunity of examining and describing the caves there ; which description, and simi
lar accounts by him of Kanari, Karli, Aurangabad, Mahar, and Badami are
given in these pages. These, augmented by Professor Orlebar's contribution on
the caves at Junir, and some notices, by others, of those at Nasik and Mahamalaia-
pur, are the materials from which the second chapter has been drawn.
To all these gentlemen the author is under the deepest obligations for much val
uable information ; and if the preparation of this volume can in any way redeem
the character of our countrymen from the imputation of indifference to a most in
teresting class of monuments, they are entitled to the largest share of public
thanks for enabling him to bring forward, in this form, a subject so long lost sight
of.
The author's best acknowledgments 'are also due to Dr. Stevenson for his
translation of the Nasik inscription ; a document of considerable importance,
showing as it does by whom such monuments were constructed and to what pur
pose they were dedicated.
The translations of the Cave inscriptions reveal to us a series of facts of the
highest importance to an authentic history of ancient India ; and establish beyond
doubt that Brahmanism, as developed in the Vedas, preceded Buddhism ; and that
the latter, whose philosophical doctrines belonged to a more advanced state of
civilization, is largely indebted for many of its tenets to an extra-Indian source.
Independent of the mere interest attached to the rise and progress of Buddhism,
the subject may be regarded in a yet higher point of view, in connection with the
intellectual darkness of India. In opposition to hereditary pretension of superi
ority, and deeply rooted religious prejudice, Buddhism was able to break down
the interested resistance made against the asserted equality of all mankind, and
their right to participate in privileges of place and religion, which had been
usurped by a few. The lesson, as regards the dissemination of true religion and
PREFACE. V.
the subversion of error, is not to be thrown away by those anxious for the welfare
and happiness of a heathen people, showing, as it does that Brahmanical preju
dices and Hindu customs are not of that unchangeable character so long and
erroneously ascribed to them.
Some apology is requisite for the length of time which has elapsed between the
advertisement and publication of the present work. The delay has arisen partly
from the author's other onerous avocations, and partly from his desire that this first
edition, in India, might appear under circumstances, which would admit of a second
and improved one from the English Press, to be published under his own imme
diate superintendence. In this he hopes he will be able to include Mr. Wester-
gaard's account of the caves at Beira and Bajah; and to enter more minutely into
the history of Buddhism in various countries, and of its connection with other
religious systems.
The historical sketch, contained in the present edition, professes only to em
brace such points as seemed necessary for the better understanding of the pur
poses for which the Western Excavations were made, and the time and circum
stances of the religion, in connexion with which they were patronized by kings.
Typographical errors are numerous, but the time and trouble necessary for pub
lishing such a work, in India, must plead as an apology, particularly as the author
had neither leisure nor opportunity to print along with it a list of errata.
Bombay, November 8th, 1847.
DESCRIPTION OF THE PLATES.
Plate I.
Is a drawing of the colossal figures, upwards of twelve feet in height, carved at the entrance of the small arched cave
at Ajanta, which is situated east of the great central one, and represents Buddha standing. It was kindly sent me by
the late Lieut. Ridge of the Bengal Cavalry, who visited Ajanta the year after I did, while the fresco paintings were yet
fresh and uninjured.
Plate II.
Represents Buddha seated on a Sinhasan or throne, on the front of which are carved, in basso relievo, antelopes and
lions. The figure is mutilated but was selected by Lieut. Ridge, being the most perfect he could find.
Plate III.
Are two figures painted infresco on the columns of the large central cave, at Ajanta, as noticed in the account of that
excavation. The exact features, form, and colours, with all the free boldness of outline and knowledge of drawing
evinced by the original, are retained in this sketch. The scale is about 18 inches.
Plates IV. and V.
Are two Dehgops, the first of which was taken from the small arched cave to the east, and is exactly like the one at
the extremity of the large central excavation at Ajanta. For these I am also indebted to Lieut. Ridge, who was an
enthusiastic admirer of these remains of ancient superstition.
The following are from the drawings of the Native artist sent to Ajanta by Mr. Wathen.
Plate VI.
Represents a composite Dehgop, taken from cave No. VI west. On the lower part, and in front, images ofBuddha
are sculptured in a standing posture, beneath a canopy ; from the pillars of which flame is depicted ascending, similar
to that on the shoulders of the Bauddha image found at Kabul, noticed at page 62, and considered demonstrative of
the union which appears to have existed between the Bauddha and Mithraic creeds.
Plates VII. to XII.
Represent Buddha in various sitting attitudes with a nimbus round the head, and the hands in different positions,
indicative ofdhyan or mental abstraction; the act of creating and evolving into new forms the different orders of be
ing. The head is sometimes covered by a tiara, the pyramidal mukut, or crest of Buddha. The figures are accompa
nied by the symbol of the Makara, (the Indian crocodile) which is the type of Kama, the Hindu Apollo, who is con
sequently named Makara Dhwaja, or he with the sign of the crocodile. This type is satisfactory proof of the similarity
of mythological ideas existing, in ancient times, between special worshippers of Vishnu, who identified him with Vasu-
deva or Bhagavata, and those of the more orthodox Vaishnavas, who made Vasudeva the same with Krishna, only
another form of the Hindu Kama or Cupid; who, as representing the sun, appears to have been confounded with
Buddha, the excellent one of the sun, the heavenly Gautama. See pages 22 and 62.
Plates XIII. to XV.
Various orders of pillars from the Ajanta caves.
Plates XVI. and XVII.
The front of the large cave at Junir, and the Dehgop from the interior.
Plate XVIII.
Fresco paintings of heads on the walls at Ajanta.
VIII. DESCRIPTION OF THE PLATE8
Plate XIX.
Fresco figures and panels of flowers from the roof of the large. painted cave at Ajanta, situated west of the central one.
Plate XX.
A fresco painting of six Buddhas springing from the lotus. There is a series of five celestial or Dhyani Buddhas, to
whom are assigned the five elements of matter, the five powers of human sense, the five respective objects ofsensation^
and the five colours of the rainbow, white, blue, yellow, red and green: but there is also a series of six Dhyani Bud
dhas, named Vairochana, Akshobya, Ratna Sambhava, Amitabha, Amogha Siddha, and Vajra Satwa;to which are as
cribed intellectual form, arid the discrimination between good and evil; The appearance of this series in the Ajanta
caves, and in conformity with the Bauddha notions, introduced from India into Nepal about the middle of the 7th cen
tury of our era, would seem to imply that these excavations could not have been earlier than the beginning of the 6th
century.
Plates XXII to XXXIII.
Are various fresco drawings from Ajanta, depicting Buddha in his jatakas, or mortal transmigrations while on earth ;
which are usually to be met with inside ofBauddha temples, and are intended as pictorial lessons, to the disciples, of the
moral and religious knowledge they teach. The distinctive mark of the disciples here is the utpala padma, or water li
ly, and jewels of various kinds, which are said by Csoma Korosi to have been characteristic of the followers of Rahulaj
the son of Sakya, who recited the Sutra on emancipation, in Sanskrit, and affirmed the existence ofall things.
THE
CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA.
INTRODUCTION.
The Brahmanical religion is now prevalent in the various districts of India ; but there was a period in
the history of the country when the rival system of Buddha shared with it the idolatrous veneration of the
people, and powerful sovereigns, who were converted to this belief, encouraged those professing its tenets
to maintain and extend them. Amidst the systematic perversion of Brahmanical chronology, and the fa
bles of the present mythological system of the Hindus, we look in vain for a consistent account of these
events : but the knowledge of them has been preserved, for more than twenty centuries, in the inscrip
tions on the lion pillars, or Laths, of Tirhut, Allahabad, and Dehli ; the colonnade of the Bhilsa monument
in Malwa ; and the rocks of Girnar and Dhauli, in Kahtiwar and Orissa. The Bauddha religion is still
professed by a greater number of human beings than any other on the face ofthe earth ; being prevalent in
Ceylon, Siam, Ava, Pegu, the Birman Empire, China, Tibet, Manchu and Moghul Tartary ; yet no living
remnant of its followers is now met with in India, exceptiug the Jain sectaries who resemble them, and
whose legendary history is connected with the aera of Buddha, and some of the original supporters of this
faith. On looking at the Indian provinces, where unquestionable Bauddha monuments remain, we are sur
prised at the great extent of country, over which this religion was spread ; and view with wonder the relics
which mark its former existence : scattered asHhey are from the caves of Balkh-Bamian and the Indus west
ward, to the confines of Nepal and the Ganges eastward ; from Kashmir and the sources of the Jelum, on
the north, to the southern promentary of Cape Comorin, and the island of Ceylon.
These Indian remains of now extinguished sectaries consist of three different kinds of monuments :
1st of Thupas, * or monumental receptacles for the bones of a Rabat or saint ; 2nd Laths, or sand stone
obelisks, surmounted by a lion, accompanied by inscriptions of royal edicts regarding the ceremonial
observances of the faith ; and 3rd cave temples, which, are either flat roofed, and contain, in the
interior recess, a gigantic statue of Buddha, or are oblong, arched above, having pillars passing down
each side, which meet at the further extremity in an elliptical curve : where stands a stone column of
a hemispherical figure, sometimes surmounted by an umbrella of stone or wood, and supposed to cover
relics of Buddha. The Thupas, or mausolea, which are massive stone buildings in the form of a
cupola, rising from a low cylindrical base like the hemispherical column, or Deligop, of the caves, are
situated chiefly on the roads leading from Persia, Bactria, and Kashmir into Hindustan. When opened
they are found to enclose urns of bronze, or other metal, containing funeral ashes, or the debris of hu
man bones,accompanied by coins inscribed, on the obverse, with Greek letters, and on the reverse with Bac-
trian Pali, or the alphabet of the Lath inscriptions. The tumuli at Manikyala, situated between the Jelum,
or Hydaspes, and the Indus, which were opened by Generals Ventura and Court,are among the most cele
brated of these curious monuments of antiquity; and the stones which serve to cover niches containing
coins and urns are covered with inscriptions in the Bactrian Pali character. The hemispherical tumulus
of Bhilsa, situated on a detached hill on the west bank of the Betwa river in Malwa, and which has four
ornamented gateways, belongs to this class of monuments. One of the inscriptions on the colonnade con
tains a positive date, the tenth of the month " Bhadrapadik," in the ninth year of the reign of the great
Emperor Chandragupta, (Sandracottus), who cotemporary with Alexander the Great, and Seleucus, flour
ished in the end of the fourth century before Christ. Capt. Edward Fell, who first published a sketch of
the monument, in the Calcutta Journal of the 1 1th July 1819, talks of an inscription giving the date of the
erection, in Samvat f 1 8, or 40 B. C. but this requires to be verified, and may have been mistaken for
the date aleady mentioned. § The mound of Dipaldina, situated on the Warda river, at the town of Ama-
ravati, west of Nagpur, and in the province of Berar, belongs also to this class. It was first noticed by
the late Colonel McKenzie ; and since then a mound, one hundred and fifty feet in diameter, on which the
Dehgop stood, has been converted into a tank.
* Thupa, from which we have got the English word Tope, is the Pali term for a monumental receptacle of the bone9 of
Buddha or of a Rahat. See Clough's Pali vocabulary, page 56.
t The Samvat, as meaning a year by pre-eminence, is the Indian Era of Vikramaditiya, made by some to commence fifty-six
years and by others fifty eight B. C. : but it is also used to express the individual rera of particular Kings as was the custom of
the Balhara Emperors.
§ See Prinsep's Journal 1834. Vol. iii. page 489 ; and for 1837. Vol. vi. page 455. In Mr. Ps. observations, to which the
latter reference is made, it is conjectured that the circle enclosing a cross, with three horizontal dashes to the right, might express
three quarters of the year being elapsed ; but the reader is referred to his subsequent remarks on the ancient Sanscrit numerals,
Vol. vii, page 348, where he will find that XI stands for Samvat, or year of the Kings reign, and the other © for the numeral 9
J THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA.
The second class of Bauddha monuments are the obelisks : one of which is at Allahabad, two are a(
Dehli, and three on the river Gandak, situated along the northern route from Palibothra, or Patna, to Ne
pal. The first of the three last is at Bakra, in North Bahar, and in sight of the high road to Hajipur. It
is surmounted by a lion ; and a few yards to the north of it there is a Bauddha mound of solid brick work.
The second obelisk at Radiah, in the zemindary of Bettiah, has no lion ; but both this and the third one at
Mathiah, which has also a lion, bear inscriptions, which the lamented Mr. Prinsep discovered to be iden
tical with those on the pillars of Allahabad and Dehli. To this highly gifted and ingenious scholar we are
also indebted for the discovery of the character in which the inscriptions are written, and for a translation
of them ; by which we are made acquainted with one of the most important and interesting events in the
history of this country, namely the conversion to Buddhism of Asoka, the grandson of Chandragupta, and
then supreme sovereign of India. The intent of the royal convert, in publishing these edicts, was to
spread wide the knowledge that he regarded as sinful the Brahmanical principles of his former faith ; that
the sacrifice of blood and the meat offering should be interdicted as contrary to the tenets of his new
creed ; that the principles of Shakya's reform was to inculcate an adherence to the divine attribute of
Dhamma, (or dharma), " virtue ;" that the chief excellence of religion consists of good works, and is mani
fested by acts of mercy, charity, purity, and chastity; and that all who look for the attainment of eternal
happiness should practice benevolence to the poor and afflicted, towards bipeds and quadrupeds. The
spreading fig tree, the myrobolan, and the great dhatris or whatever afforded nourishment, are to be held
sacred ; and the devotees, who receive gifts of villages for the maintenance of this worship, are to exercise
solitary austerities. *
The sovereign who issued these edicts, and reigned B. C. 247, is mentioned in them under the sur
name of Devanampiya Piyadasi, or Piyadasi beloved of the gods; and is the same as Dharma Asoka,
who previous to ascending the throne of Magadha,! and while viceroy at Ujjayan, for his father Bindu-
sara, had the appellation of Piyadasi : as appears from a passage of the Dipowanso J quoted by the
Pali annalist of Ceylon, the Honorable Mr. Turnour. According to the Mahawanso, translated by
this gentleman, and which sheds much light on the political and religious state of ancient India, he
was called Asoka because of his former sinful act in having murdered his brother ; but was afterwards
distinguished by the title of Dhammo Soko, on account of his pious conduct, in erecting Viharas in
every direction throughout the ocean bound Jambudipo, or India.^ The circumstances, under which
these Bauddha edifices were erected are related in the Ceylon annals ; and the interpreted text of the
obelisk inscriptions bears testimony to the general fidelity of this history. The facts are yet further
confirmed by Mr. Remusat's translation, from Chinese, of the Foe-kue-ki, or travels of Fa Hian ; j| who
visited the chief seats of the Bauddha religion in India, about A. D. 406.
But while the pillar inscriptions, embracing a series of edicts, promulgated by Asoka, are objects of
such interest, the rock inscriptions of Girnar and Dhauli are yet more deserving of our notice ; as they
reveal to us the names of the Greek sovereigns, Ptolemy, Antigonus, and Antiochus, preserved in the
proclamations of the same Great Hindu sovereign, who here issues his commands for the establishment
of an asylum of medical administration, throughout his dominions, including both man and beast, in
accordance with the humanity of the Buaddha creed. Mr. Prinsep, in identifying the Antiochus here
mentioned, thought that the allusion of the edict has reference to Antiochus the Great, but afterwards
modified his opinion, that the Antiochus of this proclamation must, from his close family connection
with Ptolemy Philadelphus, be Antiochus Theos. Magas the half brother of Ptolemy Philadelphus is
noticed in these inscriptions, and the fact would, in some degree, warrant Mr. Prinseps theory ; but I am
disposed to think that the Antiochus of Asoka's edict is the rival brother of Seleucus Callinicus ; in
whose quarrels with his brother, Arsaces the first having interfered — made himself powerful. The
Ptolemy then of this inscription must be Ptolemy Evergetes ; who, after the murder of Antiochus Theos,
B. C. 247, by his first wife Laodice, marching to assist his own sister Berenice, the second wife of the
murdered sovereign, crossed the Euphrates, and entered Persia, Media, and Bactria, occupyng
the country even as for as India. H This expedition rests on the authenticity of the Adulitic inscrip
tion of Cosmas Indicopleustes ; and the time of Asoka's accession to power, B. C. 247, as fixed by Mr.
Turnour, harmonizes well with the period of Ptolemy's transactions.
The intercourse maintained with India by the Seleucidoe, and by their successors the Bactrian and Parthian
kings, is obscurely and unconnectedly noticed by classical history : and though Bayer has with much learning
* Prinsep's interpretation of the inscriptions on the columns of Delhi, Allahabad, and Betiah. See Journal, Vol. vi. page
566, 609.
t The province of Bahar, on the Ganges, was anciently known by the name of Magadha. Wilford says that it was cal
led from the Magas, who came from the Dwipa of Saca, (Scythia,) and settled in the country which had been previous
ly known by the name of Kikata. The northern part of Bahar, or Tirhut, where are found the Lath inscriptions, was the
part of it particularly named Magadha; and the southern portion, including the cares of Gaya, and the mountain of Kukuta-
pada was colled Kikata.
$ Prinsep's Journal vol. VI. page 791. The Dipowanso, to which the Mahawanso, or iPali history of Ceylon, refers was
compiled by the Bauddha fraternity of Anaritdhapura ; which is the Anuragramam metropolis of Ptolemy ; and was in his
time, A. D. 138, the capital of Ceylon.
§ See Turnour's Mahawanso, page 35.
|| See account of these travels by Professor H. H. Wilson, Director R. A. S. in the Society's Journal vol. V. page 103.
IT See Vincent's appendix, No. II. of the Periplus of the Erythrean Sea, page 57, which quotes Bayer, on the authority of
Polyoenus, Evergetes, devicit Seleucum ; omnia sine bello et certainine occupavit a Tauro usque in Indiam."
INTRODUCTION.
illustrated the scattered materials relative to the former, and Vaillant has written a history of the latter,
a clear chronological arrangement of the Kabul and Punjab coins, found by Burnes, Ventura, Masson,
and others, is yet required ; and without it no trustworthy opinion can be given, as to what influence
the practical idolatry of people westward of the Indus had on the religious opinions of those eastward
of the river ; or how far Grecian and Scythian ideas of cosmogony and theogony enter into the my
thological system of the Hindus.
The expedition of Alexander the Great, and the embassy of Meghastenes, B. C. 312, sent by Seleucus
Nicator to Sandrocottus, are the sources from which the western world derived clear ideas of the geogra
phical and political state of ancient India : and a connexion thus established was continued and improved
by the Bactrian Greeks, and Parthians. That this intercourse and connexion was more intimate and in
fluential than is found on record, in classical history, may be deduced from these edicts, and the fact that the
early Hindu money of Kanauj and Ceylon has its origin from the Indo—Scythian and Indo-Sassanian
coinage ; inscribed respectively with legends in Greek, and the Pali character of these rock inscriptions.*
But anterior to the aera of these coins, from which the Hindu series take their origin, or B. C. 195, we find
that the genuine Greek series of Bactria, the coins of Apollodotus, Menander, and Eucratides, have the
Greek titles translated into Sanscrit ; baiiaeoz MErAAOT etkratijot being rendered Maha-
rajasa Raja-dhi-rajasa Eokatidasa. On the reverse of the coins of the Parthian king Vonones-
II, f who was governor of Media Atropatene, for his brother Artabanus III, and succeeded his ne
phew Bardanes, in supreme power A. D. 51, we first meet with the well known Indian litle of Balhara :
the kingdom of whose successors, A. D. 915, is said by Masudi to be situated south of the kingdom of
Kanauj, and to be occupied by people who spoke many different languages resembling the Larwi or Sin-
dian. This great kingdom which extended from the country of Khozar, in the neighbourhood of the Cas
pian, along the Indus and sea coast to its capital Mankir,J was called Kankar.^ Its King was at war with
the kingdom of Kanauj ; and Tartarian dirhems, equal to one dirhem and half, which were struck at Bale,
a city on the Oxus, were current in this country.
The connexion and intercourse of the Indian aborigines with foreign tribes is thus well established, on
the evidence of inscriptions, coins, and history : and the Indian missions sent to Augustus Caesar, Claudius
and Trajan, originated probably from the Indian connexion with the Parthians, with whom the Romans
were at war. Strabo, on the testimony of Nicolaus Damascenus, relates that ambassadors from Porus to Au
gustus brought letters written in Greek, stating that the former ruled over six hundred kings || : and the
knowledge of India, and of the tenets of the Sramani, (Buddhists,) possessed by the Alexandrine authors,
Clemens Alexandrinus and Jerome, must have been derived from travellers, and Christian missionaries
who visited India between the first and sixth centuries of our aera. The cave inscriptions may be expected
to afford some evidence of this foreign intercourse : but previous to any observations on the third class of
Buddhist monuments we are bound to notice the second series of rock and pillar inscriptions, which
have relation to the Gupta dynasty of Kings ; whose coins found in India, and whose position among its
sovereigns, have been well illustrated by Mr. Prinsep and Doctor Mill.H
The rocks at Girnar appear to contain three series of inscriptions ; those of the eastern side facing the
Girnar hill being the edicts of Asoka in the old character. On the western side, there is a Sanscrit inscription
embraciug the history ofthe Girnar bridge and containing the name of Chandragupta Maurya, (Sandracottus
of the Greeks) : and on the southern side a third inscription, more modern, in the Gupta alphabet ; the same
as that of the second inscription on the Allahabad pillar, which was in common use from the fifth to the
ninth century A. D. ** The Gupta family of these last inscriptions is not that of the celebrated cotempo-
rary of Seleucus Nicator, but belongs to a race of Sudras, mentioned by the Vishnu Purana.fi They reign
ed as would appear over Magadha and Kanauj, after the Kshetryarule had been abolished, and the dynasty
of the Andhra kings, noticed by Pliny, had come to an end, A. D. 476, or some what later perhaps, in the
beginning of the sixth century. The precise period when they flourished has not yet been satisfactorily
• See Prinsep's observations on Indo-Scythic and Hindu coins, and those descended from the Parthian type : Journal A. S. VI
p. 634 Vol. VI p. 298.
t I must refer the reader to the chronological observations by me on these coins ; which will be pnblished in the Journal
of the Calcutta A.S.
J This must be Mongir on the Ganges, near which, at Buddal, there is an inscription translated A. R. Vol. 1 p. 123-133 ;
and whose date cannot be long after this time. The Sri Deva Pal of the grant, Lord of the great Sugats, or Bhuddhists, appears
to have belonged to the family that erected the temple of Sarnath, near Benares, as noticed in my introduction to the history of
Gujarat p. 54.
§ This is probably the country of Kanaka mentioned in Wilfords Geography of the Puranas, As : Res. Vol. VIII p. 339, and
appears at the end of the west, associated with the Haihaya or Persians, and Panchanada or Pahjab. It is the same also as is
mentioned under the names of Sana Kanifca and Kakakhara in the inscription of the Allahabad pillar. See Prinseps Journal
Vol. VI p. 973.
|| Strabonis Geograph. Lib. XV p. 720.
IT See Dr. Mill's translation ofthe Allahabad inscription, No. 2, and historical note on ditto, Journal Vol, iii p. 257 and 339:
also Mr. Prinsep's obserAations on Hindu coins, Vol: iv p. 643. See moreover Mr. Prinsep's re-examination of the No. 2 inscrip
tion on the Allahabad pillar, Vol : vi p. 971, where he finds that the epithets applied to the deceased Emperor of Hindustan,
(Sumudra Gupta,) indicate the political divisions at the time ; andthat it contains the names and titles of the reigning families ;
whose power extended beyond the boundaries of India proper into the regions of the "Great King of Persia, and the horda of
the Huns and Scythians."
•• Journal As. Vol vii p. 387.
tf See Wilson's Analysis of this Purana, (Journal, Vol I p. 446) which appears to have been written A. D. 954.
4 THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA.
fixed : though we may assume that they ruled some time between the periods A. D. 470 and 720. It was
during the former, according to Colonel Tod, that Nayana Pal conquered Kanauj from Aji Pal, a descen
dant of Aja-Medha : and in the latter the Kashmerian conqueror Lilitadetya, on the authority of the Raja
Tarangini, expelled Yaso Verman from his kingdom.
The last class of Bauddha monuments, from which light on the history of this country may be derived
are the caves.
Those of Western India long since attracted the attention of travellers and antiquaries ; and individual
descriptions of them, particularly those in the neighbourhood of Bombay, have at various times been com
municated to the world. The excavation of Elephanta was visited, so early as A. D. 1672, by Dr. Fry
er, who gave an account of it in his travels ; and it has since been noticed by many others. The excava
tions at Kanari, on the island of Salsette, were subsequently described by Anquetil de Perron, accompanied
by ground plans and some of the inscriptions, and accounts of the Ellora excavations were given by the
same author, Sir Charles Mallet, and Captain Sykcs. The temples of Ajanta, however, the most exten
sive and perfect of any of these monuments, excepting those at Ellora, remained unnoticed until Lieute
nant Alexander published a brief sketch of them in the 2nd vol. of the Royal Asiatic Society's transactions,
and the late lamented Mr. Prinsep made public some particulars of these antique relics in the 5th volume
of his journal. Neither of these accounts however are satisfactory, as they give little or no information
regarding the extent of the several caves, or the sculptures and fresco paintings which adorn them. The
latter which present scenes of the peoples social habits, domestic employments, and religious opinions, are,
as specimens of Bauddha art and taste, particularly worthy of attention from the literary and the curious.
The interior walls are covered with paintings, which illustrate the religious opinions, and moral condition
of the people of Western India, at a very remote period ; and when viewed in connection with translations
of the cave inscriptions, the topes and coins, found in Kabul and the Punjab, are of the utmost interest ;
as calculated to throw much light on the early state of Hinduism and the history of this country.
The caves of Ajanta, which were visited by me during the hot weather of 1828, were twenty two in
number ; ofwhich four were arched, and the others flat roofed. The former which contain the Dehgopa
are genuine Chaityas, or temples dedicated to Adi Buddha,* as in Nepal : the others are generally Viharas,
or monastic institutions for the ascetics, in many of which are found images of Buddha seated on thrones,
here sculptured with devices of different animals, now the distinguishing marks of the Jain saints, and
perhaps appropriated to the different manifestations of Buddha. Since my visit a subscription was rais
ed to remove obstructions and make pathways to the caves, and two new caves were thus discovered.
The following drawings, which were made and lithographed by a native artist, convey a tolerably accu
rate idea of the style of painting and the subject of the scenes ; which represent rural processions, love and
marriage, the stormmg of fortifications, and groups of women in various attitudes, particularly in the one
of performing Tapasya, or religious austerity, on the Asan Siddha or holy bed of the ascetic. In others
of the scenes teachers are represented instructing their Chelas, or scholars, in the art of mental abstrac
tion, or Dhyan, by meditating on the blue lotus ; six Dhyani Buddhas,f of which Vajra Satwa is the sixth,
are seen springing divinely from' the lotus. Another of the paintings represents the contest of the Assuras
to get back the ravished daughter of their king, who had been carried to the Tavatinsa heaven, or Bhavana
oilndra, an account of which is communicated in Mr. Upham's system of Buddhism. In the sculpture most
ofthe figures have curled or wig-like hair, and their heads are generally covered by tiaras. The same are
similarly represented in the paintings, which are executed " alia fresco " on a composition of white
calcareous earth and cowdung, smoothed finely over with a thin coating of choona, or tufaceous lime,
found in India. The women are always drawn without any covering to the breast, and their drapery
has the form of a petticoat below, part of which is thrown in some instances over the left shoulder leaving
the right breast bare. The dress of the men is nearly similar to that of the women ; and the figures
of both are painted black, blue, and other colours, among which however a yellow or copper brown
is the prevailing one. Several animals as horses, elephants, and bullocks highly ornamented, are de
picted; and some visitors remarked that three horses yoked abreast in a carriage were observable. A
grave figure with curled hair, thick lips, and lobe ears, sometimes appears amongst the paintings, and is evi
dently of a character entirely different from the figures around him ; and this with the striped petticoats of
the women suggests an opinion that the people who executed the paintings were the subjects of the most
illustrious Prince of the Indies, named the Balhara, who was king of Maharmi-al-adan, or of those who have
their ears bored ; and that the inhabitants were subjects of the kingdom of Calabar, who were dressed in
those sorts of striped garments which the Arabs call \ Fauta.
The Buddhas here represented seem to be of all nations and colors, and have each a nimbus round their
head similar to that round the heads of Christian saints, and which was not introduced we know previous
• According to the Aishwarika, or Theistical pantheon of Nepal — Adi Buddha is the self-existent original Creator.
+ There is a series of five Dhyani or celestial Buddhas, to whom are assigned the five elements of matter, the five powers
of human sense, and the five objects of sensation; with a sixth Buddha, emanating from Adi Buddha, and who is a secondary
agent in the creation of immaterial substances.
% See ancient accounts of India and China by two Mahomedan travellers, who travelled in the 10th Century A. D. translated,
from the Arabic, by Eusebius Renaudot, London 1733, p. 10 and 14. In a note on the History of Gujarat, p. 54, the author
hazarded an opinion that these Mahomedan travellers were as late as the 152th Century, but has since found reason for altering it :
as Masudi, in his work the Meadows of Gold and Mines ofjewels, mentions that he personally obtained his account of China
from the second of the travellers, Zeid-al-Hasan of Siraf, who left Persia for China, in Hej : 303. A. D. 915, and lived in the
time of Masudi.
INTRODUCTION. 6
to the establishment of our aera.* The people who frequented these religious shrines must have had an ex
tensive acquaintance with various nations ; and the nicely combed and curled hair of the women, whose
locks, brought down in ringlets over the ears, descending on the neck, with the head dress or fillet which
surrounds the brow like a muslin band, and the high tiara of the Chiefs or Princes, loaded with pearls, indi
cate artificial taste and habits at the time when these paintings were executed. Some visitors have remark
ed that Grecian military costumes were to be seen, but I did not observe any such at my visit ; and the only
thing of this kind which has come to my notice is the head covering of one of the figures drawn for me
by Professor Orlebar, and which certainly has a very close resemblance to the Grecian helmet. Mr Orle-
bar, in an account of these caves kindly communicated to me, remarks that these paintings are not histo
rical, but seem intended to convey moral instruction, and that in the Indo-Bauddhist system education was,
a primary object. In one of the Dehgop caves a female worshipper of Buddha is painted in the act of
teaching, surrounded by a group of smaller figures who are attentively listening, and among whom one
seems to be a Brahman. In several of the scenes representing masters teaching their scholars the modern
Sannyasi of the Hindus is observable.
There is one large painting already referred to representing a siege. Mr. Orlebar remarks that on the
foreground from the left the besieging army is seen in advance, and consists of elephants, infantry, and caval
ry under the wall of the town. Within the walls the king is seated on his throne and surrounded by atten
dants; while some of the besieged are throwing themselves down from the wall on the enemy ; some are
descending, and some have already alighted; and of these one spirited group represents a struggle between
two of the besiegers, and a warrior whose dishevelled flowing hair shews that he has just alighted, and o-
thers are on their knees begging for quarter. The wall in its construction is as singular as the defence of
it. It consists of a series of peaked battlements, in which there are no loop holes. The besieged are here re
presented with fair European countenances, while most of the besiegers are dark. The Infantry of the latter
are armed with a shield and sword, of a curious form, and with a short spear. Those mounted on elephants
have spears or bow and arrows; but their dress is generally scanty; and they have apparently no defensive
armour. The whole appears, as I have already said, to be an attempt of the Assurs to get back the ravished
daughter of their king from the heaven of Indra.
Besides these there are domestic scenes, seraglio scenes, processions, and portraits of princes, larger
than the rest. There is an Abyssinian black prince seated on a bed along with a fair woman, to whom he
appears to be married ; here a fair man is dressed in a robe and cap like that of a Monk or Abbot, and
there again, in other parts of the painting, are females seated in flower gardens surrounded by attendants,
or are seen sitting within small buildings, with light pillars, resembling Chinese summer houses. Round
the neck and over the right arm of many figures, male and female, the mystic triple necklace is disposed,
while these hold in their hands the lotus, and appear as if engaged in the contemplation of some deep
point of philosophy. Other figures, represented of a dark complexion and with curled hair, are standing
on the lotus, and hold in their hands the discus, or Chakra, which is one of the sacred emblems in the
Phra Patha or divine foot of Buddha, and is typical of eternity and universal domination. We learn, from
Captain Low, that, according to the Siamese ritual, the worshipper with uplifted folded hands is directed
to enumerate it among the sacred emblems.f The head dress of many of the figures, which is pyramidal,
resembles the Persian tiara ; and though less peaked than the Mukut, or crest of Buddha, depicted
in the Phrabut, it may be here, as in the other, emblematical of the solar ray, being analagous, in
this respect, to the winged crown on the obverse of the Sassanian coins of Persia, the reverse of
which is remarkable for a fire altar, and two wheels or Chakras over the heads of the officiating
priests.J The spirit of polytheism is disposed to imitation, so that the legends and practices of one sect
are often appropriated by another. We need not therefore be surprised that the Bauddhists of Siam wor
ship the sun, under the name of Pra Athit, as mentioned by Captain Low ; ^ or that we should find pure
Buddhism, on the west of India, early corrupted by an admixture of the Sabean or Magian faith ; or
blended, afterwards, as in Nepal, with the worship of Siva and Tantra rites. Shamanism, or the gross
form of Buddhism, which exists among the Tartar tribes, is combined with astrological superstition of
magic and sorcery ; and, if it differs in practice, is similar in its doctrine with the Kala Chakra system of
Tibet, which has been already explained in a note on the authority of De Koros. Whatever apparent
differences may exist between the style of sculpture, and symbols which mark the alliance of one class of
cave monuments with a period when primitive Bauddhist notions prevailed, and of those which refer another
class of them to a time when these notions were corrupted by foreign admixture ; such may be ascribed with
• The Rev. Mr. Walsh, in his essay on the ancient Christian coins and gems of the Gnostics, says that a nimbus or glory
round the head was not adopted as a symbol of sanctity, before the 7th century : but there is cause for modifying this opi
nion, from the fact that the Konerkos group of coins, and those found in the monuments of Manikyala in the Punjab, which
are of the age of Shapur II, A. D. 310 — 380, support on the obverse, and sometimes reverse, a figure whose head is sur
rounded by a nimbus.
Walsh on Ancient coins p. 9. Prinseps Journal, Vol. III. p. 43G.
t Captain Low on Buddha and the Phrabat. Trans. R. A. S. Vol. III. p. 71. There is a peculiar system of Buddhism
entitled the Kala Chakra, or circle of time, which was introduced from the north into central India, about the middle of the
10th century : and afterwards found its way into Kashmir and Tibet. Besides the mystical theology and philosophy of Bud-
dhism, there are in the system of the Kala Chakra several works on astronomy, astrology, and prophesy. The first tenet of
this fatih is, he that does not know the chieffirst Buddha, (Adi Buddha) knows not the circle of time. See Mr. Alexander
Csoraa de Koros' account of this system. Prinsep's Journal, Vol. II. p. 58.
X See Prinsep's Journal Vol. VI. plate XIV. § Trans. R. A S. iii. p. 64.
6 THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA.
more truth to the spirit of imitation and the accommodating temper of superstition, than to the possibility
of having derived their origin from rival sectaries, so opposite to each other as were the Bauddhists and
Brahmans.* The caves of the western coast are doubtless Bauddha, or Jain ; and of the latter only a few
remains are to be met with at Ellora, which may be posterior to the corruption of pure Buddhism by Tan-
trika principles.
Among the paintings at Ajanta there are several portraits : one of which is a Raja on his knees per
forming his devotions, and there are other four placid faces of men and women. The hair of the women
is tied by a bandeau, after the fashion of the women on the Garrow hills near Bhagalpur ; who are de
scribed by Mr. Elliot, as having their hair bound with a tape three inches long so as to keep it back from
their foreheads, though generally it is tied with a string on the crown of the head.f There is also a por
trait of a lion monstrosity not unlike an Egyptian sphinx. It is deformed by a cap being given to the
curling hair of its head, and a girdle to its body, and has doubtless some emblematic meaning, as it ap
pears at the feet of a Buddha standing on the leaves of the lotus, below which the many headed Nag is
painted.
Besides these there is a hunting scene, wherein dogs are represented with collars and short tails, and
horses with saddles not unlike what we see in Europe. The borders and patterns on the roofs of the caves
are extremely well painted, and many of them are even tasteful and elegant. Some of the colors are
fresh as when they were first laid on, especially the light blue, but the red has generally faded into a dirty
brown.
The designs of the several paintings are unequal ; and though some be well executed, others are no
better than ordinary modern Hindu productions ; but even these claim our notice, as they are associated
with the customs of India at a very interesting period of its history. Who were the people, of whom
these paintings and sculpture are the remains ? In investigating this subject the author proposes to do so
under the following heads.
First, a description of the principal excavations of Western India.
Second, a sketch of the system of Buddhism, as it prevails in Ceylon, Burmah and Siam, Tibet, Tartary,
and China.
Third, translations of the western cave inscriptions, and the connexion of these with Buddhism as it
now prevails in other countries.
Fourth, Observations on the symbolical marks preceding the inscriptions ; their similitude to those on
the coins found west of the Indus and in the Punjab ; and on the connexion between the Topes, or Baudd-
bist mausolea of these countries, and the western caves. •
Fifth, the History of Buddhism traced and illustrated.
* See Mr. Erskine's opinion on the Brahmanical origin of part of the Ellora excavations. Transactions of the Bombay Lit.
Soc. iii. p. 525.
t As. Researches : iii. p. 21.
THE
CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA.
CHAPTER I.
The Principal Excavations, and Character of their Sculptures described.
The excavations of Western India, which are met with chiefly in the Bombay territories, and the
Nizam's dominions, consist of two classes. In the first of these the objects of worship, represented by
the sculptures, are confined to personages and manifestations of the deity belonging to the simpler and
more philosophical form of Buddhism, which seems to have prevailed at its origin ; in the second the va
riety and modifications of objects worshipped have reference to the more complicated and extended
Brahmanical Pantheon, the Sakta form of Hinduism, the worship of Siva Bhairava, in conjunction with
his consort Uma, or Parvati.* The former characterized by symplicity of design and execution, consist
of one or more arched temples, which contain the Dehgop, or stone spire of an hemispherical form :
and these are surrounded by flat roofed excavations, in which are found one or more sitting images of
Buddha, a number of small cells, and sometimes broad benches running round the apartments, shewing
that such were dedicated to the use of a monastic fraternity, and the education of disciples, who had
abandoned the world in order to submit to religious discipline. These temples are further distinguished
by having long inscriptions in a language, which is neither pure Pali nor Sanscrit, though approaching
sufficiently near either to be intelligible through their medium : and the character in which it is written
differs but little froni that of the inscriptions on Asokds pillars ; which was in use we know during the
third century B. C. To this class belong, as would appear, the caves of Karli, Kanari, Aurungabad,
Nasik, Junir, Mahar on the Bankut river, and the southern ones at Ellora. The large excavation at
Kanari, in the vicinity of Bombay, is further distinguished by having in front of it, on a ledge of the
mountain, several small mounds, or burying places of Rahats, or saints, who were tenants of the caves.
One of these, a dilapidated pyramidal building of earth and stone, was opened by me in 1839; when
two copper urns containing human ashes were found. In one of the urns there was a small gold box,
containing a fragment of white cotton rag, accompanied by a pearl, a ruby, and some small pieces of
gold : in the other there was a silver box along with the ashes. The most interesting relics however dis
covered on this occasion were two copper plates,f one of which bore an inscription in the Lath charac
ter of the caves, and the other in a more florid writing, similar to that of the Chattisgarh and Seoni in
scriptions of the 8th and 9th centuries ; which has been aptly enough denominated the Andhra charac
ter : and from which the alphabets of the Southern Peninsula were derived. The last part of this in
scription contains the Bauddha creed as inscribed on the base of the image from Tirhut, and on the
* The goddes9 Siva, or wife of Siva is also designated Sati and Parvati, or Uma ; and may be considered the first emana.
tion, or personification of Nature's energy, in the business of creation : where abstract essence, antecedent to the ternary
forms, or qualities of the visible world, is identified as the neuter immaterial substance, or Brahma of the Upanishads, and
Vedant ; and the VKf purush, or the male inactive principle of the Sankhya school of philosophy. This immaterial essence
of the all-pervading Deity is united to the diversities of created existence by an independant feminine principle, which is call
ed, in the Vedantic System, Maya «M*1T or illusion ; but '^oiuafd' Mula-Prakriti and irar prajna, or radical nature, the fe
male principle of all in the Sankhya philosophy ; of which NOT2, or intellect, Tjfff Buddhi, and otherwise called Jjrtrrr
pradhan, is the first born offspring, and then all separate individual essences. In the mythological part of Hinduism the pas
sive agent in creation, personified matter, or the goddess of nature called Prakriti, is considered as the universal material
cause, the plastic origin of all things, and is identified in the section of the Markandeya Purana, called the Devi-Mahatmya,
as Siva, or Durga Ambika, the consort of Siva. See Dr. Mill's very clear explanation of these principles in his note on the
Shekawati inscription, dated A. D. 961. Journal, Asiatic Society, Vol. IV. page 386.
t See Plates XLVII. and XLVIII. No. 18 and 19 for these inscriptions.
?! THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA.
stone extracted from the Thupa at Sarnath, near Benares ; * identifying these as Bauddha mausolea :
with which the Thupas of the Punjab and Kabul are in other respects analagous.
The second class of excavations, to which belong the nine middle caves at Ellora, those at Elephanta
and Badami, are characterized by a more florid and laboured style of sculpture, representing groups of
many armed figures of Vishnu and Siva in their various avatars ; miniature scenes of battles from the
sacred epics, the Ramayana, and Mahabarat ; triad figures of Siva in union with the female principle,
or Uma ; f and stone lingas in the recess. A greater grandeur of design and spirit of execution is ob
servable in the figures of this class than in the simpler sculptures of the earlier Bauddha College, such as
Kanari ; and exaggeration is resorted to in order to give energy to the suggestions of imagination on
subjects of religion to which they refer. Their architectural character too, from which the style of the
ancient Hindu temples of the tenth and eleventh centuries, A. D. has been derived, would not indicate
that such is the early efforts of a rude people emerging from barbarism, but rather that it has been ma
tured by experience : and that though the types of Buddhism and Sivaism were not radically different,
when the two religions emanated from a common system, yet the things here typified embrace so many
Brahmanical combinations, that the very presence of Saiva symbols and images, in structures exclusively
Bauddha, imply, that when such were executed, the tenets of both religions were matter of high debate
in the civil society of India. The comparatively few inscriptions found in this class of caves, and the
nearer approach of the letters to the present alphabets of the Southern Peninsula, point out the more
modern origin of the structures : while the smaller number of cells for the priests, compared to the ex
tend of these caves, shew that they were less places of tranquillity and retirement, for monastic establish
ments, than places of public resort, and pilgrimage, or Tirthas, for the great mass of the people.
The caves of Ajanta are of a character intermediate between these two classes of excavations, possess
ing much of the extent and grandeur of the latter, but without the same marked traces of Hinduism, or
of Tantrika principles, that are found engrafted on Buddhism at Ellora. Many of the Bauddha figures
would here, however, appear to be distinguished by the symbolical representation of particular animals and
things, which indicate some deviation from the original worship of Buddha Sakya, and may be the ori
gin of the Bauddha adaptation of Sakya's religion to Vaishnava principles, as explained in the Sri
Bhagavata : by which the different descents and forms of the Deity, as Vishnu, are made the origin of the
Jain saints. The images in the different caves are characterized by being represented naked or covered
by a robe, and have distinguishing marks engraved on the pedestals, or Sinhasan ; such as the ape, the
lotus, the wild cow, the antelope, the goat, and the kumbha or jar ; which are the appropriate symbols
of the Jain saints, Abbimandanu, Padmaprabha, Vasupujaya, Santi, Kunthi, and Malli.t The Bauddha
religion of Nepal acknowledges indeed many forms of Buddha, mortal and celestial : but the presence of
these Jain symbols, on the pedestals of the images at Ajanta ; their clothed and naked representations,
similar to the Swetambara and Digambara images of the Tirthankaras, and a sculpture of Garura, support
ing the roof of one of the caves, have suggested to me the opinion, that while some of the neighbouring
excavations at Ellora were dedicated to Tantrika principles and Saiva mythology engrafted on Buddhism,
those of the more primitive Bauddha caves at Ajanta, shew corruption from admixture with the more con
genial principles of the Vaishnava faith. I give this opinion more with a view of future research by those
who may find leisure for investigating the native literature and annals of the Jains, than under the con
viction that it is one admitting of proof : but as the Vaishnava and Saiva faiths divided the popular mind
of India, from the fifth to the tenth centuries of our aera, the opinion is worthy of consideration. The
larger inscriptions too at Ajanta, though they may be long posterior to the excavations, are closely allied
by the character of their alphabet, to the Chattisgarh inscriptions of the eighth and ninth centuries, which
have been already noticed.
If other evidence were wanting to support the opinion now given there is one fact connected with these
caves which may entitle it to respect ; namely, that Buddhas of a black complexion are common in the
fresco paintings of Ajanta, and that Arishtanemi, of the Harivansu, or race of Vishnu, who is the 22nd Jain
• See Journal A. S. Vol. IV page 133 and 211.
t The acknowledge principles of this worship have been explained, in the first note of this chapter, and as the sixth verse
of the Shekawati inscription assigns to Siva the properties of the other two members of the triad, those of Preserver and Crea
tor, as well as his own, it will be readily understood why the triad busts of Elephanta and Ellora are the two heads nf Siva
sculptured in conjunction with his consort Parvati. Primitive Buddhism has a close affinity with the atheistical school of
the Sankhya philosophy ; and the Bauddhas engrafted Tantrika practices on their original faith, the appearance of such in the
sculptures will be evidence of the comparatively modern execution of such, but can be none of their Brahmanical origin.
J See Mr. Colebrook's observations on the Jains, As. Researches, Vol. IX. page 286.
( AVE OF KARIJ y
saint,* is described of a black complexion on the authority of Hemachandra's f vocabulary, and the
Kalpa Sutra, and is said to have departed this world at Ujjunta.\ This is described as the peak of a
mountain, but has been confounded by the commentator with Girnar in Kahtiwar. A reference to plates
II, VII, VIII, and IX, of the Ajanta sculptures, will shew that the identification of the images is some
times rendered dubious by the combination of various animals and symbols. The first from the presence
of the lion and the deer appears to be Buddha, as Sinha-Natha Lokisvvara. Regarding the presence of
the deer, as a symbol of the forms of Buddha and the avatars of Vishnu, a curious confirmation may be
found by a reference to the Bauddha coins of Behut,^ where a deer is represented standing in the moon
with the inscription below of Vappa Devasa : and to which the ode of Jayadeva, from the Bhagavata
enumerating the incarnations of Vishnu, has this allusion, — " The earth, placed on the point of thy tusk,
remains fixed like the figure of black antelope on the moon, O Cesava, assuming the forms of a boar : be
victorious O Hari, (Vishnu), lord of the universe."|| A minutely sculptured pillar is seen between the
two deer on the face of the Sinhasan, which might be taken for a lingum, but which the Bauddhas would
call a chaitya. Its presence here may be accounted for by the fact, long since noticed by Mr. Hodgson
that there is a community between the types of the two religions, Saivism and Buddhism, as well as be
tween the things typified ; but which I would ascribe rather to orthodox Hinduism being engrafted on the
original Bauddha schism. The figures of plates VII and VIII, though doubtful from the variety of sym
bols present, may be those of the ninth Jaina, or Pushpudanta, whose sign is the Makara. H The pre
sence of the elephant, in plate IX, and the recumbent image sculptured in the arched cave, No. II,
where all the painted figures of Buddha are of a golden colour, may indicate its connexion with Ajita,
the second Jaina. It is doubtful whether these several symbols are meant to distinguish the various
forms of Buddha, or are characterestic of the Jain saints ; but it clearly appears, from coinciding points
in the history of the two religions, that the Bauddhas and Jainas are scions of the same stem, and that
they once lived together as people of one religion.**
Professor Heeren is of opinion that the style of modern Hindu architecture takes its origin from the
pyramid ; but on looking at the general character of this architecture, as developed in the temples erect
ed, throughout the Southern Peninsula, posterior to the twelfth century of our a?ra, I am rather disposed
to conclude, that the model from which they derive their origin is the composite Deghop as seen in plate
VI. The architecture of the caves is altogether of a monumental kind, possessing much of the colossal
grandeur and vastness of the Egyptian style ; with which in the general outline it possesses a similarity
of design : the shafts of the pillars being cinctured, at intervals, by bands of three or more rings, or de
corated, in other respects, by the spaces between the bands being reeded and sculptured with figures.
The columns too have rarely any distinct base, and exhibit examples ofdouble capitals, peculiar to Egyp
tian architecture ; the square member of the cave pillars being sculptured with a figure of Buddha, as
seen in plate XV, instead of the heads of Ids as observable on the sides of the Egyptian capitals.
I. Cave of Karli.
This celebrated excavation, situated near the village of Ekvira, and on the western face of a hill, dis
tant about one and a half miles on the left of the road leading from Bombay to Poona, is the finest speci
men of a Bauddha cathedral which can be met with. The great cave, excavated in amygdaloidal trap, is
vaulted. It is in a high state of preservation, about a hundred and twenty feet long by twenty-four broad,
and between fifty and sixty feet high, having its roof ribbed by thin boards corresponding to the shape of
the vault. A row of pillars, whose capitals are ornamented with elephants, extend down each side of the
cave and meet at the further extremity ; where there is a stone Deghop, surmounted by a wooden um-
* Twenty of the Jain saints are Aikshwakus, or descendants of Ikshwaku, and of the solar race; only two others ofthem, Ma-
nisuvrata and Nerni, being of the race of Hari, or Vishnu, and of a black complexion as was Krishna.
t Hemachandra, the author of the vocabulary, was a Jain, and minister of Kumara Pala, sovereign of Nahrwala Patan, in
Gujarat, A. D. 1174. (See translation of the Mirat Ahmadi, page 158.)
% See Mr. Colebrooke on the Jains, A. R. Vol. IX. page 305.
§ Prinsep's Jour. A. S. Vol. III. fig. I, Plate XXV.
|| See Sir William Jones's translation of the Ode. As. Res. Vol. II. Page 119.
The Crocodile of the Indus and Ganges, or (Gariala Gangetica.)
** See Mr. Taylor's analysis of the Mackenzie manuscripts, and accounts of the Bauddha rajas written in Tamul. Prin
sep's Journal, Vol. VII. p. 121.
3
10 THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA.
brella of an oblong shape. In front of the excavation the rock has been formed into a portico, from
which we enter it by door-ways, some of which are now blocked up ; and anterior to the whole there are
several modern erections, one of which on the right is a small temple dedicated to Bhavani. Within the
area of the portico there is a columnar needle, surmounted by lions, and bearing the inscription No. 1 .
which is a dedication to the sun, and "has been strangely misinterpreted by Major Wilford ; whose reading
of this and of inscription XII. is given in the fifth volume A. R., but which has no resemblance to the ori
ginal.* On the spectators left and right at entering the portico, there is a recess, where three gigantic
Elephants are sculptured, bearing on their necks figures of Buddha ; above which the face of the rock is
divided into four compartments, each of about eight feet high rising above the other ; and in which small
models of the original temple, resembling- an inverted ship, are sculptured in high relief. Inscription III.
is cut on a cornice above the elephants on the left ; and on the opposite side, in a similar situation, we
meet with inscription X. Two of the three door-ways, which conduct us from the portico to the body
of the cave, are now blocked up ; and inscription IV. is cut on the rock between the central one and
that on the left. On the right are two statutes of a male and female, about six feet in height ; over which
is inscription VI. The female whose hair is braided has a circular ornament on her forehead ; and the
male wears a twisted turban. Inscription V. is cut on the rock above No. VI ; and below these, over a
male and female, we meet with inscription VII. Over the right hand door-way is inscription XI ; and
above a male and female, near the end of the recess, we find inscription IX. On the fifth and seventh
pillars, left hand side of the cave, inscriptions XI. and XII. are found. There are several smaller exca
vations, or cells for the former attendants of the temple, on the North or left hand side of the great cave.
II. Caves of Kanari.
The several excavations, situated on the Island of Salsette, in the vicinity of Bombay, have been well
described, by Mr. Salt, in the first volume of the Bombay Literary Society's Transactions. Passing over
those near the village of Amboli, the Montpezir cave, and others, which from the Brahmanical character
of their sculptures, may be pronounced to be comparatively modern, we proceed to the account of the
purely Bauddha caves of Kanari.
The excavations of Kanari, which are situated to the left of the main road leading to Tanna, are dis
tant from Bombay about twenty-two miles, and about four beyond the village of Vihar ; at which the path
way to the left turns off from the high road. On leaving the latter village the traveller proceeds, through
a thick jungle, along the edge of deep gullies, which are filled with water in the rains ; and ascending a
small hill, after a distance of three miles, comes into a plain between the hills, where stands the village of
Tulsi, in the immediate vicinity of the caves. The road from the latter, as we ascend the hill in which
the caves are situated, leads to a platform in front of the great arched one, where are several mounds of
masonry ; the largest of which was opened by me as before noticed, and in which were found relics and
copper plate inscriptions. This is the first stage of ascent to the caves, which consists of six stories, on
the ledges of the mountain, connected with each other by footsteps cut in the rock. Proceeding from
the south west to the north east, and leaving to the right an unfinished arched excavation and vestibule,
where there were two earthen deghops, we come to the great cave ; in front of which there is a portico,
where two lofty columns are seen. One of these on the right is surmounted by lions ; and its pedestal,
cut into pannels, supports an image of Buddha, seated on. the serpent, whose head is overshadowed by
five heads of the hooded snake as seen in plate XL. One of the earthen deghops was opened by me but
no relics were found. In digging however round its foundation a small earthen pot was discovered, which
contained a brass serpent and a small baked earthen image ofBuddha, bearing an inscription in very mi
nute character. The whole space at the further end of the protico is occupied by the front face of the
cave ; which is divided, by plain columns, into three square portals beneath, and five open windows above.
On the right and left of the portico, in a recess, are two gigantic statues of Buddha. On one of the legs
of the left hand statue we meet with a cross and inscription, in Roman letters ; which might be taken to
be not more ancient than the times of the Portuguese, were it not for the Ethiopic or Arabic term Abuk,
meaning thy father, being found here ; and which accompanied by the date 78, with a resemblance of the
cross and the letters for Kal Buddlut, Buddha Sakya, may indicate its connexion with Primitive Christia
nity ; whose spurious doctrines, introduced into India, are supposed, by Wilford, to have given rise to the
era of Shalivaham, which dates seventy-eight years after Christ. I merely throw out this suggestion here
* See A. R. Vol. V. page 139. It is No. IV of Wilford's inscriptions, and the other is No. III.
CAVES OF NASIK, — EXCAVATIONS OF JUNIR. 11
tor the consideration of others, without attaching much importance to it ; and under an impression that
this Roman inscription is anterior to the discovery of the passage by the Cape of Good Hope. Certain
it is however that Cosmas Indicopleustes found, as he thought, Christian churches at Kalian in the sixth
century, but which can be no other than the Bauddha monastic establishment which occupied the caves
at this time.
The further extremity of the great arched excavation is occupied by a stone deghop ; and on the col
umns in the portico are inscribed X. and XL of the Kanari inscriptions. Ascending the hill from the
platform of the great cave, we come to the second story of excavations, situated south or on the left bank
of the nulla, along both sides of which many excavations are found, but of which any detailed account is
unnecessary. This second ascent of the hill contains two caves. In the third story there are several ex
cavations and cisterns of water ; and the remaining three stories of the ascent is terminated by the open
platform at the top of the hill ; where there is a circle, from which a small stone deghop appears to have
been removed. Descending southward from this elevation, the visitor is conducted, along a pathway
under the ledge of the rock, from the face of which project several small deghops, accompanied by half
executed excavations. Here also there are several deep pits, which are built up with burnt bricks, and
which appears to have been the burial places of those who inhabited the caves.
The excavations of Kanari would appear to be alluded to in the Foe-kue-ki, or travels of Fa Hian,
about A. D. 406 ; being described as a cavern temple of five stories, each containing numerous chambers
or cells ; which was situated in the south and the kingdom called Ta-thsen or Dach-chin. The whole are
excavated in trap breccia.
III. Caves of Nasik.
These caves, which are called Pandu Lena, are situated in a part of a conical hill, distant between
four and five miles from the town of Nasik. They face about N. E., and are something more than a
hundred yards from the base of the hill. In a small recess near the extreme excavations on the right,
which are intended for the preservation of water, there are three principal figures of Buddha of the same
character and position as may be seen in the Viswakarma cave at Ellora. These idols are accompanied
by the lion supporters, and the usual attendents of Chauri* holders and angels ; and are raised on the
lotus seat, the stem of which is supported by figures. The entrance to the next cave is by a verandah,
raised on six colossal giants, represented in relief, and each bearing on their shoulders a beam. The cave
itself which has a flat roof, is about forty-five feet square, and quite unsupported. Small cells are exca
vated on both sides at the further end, where a deghop projects from the wall, and which is ornamented
with branched Chatries, accompanied by a lion and the Chakra. Another cave follows of nearly the
same dimensions and form as the one now described ; and contains cells of the same construction.
The next excavation is from twenty to thirty feet of similar architecture, and has cells on either side,
with a raised platform at the further end in the centre of which is a lingum. The cave which follows in
succession has the vaulted roof of pillars on each side, the deghop at the further extremity, and a large
arched window for light in the front face. Its dimensions may be forty-five feet long by twenty-five
broad. The outside of this cave is ornamented with small deghops cut in relief.
A flat roofed excavation of about sixty feet by forty follows in succession ; in which are cells to the
right and left. After passing a small verandah at the further end, where the capitals of the pillars are or
namented with sculptured animals, we come to a recess in which there is a colossal figure of Buddha.
There are two other figures in the verandah or vestibule, whose right hands containing the mala are held
up ; and their left ones hold a flower and stem. The principal idol in the cave is called Dharma Rajah.
In front of the range of the -caves now described there is a good platform ; at the left extremity of which
notches for the feet cut in the rock conduct the visitor to what is called the Sutar's cave, in which there
is a recumbent statue of Buddha near a group of smaller figures. Several inscriptions in a large character
and of rude execution, are to be met with on the pillars and other parts of the excavations ; and the defi
ciency of ornament in these caves may be taken as a criterion of their antiquity.
IV. Excavations ofJunir.
The caves of Junir, as described by Professor Orlebar, are situated in two hills ; one of which is on the
south, and the other on the north, or northwest of the town, and distant about a mile and a half. The
* This is a fly-flapper, made from the tail of the wild ox of Tibet.
12 THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA.
southern hill abounds with excavations, most of which are mere cells with a bench at the end, but to each
set of which there is one principal temple. The westermost temple of the southern group presents a
highly wrought but apparently unfinished front. The circle within the inverted ship, as seen in plate
XVI, which is generally open, is closed up by an expanded lotus ; in the central petal of which a human
figure is represented, accompanied by a closed lotus flower growing at his side, intended probably to re
present one of the Bauddha avatars, as the next petal is represented with an elephant standing on the
same. The roof of this cave is supported by octagonal pillars ; and at the further extremity there is a
plain deghop. Two principal temples occupy the centre of the excavations found in the southern and
northern hills. That of the latter is very perfect, and deserving of particular attention. Its front is a
closed circle supported on two pillars and two pilasters ; whose capitals are surmounted by pairs of lions
and elephants. From a small portico we pass into the body of the temple, which consists of a nave and
a semi encompassing aisle. The nave is separated from the aisle by pillars of the same kind as those in
the portico, excepting that six of them behind the deghop are quite plain. The architecture of all is uni
form.
V. — Caves of Aurangabad.
These excavations have hitherto met with little attention; and there is not any written notice of them
with which I am acquainted. An examination of them, however, may be of use in enabling us to form
an opinion of the origin, progress, and migrations of the Bauddha Sectaries ; who appear to have exercis
ed, at one time, very considerable influence in India. The caves, which are four in number, are execut
ed in a soft kind of amygdaloidal rock ; and their sculptures, possessing all the simplicity of design which
characterize purely Bauddha structures, are curious as existing in the immediate neighbourhood of the
more ornamented and complicated figures at Ellora. They are situated on the southern face of the hills
which lie north from Aurangabad ; and each assimilates so much in appearance to the other that an ac
count of one would serve, as a description of the whole.
The situation of the more westerly caves is known from a distance by a white shining part on the face
of the hill ; where the rock in which they have been executed is whitewashed and causes this appearance.
Here in a small recess, which only penetrates about eight feet deep into the rock, we meet with a black
image, eight feet in height, which is seated, and has the soles of the feet turned upwards. Its hands are
joined as if engaged in contemplating the deity ; its features are large, its hair curly, and its whole re
semblance in short so much allied to that of the African as to have given origin to the opinion of some
that Buddhism had an extra Indian origin. Beyond the recess which has been white washed the largest
of the caves is situated, but the entrance to it is, in a great measure, hid by an embankment of earth in
front ; and which was, I believe, removed from the interior, some years ago, by a gentleman anxious to
examine the nature of this excavation. There is still a considerable quantity of earth within the body of
the cave, and the pillars supporting its roof are more than half buried in it. Its area is about thirty-six
feet square, not inclusive of the recess, and an excavated cell is found at each corner, as marked in the
accompanying ground plan.
d
There are twelve square pillars within the area enclosing a space of eighteen feet square, as marked
(c) ; and between each of the pillars, the rock above is cut into a curtain ; on which are carved numer
ous small temples of a pyramidal shape, composed of receding tiers decreasing to the summit similar to
what may be seen in drawings of the Boro Budor temples of Java. Images of a man and woman, seated
as seen in plate XXXIII. of thefresco paintings from Ajanta, are carved within niches of these model tem
THE CAVES OF AURANGABAD. 13
pies. An image of Buddha four feet high, and seated on the sinhasan, is sculptured in the recess of the
cave. The height of this excavation is twelve feet, and the roof is flat. Its pillars are of a square
shape ; on each face of which there is a flowered circular ornament, and the representation of a male
figure seated in the act of performing tapasya, while the figure of a female is leaning"towards him, as
if endeavouriug to divert him from his devotion. The representation of both is altogether similar to
that given, by Mr. Crawford, from the temples of Java; and is no doubt intended to shew Buddha in
union with his female energy or sakli ; the uma or Parvati of the Brahmans, and the Ku'dnyin, (Kanya,)
or virgin of the Chinese.
Beyond the cave just described there is another, smaller and of a different shape. Its recess contains
an image of Buddha, at whose left hand several women in a row are represented worshipping on their
knees ; while on his right.hand a group of men similarly employed is represented. Round the body of
the temple numerous male figures, carved in alto relievo, are to be seen seated on a lotus supported by
a high stalk. They are here represented with the soles oftheir feet turned upwards, but no where in union
with the female as in the other temple. Besides these caves, there is an imperfectly executed one, which
appears to have been just commenced and then abandoned. Its roof is arched, and ornamented with
stone ribs. At the further extremity there is a deligop two or three feet in height.
About a quarter of a mile eastward from this group of caves two others are met with ; near which there
is an excavated chamber, containing several cells or apartments for the priests, as seen in the smaller
excavations attached to the great cave at Karli. The largest of these caves has a recess containing an
image of Buddha, and anteriorly is furnished with a verandah thirty-five feet long by eight broad, pre
senting a front of four square pillars and two pilasters ; from which by five doorways we enter the area
of the cave. The character of the pillars is the same as before noticed ; and at the end of this verandah,
and right hand side at entering, there is a representation of a fat male figure seated ; over whose neck
and arm the mala, or necklace, is seen passing, shewing he is engaged in tapasya, or devotion. A
figure of a woman holding a cliauri stands on his right ; and on his left there is another who supports a
child on her left arm. Several other representations of women are seen in these caves ; which may have
been dedicated to the use of a Bauddha society of nuns, while those more westward wero inhabited by
the priests.
VI. — Caves ofMahar, and others belonging to the first class, or Simple Bauddha Structures.
The two caves at Mahar, in the Konkan, are situated about a mile from the town and close to the ford
ofthe river, on the right hand of the road leading, by Indapur, to Nagotana and Bombay. They are very
small and rudely executed, but are distinguished by the two lithographed inscriptions of Plate XXXIX ;
the first of which appears to record the gift of the relics of Bhagava, (Buddha,) distributed at his funeral
pile ; an account of which is given by Mr. Tumour, on the authority of Buddha Ghosa's Atthakatlia,
which records the first convocation of the priesthood assembled to explain and determine the funda
mental principles of the Bauddha faith. The relic here given was the Dathadatu, (tooth relic), an ac
count of which will be found in Prinsep's Journal, and Tumour's translation of the Mahawanso* One
of these caves contains a deligop. Besides these purely Bauddha caves, there are those of Baug, in Mal-
wah, described by Captain Dangerfieldf ; and the excavations of Bamian which may be considered no
longer apocryphal, and may be set down as Bauddha structures, if I am allowed to judge from an inspec
tion of M. C. Masson's drawings of the fresco paintings, which are found near the heads of the two co
lossal stone statues of these north-western caves.
VII. — Excavations of Ajanta.
These monuments, which I have classed as intermediate between the simple Bauddah caves, and those
which have been termed Brahamanical, by Mr. Erskine, are nearly as magnificent and extensive as those
of Ellora ; which must however be reckoned of later origin, and mark the change of faith among the
people of Western India from simple Buddhism to Saivism, and the orthodox system of Hinduism which
is now prevalent.
These excavated temples, known by the name of the caves of Ajanta, or the pass, are situated about
three miles south westward ofthe village ofFardapur, which lies at the bottom of the Ghat leading from
Aurangabad into the province of Khandesh. The bed of a mountain torrent, winding through the rocky
bottom of a ravine, leads to a deep and narrow dell ; where the perpendicular face of the rock may be
* See Prinsep's Journal, Vol. VI. p. 511 and 858 ; also translation ofthe Mahawanso, p. 258.
t Transactions of the Bombay Literary Society, Vol. II. p. 194.
4
14 THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA.
between two and three hundred feet in height, at the place where the caves commence. The repeated
doublings of the ravine seem to cut off this sequestered spot from all communication with the world ; and
the dell at its furdier extremity narrows into a chasm, which is shut out, on either side, by precipices ol
rock at least a hundred and fifty feet high, where a cascade ofseventy or eighty feet, after falling into a
deep and capacious bason at the bottom, overflows to form the rocky torrent, just described, which is dry
during the months of April and May. The sides of the ravine, where not precipitous, are clothed with
wood ; and the features of the scenery, if not magnificent, are highly romantic, and have an air of wild
solitude peculiarly striking.
The caves are situated in the ravine on the right side, at about one-third of its height ; and following the
winding course of it, from east westward about a quarter of a mile, describe more than the quarter of a
circle. Those which were accessible and visited by me amounted to twenty two ; but some new ones
have been since discovered. Four of these are arched ones containing the dehgop, and the others are
flat roofed. To convey a more perfect idea of the whole it will be necessary to describe them indivi
dually ; and for this purpose begin with the largest cave of all which is nearly central, and from this pro
ceed in a west and east direction numbering them accordingly.
Central Cave.
This which faces to the south, is one hundred feet long, and forty broad. At the opposite end to that
by which we enter there is a plain dehgop or chaitya, very similar to what may be seen at the Karli
cave. The body of this erect mass of stone is circularly shaped below terminating in a cupola above.
The roof of the cave has been originally supported by thirty-eight octagonal pillars, many of which are
now broken. These pillars are twelve feet in height ; and after running for some way in a straight row,
on the right and left, are disposed in a semicircular form at the further end. From the top of the pillars
there rises a plain belt, of eight feet in depth, which runs round the cave, and from this the arched root
takes its origin. The breadth of the cave from pillar to pillar is twenty-four feet ; and between the pillars
and wall of the area there is a verandah, six feet broad, which has a semicircular roof, and shews the re
mains of having been at one time finely painted.
The whole was similarly painted in former times, and the drawings were, " ala fresco," on a composi
tion of white calcareous earth and cowdung. The painting on the pillars remains in a tolerable state
of preservation, and there are many representations of black and golden Buddhas, seated with the legs
crossed, the forefinger and thumb joined as if meditating, and the soles of the feet turned upwards. Their
figures are covered with a shela, or robe, which is thrown over the left shoulder, leaving only a part of
this hand exposed, but the whole of the right shoulder and breast bare. There are also many figures
of men and women standing. The former are represented with a dress similar to what is now worn by
the Arabs, fitted closely to the neck, and made with loose sleeves opening at, and hanging from, the
elbow ; and the latter, whose hair is curly, and gathered into a knot at the crown of the head, have
a loose sheet thrown over the left shoulder leaving the right breast exposed ; as commonly seen among
females in the south of India. The features of both, however, are generally similar to those of the people
in Southern India ; and, in some instances, nearly resemble those of Arabs or Abyssinians.
Entering the cave we see, on the left east side, two standing images of Buddha cut from the rock.
The uppermost of these is covered by a robe which reaches nearly to the ankle, the lower one is naked.
Near them are several small figures seated, appearing in the act of performing tapasya.
No. 1. West.
Immediately on the west of the large central cave there is a small flat roofed one, with a verandah in
front. The roof, which is twelve feet high, is supported by four clumsy square pillars. This excavation
which has several " dookans," or cells formed in the wall of the area, is thirty-eight feet long and
twenty-eight broad. At the further extremity, from where we enter there is an image of Buddha in a re
cess. This figure is seated on a sinhasan, or throne, on the face of which are sculptured figures of an
ape and two goats. The image has no robe and has been once painted red.
No. 2. West.
This is a low flat roofed excavation ; from which seven doors lead through the wall of its area to
as many dookans or cells. There are no images in this cave.
No. 3. West.
This, which is nearly closed up by the fall of earth from above, has a figure of Buddha over the door way.
EXCAVATIONS OF AJANTA 15
No. 4. West.
Thi9 is another flat roofed excavation, of which the length is sixty-four feet, and the breadth sixty-two-
The roof which is fourteen feet high is supported by twenty pillars. In front there is a broad verandah,
communicating with the cave by a large doorway and a window on each side of it. The stone of the
verandah roof is cut into large projecting beams, and Garura is sculptured, at both ends, as a dwarfish
fat man, with hair like a wig, supporting on his back the whole. The rock has been cut so as to project
considerably in front of this verandah, below which projection at the west end there is a long inscription,
consisting of several lines, but so weather worn in many parts as to be unintelligible to sight. As much as
could be copied with any degree of certainty is given in inscriptions No. 3, and 4, Plate XL VIII. the for
mer being the beginning of it and the latter the right hand side from the 11th line downwards. It would
have been impossible to have obtained a fac-simile on account of the roughness of the stone.
In the recess there is an image of Buddha, of which the feet touch the ground. Its height when seated
on the sinhasan is about six feet. On the face ofthe throne there is an animal, which may either be a rhi
noceros or wild cow, represented to the right and left. This image is naked, and the sign on the throne
appears to be that of a buffalo or wild cow. The image has been painted red.
No. 5. West.
This is a very fine cave, and little injured by time. The area is sixty-four feet by sixty-two ; and the roof,
which is elevated twelve feet, is supported by twenty pillars. It has a broad verandah in front ; at the west
end of which, and on the left of the spectator, there is an inscription disposed in twenty-nine lines, oc
cupying a space on the rock of four feet long and three broad. It is written in what may be termed the
Pali character ofSanscrit, which is used in some of the copper plate grants ofland found sometimes on the
West of India. The right hand or innerside of the inscription has been nearly obliterated by the wea
ther and the dripping of water from the rock above. The same end of the verandah contains a circular
" al fresco" painting ; which is divided into compartments, by radii from a centre, and represents people
variously employed. Some are carrying loads ; some are seated and conversing with one another under
square shaded canopies, that have all the resemblance of Chinese booths. The people who are so em
ployed are either of a black or copper colour ; but all of them are represented with wooly hair, which is
cut short, and rounded on the neck like that of Europeans. This like many of the other paintings, which
once adorned this verandah, has been much injured by the endeavors of visitors to remove part from the
wall, and will be soon entirely destroyed. In the remains of these paintings we see women, with dark
complexions, and features similar to those now observable among the natives of the south of India. They
are adorned with fillets of flowers, that bind back their hair ; and in some instances, servants are carrying
umbrellas, over couples of men and women promenading, in the manner represented in Chinese drawings.
Several black and golden Buddhas are painted above the door-way leading from the verandah to the
cave ; and, on the face of the throne, supporting the image in the recess, there are two antelopes sculp
tured. The image is without a robe-
No. 6. West.
This, which is a small arched cave, contains a dehgop Plate VI. somewhat different from the one in the
larger arched cave. Its upper part is a rounded pyramid, surmounted by a vase, or guglet shaped orna
ment, which is the symbol of Malli or the 19th Jaina. On the lower part of the dehgop, and in front, there
is an image sculptured, in a standing posture and below a semicircular shaped canopy, whose left hand
is supporting the ends ofhis robe thrown over this shoulder. There are other small images, or tiny Bud
dhas, sculptured on this dehgop, and are in a sitting posture with the soles of the feet turned upwards.
The Buddhas that are here painted, " al fresco," are of a golden or green colour.
No. 7. West.
This is a small cave, in which there is much carving on the portico of the recess. The image in the re
cess appears to have been painted either of a red or golden colour ; and on the throne where it is seated
two antelopes are sculptured. The antelope is the symbol of Santi the 16th Jaina saint.
No. 8. West.
After passing No. 7. the visitor is obliged to descend ; there being no continued foot path, by which
he can get at the remainder of the Western caves. By means of a steep and difficult pathway he reaches
these, however ; and is first conducted to a fine arched cave, which will presently be described, but which,
reckoned westward, in order, will form the eleventh of the series.
ftj THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA.
The cave here numbered contains water, and is much obscured for want of light. The pillars that sup
port the roof arc rounded and ornamented ; and in the recess there is a cross legged image of Buddha.
No. 9. West.
This is a small cave, where the image is sculptured with the feet touching the ground, and resting on a
lotus supported by two deer. The colour of the image appears to have been red ; and on the right and
left men and women are represented kneeling as in prayer. This is similar to the group found in one of
the caves at Aurangabad, where all the Buddhas are seated on the lotus ; from which symbol we might con
jecture that the saint here worshipped was Padmaprabha.
No. 10. West.
Is a large cave containing round ornamented pillars. It is filled with water, and contains no image,
from which we may conclude it was not used us a temple but a school.
No. 11. West.
Is a finely arched cave, fifty-two feet long by eighteen broad within the pillars ; which, though not uni
form in shape, are generally round, and have an elaborately ornamented shaft and capital. There is a si
milar belt, between the capitals of the pillars and the spring of the arched roof, as has been described to
run round the upper part of the large central cave. Instead of being plain, however, it is here sculptured
with numerous images of Buddha seated with the legs crossed, and placed in niches. A verandah, six feet
wide between the outer side of the pillars and wall of the area, runs round the cave on each side ; and
here many images are sculptured on the wall. One of these, on the spectator's left, is a gigantic figure
of Buddha lying asleep, Plate IX, that measures twenty-three feet, and is named Bheem by the natives.
At the entrance of the cave, which from the turning of the nullah at this part, faces easterly, there are two
standing images of Buddha, to the right and left ofthe spectator. These images, which are about twelve
feet high, are represented with a shela or robe descending from the left shoulder to the ankle, so as to leave
the right breast exposed. Below the feet of the one on the left is a deeply cut inscription, No. 1 , Plate
XLVIII.
The extreme end contains the chaitya * which is different from either of those that have been de
scribed. The lower portion of it is sculptured with standing images two feet high, whose robes descend
ing to the ankle are supported over the left shoulder as in the other large figures represented at the en
trance ; but on the face of it looking to the front of the cave, a pyramidal shaped canopy, of two stories, is
sculptured, and over-hangs numerous standing figures and diminutive faces of Buddha ; while, in other
places, men and women seated in pairs are represented within small niches. Beneath this canopy, which
is very similar to one represented by Mr. Crawford, from the temple of Boro Budor in Java, there is also
a large image placed in a sitting posture, with the feet touching the ground.
The greater part of the cave has been at one time beautifully enamelled ; and the Buddhas represent
ed, "alfresco," are painted of a yellow colour. It would appear to have been held in great reverence ;
. there being cells for the priests on each side of it.
Having thus described the caves westward from the central arched cave, I now give a detailed account
of those which run eastward of it.
No. 1. East.
This, which is only a few paces east from the large one, is an arched cave forty-five feet long and thir
teen feet broad from pillar to pillar. The pillars which are octagonal are disposed in an ellipsis ; and
between their exterior face and the area of the cave there is a flat roofed verandah three and a half feet
in breadth. This cave contains a dehgop similar to the one in the large centrical one described ; and its
floor descends considerably below the level of the ground on which the observer is standing. The face of
• The chaityas of Nepal are either simple or composite; but the genuine one is, according to Mr. Hodgson, a solid struc
ture exclusively appropriated to the Dhyani, or, celestial Buddhas, whose images are placed in niches around the base of the
hemisphere, which is the essential part of the structure. In niches of the hemisphere four of the five Dhyani Buddhas arc
enshrined, one being placed opposite to each cardinal point, as seen in the chaitya which is represented in plate VI of the Ajanta
drawings. Mr. Hodgson tells us that Akshobhya Buddha occupies the eastern nich ; Ratna Sambhdva, the southern ; Amifa
ta, the western, and Amoghasiddha, the northern. Vairochana, the first Dhyani Buddha, is supposed to occupy the centre,
invisibly. Manushi or mortal Buddhas, and Manushi Bodhisatwas, and Lokishwaras, with their Saktis, or female energies,
are generally placed in temples less sacred than the chaityas. One of the latter may be seen in plate XII, of the Ajantn
drawings. See Prinsep's Journal, Vol. v. p. 81, and Quarterly Oriental Review, Vol. viii. p. 255.
EXCAVATIONS OF A.TANTA. 1?
the rock, between the two caves, is sculptured with images of Buddha sitting on a sinhdsan, whose feet
are represented touching the ground. The paintings in this cave are of a golden colour.
No. 2. East.
This which is only a few yards eastward, is a half executed excavation.
No. 3. East.
To this cave, which is flat roofed, there is a considerable ascent. It has a double verandah in front;
and from the area of it several narrow doors, about four feet high, lead to dukans or cells. From the
area we enter the recess by a door nine feet high and four broad. Here there is a statue of Buddha
seated on a sinhasan, on the face of which two deer or goats are sculptured. The height of the image
is eight feet, and it is surrounded by several standing images of inferior height, clad in robes which reach
the ankle. These smaller images appear to be the attendants of the larger one. Both on the outer
and inner wall of this recess many such images are seen, seated as if worshipping the larger statue.
There is a gradual rise in the several apartments of the roof, from the verandah to the recess of this cave.
The whole has been at one time painted. If the image of the recess be meant for a Jaina, it must be
Kunthi who has the goat for his sign.
No. 4. East.
This cave, to which we ascend by a few steps, consists of two stories ; of which the lower area mea
sures fifty feet, and has its roof supported by twelve octagonal pillars, and five pilasters, both on the
east and west sides. In front of the recess, where there is an image similar to the one in No. 3. there
are two ornamented pillars ; and from the area of this cave several narrow door-ways lead to excavated
cells. The height of the roof is ten or eleven feet, but the same could not be precisely ascertained, as the
cave contained a considerable quantity of water. The image in the recess is represented covered by a
robe. Ascending by steps, which are broken, to the upper story, we come to a magnificent cave, having
a portico and verandah in front ; from which we enter by a door-way, eight feet high and four broad. The
roof is supported by twelve octagonal pillars, differing in shape from most of those in the other caves.
They have a square base, and a projecting triangularly shaped capital. The height of each pillar is eleven
and a half feet ; and, as the rock from the capital of pillar to pillar is sculptured into a curtain eight
inches deep, the height of this cave must be something more than twelve feet. The area within the
pillars is twenty-nine feet square ; and from their exterior face a verandah, six feet broad, runs round the
whole. Besides the small cells usually leading from the area of the caves, there are several larger re
cesses excavated in the wall of this one ; of which each has a portico supported by two pillars fluted at
the upper part of the shaft, which is circular. The recess for the image in this cave has a similar portico.
The image, which is naked, is seated on a sinhdsan ; on the face of which cither two goats or antelopes
are sculptured. The face of the wall in the verandah supports several images of Buddha, whose feet
touch the ground, while the fore finger and thumb are joined together. As the large image in the re
cess of the lower cave is represented with a robe, and that in the upper without one, it is probable that
the two caves belonged to the two different sects of Bauddhas, or the Swetdmbara and Digambara Jains.
I have said Jains or Bauddhas ; for if we may judge from the Indian excavations, we must conclude that
the origin of the Jaina form of Buddhism, or that which retains part of the Brahmanical mythology and
distinction of cast, preceded the more complete schism, which is now prevalent in Burmah.
No. 5. East.
Is nearly filled up with earth, and appears to have been similarly executed as the other flat roofed
excavations.
No. 6. East.
Is a larger cave than either of the others and is flat roofed. Its outer area is eighty feet square, and
its inner, within twenty eight pillars, forms a square of fifty-six feet. There is a verandah in front ; and
several small door-ways lead from the cave to excavated cells. The pillars, which are octagonal, have a
triangularly shaped capital ; above which the rock is cut into a curtain of about six feet high : and as the
whole height of the cave is sixteen feet, the shaft of the pillars will be therefore about ten feet high.
In the recess there is an image of Buddha which is naked ; and the other images, which are not numer
ous in this cave, are represented with their feet touching the lotus.
5
13 THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA.
No. 7. East.
This which is a flat roofed cave, has a front verandah sixty-six feet long by eight broad ; from which
we enter the area of the cave by a door-way nearly ten feet in height by four broad. The image in this
cave, which is clothed, is distinguished by the symbol of an antelope.
No. 8. East.
Is a cave which has a beautifully painted roof, from which the specimens of the panels in plate XIX
were taken. This excavation, at the period of my visit, was likely to be closed up by the descent
of earth from above ; but it has since, I believe, been made accessible by the removal of the fallen earth.
The image in the recess had two antelopes or goats as supporters. In addition to the caves now describ
ed, there was one more to the westward, which was not accessible to me, making the whole number
twenty-two ; and which have been added to by later discoveries.
VIII. — Caves of Ellora.
These magnificent monuments, belonging as I said, to the second class of excavations, would re.
quire little farther description tiian what has been given of them by Sir Charles Mallet, and Colonel Sy-
kes, * had not both authors left doubtful many points regarding the sculptured figures, and the opinions of
the sectaries who worshipped them. Some proof too of the justness of my expressed belief, that the sculp
tures of Ellora illustrate Tantrika f principles engrafted on Buddhism, will be required of me ; and an ana
lysis of the character of the several sculptures, in reference to the established representations of well known
Hindu divinities, worshipped by various sectaries, will tend to correct, or confirm, opinions previously given
on this subject. Anticipating but part of what must be said, in subsequent chapters, on the theological and
metaphysical ideas of the Baaddha and Jaina sectaries, apart from their ritual and mythology, it will be here
necessary to make some preliminary observations regarding points of doctrine wherein they agree, or on
which they differ ; so that we may refer any religious sculpture to these particular sects, or appropriate
others of them, which cannot be so tested, to heterodox Brahmanical sectaries, entertaining analogous
philosophical opinions, but with a different mythology and ritual.
These two heterodox sectaries agree in placing within the limits of South Bahar, and its immediate vici
nity, the locality of the death and apotheosis of the last Buddha, and of the last Jina ; disavow the vedas, and
deitiesof the Hindu Pantheon ; lived originally in a state ofcelibacy in religious societies, or monasteries, as
we learn from the fables of the Pancha Tantra ; \ select their priests from among the children of all branches
of the community ; have preserved for their sacred language the Pali or Prakrit, a dialect closely resem
bling the Magadhi or vernacular tongue of South Bahar ; have nearly the same traditional chronology
for the origin of the two sects ; do not eat after sunset, and sweep the spot on which they sit down
from their regard for the preservation of animal life. Both sects agree too in holding the doctrine of
* See Asiatic Researches, Vol vi. P. 391 ; and Transactions of the Bombay Literary Society, Vol III p. 265.
t The Sakta form of Hinduism is that from which the principles of the Tantrika system are derived : and which consists of
religious worship of Siva and Durga, (Devi, or the goddess,) with charms and incantations, or Mantras. The riles ofthis wor
ship are consecrated by certain mystical formulae for the attainment of superhuman power, and are of two kinds ; one pure, the
other impure. In the former, such offerings are made as are usual for other deities ; in the latter, blood, flesh, and spirituous li
quors are placed among the proper offerings to the goddess. Colonel Vans Kennedy, in his observations on Professor II. Wil
son's theory respecting the Puranas, restricts the Tantrika system to the latter ritual.
{ See analytical account of the Pancha Tantra, by H. H. Wilson, Transactions R. A. S. Vol. I. p. 133. Professor Wilson,
in a note on the worship of the Padmanidhi, or of the nine divine treasures, (which according to the Tantrika systems, are
personified and worshipped as demigods attendant on Kuvera, the god ofwealth, and Lakshmi, the goddess ofprosperity,) observes,
" let the votary adore the Padmanidhi, placed with his wife upon the left hand of the goddess : both of the colour of minium,
each in the other's embrace, and either holding a red lotus and a blue one : both employed in raining jewels, and either wearing
a lotus as a crest, the male Padmanidhi corpulent, the female slender." This worship, which appears to have been practiced
by the Bauddhas, and early Jaina Sectaries, is seen illustrated in the drawings from Ajanta. The Pancha Tantra, which is the
original of the fables of Bidpai, or Pilpay, and was first translated from Sanskrit into Arabic, and called the Kalila Damana
was carried from India, as Masudi tells us, about A. D. 550 ; when Naosherwan, the king of Persia, having advanced against
Balkh and Khatlan, killed Akshawan king of the Hayatelahs or Ephthalitcs ; who, during the reign of the Roman
Emperor Theodosius II, and nearly a hundred years earlier than Naosherwan, are mentioned by the historian Pro.
copius as inhabiting the Northern borders of Persia, and known by the name of white Huns. Unlike the other branches of the
Huns they were neither wanderers in the deserts, nor were uncivilized ; but had a well organized society among themselves
and were subject to kings. The Jaina Sectaries, originally nearly allied to the Bauddhas, were therefore in existence at this
time; but had not yet introduced the worship of the twenty-four Tirthankaras, which would appear to be a more mod
ern innovation.
CAVES OP ELLORA. 10
eternal atoms, which are the elements, earth, water, fire, and air ; and which become the world's cause
when in a state of aggregation, and of its dissolution when universally separated. This opinion they
maintain in common with the Vaiseshika school of Hindu philosophy, of which Kanada is the author ; and
which is controverted by the more orthodox opinions ofthe vedantinsor the followers ofMimansa philosophy.*
Though this information regarding their early opinions is obtained from the controversial disquisitions of
their Brahmanical adversaries, it is essentially correct ; and such opinions are perhaps more original than
those now prevailing among the Bauddhas of Nepal ; who, according to Mr. Hodgson, admit the Pancha
Bhuta or five elements, of which the five Dhyani or celestial Buddhas are personifications.! The
Nepalese also admit Manasa and Dharma, i. e. the sentient principle and condition of merit, as the
sixth Dhyani Budha, X but as these last do not appear to have been admitted by the earlier Baud-
dha sectaries in India ; nor were such opinions mixed up with Saiva and Sakta ritual as in Nepal, until a later
period, we should be cautious in drawing the inference that such were parts of original practical Buddhism ;'
and the conclusion seems more rational that such Tantra rites and symbols were grafted on Bauddha specu
lation, as was the case we know with the Gyut, the seventh and last portion of the Kah-Gyur or great scrip
tural collection of Tibet. The first volume of this portion was introduced from the north, it is said, into India,
during the tenth century, and into Tibet during the eleventh. ^
The five Dhyani Buddhas, who are recognized in the Tibetan books, produced five Bodhisatwas, who
are the immediate agents of creation ; and each in his turn having become Sarvaguna, invested with three
qualities, produced all things by his fiat.|| These creations are perishable, and three of them have already
passed away. The present world is considered as the work of the fourth Bodhisatwa, who is Padma Pani,
and now lord of the ascendant.
Besides these metaphorical personifications, or Buddhas who sprang divinely, some from Alms (sether)
and some from the lotus ; there are seven other Buddhas who are produced generatively, and therefore
called Manushi or mortal Buddhas ; who in their successive mortal advents reached different degrees
of perfectibility till they attained the transcendental glory of a Tathagata, H and relief from further trans
migration, in a state of nirvritti, or eternal rest. These seven, which are specified in Hemachandra **
vocabulary are named Vipasyi, Sikhi, Viswabhu, Kakutsanda, Kanakamuni, Kasyapa, and Sakyasinha.
The three first, though not commonly mentioned, are universally recognized in Tibet, ff Ceylon, and to the
eastward ; and the last, who is the same as Gautama, the son of Suddhodana king of Kosola or Oude,
is author of the system which has came down to us. He is the last ofthe terrestrial Buddhas yet come,
who by dhyan (abstraction), and tapas, (mortification), from man became god, and is the now universally
revered tathagata in Ceylon, Burmah, Siam, Ava, Tibet and other countries where Buddhism prevails.
He entered on his divine mission, B. C. 588, in the fifteenth year of the reign of Vimbasara king of
Magadha ; and died B. C. 543, in the eighth year of the reign of Ajatasatto, (Ajatasatru) the son and suc
cessor of the preceding monarch.
The incarnations of Gautama, prior to his last advent, which are five hundred and fifty, and called his
Jatakas are embodied in the Bauddha scriptures, and held up to his followers as lessons of the divine
perfectibility of his moral character. Some of these seem to form the subject of the Ajanta fresco paint
ings; and plate XXII represents one of Gautama's contests with the evil principle, or Asuras; whom,
in his character of Sakko, or Indra, he had ejected from the heaven of the Devatas. The rebellious demons
are either here attempting as before mentioned, to obtain the daughter oftheir chief, or are climbing up the
mountain Maha-Meru, in order to regain their lost abode : but are driven back by darts from the Chakra
vilala, the discus framed by Viswakarma, the architect of the gods. Plate XXIII would appear to be part
of his incarnation as a hunter; in which character Gautama converted to his creed, Asiratanam Raja, who
* See Mr. Colebrooke on the heretical systems of Hindu Philosophy : Trans: It. A. S. Vol. I. p. 55G.
t Hodgson's quotations from original Sanskrit authorities on Buddhism : Prinsep's Journal Vol. V. p. 76.
% The Tibetans also admit the existence of six elements ; and the second portion of the Kah-gyur called the Sher-chin, ad.
dressed to the philosophers, names them earth, water, fire, air, ether, and spirit, or intellect. Prinsep's Journal, Vol. I. p. 377.
§ See Analysis of the Kah-Gyur, by H. H. Wilson. Journal A. S. Vol. I. p. 386.
|| Notices of different systems of Buddhism from Tibetan authorities; and Hodgson's quotations, Journal A. S. Vol VII. p.
143, and Vol. V. p. 76.
The doctrine of the metempsychosis is a scheme of purification embracing rewards and punishments ; and the title
Tatliagata, from tatha, thus, and gata, gone, means an exemption from future reproduction : mortal birth having closed, and
nirvritti, eternal repose, and the perfection of knowledge being attained.
** Colebroke's Observations on the Jains, As. Res. Vol IX. p. 303.
tt Analysis of the Kah-gyur, Prinsep's Journal, Vol. I. p. 380.
The same as Bimbisaro of the Ceylon Annals, and the Srenika Maharaja of the Jains. See Prinsep's Journal, Vol. I. p. 2.
§^ In Nepal, according to Mr Hodgson, his incarnations are five hundred and one. An account of them is written in (lie
Sanskrit scriptures of that province called the Jatalca Mala, and Lalita Vistara. In Ceylon, however, his incarnations
are enumerated as stated in the text. See T. A. S. Vol. II. p. 244, and Upham on Ceylon Buddhism : p. 27.
20 THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA.
had been an enemy to the Bauddha religion, and addicted to a sinful life by killing animals and commit
ting acts ofviolence. Plate XXV is also probably part of his Jataka as Wessantaro Raja ; in which character
Gautama was beloved by his subjects for many virtues, celebrated for acts of charity and humility, so that
when the Brahmans of Kalinga came to him, and requested his white elephant, to procure a fall of rain
and avert famine from the kingdom, he alighted from the royal animal and delivered it up against the
entreaties and amidst the murmurs of his attendants.* The Buddhas therefore mentioned in the scrip
tures are innumerable ; but many of them are nonentities in regard to history.
The five Dhyani Buddlias who are of divine origin are quiescent, while the active work of creation
devolves on their Bodhisatwas. In this theistical system of Buddhism, which acknowledges the first in
tellectual essence as Adi Buddha, (the supreme,) the fourth Bodhisatwa, Padma Pani, called in Nepal
Avalokeswara, is made to assume the form of the three qualities of goodness, passion, and darkness, for
the creation of Brahma, Vishnu, and Maheswara f It recognizes, as would appear, the separate exist
ence of mind and matter ; and respects more the speculations of Bauddha philosophy, on the origin of
the world and the nature of a first cause, than it regards opinions of the nature and destiny of the hu
man soul ; which belong more to exoteric Buddhism, and arose with the earlier or atheistical system
acknowledging matter as the sole entity, and giving it two modalities, or states of being ; one called
nirvritti or quiescence, the other pravritti or energy and change ; while an eternal revolution of matter,
held to be the system of the world, subjects it with all other palpable forms to alternate periods of decay
and regeneration. One division of the theistical followers of Buddhism admits only one immaterial cause
of all things, the essence of pravritti and nirvritti, closely conforming in this respect to the Brahmanical
followers of the uttara mimansa, or vedanta philosophy ; while another considers matter and mind to form
a biunity, in a state of nirvritti or quiescence.J By the former the self-existent Divinity is thought t0
be one with all things, and separate from all things ; by the latter, as the unity of mind and matter, he is
said to be the real originator of the universe, but is, by either theory, in a state of perpetual repose, with
out the attributes of providence and dominion ; while the functions of creating, preserving, and destroy
ing the visible world devolve on the Bodhisatwas, or on the triad; which, as in Nepal, is found in the
Buddhism of the sculptured caves at Elephanta and Ellora, and appears to represent this religion modifi
ed in India, previous to its introduction into the former country.
The triad of Nepal however consists of Brahma, Vishnu, and Maheswara ; while the sculptured bust
at Ellora ^ evidently representing a female || on the left, indicates that it is the Batiddha triad of the
modified atheistical system, called Prajnika Swabhavika, where Dliarma, or deified Nature, is theJirst
member ; Buddha, as the representation of nature's energy emanating from matter, the second ; and San-
glia, or union, the third. 1 In the exoteric, or vulgar system of the theistical creed, in which prajna, or
the conceptive power of matter, is for the purposes of creation made to exist biunely with mind, female
energies or Saktis are linked to the Dhyani Buddhas ; but in the above modified atheistical system, though
the power of inert matter be also typified as a goddess, neither this nor the primitive theistical one of in
tellectual essences admit of Saktis being united to the celestical Buddhas.**
The primitive atheistical, called the simple Swabhavika doctrine, altogether denies immateriality, and as
serts that matter is the sole substance, subject to its own laws, inherent in itself, and giving rise to spon
taneous creation. It does not, as Mr. Hodgson says, admit of a triad; which, as he justly concludes, ap
pears to be foreign to primitive Buddhism on the west of India, and is no where met with among the
sculptures in the first class of caves already described.
Regarding the destiny of the human soul, and the motives for doing well, the object of all these doc
trines is, by abstinence and abstraction, to enlarge the mind from finity to infinity ; to acquire spiritual
knowledge, so as to be able to discriminate soul from nature, and thus obtain liberation from matter and
the punishment of transmigration for sin committed ; and finally to obtain emanation and happiness, in a (
* Upham's History ofBuddhism, p. 29 — 40.
t See Mr. B. H. Hodgson's Sketch of Buddhism, and answer to question XIV. in the Transactions R. A. S. Vol, II. p. 242.
\ Mr. Hodgson's alterations in the Notes appended to his Sketch, and note 2 substituted for the one first published : See
Appendix No. V. Transactions R. A. S. Vol. II. p. LXXX.
§ See Col. Sykes' representation of the triad, in his account of the caves of Ellora. Transactions of the Bombay Literary
Society, Vol. III.
|| See Col. Sykes' on the three faced-busts in the cave temples of Elephanta and Ellora. Journal R. A. S. Vol. V. p. 81.
f[ The Bauddha triad is usually named the Tri Ratna or three jewels ; but the followers of this religion differ in their con
ceptions of the relative rank of the three persons composing it. According to the purely theistical theory, Buddha, as the male
energy and symbol of generative power, is the first member ; but in the modified theistical one, where prajna, or Diva natura
is united to intellect, Dliarma, the type of productive power, is placed first. In both systems, however, Sangha or union is
called the Son of the two former, and represents actual creative power. See Mr. Hodgson's Notes on his Sketch of Buddhism
** Notice of Buddha tracts from Nepal by Professor H. H. Wilson. Asiatic Researches, Vol. XVI. p. 458.
CAVES OF ELLORA. 21
state of union and quiescence, with the first cause of all things and the source from whence they come.
It is thus that the religion has been made conformable to the opinions of cosmogony maintained by its phi
losophical sectaries - and respecting generative creation it acknowledges the tenet that the seven mortal or
Manushi Buddhas are emanations of the first cause, and have obtained plenary omnipotence, or divinity,
by their re-union with the same, and become Tathagatas.
The leading points of agreement, between Bauddhas and Jainas, both in regard to their opinions and
history, have been enumerated ; and those in which they differ may be now noticed. The latter have
not, like the Bauddhas, any veneration for relics ; have elevated to divine supremacy twenty-four Tirth-
ankaras, the spiritual successors of Sudharma Swami, called the cotemporary of Indra Bhnti, who is the
same as Gautama, have adopted, in the South of India, the division of caste, though the practice re
garding this, in the northeast, is not general ; worship Rishaba as the first Tirthankara, the same probably .
as Rishaba of the Sri Bhagavat ; * do not live in monastic establishments, but have priests called Jatis ;
and admit the whole of the Hindu gods into their system, making them subordinate to their own Saints.
This last perhaps can be scarcely considered a subject of disagreement, as the theistical Buddhism of Ne
pal seems to admit of similar adoption. They give not like the Hindus any preference to a particular
deity of this system ; and acknowledge sixty-four Indras and twenty-four Devis. f
Like the Bauddhas and Jainas the metaphysical and theological opinions of the Brahmans constitute
the essence of their religion ; and the universe is consequently subjected to decay and regeneration, at
the end of cycles of great duration, called yugas ; when the triad and all the gods cease to exist, and there
is nothing left but the great first cause in the midst of infinite space. The universe, in the opinion of
of the orthodox, J is but an emanation from the essence of the deity ; so that all palpable forms, which
are but parts of him, become legitimate objects of worship, and give origin to the pantheism, or numerous
gods of the Brahmanical system. According to the best authorities, the present state of the Hindu reli
gion is of comparatively recent origin, and is distinguished by inculcating faith in a particular divinity, as
the mean of obtaining purification from sin and transmigration. In this, as in the Bauddha and Jaina re
ligion, the ultimate object is to obtain a state of perfect apathy, or quiescence, through the practice of
abstraction and mortification ; which are, however, considered less efficacious in conducting frail mortali
ty to the realms of felicity than belief in particular deities, among whom the most commonly worshipped
are Vishnu, Siva, and Devi, who give name to the three principal sects, the Vaishnavas, the Saivas, and
the Saktas. Several differences of opinion exist among the three leading divisions of these sectaries ; and
the Pancharatras or Bhagavatas, as worshippers of Vishnu, with the Pasupalas or Maheswaras the devotees of
Siva, both in their doctrines and practice are nearly allied to the Bauddhas and Jainas. The Mahe
swaras indeed seem to have borrowed much of their doctrine from the atheistical system of the Sankhya
philosophy, in which we see reflected the earliest Bauddha Jenets ; while they have adopted more of the
theistical system of the same philosophy, or school of Patanjali.^ They hold that Iswara, the supreme
being, is the efficient, though not the material, cause of the world ; and is at once its creator and super
intending ruling providence : thus conforming in their opinions to the Bauddha theistical system of Ne
pal, in all except the admission of a ruling providence. By the tenets of the Maheswaras it is taught
that Yoga, or abstraction in penance, with enjoined rites, and meritorious acts ofenthusiasm, which over
joy or carry the sectary beside himself, are the means of obtaining final liberation, (Moksha,) and deliver
ance from evil, (Dukhanta). Four divisions of these sectaries are known : of which the Pasupatas,
as followers of Pasupati, another title for Maheswara, and the Kapalas, as wearer3 of the skull necklace,
. are celebrated, and mentioned by the Sri Bhagavata as associates of the Bauddha sectaries. || The
* Tliere are two works under this name; one the Sri Bhagavata is dedicated to faith in Vishnu, and the other the Devi
Bhagavata is a Saiva composition. The latter is thought to be the genuine purana, and the other the product of uninspired
erudition, ascribed to Vopndcva the grammarian, who lived sometime about the twelfth century, and at the Court of a Raja of
Dejgarb, or Daulatabad. See Translation of the Vishnu Purana, by II. H. Wilson, Preface p. XXXI.
' t Major Delamaine on the Jains. Trans. R. A. S. Vol. I. p. 422.
t Individual souls emanating from the supreme one, are likened to innumerable sparks issuing from a blazing fire. From
him they proceed end to him they return, being of the same essence. Mr. Colebrooke on the Vedanta : Trans. R. A. S.
Vol. H. p. 35.
§ Mr. Colebrooke on the Philosophy of Indian Sectaries. Trans. R. A. S. Vol. I. p. 569.
|| The probable date of this Purana has been mentioned in a previous note; and in the fourth Khanda of it, translated by
Mr. Taylor from the Tamil, it is mentioned, that when Indra was about to lose his throne to Prilhu, who purposed (o perforin
a hundred asvame.dtia yogas (horse sacrifices,) and had successfully completed ninety-nine, Indra assuming the garb of a San-
nyasi, (ascetic,) the same as worn by the Kapalis, Bauddhas, and Pashandas, stole the hundredth horse. See 4th Report on
the Mackenzie MSS. by the Rov. W. Taylor, Madras Journal of Literature and Science. No. 21. p. 225.
G
22 THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA.
principal point of opinion in which the Maheswaras are deemed heretical, by the orthodox, is that crea
tion of the universe by the deity out of his own essence and pantheism are not admitted.
The Pancharatras or Bhagavatas, as the special worshippers of Vishnu, identify him with Vasudeva, or
Bhagavata, the supreme being ; considered to be the omniscient first principle, which is at once the effi
cient and material cause of the universe, and likewise ife> superintending and ruling providence. From
this Being dividing himself into four persons, immediately sprung Sankarshana, identified with the living
soul, from whom came Pradyumna, (he who agitates all,) called by the Manmatha Charitra, an incarna
tion of the god oflove Manmatha, (he who agitates the mind,) the son of Krishna and Rukmini ; * but who
is according to this sect the same with mind, (Manas), and sprung from Sankarshana, (Baladem.) In the
mythology of the more orthodox Vaishnavas, Vasudeva is Krishna ; Sankarshana his brother, Balarama ;
and Pradyumna his son, Kama,\ or Cupid ; whose symbol is the Makara%, (or Indian crocodile,) iden
tifying him in some degree with the sitting statues of Buddha at Ajanta, and which identification is
made more certain by one of the inscriptions, from the same place, which is found below the feet of a
colossal standing statue of Buddha Sakya.
The preceding observations will enable us I hope, to accurately analyse the character of the various
sculptures met with in three separate classes of excavations, at Ellora, called the northern, middle, and
southern. The first range consisting of the Adi-natha, Jaggannatha, Parishrama and Indra Sabhas,
with some minor excavations now nearly filled up with earth, have been called BaudHha or Jaina, by Mr.
Erskine. To these succeed the Dumar-lena, Jan wassa, Kumarwara, Ghana, Nilkantha, Ramesxcara,
Kailas, Das-Avatar, and Rikh-Ravan ; which have been thought Brahmanical works, and belong
ing to this religion. The last or southern range, consisting of the Tin-loka or Tin-tala, the Do-tula or
Dukhyaghar, Viswakarma, and the group of caves, called Dehreh-wara, are purely Bauddha ones, and
similar to those of Kanari and Karli.
Northern Excavations.
The caves of Ellora, placed among the most wonderful monuments of human art and industry, occupy
generally the western face of a hilly basaltic range, that stretches for nearly a mile and a half from
N. E. to S. W. ; above which lies the table land of Rozah, so called from being occupied by the tombs
of several celebrated Mohammedans, among which are those of Aurungzeb and Malik Ambar. The
hill runs in the form of a crescent, of which the concave, or middle part, faces north-westerly, and overlooks
a considerable plain of inferior height ; in which at no great distance is the village of Virul, or Ellora.
The horns of the crescent rise to an elevation considerably abov e the intermediate range, where the per
pendicular face of the rock varies from twenty-five to seventy or eighty feet ; at the southern end of
which is the road that conducts the traveller over the hilly range situated between the caves and Daula-
tabad, or Deogarh, distant only a pleasant morning's ride from the modern city of Aurungabad. The
view of the desolate but romantically situated table land of Rozah is particularly striking to the eye ofthe
traveller ; who, having descended amidst the melancholy loneliness of the place, views the extent and
magnificence of the subterraneous temples, with a feeling of astonishment and curiosity ; while the ele
gantly wrought pillars, rare mythological designs, and colossal statues, met with on the face of the hill, dis
tract his mind with inquiry as to who were the wealthy and extraordinary people that have left these
monuments behind them, while every other trace of their power and existence has disappeared. Without
plans or drawings of the individual excavations, no minute description of them would be intelligible ; and,
indeed, no description could possibly do them justice, as they are the most singular remains of antiquity
that have ever met my observation, excepting the more magnificent, and somewhat similar excavations
at JarfHasan, Dayr and Abd-sam-baal, in Nubia. My remarks, therefore, on the sculptures must be chiefly
confined to the mythological character of the figures in the several ranges, which point out to what par
ticular religion they belong.
* See Wilson's Catalogue of the Mackenzie Collection, Vol. I. p. 154.
t Mr. Colebrooke on the Bhagavatas. Trans : R. A. S. Vol. I. p. 576.
I This animal, as mentioned in a previous note, is the Gariala Gangetica, or long beaked crocodile of the Indus and Gan
ges; and is the symbol of Kama, the Indian Apollo, who is consequently named Makara Dhwaja. In the book ofJob, chap-
xli. ver. 18, speaking of God's great power in the Leviathan, or crocodile, his eyes are likened to the eyelids of the morning ;
a representation exactly analogous to that given by the Egyptians ; who we know depicted the eyes of the crocodile to denote
the rising of the sun, and represented it with its head inverted to indicate the setting of the same luminary. We learn both
from Horopollo and Macrobius, that this animal was a type ofthe sun, deified under this attribute at Ombos, in Egypt, and called
Savak according to Sir J. G. Wilkinson's Egyptian Pantheon, p. 45. Clemens of Alexandria, who wrote A. D. 206, says, that the
Egyptians symbolized the sun by the crocodile ; and that their cenigmas signified the sun penetrating a soft and humid air pro
duced time. Stromat. Lib. V. p. 566.
»
NORTHERN EXCAVATIONS. 23
The extreme sculpture, met with to the northward, is a colossal statue of Parswa-natha, the twenty-third
Jaina saint ; which is executed in the mural face of a basaltic hill, situated about two hundred yards north
eastward of the Indra-sabha. It is represented seated on a throne or tabular sculpture from the rock, sup
ported by elephants' and tigers' heads, from the centre of which projects a wheel, similar to what we
see below the sitting Bauddha statues at Ajanta. The height of the image is about ten feet ; its legs
crossed, and hands laid on the lap, with the palms upward ; while its head is overshadowed, as usually
seen in the images of Parswa-natha, by the hooded snake, which is here depicted with seven heads,
though five form the more usual representation, and are probably meant to be symbolical of the five
elements or Dhyani Buddfias, that are enshrined within the genuine Chaitya* The image of Parswa-
natha, worshipped in the desert of Parkur, and described by the late Captain McMurdo, in the first volume
of the Transactions of the Bombay Literary Society, corresponds generally with the image at Ellora,
except that the former has the right foot laid on the left knee, similar to the positions of the Bauddha
statues in Nepal, and called the Lalita-asan manner,f or languishing posture of desire, which is seen well
represented in plate No. XII. of the drawings at Ajanta.
On the front part of the tablet supporting the image of Parswa-natha at Ellora, there is a long inscrip
tion, divided into two portions by an astrological diagram, mistaken by Colonel Sykes for an astronomi
cal table ; on the left hand side, or eastern portion of which is the first half of the inscription, recording
that this image of the twenty-third Jaina saint, was placed there in the year of the Shalivahana Shalc
1156, A. D. 1234, and Jaya year, or twenty-eighth of the Vrihaspati era, the cyclar year of the planet
Jupiter's revolutions ; which was introduced we know into the south of India in the 75th year of our era.
Colonel Sykes also states that about a hundred years ago the piety of a shroff aX Aurungabad caused a
a porch of stone to be erected over the image, and this inscription to be engraved : but of the former
there are now no apparent remains, and both the ancient style of the letters of this inscription, and the
obvious meaning of it, show that the tradition related by the Colonel was founded on misconception and
error of those attendant at the caves, who are ready to get up any story that may satisfy the curiosity of
the visitor. The character of the letters is that which preceded the modern Devanagari alphabet, and
which has been correctly assigned by Mr. Prinsep to the eleventh century of our era. A transcript into
the latter, with a translation, is here given without comment on the language ; as any observations on
this subject will be reserved for the third chapter, containing a general account of all the cave inscrip
tions.
rr^wfrF ft'-TT STcT
Be it auspicious! In the fortunate year of the Shaka 1156, and Jaya year of the Vrihaspati era, the
prosperous royal footstep of the celebrated King Parswa-natha, was established, in the mountain dedicated
to the elephant, glittering with moral love of the deceased giver of Dharma (righteousness,) the one
emancipated immortal, who when visible remained steadfast in subduing passion. J
The appellation of " elephant mountain" given in the inscription to this locality, may contain an allu
sion to Parswa-natha's previous form of Gaja, (the elephant,) and Marabhuti, (the superhuman power of
love ;) an account of which will be found in Major Delamaine's history of the saint, taken from the
Charitra Parswa-natha and other Jaina works.^ This author and Major Wilford have noticed that the
* See note to page 16.
t The Lalita-asan posture ^f^nrreT is described by Mr. Hodgson to be that of one leg tucked under the other, in which
manner Prajna, the mother of all the gods, is described by the Bhadra Kulpavadan as seated on a lotus of precious stones,
sustaining the mansion of the moon crescent. See Mr. Hodgson's quotations, from original Bauddha authorities in Prinsep's
Journal Vol. V. p. 86.
I Major Delamaine, in his account of the Jains, gives the names often forms of Parstoa-natha from the Kalpa Sutra, the scrip
tural book of authority for this religion : the reputed author of which was Jaina-Acharya, the guru or spiritual preceptor of the
Rajah Amoghaversha ; whose date is verified by the copper plate inscription, translated by Mr. Wathen, (Journal R. A. S.
Vol. II. p. 379 and dated Saka 894. A. D. 972.)
§ Most of the Jaina saints, and even Vishnu, are figuratively made out to be Rajas or kings; and though it be possible that
Parswa-natha in his mortal form was one.it is yet evident that most of his ten names are allusive to the powers ofthe sun's
physical influence on the world. Parswa-natha MT'38l«rr«l and Sura-nabhi UtTfa thus mean his energies as lord and master
of the wheels of time; while that of Kiranavega PlPCPfa directly signifies the power or love of the sun, in allusion to its
physical influence on the earth. The Kalpa Sutra indeed states, as mentioned by Mr. Colebrooke in his account of the
Jainas, (A. R. Vol. IX. p. 309,) that Parswa-natha was born at Bhelapura near Benares, 1230 years before the date of this
work, giving his era B. C. 258. This date brings him about the time of the celebrated Indian Emperor Dharma Asoka, who,
though the chief propagator and supporter of the Bauddha heresy, could not be well the founder ofthe Jaina form of it, as sup
posed by Mr. Colebrooke ; if the Digambaras, or followers of the naked saints of this religion, had not their origin earlier than
24 THE CAVES OF WESTERN IND[A.
Jain accounts of Parswa-natlia refer to the period of the Hijra ; about which time the latter thinks, that
Jina or Gautama appeared in his last incarnation as Gaja Vasiskta, or he who resides in the body of
the elephant. Much historical ignorance prevails among Bauddha and Jaina sectaries, and the account
of their deities, containing references to the earliest times of the Christian and Mohammedan religions,
are obscured by numerous anachronisms. But though Parswa-natha's manifestation may be a tale of
modern invention, it contains allusions to more ancient times, or the primitive institution of Buddhism,
when both this and Brahmanism took their origin from the prior worship of the sun, moon, and elements,
or the religion of the Vedas. The early Jaina books have evidently no desire for concealment, as to the
origin of this Sect ; which was flourishing at the beginning of the fifth century of our era, or A. D. 421 ,
as asserted by the Satranjaya Mahatmya, or legend of the temples of Palitana in Kahtiwar.
Proceeding southwards we come to the next series of excavations, the first of which has been named
the Jagannatha-sabha. On the left hand side of the area there is a cave, usually named the Adi-nath-sabhaT
implying that it is dedicated to Rishaba, the first of the twenty-four Jaina saint?. In the recess, op
posite the front of this excavation, there is a seated naked figure ; called, by the Brahman attendants at
the cave, Adi-nath ; an appellation for the Supreme Being, used by both Bauddhas and Jainas. The
image appears however to represent Padma-pani, the Bauddha celestial Bodhi-satwa, and ruler of the
present system of creation. Several other naked figures are sculptured around the cave, all of them be
ing seated ; and if the Jains can claim such as representatives of their religious notions, they are so of
the earliest sect, or those of the Digambaras.
The excavation fronting the entrance of the area, is what is usually named the Jagannatha-sabha ; in
the recess of the lower story of which there is a similar image to that just described as belonging to the
former cave. On each side of the image are the statues of two attendants called Jaya and Vijaya ; who,
as noticed by Mr. Wilson, are the usual menial attendants on Padma-pani, and are considered among
the Jains as two of the Bhairavas, and placed as janitors to the images of the Tirthankaras* The ap
pellation of Jagannatlia, (lord of the world,) is applied by the Jainas to Parswanatha, and the appro
priation by these sectaries of a series of caves decidedly Bauddha, evinces the intimate connection of the
Jains with a religion from which they had their origin, though there bo now no followers of Buddha in
India.
The next cave of this series is what is known by the name of Indra-sabha, consisting of an upper and
lower story, in front of which the area is entered by a handsome gateway cut in the rock. Here on the
left hand side of the court is an obelisk, surmounted by four Buddhas, and doubtless dedicated to the
sun as the one at Karli, where the inscription leaves no question of the intention in this matter. Near the
middle of the courtyard, and opposite the lower story of this cave, there is a monolithic temple of a pyra
midal shape, supported by pillars ; within which is a square altar, whose faces support four images of
Buddha, showing that it is a Chailya dedicated to the five Dhyani Buddhas. On the west face of one of
the pillars, in the second row and left hand side of this cave, we meet with inscription No. 2, published by
Wilford ;f and which is the only one of that collection, of which the interpretation, or alphabet said to be
discovered by his Pundit, will bear examination. It is cut under the statue of a male figure, over whose
head rise three tiers of umbrellas. The person represented by the image was, as would appear, a Brah-
machari, named Sri Sohila, who through the usual penance and abstraction had subdued his passions,
and became a form of Buddha. On the right hand side, below a statue sculptured from a pillar in the
third row, we find No. 6 inscription, of the same collection. From this lower story the visitor ascends to
the upper, by a flight of steps, at the top of which, and fronting him, a gigantic figure of India is sculp
tured, and opposite* to it one of a female called Indrani. The former is seated on an elephant, and the
latter on a tiger. From the head dress of either a tree is represented with wide spreading branches, not
A. D. 421, or the later date A. D. 553, according to Co). Miles' account of the Gujarat Jains : (Trans. R, A. S). Mr. Colebrooke
seems to think that the distinction, in ancient times, between the Bralimans and Smnanas or Sramana;, (Bauddhas and Jains)
was that the former worshipped the sun, and that the rival sects ofJaina and Iluddha never did so ; but there is abundant proof
in the tenor of the cave inscriptions to show that this opinion is not altogether correct. The Bauddha Attha-Katha, comment
ed on by Mr. Tumour, indeed, mentions, that those that did so were considered heretics : but the practice seems lo have been
general in the west of India; and Mr. Hodgson, in a letter to Mr. Walhen, states that the Bauddhas of Nepal even perform
the Horn. The Attha-Katha relating the history of the third Bauddha convocation, held in the time of Asoka, says, that these
heretics (lithaya) gave rise lo various excrescences, defilements, and thorns, unto the religion of Buddha ; some of these flocked
to the fire, as an object of adoration : others scorched themselves in the manner of the Panchatapa sect : some prostrated them
selves towards the sun ; others began to declare openly, " let us destroy your Dhammo (faith) and Winaya, (religious discipline.)
See Prinsep's Journal Vol. V'. p. 733.
* Asiatic Researches, Vol. XVI. page 467, and Transactions R. A. S. Vol. I. page 423.
+ Asiatic Researches, Vol. V. page 140.
MIDDLE EXCAVATIONS.
25
unlike a similar sculpture which I saw in the temple* of Ufadina in Nubia, dedicated to fsis, or the
Egyptian Athor, the goddess of fecundity. The female figure here sculptured appears to be Vyaghrini,
or the tiger goddess, one of the inferior spirits attached to the Matris, or divine mothers of the Bauddha
system.!
Middle Excavations.
The first of these, called by the Brahmans Dumar Lena, is distant southward more than two hundred
yards from the last of those just described. It is of great extent, and is entered by a doorway at the end
of a lane leading from without. On the right hand side of the area the visitor comes to the great excava
tion, which has at its entrance two lions couchant. In front of the cave there is a verandah ; on the left
hand side of which a colossal statue of Buddha is sculptured, usually called by the Brahman attendants
Dharma Raja. At the opposite, or right hand side, Maheswara Mahadeva, surrounded by a group of fi
gures, is represented ; and the skeleton figure, sculptured in a corner ofone compartment ofthis cave, where
Bauddha and Brahmanical theogony appears mixed and confounded, would indicate the origin of the sculp
tures among the Kapala. followers ofMahadeva ; who, as already noticed, are said by the SriBhagavata to have
been associates of the Bauddha sectaries. This excavation is dedicated to the linga which occupies the
square temple at the end of the central colonnade, and is ornamented by four doors and eight colossal
janitors. A fine open area surrounds the temple ; to the right of which on the wall are represented Siva
and Parvati seated on Kailasa, supported by the giant Ravan ; and which is thus mentioned in the three
first slokasof the inscription from Mahamalaiapur, translated by Dr. B. G. Babington. % 1. " May the cause
of creation, existence and destruction, which is itself without cause, the destroyer of Manmadan (desire,)
be propitious to the desires of the world." 2d " May he who is united with Uma^ of many kinds of
illusion, without quality, the destroyer of evil dispositions, of incorruptible wealth, the lord of Cuberan,
be counted excellent." 3rd. " May that deity Siva protect us all, who is the seat of prosperity, and by
whose means Kailasa disappeared and descended to Patala, yielding by its weight, which he caused on
account of its being supported by the ten faced Ravanan" The demon is here represented with ten
arms and five visible faces ; as many as could be well represented in the sculpture. Other groups of person
ages, belonging to the Hindu mythology are represented, among which on the left hand side the principal
is a figure of Virabhadra with eight arms, which is a form of Siva Maheswara, produced by him for the
purpose of destroying Daksha's sacrifice, as related in the Vishnu and Bhagavata Puranas. ||
This excavation has been usually named the Dumar Lena, or cave of the nuptial union between the
two productive principles of nature ; but the appellation of Dharma Lunam was probably intended, and seems
more appropriate : as from all that may be observed of these sculptures the intention was to represent the
mystic creation of the universe from Dharma the type of productive power in union with the Safcti, or
conceptive principle, as explained by the modified atheistical system of the Prajnika-Swabhavika Baud-
dhas; 1 who seem to have been associates ofthe heretical Maheswaras, and nearly allied to them in tenets.
Southwards of the Dharma Lunam there is a nullah, presenting at one part a precipitous descent of
the rock, eighty or a hundred feet in depth ; over which the water, at the end of the rainy season, forms
a cascade. Following the bank of this nullah some way eastward, .several small caves, containing linqas,
present themselves ; on the back wall of which are the busts of the Triad described well and minutely by
Colonel Sykes ; but which instead of being representations of the orthodox Brahmanical trimurti, seem
to be here sculptured agreeably to Bauddha notions of the triple union** of the productive power.
The next excavation, which lies immediately across the nullah, is named the Jan-wassa, or the birth
chamber. It contains a linga, the three figures of MaJieswara, Fisfmu and Brahma, and a sculpture of the
Varaha avatar, or Vishnu in the form of a boar supporting Prithvi, or the earth, as related in the fourth
* The only part of the temple remaining is a waR situated near the village of Gurta, the Corta Prima of the Romans. Both
this and a neighbouring building appear to have been made into a Church by the early Greek Christians of Nubia, who amidst
hieroglyphics and the winged globe, have painted Greek saints on the walls. The whole of this neighbourhood is celebrated for
having been visited, about A. D.429, by the Gothic Historian Olympiodorus; who, on his fame reaching the ears of the Chiefs and
Prophets ofthe barbarian Dlcmmys, was carried by them from his own country to Talmis, in order that he might'enligiiten them
on the subject of their country. It was at this period that the Vandals had passed from Spain into Africa, at the instigation of
the Roman General Boniface. See Photii Bibliotheca Codex LXXX. page 194-
+ Asiatic Researches, Vol. XVI. page 465.
% Transactions R. A. S. Vol. II. page 266.
§ See first Note at page 7.
|| See Translation of the Vishnu Purana by Professor Wilson, page 65, and the fourth Khanda or section of the Bhagavata.
See page 20. ** See previous note at page 20.
THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA.
chapter of the Vishnu Parana ; and would therefore appear to be dedicated to creation as its name im
plies. The succeeding caves named Ghana, Nilkantlia, and Rameswara, contain lingas ; and belong as
appears to the heretical Maheswaras, or followers of Siva as Pasupati. The sculptures in the latter re
quire more extended notice as they have chiefly reference to the different forms of Devi, (the goddess)
or Durga, which she assumed on the occasion of the Daityas or demons, having by profound religious
austerities endangered the power and existence of the gods. On the right hand side of the wall, as we
enter the cave, eight females seated in a line, with each a child in her arms, and Ganesa at the head, re
present the forms of Durga as Ganesa janani, or the mother of the god of wisdom ; in whose honor is
celebrated the Nava Ratri or the nine nights of Aswin, and the festival of the Dasahara or the Durga
Puja. This goddess, here represented in her more terrific forms as the destroyer of the buffalo demon
Mahesasur, is the chief object of worship among the Tantrikas ; and is usually surrounded with skeletons,
three of which are sculptured in an angle of the southern wall. This cave, which consists of a long hall,
and recess containing the linga opposite the entrance, has receding compartments at either end. The
group of Mahadeva and Parvati, sculptured to the right of the one situated on the spectator's right hand,
has been admirably represented by Captain Grindlay's pencil, in the Transactions ofthe Royal Asiatic
Society.* Mahadeva and his consort are here playing at Shatrinj, or chess, surrounded by attendants, and
a daitya or demon is seated between, exciting the divinities to a quarrel : while the Nandi, or bull, sacred to
Siva and his retinue, is supporting them below. The whole has reference to Brahma's fabled love for his
daughter Parvati, the consort of Malieswara ; who when he became acquainted with the circumstances, took
the form of Kal Bhairava : in which character he is represented in a dancing attitude on the wall, oppo
site to the group of skeletons before noticed. On this occasion Brahma had aspired to be considered a
greater divinity than Maheswara ; when Siva, having the declaration of the Vedas in his favor, and being
abused and insulted by Brahma, assumed the terrific form here represented ; under which he tore off with
his nails one of the five heads of Brahma, who when subdued acknowledged him the superior divinity.
The substance of this story is to be found in the Kasi Khanda of the Skanda Purana. The centre of
the receding compartment at the northern end of the cave, is occupied by the group of figures, com
monly called the marriage of Rama and Sita ; but which is no doubt intended for a representation of the
union of Siva and Parvati. On the western side of this, Kartikeya, or the god of war, another of the sons
of Durga, is sculptured mounted on a bird, which may be the peacock ; and to the east of the group are
two statues of men, represented with heads shaven in the middle, and a semicircular portion of hair
above the ears, intended evidently for Bauddha sectaries, or at least followers of the Yoga, and religious
austerities. Here also the demon Ravana is sculptured supporting Kailasa, as in the excavation Dharma
Lunam ; and is made to appear among these Saiva sculptures, to indicate the fabled belief related in the
heroic poems of the Ramayana and Mahabharat, that while Ravan was a Siva-bhakt, or follower of
Mahesxvara and the Yoga, he rendered abortive the attempts of Rama and the gods to destroy him : and it
may be from this circumstance that the Brahman attendants have named the cave Rameswara, but with
what little propriety it is so called has just been shown from an analysis ofthe sculptures.
Several small caves between this and the magnificent monolithic temple called Kailasa may be met
with, but are scarcely worthy of notice. The latter, which has been often described, is the most exten
sive and wonderful structure at Ellora ; consisting of a Pagoda in form of a cone, about one hundred feet
high, standing in a vast area of nearly four hundred feet in depth, and connected by two bridges and ela
borate sculptures on an elegant portico ; the upper story of which rising above the gateway, contains the
Nandi (Siva's bull,) and appears to have been intended as a room for the accommodation of the band o!
musicians that attended at great festivals. On passing the gateway below, the visitor enters the area,
and proceeding under a small bridge comes to a solid square mass of stone ; the sides of which are sculp
tured with various figures and support a room above connected with the balcony of the gateway. The
western face of this basement has a sculptured representation of what the Brahmans call Lakshmi seated
on the lotus, and watered by the trunks of two elephants, similar to a sculpture of the same goddess, from
Mahamalaiapur, given by Dr. Babington in plate VIII of his report on these interesting structures. Brali-
manical identification ofthis sculpture, as the Sakti among Saiva figures, would show how nearly the original
creed of Bauddhas and Brahmans approached each other ; and though most of the sculptures of Kailasa be
long, as will be seen, to the favored religious sectarism ofSiva, the statue of the goddess is here represented
agreeably to Bauddha ideas, which recognize the female divinity, Adi-Prajna, or Adi-Dharma, as symbolized
by the lotus, or yoni; and manifested in Nepal as (jalsu-rupa) or the form of water.f On either side of this
♦ Vol. II. page 488, plate V.
t Mr. Hodgsons notes on his sketch of Buddhism. Trans. R. A. S. Vol. II. page 249—253. In plates XXII. and XXX
of the Ajanta drawings, women are represented pouring water over the devotees, to remind them as appears of this essential
principle of their faith.
MIDDLE EXCAVATIONS. 27
figure the passage opens right and left into the area, where are standing stone statues of two elephants,
one of which is headless. Having passed these we are conducted to a second passage under another small
hridge, that connects the upper room ofthe stone basement before mentioned with the body and upper sto
ry of the great temple. Two gigantic statues, similar to the usual representations of Buddha, are to be
seen under the bridge at the second passage, and are usually named Raja Bhoja and Ghatotkacha ; the lat
ter of whom is mentioned, by the Mahabharat, as the natural brother of the Pandus. Two flights of steps
lead from the first passage to the upper room which contains the Nandi, and is furnished with two doors
and two windows. Opposite the latter there are two stone obelisks rising from the area below, and from
this room, which is on a level with three small apartments over the gateway, the visitor may cross over the
second bridge, and enter, (by a handsome open portjco raised on lion pillars,) the grand apartment of the
temple, which is supported by two rows of pillars. Two projecting portions or balconies from the latter,
appear to have been once connected, by a bridge, with smaller temples in the upper part of the scarped
rock that encloses the area below. The hall of the great temple is about sixty-six feet by fifty-five in mea
surement, and the height of the ceiling varies from sixteen to seventeen feet. At the eastern end a doorway
leads to a recess containing the linga ; and the outer wall ofthe temple is sculptured with a profusion of
imagery descriptive of a battle, which refers, as would appear, to the war of the Kuravas and Pandus, the
theme of the Mahabharat. Interiorly a doorway, on each side of the recess containing the linga, leads
to an open platform where five smaller chapels rise in the form of a pyramid, and are elaborately sculptur
ed with figures of the Hindu mythology, but contain no lingas.
Words cannot well convey an idea of this magnificent structure ; on the right and left ofwhich are seve
ral smaller excavations, in the upper part of the rock enclosing the area; and in rear of the temple, level
with its base, three colonnades consisting of a single row of pillars, and corresponding pilasters, are seen
between it and the northern, eastern, and southern scarps of the rock. Here between the pilasters, in the
several compartment", are sculptured so many figures of different divinities, as if they were meant to re
present the whole of the Hindu Pantheon. Those in the northern colonnade, distributed in twelve com
partments, are dedicated to the Saiva faith, and intended to represent its superiority to that of Vishnu.
It is scarcely necessary here to enumerate the character of the several figures, as others have already
done so though not quite correctly; and I may satisfy myself and die reader by only alluding to some of
the principal. Thefirst on this side is the linga, surmounted by nine heads, which are those of the demon
Ravana supporting the symbol ; and who is said to have been so devoted a follower of Siva as to yield
up nine of his heads to the service of this deity, and "was about to sacrifice the tenth, that he might obtain
immortality and universal dominion. The remaining figures are chiefly various representations of Siva
and Parvati ; number seventh is a Bhakta, or follower of this deity ; and the twelfth one represents Siva
issuing from the primitive linga, (pillar of radiance), when he revealed himself to his consort Parvati or
Chundi to slay the demons Chanda and Munda, who, through a boon granted by the divine mothers, had
become so powerful as to fill with alarm the three worlds ; and who, though once subdued by Devi, were
now exalted beyond her might. In the eastern colonnade there are nineteen compartments, containing
figures that are also chiefly representations of Siva's avatars. In the second he has assumed the form of
Virabhadra to destroy as appears Daksha's sacrifice ; though the Brahman attendants call this the destruc
tion of Tripura Asm * one of the three demons destroyed by Maheswara. In the succeeding one the
same deity, as an archer, is standing on a chariot drawn by horses ; and with his upper left hand holds the
extended bow, while the lower and third hand, on the opposite side, supports the trident. An elegant
sketch of both figures has been given by Capt. Grindlay, who calls the latter Jaijadharatha, meaning
nothing more than the bearer of victory ; but which is here a representation of Siva going to battle against
Jalandhara, as related in the Padma Purana ; and of which the legend will be found in Colonel Kennedy's
work on Hindu Mythology.f The sixth compartment contains a figure of Vishnu in the form of Nara-
sinha, or a man lion, destroying the demon Hiranyakasipa. From the twelfth to the nineteenth compart-
• In all the Hindu legends regarding the destruction ofdemons, and varied considerably in different works, there would ap
pear to be a veiled meaning or allegory relative to the efficacy of penance and abstraction, or piety and virtue, raising their vota
ries to superhuman power, hostile to the religion of the Vedas and the more recent introduction of the Saiva and Vishnava faith.
The three demons, here called Tripura, having received a boon from Brahma, obtained the construction of three cities, and had
become so powerful as to occasion distress to the gods. Siva was applied to by the immortalsfor the destruction of the demons;
but while their chief adhered to virtue it was not allowable that this deity should slay them. The godsfailing in their suit to Siva,
next applied to Vishnu; who, deluding the demons by heretical opinions, propagated by a shaved head (or Bauddha) dressed
in dirty clothes and holding in his hand a pot and besom, brought down destruction on the inhabitants of the city
of Tripura, who had been initiated in the new doctrines. As the demons through the delusion of Vishnu, had thus aban
doned piety, Siva no longer hesitated to carry into effect the wishes of the gods ; and accordingly destroyed the Tripura Asuras.
Col. Kennedy in his Mythology has given the whole of this legend from the Siva Purana, and mentions also the version of it
as related in the Bhagavata.
t Hindu Mythology page 485.
28 THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA.
ment, Siva appears in his character of eight Bhairavas. The southern colonnade contains a similar number
of compartments as that on the north side. In the first of these a figure half male and half female, is
represented with one breast; being the type of the two productive principles of nature, and only another
form ofSiva, called Ardha Nariswara* The third compartment contains a figure with four heads grasping
a pillar, and intended for Brahma paying his devotion to'thc Agni Linga. In the fourth one, Vishnu in the
Narasinha avatar, is tearing out the bowels of Hiramja-Kasipa; and in the succeeding one he is sculptur
ed sleeping on Sesha or the Dharanidhura of the Jains; the serpent who supports the universe, and the
well known representation of Vishnu as Narayana, who is thus addressed in the first hymn of the Atharvana
Veda. " Glorious Narayana, celestial light.—Narayana, the universal spirit—Narayana, the supreme Brahma,
to thee be veneration.—Narayana, god of gods, preserver ofthe universe—Narayana, contemplator supreme,
to thee be veneration.—Narayana, abode. of felicity, supernal meditation—Narayana, first of virtues, to thee
be veneration.—Narayana, the supreme Veda, the great wisdom—Narayana, thou art all things and mani
festly present, to thee be veneration.—Narayana, from whom Brahma originated, from whom Siva sprang—
Narayana, from whom Indra was born, to thee be veneration.—Narayana, the sun and moon—Narayana,
light and sacrifice—Narayana, visible in fire, to thee be veneration.—Narayana, the object of worship, and
the pious preceptor—Narayana, eternal emancipation, to thee be veneration.—Narayana, the chief end
and accomplishment and happiness of all—Narayana, the sun and Vishnu, to thee be veneration."—The
seven heads of the Naga, or serpent, form a canopy over the head of the recumbent figure, as seen in the
sitting images of Parswanatha ; and from its navel springs a lotus, on which Brahma sits. The whole must
be intelligible to the reader from the substance of the hymn just quoted, shewing how intimately the pri
mitive notions of Bauddhas and Brahmans were connected with the worship of the sun and sacrifice ;
till such gave way before abstract meditation and seclusion, with a tender regard for animal life. The
last however, as the means of obtaining emancipation and final felicity, yielded to the preference given to
faith in particular divinities, of which there are strong indications in the sculptures we are now contemplat
ing. The remaining figures have chiefly reference to the incarnations of Vishnu, as stated in the Bhagava-
ta and Garura Puranas, regarding which I before hazarded a conjecture that the adaptation ofprimitive
Buddhism to Vaishnava principles had given origin to the present form of the Juina faith.f
The sixth compartment contains a figure of Krishna attended by cows, in his character of the cowherd
of Vindravan ; and which from its resemblance to that of the Apollo Nomios of the Greeks, bears strong in
dications of a foreign origin. In the seventh, Vishnu is hurling from his throne the giant Bali, and tra
versing earth at a footstep ; according to the legend that when the giant gave him, in his dwarf avatar, as
much ground as he could cover in three steps, he placed his feet on the three worlds. Vishnu, in the Va-
raJia avatar, or incarnation of a hog raising up Prithivi, or the earth, that had been submerged by the
waters, is sculptured in the ninth compartment: and similar sculptures to those just mentioned, may be seen
among Dr. Babington's drawings from Mahamalaiapur. The tenth compartment represents Krishna slay
ing the serpent Kaliya, that had poisoned the pure and sacred river Yamuna, and caused the death of many
of the cowherds of Vindravan. The coincidence between this legend and that of the snake at Delphi, killed
by the Pythian Apollo, must be more than casual ; and would lead one to conjecture that the tribe of the
* The following passage, from the Linga Purana, translated by Col. Kennedy, in his Hindu Mythology, will familiarize the
reader with the variety of epithets given to the forms of Siva, and his consort Gauri, or Parvati : —
" Siva is the supreme being, and Gauri is his energy ; Siva is the male, and Gauri the female principle of existence ; Siva is
the meaning, and Gauri the voice; Siva is the day, and Gauri the night; Siva is the sacrificer, and Gauri the sacrifice ; Siva is
the heaven, and Gauri the earth ; Siva is the sea, and Gauri the tide ; Siva is the tree, and Gauri the fruit ; Siva is Brahma, and
Gauri Savitri (the wife of Brahma ,) Siva is Vishnu, and Gauri Lakshmi ; Siva is every male, and Gauri every female being I
actuality is Siva, potentially Gauri; as multitudinous sparks issue from fire, so multitudinous forms of a twofold nature proceed
from Siva and Gauri, of which the outward form is Gauri, but the spirit Siva ; the senses arc Gauri, and the power of perception
Siva; intellection is Gauri, and the intellect is Siva; the pedestal is Gauri, and Siva is the lingam, the object of unceasing
worship by men and gods; all things of a feminine nature are Gauri, and all of a masculine, Siva; the three worlds are but the
form of Gauri, whose soul is Siva. Thus are Siva and Gauri the causes of all things, the preservers of this universe, and those
to whom the adoration of men ought at all times to be devoutly addressed."
The prototype of the same goddess in Egypt appears to be Isis or Math, the mother goddess ; who like Ambica, ( motherly,) or
rarvati, was named the mundane habitation of Horus or the recipient of productive power, and like the Hindu goddess, is repre
sented more in her physical than astral character : in which latter she becomes the Nanaia of the Ard-okra or Mithraic se
ries of coins found in the Punjab, and was among the Persians and Greeks the Queen of heaven, sometimes the moon and some
times the planet Venus. The goddess Uma (mother) of India appears to have had appellations similar to those given to the Egyp
tian goddess ; and is called on the Rathas (evolutions of form) at Mahamalaiapur Bhuvan Bhajana WT3f«r : or the mundane
vessel. She is there depicted with only one breast being the masculo — feminine principle of production. (See Dr. Babing
ton's figures from the east side of the Rathas, No. 3. Trans. R. A. S. Vol. II. plate XVI.) But I must not anticipate conclu.
sions from facts connected with the very interesting coins, which have been discovered of late years in the northwest of India ;
to the illustration of which I propose to devote another volume, calculated I hope to shed light on the history and Mythology
of India.
t See Page 6.
SOUTHERN EXCAVATIONS. 29
Yddavas, from which Krishna sprung, was a northern one, having access to the mythological legends of
Greece.*
The succeeding cave, southwards from Kailasa, is that called the Das avatar, from an idea that the
sculptures represent the ten first avatars of Vishnu. The recess contains a yoni, from which the linga
has been removed ; and the walls are covered with sculptures of Siva and Vishnu ; similar to those we
have already mentioned ; and which need not be now repeated in detail. In the first compartment, on
the left hand at entering, we find Siva, ornamented with the scull necklace, killing Daksha ; and on the
opposite wall he is sculptured issuing from the linga to destroy the Tripura Asura. In other pannels,
Vishnu, in his incarnations of Narasinha, Krishna, and the like, is variously represented ; and as the figures
of him and Siva are here indiscriminately mingled, they were probably intended to inculcate the doctrine
that Vishnu and Siva were equally objects of worship, though faith in the latter had the preference as a
means of salvation.
Between the Das avatar and the excavation called Tin-Tal, that named the Rikh-Ravan, is situated.
It appears to chiefly contain sculptures bearing reference to the efficacy of faith and the worship of Siva
and Vishnu, as exemplified by the demon Ravanah faith in the character of a Rishi, (or saint.)
Southern Excavations.
The Tin Tal, an excavation of three stories, is said by the Brahmans, to represent Hell, Earth, and
Heaven. It is entered by a good gateway, formed from the hewn rock ; and the whole has an elegant ap
pearance. The lower story, or Patala Loka, contains at the extremity, opposite the entrance, a gigantic
figure of Buddha, on the right and left of which, in two separate pannels, are smaller though similar
figures ; and the whole were probably intended to represent the Tri Ratna, or the three Buddhas of
the trinity, similar to what travellers find in the Bauddha temples in China.f Ascending to the second
story, we enter a verandah, at the opposite end of which is a majestic sitting figure, similar to the
usual statues of Buddha; but which, from having the sculptures of two dogs in front, is identified
by the Brahmans as Kuvera, the god of riches; and as this deity is one of the Dasa-Dik-Pals, or ten
regents ofthe heavenly quarters, who are objects ofworship with the Jainas\, the appearance ofhim, in this
otherwise Bauddha excavation, becomes quite intelligible. His image, being also clothed, indicates that
it belongs to the Swetambaras, or clothed followers of the Jaina sectaries, and generally thought to be of
more recent origin than the Digambaras. The Bauddha image in the recess, at the extremity of the
centre aisle of a hall nearly one hundred and forty feet long, appears intended to represent Padma Pani,
and is seated on the lotus. The upper story or Swerga-Loka, ascended from the northern end of the
verandah in the hall below, is more than a hundred feet long by seventy broad. The gigantic image, in
the recess at the end of the hall, is also seated on the lotus, and represents Padma Pani, as in the second
story, though the Brahmans call this figure Rama, and name the five statues on the left hand side the five
Pandus, but which may be more correctly considered the representatives of the five Dhyani-Buddhas ;^
of which five other statues are to be seen on the opposite wall. Female figures, seated on the lotus, are
sculptured round the wall of the antechamber of the recess in this cave; and a tiny image of Amitabha
Buddha, seated over the head of each female, leaves no doubt as to the character of the image in the recess
being Padma Pani, the creator of the present system, who is fabled by Bauddha mythologists, to be the son
of Amitabha, the same as the Amida-Fo of China. The verandah of the second story of this excavation
has several cells, intended for the residence of the priests.
* It is still more remarkable that Krishna's appellations of Govinda and Kesava, iirf^ ^VX, in Sanskrit, are direct transla.
lions of Apollo's titles, in Greek, vowoq Nomios (the herding,) and lv\ahriq Eukhaites (the well haired.)
t General description of the Chinese Empire, (by J. F. Davis, Esq. F. R. S. Vol. II. p. 82) giving an account of the temple
of Fo near Canton.
t Mr. Csoma de Koros, in explaining the Trans-Himalayan Buddhist amulets, found at Rampur, says that one of the Baud
dha Sutrus is successively addressed to the ten Buddhas, who fancifully possess the ten corners of the world ; which are the four
intermediate points, with the Zenith and Nadir. It is called the Venerable Sutra, dispelling the darkness of the ten corners -
and which was originally taught by Sahya. Journal, Asiatic Soc. 1840 p. 906.
§ According to the Buddha Gaya inscription, dated Vikramaditeya 1005, A. D. 949. (A. R., Vol. I. p. 286) Amara Verma set
up. along with the supreme spirit Buddha, (called an incarnation of Vishnu,) the images of the five Pandus, and of the descents
of Vishnu as seen in the Ellora Caves : but this is probably Brahmanical identification, or at least after Buddha had been incor
porated in the Puranas as the ninth Avatar of Vishnu.
n
THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA.
The next excavation, consisting of two stories, and consequently named the Do-Tal, is sometimes
called the Duhkya Ghur, from an absurd Brahmanical story that Viswa-karma, the architect of the gods,
having finished the neighbouring arched cave, intended this structure should rival it, but was compelled
to desist at the second story, having cut his finger, which he now holds in the other hand in the attitude
of pain. Sir Charles Malet was told that this cave was dedicated to the brothers of Rama ; but the
three statues of Buddha, which occupy three apartments in the lower story, shew that the Bauddha trinity
is intended. A drawing of the right hand figure was executed for me, and represents the image clothed,
seated on the lotus over a raised throne, which has for supporters two females, or Bauddha Saktis ; and the
image therefore seems to be a Prajnika-Swabhavika representation of Dharma, or deified nature. In
the second story, where there are many cells for the priests, Buddha appears in the Dhyan-mudra, or
meditative act of creation ; which has given rise to the puerile story above related.
The neighbouring cave, southwards, is a fine arched one, containing the Dehgop ; similar to what we see
in the arched excavations of Karli and Kanari, but ornamented with a Bauddha image like some of those
at Ajanta ; and known from this as the CJiaitya, or type of the five Dhyani Buddhas. The balcony in
front of this fine cave was no doubt intended as a music gallery, on occasions of festival ; and the cistern
of water, on the eastern side of it, with the several cells in the neighbouring rock, shews it was a favorite
residence of the Bauddha priests. Besides the larger image, sculptured in front of the Dehgop, there are sev
eral smaller sitting figures around, as usual in the Chaityas ofNepal. The excavation is known by the
name of the Viswa-karma, or architect's cave. Between this and the caves called Dehreh wara, or the out
casts quarter, are the flat roofed excavations containing cells for the priests attached to the Viswa-karma
temple. The central one of the Dehreh-wara group, about one hundred and sixteen feet long by fifty-
six broad, contains numerous cells, and several images of Buddha. The roof is supported by two
rows of pillars, parallel and within which two raised stone benches run down the middle of the cave ; and
were intended as seats for the younger branches or scholars of the Bauddha fraternity that occupied this
monastic establishment. Immediately south ofthe large cave, there is another smaller flat roofed one, con
taining twelve cells and a linga ; which is a marked indication that the occupants of these excavations, at
the time of their execution, were not agreed as to the best manner of representing the power and energy
of the Creator. All remarks, regarding the period when such differences of opinion arose, will be best
reserved for the last chapter, when the facts for the validity of the conclusions have been presented to
the reader.
IX. — Caves of Badami.
These caves, three in number, are situated below the hill fort of Badami, which is a considerable town *
on the Mallapahari, or Malparba river, forming part of the Belgaum Collectorate, and distant from Kal-
ladghi about twenty-eight miles. The material out of which the excavations have been formed is a hard va
riegated sandstone, composing the hilly ranges in this part of the country ; on one of which the upper fort
ofBadami has been built. On the opposite side of the town and lower fortification, several Hindu temples of
great antiquity are to be seen ; and the tank and temple ofBanshankari, in the immediate neighbourhood,
constitute places ofpilgrimage in considerable repute, where an annual jatra, or fair, is held in the month of
May. In a Kanarese inscription on one of the pillars in the caves, the date is called Nakula HalaNawa-
kala Mritana Ghaya* 1476, HijifM H4+itfjj<HJW or the new date of Hala Hala the name for Bud-
* Ghaya, instead of Gaya, is found written in the original of the inscription ; which is in the Grantha or Malabar character
of the Sanskrita ; and exhibits the change from this to the Hala Kanara character, or oldest alphabet of the Kanarese ; which
may have derived its name from the circumstance of having been first used by the Bauddhas or Jainas. The words Nakulu
Hala TT^rvt^l may be only a provincialism for the Sanskrit Nakuhala sn^TTOor the deity Hala Buddha, an appellation also
employed to designate halivahana, considered, by the Jainas, a form of Buddha. See Mr. Taylor's Analysis of the Chola purva
Patayam, or ancient Chola record written in Tamil, of which the abstract will be found in the Madras Journal of Literature for
April 1838, page 278 ; and a report of the same work maybe seen in Wilson's Mackenzie Collection, Vol. I page 184. But Nakti-
la, in Pali means internal tranquillity ; and the compound term Nakula-hald admits, therefore, of being translated the emanci
pated hold. The words Mritana Gaya, (dying at Gaya,) appear to refer to Gautama. Mr. Turnour, in his examination of
the Pali Buddhistical Annals, (Prinsep's Journal, VII, page 798,) states that, at the termination ofa thousand years, an omnis
cient Buddha will be born in the world, and that the period is called Buddha Hala halan, (Buddha tumult), and little doubt
can exist of the era here intended.
THE CAVES OF BADAMI. 3l
dha, or a Jaina saint. The date is probably intended for a new adaptation of the era of Buddha Sakya,
B. C. 543, and, if so, would therefore give the date of these caves A. D. 933, which is confirmed
by Mr. Wathen's translation of a copperplate inscription, granting a village to certain Brahmans for
the maintenance of an Agraharam ; * and which copperplate was in the possession of the late Mr. Munroe,
First Assistant to Mr. Thackeray, the Collector of Dharwar.f The Agrahar is described, in the copperplate
grant, to be bounded, on the west, by the tank of Kaddahi Hanumant, near the Mallapahari ; and north
west by the temple of Maruti, (Hanuman) on the road to the Nawalatirtha, near a hill bordering upon the
Mallapahari. The grant is dated Saka 1008, A. D. 1087. The above seems sufficiently convincing, that
the place, alluded to by the copperplate grant, is the same as the one mentioned in the inscription from
the pillar of the caves ; and establishes their existence at the date of the latter, supposing this to be the
Bauddha era, and that it cannot be otherwise intended for that of Salivaluina.
The general style of the sculpture is the same as at Ellora, and appears to represent the same mythology.
The recess in each of the caves contains a linga, while the figures on the walls are chiefly those of Vish
nu, in the Varaha, Vamana, and Narasinha avatars. The first cave, situated as we ascend the pathway
leading up to the fort, is about thirty-six feet square, and its roof supported by sixteen pillars. In one end
of the verandah we see a four-armed statue of Maheswara accompanied by the Nandi ; while a skeleton fi
gure, with folded hands, is standing on the right, and his wife Parvati on the left. In his upper right hand
he holds the PurushaJ jct or serpent staff, the type of his male power as creator of the universe ; and
at the opposite end of the same verandah is another statue similarly armed, but holding in the upper left
hand the Sankha, (shell), the emblem of Vishnu, and indicating that Maheswara is here acknowledged in
his double character of being the creator and preserver of the universe. The tripod, below the latter
figure, is sculptured with the usual curly headed figures of Maheswara's Gana, (attendants ;) and most of
the pillars are elegantly fluted. The roofevery where is sculptured with a variety of figures ; one of which
in a square represents the bust of a man, whose head is overshadowed by the five hooded snake, whilst his
body takes its origin from the coiled serpent Sesha, the same as Vishnu who supports the universe. A
sculpture of Parvati, transfixing the demon Mahesasur, may be seen in a recess, on the right hand side of
of the vestibule.
The second cave, which is nearly of the same extent as the former and immediately above it, contains
fourteen pillars, and has a vestibule, or verandah in front. At the right hand end of the last may be seen
an eight-armed figure of Vishnu, hurling Bali from heaven with his left outstretched leg, while his foot is
placed on the breast of the falling figure. He is here armed with some ofthe instruments considered pe
culiar to Maheswara ; and, along with the Chakra, (discus,) and Sankha, (shell), his own particular symbols,
he bears the sword in one of his right hands, and the winged serpent staff, (Purusha), in one of his left.
A variety of smaller figures are seen surrounding his statue ; one of them being represented carrying an
umbrella, and another a watering pot, having reference probably to his royal character, and that of his
consort or Sakti, Lakshmi ; who appears to be considered a form of water, and is therefore represented
seated on the lotus, while two elephants are pouring water over her. At the opposite end ofthe vestibule,
Vishnu, in the Varaha avatar, supports on his left hand a female, or Prithvi (the earth ;) and has
at his feet a human figure, whose head is overshadowed by the hooded snake Ananta, and from which
the bust of the figure is seen rising. The third cave is considerably larger than the others ; and its roof
is supported by twenty-two pillars. It is nearly sixty feet by thirty-two in extent ; and has a recess, in
which there is a tripod, or yoni, from which the linga appears to have been removed. On the right hand
side of the vestibule ofthis cave, we find an eight-armed figure of Vishnu, with outstretched leg and foot
as in the former cave, but here armed with the bow and sceptre, in addition to the other instruments of
power already mentioned. In another compartment near by, he is sculptured in the Narasinha avatar ;
and, at the opposite end, is seen seated on the serpent Ananta, (eternity,) whose heads overshadow him.
The roof of this excavation is elegantly sculptured, and has been, at one time, painted. A canopy over
hangs the vestibule, where a grotesque figure of Garura, the eagle of Vishnu, is found among the sculp
tures.
* A place for Brahman anchorites. t See Journal, R. A. S. Vol. V- p 173.
J If the reader refers to notesfirst and second of pages seventh and eighth, in the present work, he will see that Purush i3 the
male inactive principle of the Sankhya philosophy, and which, when united with the goddess of nature Pralcriti, assumes as Siva
the triple qualities of creator, preserver and destroyer. The date of the Shefcatdati (in Rajpootana) inscription is Samvat 1018.
A. D 962 ; and as this Saiva temple was dedicated to Siva under the name of Harsha, in consequence of the joyous tidings to
the gods that he had destroyed the Tripura Astir, this would appear to be the period about which the Saira and Vishnava faiths
became popular in Hindustan. The eighth verse of the inscription states that the Saiva faith destroyed even him of the incom
parable arrows, (Kama,) or Cupid, whose worship before this time appears to have been a popular form of belief, particularly in
the west India. (See Prinsep's Journal, Vol. IV. p. 373.
32 THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA
X. — Excavations qf Mahamalaiapur.
It would be useless to enumerate the various other remains of Bauddha and Jaina sculpture, which
may be found throughout India, as the general character of such conforms to the two classes of excava
tions just described : but some short notice of the monolithic temples and caves of Mahamalaiapur, situ
ated in the most Southern part of India, may not be unimportant, as an appendix to this account of the
western caves ; particularly as the sculptures found there are illustrative of the period when faith in Vish
nu, Krishna, and Siva, spread from the north into the south of India, and succeeded the prevailing religion
of Buddha. I may therefore briefly notice them, by selecting the most worthy points ofobservation, con
tained in the accounts of these sculptures, by Chambers, Goldingham and Dr. Babington.*
The situation of these antique remains is on the sea shore, about thirty-eight miles southwards from
Madras. Adjoining the stone Pagoda, serving as a landmark for shipping, and delineated in plate XI, of
Dr. Babington's drawings, there is an excavation in the rock, whose roof is supported by columns, not
unlike those ofthe cave at Elephanta, in the neighbourhood of Bombay. This appears to be usually
called the Krishna Mandaparn, described by Mr. Goldingham, in his third paragraph ; near which is anoth
er more spacious excavation, said to be used as a place of shelter for travellers, A rock, fronting the
entrance to these, presents a scene of sculpture representing the deity Krishna, (Apollo Nomios,) attending
the herds of Ananda ; in which is a gigantic figure of the god, attended by a group of female cowherds,
or Gopalas, whose dress, as Dr. Babington remarks, resembles that now worn by the Nayris and Tirtis
of Malabar. The men wear turbans and the women large ear rings ; and one group among the figures
presents a man playing on the flute for the diversion of the company. An admirable drawing of the
whole may be seen in plate II, of the sculptures.
In his way up the rock, and passing the raised slab of stone, called the Sinhasan of Dharma Raja, the
visitor descends over immense beds of stone, and arrives at a spacious excavation, dedicated to Siva, the
central . compartment of which contains a sculptured figure of this god, attended by his consort Par-
vati, and two other figures on Kailasa supported by the Nandi. At one end of this temple is a gigantic
figure of Vishnu, sleeping- on the serpent Sesha ; and at the opposite end Parvati, mounted on her lion, is
destroying the demon Mahesasur,f as seen in the sculptures of Ellora and Badami. The sculptured
image of Vish?m sleeping, is attended by three figures, represented in the attitude of grief and meditation;
and presents a remarkable similarity of design, and execution, to that of the fabled sleep ofthe Egyptian
Horus, (Apollo,) who is sculptured, in the temples of that country, sleeping on a couch formed by a lion,
instead of the serpent as here. Mr. Patterson,} in his remarks on the origin of the Hindu religion, no
tices this analogy between the Indian and Egyptian sculptures, and seems to think that it refers to the re
tiring of the waters of the Ganges, after the rainy season, and the period of Vishnu's sleeping, during the
four months of clouds and rain previous to this time.
About a mile further south, the visitor comes to the five monolithic temples, called Bathos, or sacred
vehicles ; some of which are about forty feet in height, by thirty in breath. The most southerly of these
structures, on the northern, eastern, southern, and western faces, is ornamented with various figures ;
which, from the inscriptions above their heads, have chiefly reference to the forms of Vishnu and his Sakti.
Dr. Babington has given a drawing of these figures, in plate XVI ; and among them, No. IV is called the
firm infaith — the beautifid as Kama deva — the agent — a name of Vishnu. This figure bears on if
head the crescent moon similar to that on the reverse of the Mithraic, or Ard-okro series of coins ;^ from
the Manikyala monument, and commonly found in the countries of Afghanistan and the Panjab ; which
bear undoubted indications of their connexion with the worship of the sun.
In concluding this account of the various excavations of western India, I may venture a remark, that,
while the more primitive and simple Bauddha structures have exclusive reference to the discipline and
moral part of this religious system, or the worship of the sun, the sculptures of the second class of caves
convey constant allusions to the origin of the world from water ; but which, agreeably to the Puranic cos
mography of the Brahmans, is raised up as a female by Vishnu in the form of a boar. The earliest and
* Asiatic Researches, vol. I. page 145, and vol. V. page 69. also Trans. R. A. S. vol II. page 258.
+ See Dr. Babington's plates III and IV.
f Asiatic Researches, Vol. VIII. page 73.
§ See plate of coins, No. 20.
SOUTHERN EXCAVATIONS. 33
atheistical school of Bauddha philosophy, while it admits fire, water, and wind, as the three causes of the
world's destruction, acknowledges the second only as the cause of its reproduction ; endowing matter with
' natural energy to produce the evolution of things from a great void, or elemental state of chaos, called
Maha Sunyata ; * but describes that water, in which the last world was dissolved, as gradually decreasing,
until from its sediment arise the four great islands, with mount Meru in their centre ; and in the same
order and symmetry as the world previously destroyed. Some of the former class, as proved by the dates
of inscriptions, were constructed as early as the second century, B. C. ; but, as the sculptured figures in
others are conformable to the mythology of the Puranas, wherein Buddha is made the ninth incarnation
of Vishnu, we are not disposed to date their construction earlier than the eighth or ninth centuries of the
Christian era : when the doctrines of Sankara Acharya gave rise to the present popular form of Hindu wor
ship, as exhibited in the compilation of the Puranas ; which Professor H. H. Wilson, with well founded
opinion, considers to be not more ancient than the time here assigned for the origin of such excavations as
Ellora, Elephanta, Badami, and Mahamalaiapur. But the more extended series of facts, developed in sub
sequent chapters, will enable us to deduce more certain conclusions on this subject ; and to arrange in his
torical connexion the various classes of Bauddha monuments existing throughout India.
* Mr. Hodgson's quotations in proof of the Swabhavika doctrine, or atheistical system, No. 4 in Prinsep's Journal, Vol. V.
p. 72. and Sangermano's Burmese Empire, translated by Tandy, p. 28, par. 33.
9
34
CHAPTER II.
Bauddha opinions and religious tenets in various Countries.
Prior to the publication of Mr. Hodgson's Essays, on Nepal Buddhism, * much obscurity re-
vailed in the different accounts of this religious system ; rendered yet more
GBTurddhare]igieon0f ,he unintelligible by European authors having blended the physical and moral
parts of it, so as to leave little distinction between, what relates to the nature of
a first cause, giving origin to the world ; and what to the vital and human soul, produced for the
expiation of sin, or to raise man above the power of the passions, and the influence of corporeal impres
sions ; till, in a spirit of philosophy, and true knowledge, (the yvwois ™v ovtwv of Pythagoras,) he had
reached that perfection which assimilates him with Divinity. To clearly comprehend the subtle specula
tions, and over refined metaphysics, ofthis religion, it is necessary to remember that its anthropology, which
had its origin with Gautama, or Sakya Sinha, presents a series of the same human degradation and regen
eration, as is observable in the periodical revolutions of the physical world. Each of the Bauddha
schools teaches, that, at the expiration of long periods of time, this world is destroyed and reproduced ;
and that the living creatures of former worlds, who had not yet fully expiated their sins by abstraction of
the mind, and mortification of the body, dying in the Abhassara-brahma-loka, one of the celestial mansions,
and scene of mortal transmigration, return to each new world ; deprived of the natural effulgence which
prevented them from being affected by corporeal perceptions, or by the influence of passion and a spirit of
discord.f The Suttans, (aphorisms,) of Ceylon, and the scriptures of Nepal, relative to the origin ofman
kind seem uniform in their accounts ; describing generative creation as a degradation, by successive ema
nations, and maintaining opinions similar to the Theosophes of some among the Christian Gnostics ; who
paid continual attention to the state of the soul, by meditation on the divinity, as being the source of in
exhaustible love. Their science, according to Clemens of Alexandria, consisted of two parts : of which the
first was occupied with divins things, considering the first cause by which all had been made, and without
which nothing that is, can exist : examining the essence which penetrates and unites one substance with
another ; while they sought to discover the powers of nature and asked to what end they tended. The
second part treated ofhuman things, of the condition of man, of his nature, and what he ought to do and
suffer ; here examining his vices and virtues, and the means by which happiness could be attained, \
The Bauddhas or Saugatas, as followers of Buddha or Sugata, are frequently called Nastikas,
or atheists, being disowners of another world; and the terms Jina or Arhata,
Bauddha Sectaries how . . , it- m_ i
designated. importing the subjugation 01 passion, are used to designate the Jainas. Ine last, in
reference to the nakedness ofone class, are denominated Digambaras, while the less
strict sect, " clad in white," are named Swetambaras. Buddha Muni, or Gautama, the reputed founder
of the Bauddha sect, is the author of Sutras (aphorisms,) constituting the body of his doctrine, termed
Agama ; which, from different constructions of the text, has given rise to four schisms or schools, called the
Madhyamika, Yogacharya, Sautrantika, and Vaibashika.^ The same division of these sectaries, as known
• Mr. Hodgson's various papers, A. R. Vol. XVI. p. 421,—T. R. A. S. Vol. II, p. 222, and Prinsep's Journal, Vols. Ill
and V.
t Sangermano, from Burmese authority, regarding the felicity and misery of beings that live in this world, states that the
Bauddhas say, at the death of a man, animal, or other living being, the soul perishes together with the body ; but then, from
this complete dissolution another individual springs, which will be man, or beast, or Nat, (celestial spirits,) according to the
merits or demerits of the actions done by its predecessor during life. Through this successive series of dissolutions and regen
erations, all beings go on, for the duration of one or more worlds ; till, at length, they have performed such works as render
them worthy of the state of Niban, ( nirvan, ) which is the most perfect of all states ; or one of quiescence as before explained.
Sangermano's Description of the Burmese Empire, Chapter HI, para. 6; also Mr. Turnour's Translation of the Agganna Suttan
of Ceylon ; and Mr. Hodgson on Buddhism. Trans. R. A. S. Vol. II p. 235.
J These characteristic opinions among the Christian Gnostics, to be met with in Clementis Alexandrini Stromatnm, Lib.
Sept. have been thus embodied by M. Jacques Matter, in his Historie Critique du Gnosticisme, Tome second, page 08. Clemens
says, " Dei ergo cultus est continua animse cura qui est praeditus cognitione, et ejus perpetua in Deo occupatio per charitatem,
qui nunquam intermittitur. Cultus non qui versatur circa res hominum, unus quidem est qui reddit meliores : alius vero, qui
in ministerio occupatur : medicina quidem corpus, philosophia vero animam reddit meliorem. Clementis Alexandrini Opera Graece
et Latine a Frederico Sylburgio, fol. 700.
§ Mr. Colebrooke on the Philosophy of Indian Sectaries, Trans. K. A. S. vol. I. p. 558.
RELIGIOUS TENETS IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES 35
to the Brahmanical opponents of their doctrines, exists in the Buddhism of Tibet,* and appears not to be
materially different from the four leading schools of Nepal, as explained by Mr. Hodgson. In as far as
we can now judge, the identity of opinions among Bauddhas, in various countries, may be ad
mitted ; and we need not hesitate to express our belief that this religion is a uniform system spreading
from a common source, however it may seem to vary, by minor differences of tenets, among particular
people. It possesses too a body of religious literature ; which, whether in Ceylon, Burmah, Nepal, Ti
bet, China, or Japan, seems identical in its general principles ; being more vulgar or refined, atheistical,
or theistical, according to the standard of speculative opinion among its followers. In China, Ceylon,
and Burmah, the atheistical system seems prevalent, while in Nepal the theistical is generally accepted,
and is also acknowledged in Tibet.
The appellation of Arhatas, (saints) by which the more ancient of the Jaina sect appear to have
Appellations of the Jninaa been known, seems applicable to such ofthe Di&ambara teachers as were deifi-
of like import as those of the . r . . . r j .
Bauddlms, and the principles ed by their followers; and who, except in some minor points ot doctrine,
mKdifoE recognizing jivaQife,) or manas (the sentient soul,) distinct from Parmatma\
sects. (supreme intelligence,) and admitting akasa (ether,) as the fifth element,
were in no respect to be distinguished from the Bauddhas, or followers of Gautama. Like
the Christian Gnostics and followers of Saturnine, they distinguished the Bodh-atma, (intelligent
soul,) or the irvtvfia and vovc, spirit and intelligence, from the Chaitana Atma or i\,vyr> fa™*1 1
(the sentient soul.) Mr. Colebrooke draws the conclusion that the Sarmanes, distinguished from
the Brachmanes by Clemens Alexandrinus, in the end of the second century of our era, were the
Gymnosophists of the Indians; an appellation that seems to him more applicable to the sect of
Jina than that of Buddha, who is said to be the author of distinct precepts, and worshipped
as a god, on account of his distinguished virtue.^ It does indeed appear that the Jainas are par
ticularly meant ; and that the sect here intended were the Digambaras, who are also called Allobi,
3T*?rnT (exempt from passion,) and are so named by Col. Miles in his account of this religion. But
both sects, who appear to have lived together as people of one religion, are indiscriminately called
Arhatas and Sramanas ; and among the followers of Buddha those who have obtained superior
proficiency in Bodhijnan, (divine knowledge) and are segregated from the the community of monks, are
styled Arhans ; while the rest of the congregation are divided into different degrees of proficiency, and
named Bhikshu, Sravaka, and Chailaka. The laity of the Jains engaged in secular employment, and
obeying the precepts of their scriptures, without practising ascetical devotion, are called Sravakas ; one
of the appellations for a Bauddha proficient. Their priests too are the Saddhus, (saints) and the Yatis, or
secular instructors. The former denomination is of similar meaning as Arhat, corrupted in Burmah into
Rahatan, and applied to designate members of the monastic fraternity generally ; while in Nepal the same
class are called Bandyas, and in China Bonzes. The general principles of agreement in opinion be
tween the Bauddhas and Jainas, disavowing the divine origin of the Vedas, and appealing rather to rea
son than to revelation, or authority, accompanied by a tender regard for the preservation of animal life,
* Notices of different systems of Buddhism, from Tibet authorities, by Alex. Csoma Korosi. Prinsep's Journal, Vol. VII,
142.
f Mr. Colebrooke on the Nyaya or dialectic school of Hindu philosophy, Trans. R. A. S. Vol. II. p. 99, and again on the
Bauddha sectaries at page 550 ; also Delamaine on the Jains, page 416 of the same volume. It appears from the analysis of the
Kahgyur, by Professor H. H. Wilson and Alex. Csoma Korosi, that the Prajna Paramita, or transcendental wisdom of Tibet,
like the Karmika system of Buddhism in Nepal, teaches the existence of the Shad Ayatan, or seats of the six senses, admitting
manas as the sixth, and recognizing Akasa, (ether,) as the fifth element, which though reckoned by the Nyayikas, wasdisputed
by the Baudhas, and even by the most primitive Jains, if Mr. Colebrooke's exposition of their doctrines be correct. See Prin
sep's Journal, Vol. I. p. 377. Mr. Hodgson's quotations in proof of his authority on Buddhism; Prinsep's Journal, Vol. V. p. 80,
and Trans. R. A. S. Vol. I. p. 551.
J Historie critique Du Gnosticisme, et de son influence, sur les sectes religienses et philosophiques des six premiers siecles
de 1'ere chretienne Vol. I. p. 281 ; and Colebrooke on the Jains, Trans. R. A. S. Vol. I. p. 551.
§ Mr. Colebrooke, in his account of the Jains, has overlooked one passage of CIemen3,that more clearly distinguishes them from
the Buddhists than the one he has quoted. It makes particular mention of the Dehgop, or pyramidal altar covering the bones
of Buddha. " Brachmanes certe neque animatum comedunt, neque vinum bibunt : sed aliqui quidem ex iis quotidie, sicut nos,
cibum capiunt, nonnulli autem ex iis tertio quoque die, ut Alexander Polyhistor in lib. de rebus Indicis. Mortem autem con-
temnunt, et vivere nihili faciunt ; creduntenim esse regenerationem : aliqui autem colunt Herculem et Panem. Qui autem ex
Indis vocantur Zsfivoi, id est honesli ac vencrandi, nudi tolam vitam transigunt. Ii veritatem exercent, et futura praedi-
cunt, et colunt quondam pyramidem, sub qua existimant alicujus Dei ossa reposita. Neque vero Gymnosophists, nec qui di-
cuntur Ssfivoi, id est venerandi, utuntur mulieribus : hoc enim proper naturam et iniquum esse existimant : qua de causa
seipsos castos conservant. Virgines autem sunt etiam mulieres quae dicuntur Septal. Videntur autem observare cselestias
et per eorum significationem qusedam futura predicere." The Greek appellation Sb/ivm, used in the above passage is like
the Pali Sumana, meaning an ascetic, or devotee, and the same as the Sanskrit Sramana,
36 THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA.
have been pointed out in the preceding pages ; and we are now prepared to consider the extent and
quality of the religious literature, possessed by both sects.
The character of Bauddha religious literature, in all countries where the faith prevails, seems uni
form : and the works composing it, whether written in Sanskrit, Pali, or Tibetan,
Religious literature ofthe .....
Bauddhas. detail the rites, metaphysical opinions, morals, and traditions of the same nati
onal belief. In Tibet it is comprised in two extensive compilations, the Kah-
gyur and Stan-gyur, or translated commands and translated instructions ; and, regarded as a trans
lation of religious treatises, is not of later date than the ninth century * of our era ; but, as a
collection, of not earlier date than A. D. 1728 and 1746, between which periods it was printed
by Mivang, the Regent of Lassa, in ninety-eight volumes, accompanied by a supplementary volume of
miscellaneous matter. The Stan-gyur, yet more extensive, consists of two hundred and twenty-four
volumes ; embracing treatises on natural philosophy, astronomy, alchemy, medicine, and grammar, with
tracts on religious rites, prayers and charms. The former however, bearing relation to the scriptures
in Ceylon, Burmah, Nepal, and other countries, are now to be compared ; and our task is here
rendered easy, through the assistance of Mr. Turnour,f who has, in part, so well performed this
comparison, and laid under obligations the learned world for much useful information regarding
this religion as explained in the books of Ceylon. The Tibetan sacred books of the Kah-gyur are.
sometimes, stated to be a compilation, consisting of a hundred volumes, divided into three classes ; viz.
the Dulva, or discipline, in thirteen volumes , the Sher-chin, or philosophical doctrine, in twenty one
volumes ; and the Do-de, aphorisms or tracts, embracing opinions on natural philosophy, theology, and as
tronomy, in thirty volumes. Besides these, are the Phal-chlien, or Bauddha community, in six volumes ; the
Kon-seks, or pile of precious things, in six volumes ; the Myang-das, or an account of Sakyasinha''s attain
ment of Nirvan, or spiritual quiescence, in two volumes ; and the Gyut, corresponding to the Tantrika sys
tem of the Hindus, the mystical system of charms and incantations, in twenty-two volumes ; thus forming
altogether a compilation of one hundred. The scriptures in Ceylon, and in Burmah, which are written
in Pali, are divided into three classes, the Vinaya, or discipline; Abhidhammo, or supreme moral doctrine;
and the Suttans, or aphorisms and tracts. The whole collectively are called the Pitaka-taya, or three
vessels ; and the commentary on these, originally written in Singalese, and translated into Pali between
A. D. 410 and 432, is named the Attha-katha ; and was carried, into Burmah, by its compiler JBuddk-
ghoso, who propagated this religion in the latter century. The three Pitakas of Ceylon, correspond gen
erally with the Dulva, the Sher-chin, and Do-de classes of Tibet ; and are sometimes there alluded to un
der the name of De-not-sum, or the tiree repositories.J The Burmese copies of these Ceylon scriptures
were nearly all translated, by Sangermano, and were embodied in his account of the superstition, astro-
- logy, and religion of that people.
These books of the Buddhists were compiled at three different times, and in three different places
Compilation oftheBud- of ancient India, during the assemblies of the priesthood, convoked after tk
rat UmeCand inViSi's death of Sakya, for discussing £nd establishing the principles of his religion. The
places. first convocation, which was held at Rajagriha in Bahar, and at this time the capital
of the Magadha monarch, Ajata Satru, is generally fixed in the eighth year of his reign immediately after the
death of Gautama. The head of the five hundred superior Bauddha monks was at this time Maha Xa
syapa, who directed, it is said, the compilation of his master's doctrines ; and employed Upali, one of his
disciples, to compose the Dulva, or Vinaya, on the subject of discipline. The scriptures of Ceylon and
Tibet harmonize in their accounts of the number of priests selected on this occasion, for the discussiofi
of the doctrines of Dhammo, (Dharma,) and the principles which were to regulate Vinaya. It does not
appear quite clear whether the succeeding compilation, by Ananda, of the Do, or Sautranta class, was
effected at the same time, or during the second convocation, which was held at Vaisali, (the modern Al
lahabad,) in the tenth year of the reign of the Magadha monarch, Kalasoko, B. C. 443, and about a centu
ry after the death of the founder of this religion. Certain it is, however, that all accounts agree in assign
ing the compilation of the Sher-ch in, or philosophical doctrines, to Maha Kasyapa himself, who could not,
in all probability, have lived to the second convocation ; and it is natural to conclude that whatever altera
tions or explanations of Sakyas doctrines may have arisen at the second and third convocation, the three
divisions of them were generally acknowledged and established at the first. The Sher-chin, otherwise
• Prinsep's Journal for January 1832, page 1 ; where there is an analysis ofthe Dulva by Alex. Csoma De Koros.
t Prinsep's Journal, Vol. VI. p. 502.
J Sangermano names them the three Kiam, enumerating them as the Vini, Padimot, and Sottam Tandy's translation, pre
face page V. published for the Oriental Translation Fund.
RELIGIOUS TENETS IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 37
called Mamoon, Abhidharma, or Prajna Paramita,* is mentioned, in A. D. 1247, by the Mohammedan au
thor of the Jami-al-Tawarikh ; who, enumerating the Indian sectaries at this time, seems particularly to
distinguish the followers of Sakya-Sinha, from the sect of Arahnat, (Arahantas or saints,) and states that
his book is known by the name of Abdharm.f The third compilation^of the" scriptures was prepared at
Pataliputra, (the ancient Palibothra, and modern Patna,) in the seventeenth year of the reign of D/wrma
Asoka, during the third convocation of the Bauddha priesthood, which Mr. Turnour fixes B, C. 2424
The Ceylon annals relate that the whole of the scriptures were preserved, through a long line of Sakyas
disciples, exclusively by memorial inspiration ; and that there was no inscribed record of this religion, till
the reign of the Ceylon monarch Wattagamini, who reigned from B. C. 104 to 76. It is there stated
that this religion, which had been orally promulgated, in Ceylon, by the inspired disciple Mahindo, son of
the Emperor Dharma Asoka ; and, which had been also perpetuated by the priesthood, was at this time
first recorded in books ; but to this assertion the rock inscribed edicts of the Emperor Dharma Asoka,
and the Sanskrit original of the Prajna Paramita, if such be not comparatively modern, would appear to
offer a contradiction.
In Nepal the Bauddha scriptures are enumerated as the Nava Dharma, or nine bodies of righteous-
Agreement of the Ne- ness ; of which the first Prajna Paramita, and eighth Lalita Vistara, seem to cor-
of Ceylo^/nbe* andBa" respond generally with compendiums ofthe same works, met with in Tibet and Cey-
mah. Ion. But, in the latter country, the popular representations of Bauddha metaphysical
speculation, or the Sutra form, (preceptive aphorisms,) of the Prajna Paramita, have been embodied
in the Attha Katha, or commentary ; along with the Lalita Vistara, called the Jatakan portion ofthe work ;
and which has exclusive reference to the history of Sakya Sinha, and his various transmigrations, previ
ous to attaining supreme Buddhahood. The twenty first and last volume of the Sher-chin of Tibet ap
pears to be a summary form, or miscellany of Sakyas doctrines; and comprises eighteen different trea
tises of the class of Sutras, explanatory of the principles of this religion, taught in the preceding volumes.^
Nothing but a complete translation of the original Prajna Paramita could enable one to speak decisively
of its purport, and relative bearing to the Tibetan copy of the Khandas, or sections, of the Raksha Bha-
gavati of Nepal ; but the similar division of both works, according to the number of stanzas embraced in
each, and that the five different sections of the Tibet scriptures appear to have a corresponding enume
ration as those of Nepal, mentioned by Mr. Hodgson, cannot pass without remark. The nine divisions
ofthe whole Bauddha scriptures, known in Nepal, are equally recognized by the Attha-Katha of Ceylon,
and called the nine Angas ; which in Pali, are the Suttan, Geyyan,' Weyyakaran, Gatha, Udanan, Itluwat-
takan, Jatakan, Abbhutadhammo, and the Wedattam, being identically those of the Sanskrit Sutras,\\ Geyas,
Vyakarana, Gathas, Udan, Ityukta, Jataka, Abbhuta-Dharma, and the Avadan of the Nepal scriptures.
The Sutras, on the authority of Csomo de Koros, are in general all the works of the Kahgyur, excepting
the Sher-chin, and Gyut, or Tantrika portion ; and were written injthe Sindhu,, or Pali language, while
the latter were composed in Sanskrit.1 This admission of an historical fact may perhaps account for the
* This portion of the scriptures is otherwise named Arya Bhagavati Prajna Paramita ; the two first words implying the
venerable goddess, or epithets applied to Prajna, toisdom or understanding, by which life is traversed, and emancipation obtain-
ed, are allusive to transcendental wisdom, or the discrimination of mystical philosophy; which are the meanings of Prajna
Paramita, as rendered by Professor H. H. Wilson in his Analysis of the Kahgyur.
t Part of the Jami-al-Tawarikh is in the Library of the Oriental Translation Committee of London ; and the abridgement ofit
called the Tarikhi Binakiti, was made use of by Ferishta, in compiling the information given, in his account of ancient India,
at the commencement of his Mohammedan history.
% See his examination of the Pali Annals. Prinsep's Journal, Vol. p. 725.
§ The curious reader may consult, on this subject, the Analysis of the Kahgyur, at page 375 of Prinsep's Journal, for 1832 ;
and Mr. Hodgson, on the Bauddhas of Nepal, in the Asiatic Researches, Vol : XVI. page 427.
|| Mr. Hodgson informs us that the Sutras, in Nepal, are the principal scriptures, (Mula Grantha,) and are equivalent to the
Vedas of the Brahmans. The Geyas are works, in praise of the Buddhas and Bodhisatiwas, composed in modulated language ;
but the Ceylon books say that these embrace every Sutra, (aphorism,) composed in Gatha, (metre.) Vyakaranas are narra
tive works, or histories of Sakyas several births, prior to his becoming Nirvan; but the Ceylon Attha Katha states that these
consist of the whole of the Abhidhammo Pitaka, the Sutras not composed in verse, and the words of Buddha not classified nn-
der the other eight Angas. The Gathas are moral tales, relating to the Buddhas ; of which the Lalita Vistara is acknow
ledged as one. The Udan in Nepal is said to be a dialogue between a Bauddha instructor and his disciple ; while, in the Cey
lon books, this work is said to be Sutras delivered by Buddha in the form of inspired hymns. Ityukta comprehends whatever
is spoken in conclusion of, and reference to, some former discourse ; commencing with the words, " It was thus said by Bha-
gava." The Jataka treat of the actions of former births, and comprise the five hundred and fifty incarnations of Buddha.
The Abbhuta Dharma relates to preternatural events, embracing the miracles and wondrous works of pious persons belonging
to the Bauddha religion.
Prinsep's Journal, Vol. VI. page 688.
Kumarila Bhatta, who is generally considered to have ben the instigator of the persecution of the Bauddhas, by the Hindu
10
THE CAVKS OP WESTERN INDIA.
more popular and atheistical form of the Bauddha religion prevailing in Ceylon, while a more refined and
theistical system has become popular in Nepal. The more ancient Bauddha religion, consisting of
Gautama's Sutras, may have been remodelled, and generally written in Sanskrit, previous to their introduc
tion into Tibet and Nepal ; but our knowledge of a fact, that the Tantrika portion of the Bauddha scrip
tures, and Dharanis (short incantations,) of Nepal and Tibet, assimilate Buddhism there, more closely with
the mysterious rites of the Saiva Margis, (followers of Siva,) than with the system of the same religion
in Ceylon, Barmah, China, and the eastward, would seem to strengthen Mr Turnour's opinion, on a
question of controversy between him and Mr Hodgson, that the body of scriptures in Ceylon is more an
cient than that now met with in Nepal.
„ , „ The Gyut, or Tantrika portion of the Kahgyur, consisting as before mention-
Assimilationof the Gyut, or 3 1 r Y 7 °
Tantrika portion of the Kah- ed of twenty two volumes, and usually ascribed, without much consistency, to
$e Hindus. * Saiva system ot Sakya, is said to have been introduced, from the north into India, during the
tenth century of our era ; and into Tibet, not before the eleventh, about which
time it must have also extended to Nepal.* Its origin is unquestionably modern, as meniion is made of
Mekka, ; and the progress and decline of the Mohammedan religion are noticed in the form of a prophecy.
The import of the male and female symbols, (Linga and Bhaga,) are also explained, and the Mantras of
several Hindu gods as Brahma, Vishnu, Rudra, Kartikeya, Ganapati, India, and Maha Kala, are
given: thus associating this portion of the Bauddha scriptures of Tibet and Nepal with the Saiva system
of the Hindus ; which obtained currency about the time of Sankara Acharya, and is practically well illus
trated by the Sculptures of Ellora and those of the second class of caves already noticed. The twenty
first and twenty second volumes of this collection, give directions for the representation of the five Dhya-
ni Buddhas, Vairochonaf and the others, with their symbols, here indicating that the tlwistical system of
Buddhism, which, in Nepal, acknowledges the first intellectual essence as Adi Buddha, must have re
ceived grafts from the reformed system of the Hindu religion ; which made faith an essential element of
its belief, and introduced the innumerable host of gods and goddesses, which now constitute its pantheon.
Those authors who, from a very incomplete deduction of facts, if not from an imperfect knowledge of
them, have come to the conclusion that the Bauddha system is of greater antiquity than the Brahmanical,
will perhaps object to the above view of this question ; but, while the Bauddhas themselves never doubt
the superior antiquity of Brahmanism, it might be well that European authorities, opposed to them, should
reconsider their opinions; more particularly as the Pali Suttans, of Sakya Sinha, are addressed by him to
fVasettho and Bharaddwajo, two of the seven Rishis, or Vasishta and Bharaddicaja of the Brahmans ;
while Professors Mill, Burnouf, and Lassen, philosophically show that Pali, or the Magadha Prakrit, is an
offshot from Sanskrit, like other vernacular Hindu dialects.
The industry of Deshauterayes, M. Abel Remusat, and our own countrvman
Extent ofour knowledge, re- n , ., , . J
garding Bauddha opinions, in Mr. Davis, has enabled us to lorm a tolerably clear conception of the general
China and Japan. principles of Chinese Buddhism ; which are identical with those of this religion in
other countries. Mr. Neumann's translation too, from Chinese, of the catechism of the Shamans,^ shows
that the practical part of it, and its commandments are, in all respects, the same as elsewhere. This reli
gion, called, in China, that of Fo, or Fo-to, (Indian terms signifying most pure,%) was introduced from In
dia, during the sixty fifth year of our era, and in the reign of Ming-ty, of the Han dynasty. From thence
it passed into Japan ; but our knowledge of it in the latter country is yet imperfect, notwithstanding the
labours of M. Klaproth and others. The Bauddha era of China and Japan, instead of being reckoned, as
in Ceylon, from the middle of the sixth century B. C. is thrown back to B. C. 1027. This period has
been erroneously fixed by the chronologists of these countries ; who, while they mention that the reign
ing monarch of Magadha, at the birth of Sakya, was Ajatasvara, (Ajatasutra,) have, on astronomical cal
culation, placed the event nearly five hundred years too early. The original name of his birth-place, Ka-
pila, in the north of India, and near the sources of the Ganges, is preserved in Chinese under the appel
lation of Kea-wae-wae, and which the learned Remusat reads Kea-wae-lo wae, for Keo-pi-lo. The books
of this religion, which are read and chanted in the Bauddha establishments of China, have been partly
Agni-Kulas in the end of the third century of our era, states that the Sakyas, (or Bauddhas) and Jainas, (or Arhatas,)
were considered to be Kshetriyas. In his Vartika quoted, by Mr. Colebrooke, on the subject ofprovincial and barbaric dia
lects, he specifies the Parasika, Yavana, Raumaka, and Barbara, or Persian, Greek, Roman and barbarian tongues ; and adds
that the Sakyas and other heretics, do not use Sanskrit, but employ Prakrit. Trans. R. A. S. Vol. I. 454. p.
* See Analysis of the Kahgyur, in Prinsep's Journal, for 1832, page 386.
t See page 16 of this volume.
§ Published for the Oriental Translation Fund of Great Britain, 1831.
} In the subsequent translations of the cave inscriptions, it will be seen that this explanation of the terms, as given by M.
Deguignes, is quite accurate ; and that Sakya Sinha is there called in Pali, Venpudatu,— the giver of purifying knowledge.
RELEGJOUS TENETS IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 39
translated, into the language of the country, from the originals in the Pali ; and though we are yet with
out information on the extent of this religious literature, both in China and Japan, the principles of the
faith have been sufficiently developed to show that they are the same as those prevalent in other coun
tries. Many and various have been the embassies sent, from China into India, to procure the books and
relics of Buddha ; and even so late as the middle ofthe tenth century, three hundred Shaman priests were
dispatched for this purpose by the Emperor Ki-en-ti, who founded the Sung dynasty. We may therefore
presume that the Buddhism of China has been not more stationary than the same religion in the countries
of its birth ; and that, while the atheistical form of it is the prevailing one in China, the idea of a Supreme
God, or Adi-Buddha, is not. altogether unknown to the eastern Samaneans. The material, or atheistical
system, appears to have been current during the Sung dynasty ; though even then the learned adhered to
that part of their ancient religion, which acknowledges a supreme and creative intelligence, under the
name of Tien, or Shang-te.*
According to M. Remusat, the six Buddhas, who preceded Sakya Sinha, though not often mentioned
in the Chinese books, are nevertheless known ; and the three honorable, adorable, and venerable beings,
or the trinity of Buddhas, the Fo-to (Buddha,) Ta-ma, (Dharma,) and Sankya, are invoked in the public
worship. It was before remarked, that, by the modified atheistical system ofthis religion in Nepal, the pow
er of inert matter, Dharma, Prajna, or deified Nature, is typified as a goddess ; and the same can be no
other than the goddess, Kuan-yin, (Kanya,) or virgin, who in her celestial character, or Nanaia of the
Ard-okro coins, is the Tien-how, (the queen of heaven,) who is also called Shing-moo, (the holy mother,)
or the passive principle and power of conception.^ In this tenet of Buddhism some have been too an
xious to perceive an amalgamation ofthe Christian faith, relative to the virgin, with the superstitious ido
latry of China ; but while I am disposed to admit that the errors of the Manichean Christians, who entered
China, in the middle of the third century, were adopted by the followers of Buddha there, I am yet com
pelled to remark, that the worship of the goddess of Nature was an essential part of the philosophical
principles, from which this religion had its origin,
The literature of the Jainas consists of a collection of legends, to which, like
Literature of the Jainas. the Brahmans they apply the name of Puranas. The speakers in these works are
generally Srenika Maharaj, (Vimbasara,) and Gautama, the disciple of Mahavira; who appears to be the
same as Bhagava Kasyapa, and predecessor of Gautama, among the four last Buddhas, who have appear
ed in the present Kalpa. These Puranas are eighteen in number, and were compiled, by Jinasena Acha
rya, the preceptor of Raja Amogha versha, whose reign, as already noticed, is not earlier than the begin-
ing of the tenth century. They embrace exaggerated traditions, regarding the lengthened lives of the
twenty four Tirthankaras, and of the emperors and kings who have ruled over the Jains ; including sto
ries relative to Parasarama, Ramachandra, Krishna, and the Pandava, and Kaurava princes, heroes of the
Puranic fiction ; whose appearance here indicate the comparatively modern origin ofsuch compilations. In
addition to these Puranas, Jain literature embraces several legendary histories, called Cheritras, and ritual
manuals of the aphorisms and discipline of the sect. Among the last the Kalpa Sutra is the one best
known ; having been the source from which Mr. Colebrooke derived his information regarding the tenets
and practices of the Jainas, published in Volume ninth of the Asiatic Researches. The body of this lite
rature has been only partially investigated ; and a worthy subject of labour remains, for orientalists to show
how far the earlier books of the sect can be identified with similar works among the Bauddhas. One of
the former, a Digambara work, named Buddha Vilasa, and quoted by Major Delamaine, will probabbly be
found similar to the Madhuratha-velaseni ; which, as noticed by Mr. Turnour,}: is part of the Ceylon Attlut-
katha, and contains the genealogy of the twenty third Buddha, and of all the twenty four who have ap-
• The Supreme Ruler; See Davis' description of the Chinese Empire, Vol II p. 73. M. Klaproth translates the above term
" exalted ofheaven."
t The coins obtained, from the Tope ofMunikyala, inthePanjab, (See Prinsep's Journal Vol. Ill plate XXV,) have on the
obverse an image of the Sun clad as a Magus, and, on the reverse, a female figure called Nanaia ; the same as Nanaa of the Mac
cabees, or the goddess worshipped at Persepolis : (See Book III, Chap : I, V. 13, and Chap IX, V. 1— 2,) The latter was the
same as Artemis, or Diana of the Ephesians, regarded as the moon goddess. In her physical character, she represented the
natural fecundity of the earth ; and in her astralone, the moon, or the passive influence of the sun \ and is hence called, on
some of the coins, Math, or the mother goddess. She is thus alluded to, by Jeremiah ; (Chap. VII 3, 17— : 18) " Seest thou
not what they do in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem ? The children gather wood, and the fathers kindle the
fire, and the women knead their dough, to make cakes to the queen of heaven, and pour out drink offerings unto other gods,
that they may provoke me to anger." According to Herodotus, (Clio CXXXI,) she was the Assyrian Venus, Mylitta, called by
the Arabians Alitta, and the Persians Mithra; under which last name she appears on the reverses of several of the Mar^ikyala
coins.
I See Mr Turnour on the Pali Buddhistical annals, in Prinsep's Jonrnal, Vol : VII. page 789 : and Major I. Delamaine, on
the Jains Trans: R. A. S. Vol : 1 p. 413.
40 THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA
peared, and presided over the twelve different Kalpas, or renovations of the present world. The Srenika
Raja Cheritra, a Jaina legend of Vimbasara, king of Magadha, makes him sovereign of Bahar in the time
of Verddhamana, last oftheir teachers; and most of their Puranas, which are communicated by Guatama,
relate that he was Verddhamana 's principal disciple and successor. But while the principles of both reli
gions, and their historical legends, seem derived from a common source, it is evident that, soon after the
death of Guatama and the origin of the Bauddha system, differences of opinion arose to cause the separa
tion ofthe two sectaries : and, even so early as the beginning of the fifth century of our era, the Satranjaya
Mahatmya, shows that the Jains, under Dhaneshwara Suri, were opposed to the followers of the Bauddha
faith. The literature of the latter too indicate these dissensions ,- and the Tirthikas are no doubt the Jains,
whom the Do class of the Khagyur discriminates from the followers of Guatama, named Shakyas.* The
moral code of the Jainas is analogous also to that of the Bauddhas ; and the four religious prohibitions of
the former, found in their Dhermarita katha ; —1, not to injure animal life ; —2, not to lie ; — 3, not to
steal ; —4, not to indulge in sensual pleasure, are the same as four of the ten precepts, inculcated by the
Bauddha moral system. The injunctions, however, of the Jainas ; —1 , to discard doubt ; —2, to perform
acts without expectation of advantage, and 3, — to have a steady faith,f are more analogous to Brahmani-
eal principles and practice than those of the Bauddhas, and seem in most respect similar to what is incul
cated in the Bhagavad Gita, or treatise on theology, in the Mahabharat, communicated by Krishna to
his pupil Arjuna.
Bauddha Schools, principles Some of" tne general principles of the Bauddha religion have been noticed in
of belief, and conformity with previous pages of this work ; so far as such were deemed necessary to the better
ancienrsabeana.111 amtmg ,b€ understanding of changes that have taken place in systems of Hindu belief; and
are yet reflected, to the eye of the observer, from the sculptures of Ellora, Ele-
phanta, and Badami. Various systems of philosophy, similar in outline and object to the Grecian Schools,
are known to exist among the Hindus ; and the leading tenets of two of them, the Sankhya Darshanas, or
the numeral or rational systems, are remarkably identified with the only two philosophical Schools of the
Bauddha religion, the Madhyamika and Yogacharya. The object of all, however, was, by the exercise of
judgment or reasoning, to discriminate spirit from matter, Purusha from Prakriti, or soul from na-
ture ; till having ascended, by regular steps, to perfection, the sage was able to distinguish, the root, or
plastic origin of things, from that modification of them which is distributive, and pertains to individual
beings. It was thus he learned to identify himself, and all things, with the source from whence they came,
and to which, after a life of virtuous penance, he was doomed to return, escaping the evil of transmigra
tion into other forms. Final excellence, (nishreyas,) and deliverance frem evil, (moksha,) are the pro
mised rewards of a thorough knowledge of the principles taught by this religion : but this state of felicity
is, among Bauddhas and Jainas, more commonly expressed by the term nirvana, profound calm, or imper
turbable quiescence,J The characteristic tenet of the atheistical Saiikhya of Kapila, and of the Nepal
Bauddha School, called by Mr. Hodgson Swabhavika, seems to be that matter is eternal and productive ;
and that God, or the intelligence of this system, is rather the energy of necessity, and chance, than the
ruling creator of the universe. That, however, which principally distinguishes its opposite the theistical
School of Patanjali is that an intelligent agent is superadded to elementary matter, and acknowleged as
God, or lswara ; but who is unconcerned with good or bad deeds, and their consequences, though omni
scient, and instructor of the earliest beings that had a beginning, Cthe deities of mythology.^) This more
nearly perhaps indentifies itselfwith the Prajnika Swabhavika\\ system of Nepal, than with the purely theis-
* Origin of the Shakya race, translated from the La, or the twenty sixth volume of the Do class in the Kahgyur : by M.
A. Csomo de Koros. Prinsep's Journal, 1833, page 385.
f See Dhermarita Katha, in Wilson's Mackenzie Collection, Vol : 1. page 157.
X See Mr Colebrooke's Essays on the atheistical and theistical Schools of the Sankhya philosophy; and on that of the Baud
dha sect : Trans : R. A. S. Vol I page 95— 566.
§ Wards account ofthe Hindus Vol I.
|| Swabhava, a componnd of Stca (own) and bhava (nature,) is meant to express that all specific forms result from spontane
ous, or instinctive creation; and Prajnika, from pro, (the intensitive prefix,) mdjna (wisdom,) implies the material goddess
Prajna, or intellectual energy superadded to crude matter, for the purposes of creation and the evolution or things. In this it
differs from the School of Patanjali who makes this agent, or energy, lswara ; while the Aishwarika School, like the Brahmani-
cal, appears, to teach that all material forms proceed from Maya (illusion,) and are in action, or Pravritti, but emanations of
the deity. " Body, (says the Swayambhu purana of Nepal,) is compounded of the five elements : soul which animates it, is an
emanation from the self existent." The last, as we shall have occasion hereafter to show, appertains rather to the modern Jai
nas than to the Bauddhas : for, in Barmah at least, it is pronounced heretical ; and Sangermano, in his account of the laws "of
Gautama, says. " The last of these impostors taught that there exists a Supreme Being, the creator of the world and of all
things in it ; and that he alone is worthy ofall adoration. All these doctrines of the six false gods are called the laws of the six
Deitii. (demons) :" Tandy's Translation of Sangermano, page 81.
RELK.'IOUS TENETS IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 41
tical, or Aishwarika School, which acknowledges the self existent God, or the first intellectual essence, as
Adi Buddlia, revealed by his own will, and immaterial in his essence. The primitive Bauddha atheistical
doctrine does not, as before noticed, admit of a triad : nor was such recognized by the two Schools of the
Sankhya, till a modification of their principles, taught in the mythology ofthe Puranas, ascribed the origin
of the world, (Sangha,) to the union of the active, (Buddha,) and passive powers of nature,* (Dherma:)
which three, in the aggregate, were one person or deity ; but disfoibutive, were analogous to the gods
Brahma, Vishnu, and Maheswara. This triadic doctrine is solely referable to a state of Pravritti, (ener
gy and change,) or the evolution of things ; and may, as Mr. Hodgson remarks, be resolved into a duad,
similar to the Yin and Yan,\ or the imperfect and perfect principles of the Chinese rational system, and
astronomical creed of the Sabeans, and Fire worshippers.
... . r ., Masudi, in his meadows of sold and mines of jewels,! gives so clear a view of
Masndi's account of prevail- ' a J & i
ing opinions among the Sa- the dualism ofthese doctrines, and the introduction of them from India into Chi-
^ndiansf 18 W°rS lpperB' na, that I cannot better strengthen the opinions now given than by here quoting,
and translating from Arabic, his account. " The religion of the Chinese," says
he, " is that of ancient times, a faith called Shaminah,^ (Samanian,) Bimilar to the practical devotions of
the Korish, prior to the advent of Islamism ; as they worship idols, and turn towards them in their pray
ers. The intelligent among them invoke by prayer the Creator ; and place before them, as an al
tar or type, the images and idols ; but the ignorant, from want of knowledge, associate such with
the divine Creator; and relying on them as his partners, think that adoration of these conducts them
to the resting place of God ; though, in their devotions, such be considered of inferior rank, and less
worthy of worship, than the Lord God, most high by his glory, greatness and power. The worship
of idols, therefore, though inferior to his praise, is the means of approaching him ; and such was the
cause of its beginning and origin, among the Chinese, through intercourse and familiarity with the
Grandees of India: an opinion which is prevalent both among the learned and unlearned of the
latter country, as we have already related. This is the current tradition among the people of China,
relative to the doctrine of the two principles and mundanists ; and though they differ and dispute con
cerning them ; yet, amidst all their rules, they adopt such part of their ancient law as seems best to
them. Their country adjoins that of Soghd, (Sogdiana,) and their tenets, as before related, are those
of the Moghaniah, (magians or fire worshippers,) relative to opinions on light and darkness. Previously
they were a truly ignorant people, and their principles of beliefwere similar to those of the Turks ; till such
time as a fiend of a fire~worshipper overcame them by his opinions, and taught that every thing, in this
world, is in a state of enmity and opposition ; such as life and death, health and sickness, light and dark
ness, riches and poverty, collection and division, conjunction and disjunction, sunrise and sunset,
existence and non-existence, day and night, with such like things."
Masudi further observes, in the section of his work called, Hayakil mushirraf^va-bayut---al-nairan-wa-
Al-asnam-wa-al'kawakib, (or the lofty Edifices and temples of fire, idols, attd stars,) that the ancient
philosophers of Greece and India ascribed great influence to the sun and moon, in the physical changes of
the world. After describing that the earth, in their opinion, is without motion and the centre ofthe celes
tial revolutions, he states that the science ofsuch changes was called Ilm-illahi, or divine knowledge, which
taught men the nature of the four elements, of the Jinns or spirits, the condition of the Nafs or soul, and
many like matters. Relative to the belief of the Indians and Chinese, he adds that their philosophers con
sidering the holy God and Angels to be endowed with body, and concealed in heaven, taught the people to
offer sacrifices to the planets, and great stars, of Which they formed images and worshipped them as the
means of intercession with the deity. The teacher who introduced this system is named Budasif, and
said to have lived in the time of the Persian king Tahmuras (i±> His doctrines inculcated the ne
cessity of men abstaining from this world, and devoting themselves to religious exercises and contempla
tion of the heavenly bodies ; from which the spirit has its beginning, and to which every one in this world
is doomed to return. Such were the leading tenets of the Sabean faith, as explained by the intelligent
* It would thus appear that both the Swabhata, and Prajnika SuxMavika Schoolsol Buddhism, are essentially atheistical in
their principles, and teach materialism : for, as Mr. Colebrook. observes ofthe Sankhya philosophy, these may he said to affirm two
eternal principles, soul and matter : though Prakrit^, or nature, abstracted from modifications, is no other than matter. See
Colebrooke's Observations on the Nyaya School : Trans : R. A. S. Vol : I. p. 95.
f These are the male and female principles, the active and passive elements, the tamasa and rajasa of ihe Hindus, or the
.qualities of depravity and passion.
I See his account of the Chinese, in the Arabic history called Murawwaj-az-zahab-wa-maadin-al-jawahir.
^ Tbw word is derived from the Persian Shamya ^i*-*, interpreted heaven ; but is explained in the dictionary called Burhani
Kaatia, to be a Syriac word meaning significant light, or understanding.
11
42 THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA
among those who had inquired alter the state of the ancient world ; and who said that Jamshid was the first
king, who ordered the people to adore fire, as similar to the light of the Sun and planets. In noticing also
several of the fire temples he particularly names the one o^Mandu-mayan inlndia,which would appear to have
been in middle India, or some part of Malwa; and on such points,Masudi's testimony is of great authority ;
as he himself travelled in the country about the beginning of the tenth century. After stating too that, in
the year of the Hejira 336 A. D. 947, there existed at Harran* a large temple of the Sabeans, which was
dedicated toAzar,"\he father ofAbraham,"he thus continues on the subject oftheir religion,and its connexion
with the ancient philosophical dogmas of Greece and India. " High above the staircase, says he, and over
the gate of the building, in the city of Harran, where the Sabeans usually assembled, I saw written, in
Syriac, a saying of Aflatun, (Plato,) whoever knows what is spirit becomes divine : as men are but heaven
ly trees. The proofof it is this, that man is an inverted tree, ofwhich the roots are towards heaven, and the
branches towards earth. Plato and others who follow him, regarding the rational soul JaLLiJI ^ii-'l, have dis
coursed much, and in various ways, whether spirit exists in matter, or matter in spirit ,* just as whether the
sun is in the house, or the house in the sun.f But this subject leads us to the transmigration of souls into
various form3. Men oflearning differ from each other, as to the sense and translation of the above passage,
and are divided, according to two parties, among the ancient philosophers, into Greeks and Indians ; who
are without nny written guide, or evangelical book, and have not any prophets amongst them. Among
them PJato ,and his followers relate that these philosophers presumed that spirit is immaterial and not mate
rial ; and that it is living, intelligent, and discriminating ; being in itself essence : and is that which is the
regulator and chief of all bodies composed of the four elements, that are opposed to each other: wherein
the use ofit is to keep them in a state ofequilibrium such as can effect perfect arrangement, and reduce
them from disorder to order.J
• Harran on the river Euphrates, is said by Tavernier, to lie on the right hand of those, who, in going from Syria to Ourfa,
cross the river at Al-Bir. In his Persian travels, Book II. chap : IV", he says, that " Ourfa is the capital city of Mesopotamia,
built as they say in the same place as Abraham lived, where stood the ancient Edessa ; and where the people of the country,
report that king Abagaras generally kept his court. There are still to be seen the ruins of a castle, from whence they add
that the same king sent to Christ for his picture, and offered him his kingdom and his people to defend him against the Jews,
whom he understood to be his enemies.
\ Mr. Colebrooke, in his analysis of the philosophy of the uttara mimansa, says, "The omnipotent, omniscient, sentient
cause of the universe, is (anandamaya) essentially happy. He is the brilliant golden person, seen within (untar) the solar
orb and the human eye. He is the etherial element (akasa) from which all things proceed, and to which all return. He is the
breath (prana) in which all beings merge, into which they all rise. He is the light (jyotish) which shines in heaven, and in
all places high and low, every where throughout the world, and within the human person. On the subject of moral philosophy,
and division of the soul, Sendnlbn Tliabet Ben Korrah'el Harrani, has written a work in which he enumerates the intellectual
soul, JukUJIthe animal soul, ^u^«.fl and vegetative soul or function, jkil^iJ). He lived about the middle of the tenth Country A.D.
t The Thammim ofthe Jews followed a belief in charms and amulets ; but the Urim and the Thammim, mentioned in Levi
ticus, Chap. VIII, V. 8, are explained to be the jewels in the ephod and breast plate of the Jewish High Priest ; represent
ing the lights and perfections, or manifestations of the truth. Masudi's subsequent statement, in the Arabic of the passage
translated in the text, that some of the Sabean sectaries considered Spirit to be a jewel, entangled by body, affords a curious ex
planation of the symbolical meaning attached to the four rows of precious stones, which were set in the breast plates, as de
scribed in Exodus, Chap. XXVIII. Ver. 17. The original Arabic Jaohar { yn y*.) means either jewel or essence, and the
stars are commonly called Jateahir-i-ulwiyah, ^»jJU y*>Jj^- or tne gems above, It is from this sufficiently apparent, that among
the Sabeans, gems were considered to represent the purity of spiritual essence ; and, when inscribed with mystical characters
were, among the Chaldeans, held in great estimation, and worn, as amulets, to protect them from the influence of the evil spirit.
A similar belief seems to form part of the Bauddha religious doctrines; and their connexion with the principles of Sabeism will
account for the pearls, rubies, gold, silver, and other jewels, which are found along with the ashes of the dead in such Baud,
dha monuments as Manikalaya , whose name seems to be a compound word, signifying the place of the precious jewels. The
appellation of the three Buddhas, in their trinity, Tri-ratna, or three jewels, was previously noticed; and similar expressions
are found in the cave inscriptions of western India. The whole of the original passage of Masudi, above translated, being emi
nently curious, is here subjoined. Jyi JuJ yj | L i_sLdT o (j y* ^L:) vy^* J]ji*- Juu cXJ Uj UaJ) ljL lS^j \j
«J (_5*y~» o uJ ^ Lo W 1L»| J G ^ J * L» i_Jy. ^ }s> 3 ^Lt »j ^ }i fji^c ^1 i— a ^yV^il ti |
^XXJI LL JJdiL Jji |jjb }UJjiJ] j]jJ]j]J*J] J^AJtf ^r^jJI ^^JoJI ; u^l^i ^^-iiJI Js> ,_$-> ^ JuiL UJ!
,am,X*J| ^ ^Lc jJki t£/iw*.J. jdtiJ] J » J-o» (1/~o >|jSl Jjt) «iS 3 jyaJ] _l_yS| JjuJ ^J) _jj
C-j " ^^ttf ^/*" fk**-' ' *ji «*" y* r?" J*?- ' 2 ji** ***J k W> f»» j*>y*- (^r^jJl
RELIGIOUS TENETS IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES.
The ancient astronomers of Greece and India appear to have designated their knowledge of the plane-
Bauddha opinions ofi lie tary revolutions, the nature of the elements, and the influence of the heavenly bo-
twelve regenerations of di on th earth and germination by the title Q{ divine. Like the early cuitiva-
the world, analogous to ° ' ' '
the astronomical theories tors of astronomy among the Arahs, these investigators of natural phenomena
of the ancients relative to taught that earth and water, which are of a cold nature, are opposed to fire and
the recession of thetwelve . B ' , „ , j j
signs of the Zodiac. air, which are warm ; and that though all these principles influenced, and entered
into, the changeable effects of the versatile world, they naturally tended to the dissolution of particular
forms, only to re-appear under new combinations. Amidst this arrangement of the world, and the periodi
cal revolutions to which it has been subjected, the ruling power, or regency ofparticular signs of the
Zodiac is recognized as the cause of such changes ; and while Aries holds this power for twelve thou
sand years, Taurus for eleven, Gemini for ten, and so on in decreasing proportion, Virgo, or SumbalaJi,
as regent of the present world, (destined only to last seven thousand* years,) is assisted in her office of
cherishing and preserving it by the influence of the planet Mushtari, or Jupiter. In these Sabean doc
trines we recognize the twelve Kappos, or regenerations of the world ; during which twentyfour Buddhas
have appeared. The account of these will be found in Mr. Tumour's introduction! to his translation of
the Mahawanso. The present regeneration is the Maliabadda Kappo, (kalpa,) offive Buddhas ; of whom
Krakuchhanda, Kanaka, Kasyapa, and Sakya J have come, whilo the last, Maitreya, is yet to appear.
The Bauddhas too, like these philosophers, teach the doctrine that though fire, water, and wind, be
causes of the world's destruction, the second element is alone the agent in its reproduction.^ As early as
the time of Megasthenes similar opinions were maintained by the Indian philosophers ; who asserted that
the world was produced and is perishable ; that the principles of things are various ; that water is the prin
ciple ofthe world's construction ; and that besides the four elements, there is afifth nature, whence heav
en and the stars. God, however, is represented as the governor and creator of the universe, pervading
the whole ; an opinion, as Mr. Colebrooke observes, more suitable to the orthodox Hindus, or Biahmans,
than to the Bauddhas or Jainas. In other respects no great difference of opinion, || between the sectaries,
appears to have existed ; and the fifth nature, producing heaven and the stars, is the Sunyakar-Akasa,
(sheer space,) or etherial empyrean ; which the Swabhavika Bauddha school of Nepal recognizes as be
ing established and governed by its own force, or nature. It is said to be the essence, (Atma,) of crea
tion, preservation, and destruction ; from which existence is evolved, in the order of air from akasa, fire
from air, water from fire, and earth from water ; and to which again all things, at their dissolution, return
in the reverse order of their evolution.il
Matter, in his observations on the Gnostics, truly remarks, that, relative to opinions of the origin of all
things, from one only principle, and from a primitive love, which is the moving power and regent there
in, the cause is nothing but light combined with spirit, which is the life of every thing and penetrates all,
and that one cannot but here recognize the influence of siderial spirits, accompanied by successive degra
dation of generations, emanating one from another. The union here traced between the religious prin
ciples of the Sabeans, Fire-worshippers, and Bauddhas, may be ascribed to such a cause, and to the asso
ciation of the earliest opinions of idolatry with the theories of astronomy, and of other natural phenome
na. One cannot fail to recognize that, from this source, the Bauddhas have drawn their notions of twelve
worldly regenerations ; which, from their analogy, with theories relative . to the revolutions of the
Zodiac, were probably founded on observations of the recession of these signs, by which the pole of the
world's diurnal revolution, describes a complete circle round the poles of the ecliptic, at the distance of
23^ degrees in 25,745 years. If this opinion be correct, some of the chief principles of the Bauddha
system cannot be dated earlier than the second century B. C. as the discoveries of Hipparchus, at Alexan
dria, relative to the precession of the equinoxes, were not made earlier than B. C. 161.
After the above exposition, one will not be surprised to find the union of the Bauddha and Mithraic
creeds, exhibited by the cave inscriptions, and the coins of Northern India. Regarding the different sys
tems of Tibet Buddhism ; supreme intelligence, whether understood in an atheistical or theistical view of
primary causes, is generally expressed by the Sanskrit term Buddha ; which, in Tibetan, denotes the
most perfect being purified from imperfections, and abounding in all good qualities. Distinctions are
made respecting the state of such essence ; which, in the abstract, or dherma kaya, plastic origin of all
* See Masudi's account of the opinions entertained regarding the influence of the Sun and Moon on the world.
t See introduction page XXXII.
J These are the four Buddhas chiefly recognized in the Ceylon system of this religion ; and are called Kakusnnda, Konagam-
ma, Kasyapa, and Gautama.
§ See Sangermano Chap. V. p. 33. || Strabo Lib. XV.
Hodgson's quotations on the Swabhavika doctrine of Nepal, in Frinsep's Journal for 1836, page 72—74.
4i THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA
tilings, the v\n, or substratum, is called Swabhava, self produced, or self existing, and sometimes Adi-
Buddha, or Samanta Buddha. The former seems to be a term used under the idea that essence is a ma
terial principle; the latter imply that it is entirely spiritual. Such primary cause, connected with effects
in the versatile world, and viewed in either way as acting through secondary causes, in producing it, is dis
tinguished in this modified state by the term Sambhog-kaya, to which belong the five Dhyani Buddhas, of
whom Vairochana, or light, is called the illuminator. Hence it was that Mr. Hodgson, in answer to
his eighth question, — " What is the reason for Buddha being represented witli curled locks" ? received
the reply, Adi Buddha is merely light : and again, that, in the twenty first volume of the Do class of Tibet,
where the epithets ofBuddha are enumerated, he is called Tathagata, the universally radiant sun ; — Ta-
thagata, the moral wisdom ; Tathagata, the chief lamp of all the regions of space. Similar epithets are
applied to Buddha in mortal form as Gautama ; whose synonimes are Arka-bandhu, (kinsman of the sun,)
Aditya-bandhu, (friend of the sun,) and Lokaika-bandhu, (or the sole superiorfriend of the icorld.*) The
third state of essence is called Nirmankaya; to which belong the several incarnations of Buddha, as he
appeared in former ages, in several parts of the universe ; manifesting himself, in mortal form, to teach his
doctrines and instruct his disciples.
The four schisms, or schools, to which the opinions of Buddha-Muni, Sakya-Sinha, or Gautama gave
Reputed age and origin of rjse have been noticed in the first part of this chapter : and the leading tenets of
the two earliest Batiddha r ........ . °
schools, the Madhyamika and the Madhyamika and Yogacharya, with their relative identity to systems of Hindu
Yogacharya. philosophy, have just been briefly stated. It is of some importance, however, in
tracing the rise and progress of Buddhism, to ascertain about what period these schools originated. The
third convocation of the Bauddha priesthood, according to the authority of the Ceylon scriptures, took
place in the reign of Dharma Asoka ; but agreeably to the Tibet books it is assigned to the time of Ka-
niska, a king of northern India, reigning about four hundred years after the death of Sakya. At this time,
however, his followers had separated themselves into eighteen sects, under the four principal divisions
aire dy recorded: and from what is related in the biographical account of Nagarjuna, who is the reputed
author of the Madhyamika, it appears, that, as an orthodox follower of Buddha, he denounced the six
Arhatas, or mortal predecessors of Gautama ; who are recognized both in China, Tibet, and Nepal. Our
knowledge of this fact rests on Mr. Tumour's translation of a passage of the Raja Tarangini, a history
6f Kashmir ; which has been differently interpreted by Professor Horace Wilson. I am disposed, however,
to prefer the former ; as from what I have been able to ascertain of the origin of the Jainas from the
Bauddha sect, and the consequent derivation of their sacred language, the Prakrit from Pali, their
separation seems to have taken place about the time of Nagarjuna, and to have originated in some such
difference of opinion as gave a preference to Kasyapa, the Brahmanical predecessor of Gautama, and
made him the author of a system of religion which was once common to both.
Nagarjuna, the same as Nagasena of the Pali work called Milindapanno, was, as would appear, a Baud-
Nagarjuna, author of the dha hierarch, who lived B. C> 43. He is celebrated for a controversy on the sub-
Madhyamika school, lived in . .. , , i t» - en 1 '
the city of Sagaia, where he ject of his religion, with Mihnda, the Raja ot bagala, a city well known to
disputed with Miiinda Raja. Greek hiatory) and otherwise named Euthymedia or Euthydemia; having been so
called in honor of the Bactrian king, Euthydemus ; who, after successfully directing an insurrection in
Bactria against the Seleucidae, pushed his conquests into India, and established this city under his own
name.f Some are of opinion that its Grecian appellation of Euthydemia was imposed on it by his son
Demetrius ; who after his father's death, and that of Menander, seized on that portion of the Bactro-
Indian empire which had been theirs. Difference of opinion too exists as to the particular site of this
city, which, in the time of Alexander the Great, was called Sangala, and is said, in Arrian's history of
India, to be situated between the two last rivers of the Panj-ab, the ancient Hydraotes, and Hyphasis, or
the modern Ravi and Vipasa. The town of Hurrepah, south-west of Lahore, and distant from it some
what more than sixty miles, has been, with apparent truth, identified by Mr. C. Masson, as the site of
Sagala, which, in Alexander's time, was the capital of the Kathai, (Kshatriyas ;)% and is mentioned in the
Kerna Parva of the Mahabarat under the name of Sakala.^ In the latter, it is called a city of the Bahikas,
otherwise named Arattas ; who are said to be without ritual, or religious observances ; and who, as distin-
• See Trans. R. A. S. Vol. II. p. 238. Res. As. Society Vol. II. p. 124. Vol. XVI. p. 456, and Prinsep's Journal for 1832
page 383.
t See Danville's Ancient Geography, Vol II. p. 105.
| According to the manner of derivatives from Sanskrit, the Ksha of the latter is changed into Kha % and the r x; being
always omitted in Pali words, the Sanskrit appellation for a man of the military classes, Kshatroya Sff«nr thus becomes in Pali
Khatya ; a name not far removed from the Kathaei of the Greeks, which seems a corruption of the original word.
§ See Prinsep's Journal, for 1637, page57, and Asiatic Researches, Vol. XV, p. 108.
RELIGIOUS TENETS IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 45
guished fron the pure Hindus, or followers of the Vedas and orthodox system, must have been Bahahkas,
Bactrians, or of Indo-Scythian extraction. The inference, that the people of Sagala belonged to the lat
ter, is rendered more certain by facts, that this city is mentioned, in the Parthian Mansions of Isiodorus
Characenus*, as belonging to the Sacee or Scythians ; and by Ferishta's history, and the Persian romances,
again mentioning that one of its Rajas was assisted by Afrasiab, in a war against the celebrated Kai-Khus-
rau, or Cyrus. A point of connexion, between the Grceco-Bactrian kingdom and one of the earliest schools
of Bauddha philosophy, seems thus established with tolerable certainty ; and the name of the city of Sagala
met with in the western cave inscriptions must afford additional proof, that the religious opinions and
ritual of Buddhism were not uninfluenced, in the north of India, by the mythology, if not the philosophy of
the Greeks. Nagarjunas principal disciples, according to the Tibetan books, were Arya Deva and Bud
dha Palita ; and though the latter may not be the same as the Buddha Palit of No. 23 inscription from
the Buddhist tope at Bhilsa, the occurrence of this name on a monument of such antiquity, should not
at least pass without remark. Regarding the probable age ofthe Yogacharya school, the Tibetan books
mention that the principal works on this system are referred to Arya Sanga, about the seventh century of
our era. .
Two other schools of Bauddha doctrine, the Sautrantika and Vaibhashika, which are rather dogmatical
bhTJf Saat"njtika and Vai" tnan philosophical, existed among the early sectaries of this religion ; and were,
as Mr.Colebrooke observes, anterior to the age of Sankara Acharya, and Kumarila
Bhatta : the last of whom instigated a persecution of the Bauddhas, by which they were driven from Hin-
dusthan. Could the authority of Tibetan books be trusted, the origin of the last of these schisms would be
placed in the middle of the sixth century B. C. and immediately after the death of Gautama : but there is
reason for mistrusting the narrative of events related by the early Bauddha annals, which can only be con
sidered authentic from the well established period of the emperor Asoka. The same division of Bauddha
sectaries, as known to their Brahmanical opponents, exists among the Bauddhas of Tibet ; whose books
mention that the Vaibhashika, consisted of four principal classes, originating with Sakya's four disciples :
who are called Rahula, Kasyapa, Upali, and Katyayana.f The latter, called in Pali books Kachchayano,
an inspired saint and lawgiver, who corrected the inaccuracies of Panini, the father of Sanskrit grammar ;
and is acknowledged, by the literature of Ceylon, to have been the author ofthe earlist Pali grammar ; from
which the oldest compiled version, called the Rupasiddhi was composed in the Dekhan.t The identity of
the author is, Mr. Colebrooke says, involved in the impenetrable darkness of' mythology ;§} but if the era
of Gautama be accurately fixed, and the early annals of Buddhism allowed to be authentic, the origin both
of Sanskrit and of Pali grammar must be dated six centuries B.G: but this is a subject which is yet imper
fectly investigated.
Both the Sautrantika and Vaibhashika sects admit the existence of external objects and of internal sen
sations; distinguisliing, under the former, elements, (bhuta,) and things appertaining thereto, (bhautika,)
which are organs and sensible qualities. They reckon, under the latter, intelligence, (chita,) and what
belongs thereto, chaitta. The elements are onlyfour, consisting of atoms, which, when conjoined, form
compound substances, or bodies, the objects of sense that are apprehended by individual consciousness, or
intelligence, dwelling within body. The Vaibhashika acknowledge the direct perception of exterior objects,
and the Sautrantikas contend for the mediate apprehension of them, through images presented to conscious
ness : but both are of opinion that objects cease to exist when no longer perceived, and teach that, both in
the physical and moral world, events are but a concatenation of cause and effect, which are unreal, and
momentary. A belief to the contrary, or in the durability of objects, arises from (avidya) or error: to re
move which, these schools maintain that the object of knowledge is the destruction of percipient power; by
which the bound soul, (badhnati,) associated with works,ffcarwi<m,)obtains liberation, and exemption from
further transmigration.
Some doubt exists regarding the recorded antiquity of the Sautrantika and Vaibhashika schools, which
Relation of the VaU>hashi- are, however, connected, by this last tenet, with a comparatively modern modifica-
mika, and Yatnika systems of tion of them ; called Karmika and Yatnika systems of Nepal, The former teaches
NepaU that phenomena are illusory, resulting only from an act of the sentient principle,
* Isiodorus wrote after the flight of Teridates, about A. D. 3(5, and mentions the city in these, words " Hinc Sacastana
Sacarum Scytharum, qute et Paratacena, schten : 63, ubi Barda urbs, et Min urbs, et Palaoenti urbs, et Sigal urbs ; ubi regia
Saoarum, propeque Alexandria urbs, et non procul Alexandriopolis urbs : vici etiam sex." Geographic veteris scriptores Grapci
Minores, Vol : II.
t See notices of different systems of Buddhism, extracted from the Tibetan authorities-: by Alex : C: Koros. Prinsep's Journal
for 1838, page 143.
| Introduction to Mr Turnour's translation of the Mahawanso, page XXVv. .
$ See Asiatic Researches Vol : VH p : 1991 -1 .
12
46 THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA
(manas ;) which, yet unembodied, falsely believes in their reality.* This school of Buddhism, which, in Mr.
Hodgson's opinion, admits of conscious moral effort, is, he conceives, an attempt to remedy the Swabha-
vika denial of personality, conscious power, and wisdom, of a first cause ; which denial necessarily results from
the theory of self productive energy of matter, called by the Burmese dammata, or fate;f and which leaves
such cause without the attributes of moral power, conscious intellectual effort, or will. It was a sequel to the
declaration of such opinion, that the universe was without a moral ruler ; and that the change of deity, from
a state of nirvritti, (quiescence,) to that ofpavritti, (energy,) was effected without conscious intellectual
power, or free will. Ifsuch was the state of a first cause, human nature was equally without a sense of right
and wrong, and deprived of free will ; for, according to the philosophical schools of Buddhism, man be
came an irresponsible being, without the power or will of effecting his eternal happiness. To remove this
objection, however, to the atheism of Bauddha doctrines, which had linked the physical origin of a first
cause with the phenomena of human nature, it was requisite to teach that every free willed man might,
through a proper cultivation of his moral sense, and the just conduct of his understanding, realize that
eternal connexion between virtue and felicity, which none of the schools have ever attempted to deny.
The Karmika system had asserted the superiority of man's moral sense, and the Yatnika was produced to
advocate the doctrine of his free will ; J but both seem comparatively modern, and must have succeeded
the physical theories, taught by the Bauddha philosophers, regarding the origin of the world and the nature
of a first cause. That general law of material energy, or fate, by which one world was destroyed and
another reproduced, being made applicable to the phenomena ofhuman nature, primitive men were said to
fall off from the perfection of their ancestors, to give themselves up to vice and abandon virtue, and to have
their lives gradually diminished ; until by their lust, anger, and ignorance, the physical dissolution of the
world takes place, and human beings perish only to re-appear under new forms.§
The opinion, that these schools are of modern origin, is strengthened by the connexion of the Karmika
Knm&TwtemwilL III system with some of the leading doctrines of the Jaina sectaries ; who teach that
nionsofthe Jainas. the duration of punishment, or reward, is according to the powers of the mind
and senses ; and that, in proportion as they are held in subjection, till apathy or stoical indifference be
acquired by discipline, man's happiness or misery is accordingly insured. The act of the sentient power,
(manas,) which, through ignorance, (avidya,) maintains a belief in the reality of worldly objects, or a desire
to maintain its union with them, can, by a higher intellectual effort, extinguish such sentient desires ; and
obtain moksha, or release from the trammels of existence, by the realization oftrue knowledge, that all events
of this world are unreal. || Contemporary with the adoption, by the Bauddhas, of the Karmika doctrines,
the existence of a fifth element, (akasa,) having been admitted, and manas, or the sentient principle, being
at the same time acknowledged as the sixth, and called vajara satwa ; these, together with the four origi
nal elements, are represented by the six Dhyani Buddhas oftheAishioarika, or theistical school: and to which,
Mr. Hodgson thinks, the Karmika. and Yatnika, systems, on the subject of human nature, more naturally
attach themselves than to the physical Swabhavika.^.
* The reader is requested to compare on this subject Mr. Hodgson's quotations on the Karmika system, (Prinsep's Journal for
1836 p : 78,) and Mr. Colebrooke's observations on the philosophy of Indian sectaries. Trans; R. A. S. Vol : I p. 562. The
following is the quotation from the Racha Bhagavati, given by Mr. Hodgson in proof and illustration of his opinions. "The
being of all things is derived from belief, reliance, (pratyaya,) in this order: from false knowledge, delusive impression;
from delusive impression, general notions ; from them, particulars; from them, the six seats (or outward objects) of the senses;
from them, contact ; from it, definite sensation and perception ; from it, thirst or desire ; from it, embryotic (physical) existence ;
from it, birth or actual physical existence ; from it, all the distinctions of genus and species among animate things ; from them,
decay and death, after the manner and period peculiar to each. Such is the procession ofall things into existence from Avidya,
or delusion: and in the inverse order to that of their procession, they retrograde into non-existence. And the egress and
regress are both Karmas, wherefore this system is called Karmika. (Sakya to his disciples in the Racha Bhagavati.)"
t See Sangermano, Chapter II para; I.
\ The following quotation by Mr. Hodgson, on the Swabhavika doctrine, shows its tendency to refer every thing to instinct
or fate : " Who sharpened the thorn? Who gave their varied forms, colors, and habits to the deer kind, and to birds? Swabha-
va! It is not according to the will (ichchha) of any; and if there be no desire or intention, there can be no intender or desig
ner. Bauddha Charitra", Prinsep's Journal, 1836. page 73.
§ Compare this with the general principles of the Bauddha religion, announced in the first part of this Chapter.
|| The reader may consult on this subject, Major Delamaine on the Karmas of the Jainas; and what Mr. Colebrooke has
written on the opinions of the Bauddha sect. The latter, from Brahmanical sources, is in direct accordance with Mr. Hodgson's
quotation, No 4 on the Karmika system. These two dogmatical schools are like the exoteric, or practical course of dicipline
prescribed by Pythagoras, by which the corporeal parts of roan's nature being mortified and subdued, the intellectual portion of
it was fitted for the contemplation of immutable truth, and union with the divine nature.
See Note 15 on his sketch of Buddhism. These dogmatical schools have a theistical tendency; and, like the Tantrika
portion of the Kahgyur, almost teach the doctrine of Maya, or illusion, regarding the material existence of things. The reader
may refer to the article of this Chapter, pointing out the assimilation of doctrines taught by the last volume of the Nepal Tan
trika works, with those of the Saiva Hindus.
RELIGIOUS TENETS IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 47
In the exposition of the principles which distinguish the different schools of this religion, we have anti-
^Cosmogony, and theogony cipated all that may be said regarding the origin of the world : created, according
to the Madhyamika* and Swabhavika doctrines, from Sunya : which some, like Anaxi-
menes, represent as the original and constituent principle of things, residing in the air, or Sunyakar-Akasa ;
while others, like Anaxagoras, consider it the chaotic state of matter, existing from all eternity. It has been
widely admitted that creation was preceded by chaos.
Ante mare et terras et quod tegit omnia ccelum,
Unus erat toto nature vultus in orbe,
Quern dixere Chaos, rudis indigestaque moles,
Nec quicquam insit pondus iners, congestaque eodem,
Non bene juncturam discordia semina rerum.
Ovid.
Some doubt, however, exists as to what the theogonists conceived regarding God's nature ; whether they
supposed him, as the primary cause, co-existing with and independent of the material principle, or whether
they thought that he sprung from the latter, or created this out of his own essence and from nothing.
The SwabMvika and Prajnika schools derive the active agent of creation from the eternal mass ; the
Aishwarika seems to recognize both an intellectual and material principle, the former acting on the latter,
through secondary causes : and, if the Karmika and Yatnika systems do not teach the creation of the
world out of God's essence, they at least realize the practical theism of such a doctrine, by maintaining the
illusion of natural objects, and allowing man conscious moral power, and free will.
It would be unnecessary to repeat what I have previously said regarding the different orders of Bud-
dhas, but for the circumstance, that, with a more complete comprehension of the principles ofthis religion,
the reader will now better understand the different deifications, celestial and human, which are objects of wor
ship under the nameofBuddha. The material Swabhava places nature supreme, and considers it as Iswara,
or God ; but that modification ofit, which unites a transcendental omniscient principle, called Prajna, with
the material one, typifies such as the goddess Dharma ; who is the first member of the Bauddha triad, and
is associated with the type ofnature's energy, or Buddha, as the second, both of which give rise to Sangha,
or union, as the third. Dharma is here considered the plastic, or elemental state of all things, to which is
united, for the production of effects in the versatile world, the second member of the triad Buddha, or the
efficient cause of things. A yet more decidedly theistical system, the Aishwarika, represents intellectual
essence supreme, and calls it Adi Buddha ; who, in producing effects and changes in the material world,
operates through secondary causes, or the Jive elements, of which the Dhyani Buddhas are types ; and to
which are linked individual energies, named Bodhisatwas, operating in conjunction with passive conceptive
principles called Saktis. But when the deity is represented in unity, he is called Adi Buddha ; and has,
according to Mr. Hodgson's quotations, five bodies, five jnyans, and five sights, and is said to be the mukat,
(crest,) of the five Buddhas, without partner,f The latter from its representation in the Phrabat, or solar
foot, would appear symbolical of the solar ray ; and the Dehgop of the caves is but a type of the corporeal
frame of the five elements, or Dhyani Buddhas ; which are the vehicles of the subtle person, or spirit, and
are generally found represented on four sides of the Dehgopas,\ both in India and Nepal, the centre of
which is supposed to be occupied by the fifth Vairochana, or light. The Karmika and' Yatnika systems of
Nepal have admitted the sentient principle, manasa, as the sixth Dhyani Buddha ; but all these are personifi
cations, or Buddhasofcelestial origin. Those of moral birth, before enumerated, and of whom Gautama
is the last, having obtained plenary power, or omnipotence, through union with divinity, have been mani
fested during the different regenerations of the world : of which there are said to have been twelve, reckon
ing backwards from the present kappo, or creation, in which four Buddhas have already appeared and
one is yet to come.
• These doctrines are ihe objects ofspecial confutation by Sankara Acharya; who, in reference to them, is thus mentioned
by Professor Horace Wilson, in his preface to the amended edition of the Sanskrit Dictionary. " He comes in personal
contact with the Bauddhas, indeed, according to our authority, in but two instances: the first is a short conference with an
Arhata, who advocates the Madhyamika doctrines, or those of a Bauddha sect, and which is held in the Bahlika country, a
region identified by name and geographical position with the modern Balkh ; and the second happens in Kashmir, where amongst
the many sects who oppose Sankara's access to the temple of Saraswati, a short time before his death, the Bauddhas make their
appearance." I have already shown their connexion from Bauddha authority, with the Indo Scythian city of Sagala, and that
they originated with Nagarjuna: which opinion is corroborated by the above quotation, and Sanskrit authors.
t Prinsep's Journal, 1836, page 85, and quotation 14.
t The Dehgop may be considered an aggregation of the elements, effected by the presidence of spirit ; and, viewed as a
type of elemental creation, presents an analogy to the mundane egg, from which, according to the doctrines of antiquity, sprung
the first born of the world.
48 THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA.
The Bauddhas acknowledge three different kinds of beings, the material and generating, (Kam ,)
worid"88 that 1We a *" ^e mate"a'' not procreating by the usual laws, (rupa ;) and the immaterial,
(arupa,) who do not generate at all. The first order of beings, including man
kind and genii, (Nath,) ascend according to their good or evil conduct, by progressive transmigrations
to states of final beatitude, (nirvana,) where they are exempt from further change, or are doomed to
pain and punishment in the mansions of the demons, or by repeated worldly transmigrations into the
bodies of inferior animals. The virtuous, through the merit of their actions, when finally emancipated
from existence, are transported to the bhuvanas of Buddha, while the wicked are hurried to the six
abodes of the Daityas or Naraka, the hell for sinners, fabled to be below the world of waters, (Jala-
kund,) which support the earth. Mankind and their protecting genii (Nath,) occupy the earth, and
atmospheric region above it ; which last is variously divided into bhuvanas or mansions, called by the
Ceylon scriptures the Deva-lokas. Above these are the three bhuvanas of Mahadeva, the six of Vishnu,
and the eighteen of Brahma ; which are the places of the visible gods, or of those celestial physical
causes, or beings, which are destined, at the dissolution of worlds, to be the germs of future ones.
Above all are the Bauddha bhuvanas, of which the Agnishla is the highest, and the abode ofAdi Buddha.
Below it, some accounts place ten, and others thirteen bhuvanas, inhabited by the emancipated Arhaks,
Bodhisatwas, or faithful followers of Buddha, who have passed into a state of nirvana ; where from
finite they become infinite beings, and the same with divinity.
Sin is said to proceed from the body, the mouth, and the mind ; and those who would escape the evil
Moral injunctions °^ wr*ner transmigration, and punishment, are enjoined to observe the ten moral
precepts ; which are not uniformly enumerated, in the Bauddha books of various
countries. Those mentioned by Sangermano from Burmese authority, are, 1. Not to kill animals ;
2. not to steal ; 3. not to give themselves up to carnal pleasures ; 4. to tell no lies ; 5. to drink no
wine ; 6. not to eat after midday ; 7. not to dance, sing, or play on a musical instrument ; 8. not to
colour their faces with sandal wood; 9. not to stand in elevated places not proper for them ; 10. to
touch no gold or silver.
Bauddha opinions, regarding the generating influence of the atmospheric region and mansion of the
Cosmography, system of planets, have been explained in the previous pages ; and, as has been shewn,
Astronomy, and Astrology. ... . . , ..
this intermediate aerial space, peopled with genu, or the Nath, possesses the
power of secondary causes in the business of creation. The sun, moon and stars, here illuminate
the world, divide day from night, distinguish the seasons, and indicate good or evil to mankind.* This
belief inculcates that malignant beings exist inimical to man, while other benevolent genii exercise their
influence in protecting him ; and hence originates the practice of propitiating the latter, or averting the
malignancy of the former, by the astrological worship of the Bali, or nine planets.f Besides the seven hea
venly constellations, the Bauddhas reckon the ascending nodes, Rahhu axx&Ketu, as two others; which are
invoked, with offerings and song, in cases of sickness or important undertakings in life. We are yet little
informed on the subject of their astronomical system ; but from what Sangermano mentions of the Bur
mese notions, it appears not materially different from that of the Jainas, excepting that the progressive
falling downwards of the earth in space, and the existence of two suns, two moons, and two sets of planets,
for the northern and southern quarters, form no part of Bauddha astronomical belief. It is maintained, how
ever, that mount Meru exists in the middle of the earth, encircled by seven ranges of hills, between which
are seven rivers, and that the sun, and moon, and planets revolve round it, in parallel orbits; illuminating
successively four great islands ; of which Jambu-dwipa, or India, is the southern one. The different faces
of mount Meru, toward the four cardinal points, reflect the solar beams of various colours, and communi
cate such respectively to the islands and inhabitants of these quarters. Neither Bauddhas nor Brahmans
agree about the particular colours of the different faces ; though they generally enumerate them white on
the east, yellow on the south, green or black on the west, and red on the north.J Four kings of the Nath
are said to preside over these quarters ; with whom, as types of the elements and of colour, the Dhyani Bui-
dhas seem to have an analogy ; as Akshobhya, who occupies the eastern niche of the Dehgop, is described
* Sangermano Chap : III, para 14.
t See Mr. Upham's account of the Bali in Ceylon, Chap : X. This system of sidereal astrology, called in Ceylon Baliai,
or the worship of the planetary powers above, is similar in all respects to the Syrian idolatry of worshipping and propitiating
the Balim, or host of heaven, which protected and influenced mankind in health and sickness. These are the spirits of the
stars, the Zoxpotn/."*'', or the sentinels of heaven ; and, in the Greek inscription which I copied from the gate of the gre>t
mosque at Damascus, (once a Christian church, and previously a heathen temple,) they are called "the things of eternity", and
of uncontrolled power in every period of birth and generation.
I See Vishnu Purana, translated by Wilson, 4to at note 2, page 167.
RELIGIOUS TENETS IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 49
of a blue colour, and Ratnasambhava, on the southern, is said to be yellow or golden.* Around the sum
mit of moynt Meru extends the Bhuvana of Indra, or the Tavatinsa heaven ; where flourishes the sacred
tree Kalpa-vriksha, granting every desire. The Lokapalas, or eight regents of the heavenly quarters,
worshipped by the Bauddhas and Jains, are, with the elephant of Indra, inhabitants ofthis celestial man
sion, in which the Nat/i, and Spirits of the good, not yet joined to divinity in Nirvana, shining by their
own light, need not that of the sun.f
The Bauddhas have a system of solar Zodiacs, analogous to ours; wherein the names of the twelve con
stellations manifest their connexion with the Greek and Arab schemes of the Zodiac, originally derived
perhaps from the Chaldeans. An annual movement of the sun and planets is admitted, in addition to
their diurnal motion; and a gradual declination of these north or south, producing the various seasons,
is taught, with the hypothesis that there arc three distinct paths in the heavens, an inner, middle, and
outer. The inner corresponds to our summer solstice or the tropic of Cancer ; the middle to our equi
nox, or the equator ; and the outer to our winter solstice, or the tropic of Capricorn. The inner part is
said to be nearest mount Meru, and corresponds with the hot season ; the middle to the rainy ; and the
outward, farthest removed, to the cold, when the sun is most distant. They are otherwise named the
paths of the goat, ox, and elephant ; and as the latter animal delights in cold and damp places, he appears
to have been selected to distinguish the season when the sun, passing to the south, brings the termination
of rain and the production of cold.
Mr. Colebrooke, at the end of his observations on the philosophy of heterodox Indian Sectaries, re
marks that the Pythagoreans and Occellus, divide like the Bauddhas the parts of
BamhniTmansions"and the world into heaven, earth, and intermediate region. The former was occupied
celestial ones of Pytha- by the gods, the middle by demons and other spiritual creatures, and the earth by
men. In the life of Pythagoras, by Aristides,J it is said that his followers taught the
existence oftwelve celestial orbits; of which the first and most remote was the firmament, where resided
the supreme God, and other beings endowed with intelligence, similar to the ideas of Plato, and those cal
led gods by Aristotle. Then followed the seven planets, the mansions of fire, of air, of water, and ulti
mately the earth. While we recognize in such doctrines the same notions as taught by the Bauddhas,
we cannot fail to notice that the former assign the same limits to mutation and change, in these man
sions, as have been fixed by the latter.
* Hodgson'3 Sketch of Buddhism, Trans: R : A : S: Vol. II page 230, and the note at page 20 of this work.
\ The ancients supposed human souls were invested after death with a subtile body, which was inseparable from it, until the time
of its final exemption from transmigration; and this they called the aH>fiaa{>yof(Ssc, or luciform body, spoken of by the New Platona-
ists, or Christian writers of the fourth and fifth centuries, who repeated the tenets of Pythagoras and Plato. See Colebrooke's Trans
lation of the Sankhya Karika, page 136.
J Photii Bibliotheca, page 1315.
13
60
CHAPTER III.
Translations of the Cave Inscriptions, shewing their connexion with the Bauddha Religion.
The more intimately we become acquainted with the principles of the Bauddha religion, the stronger
inscriptions embody reii- must ^e ourconv'cuon tnat such principles have their origin in physical and me-
gious and historical informs- taphysical opinions, on the subject ofa First Cause, made applicable to explain the
tlon' phenomena of the world and ofhuman nature ; and that such opinions were closely
connected with the worship ofthe heavenly bodies, and the Sabcan idolatry. This Sabeism too, instead of
being engrafted on the Bauddha system, appears to have preceded it, and to have been the source from
whence it sprung. But whatever be the conclusion deduced regarding the relative antiquity of the two
systems, their present union in Siam and Tartary, has been indicated by preceding observations ; and the
translated Cave Inscriptions will tend to establish a fact that the astrological belief in spirits, which com
menced with the first astronomical observations, was early connected, in the Greek and Bauddha schools
ofphilosophy, with opinions ofthose who essayed to explain the origin of the world, and the nature of that
cause producing its versatile effects. Philo, a Jewish writer of Alexandria, acquainted with the philoso
phical opinions of the Orientals and those of the Greeks, endeavoured, some time before the Christian
era, to convince the world of the excellence and superiority of a secret system of knowledge, which had
been long since founded in the bosom of the Jewish religion. Like the Bauddha system, it taught that
the ctherial region was peopled with inhabitants of an immortal nature ; some of whom, kindred with the
earth and addicted to its pleasures, descended to attach themselves to other spirits, for whom they had a
worldly desire ; but that those of them disgusted with the vanities of life, considering the body as a pri
son, fled on light wings to heaven, where they passed the remainder of their existence. Others of them,
yet more pure and excellent, disdaining all the temptation that earth could offer, became the ministers of
the supreme God, and the agents of the great King, seeing all and understanding all. Similar opinions are
maintained by the Bauddhas regarding the origin of mankind; and Mr. Hodgson's account of this sub
ject seems but a version of what is related in Genesis, about the association of the Nephilims with the
daughters of men; * by which mankind, falling from their state oforiginal purity, came under the domin
ion of the passions and a spirit of discord, as already noticed in the general principles of this religion.f
The book of Enoch, quoted by St. Jude, records legends of the Angels- having descended from heaven,
and produced giants from the daughters of men; and of their having instructed these in the arts of war
and luxury ; giving an evidently superstitious version ofthe same story as related in Genesis. Matter too,
in his history of Gnosticisme, and its influence on the religious and philosophical sects in the first ages
of Christianity, narrates that, in the second century ofour era, Philon of Byblos, in Phoenicia, published
Sanc1wniatho'ls Pheenician Cosmogony and Theogony, teaching, like the book of Enoch, that mankind,
falling from their state of original purity, came under the dominion of the passions and a spirit ofdiscord;
and that siderial spirits, by generative creation, descending from heaven, underwent successive degrees
of degradation. The same story, somewhat differently related, is known among the Ceylon Buddhists ;}
and the Nepal statement of this history is that the half male and female beings, inhabiting, in light and
purity, the Jlbhaswara Bhuvana, and who had never yet in their minds conceived the sexual desire, or
known the distinction of sex, having eaten ofthe earth, at the instigation ofAdi-Buddha, lost the power
of flying back to their Bhuvana, and were obliged to remain on earth ; where they lived on its fruits, and
associated with each other.^ This legend was undoubtedly taken from a confused idea of Mosaic history;
and may have been introduced into the Bauddha religion when the Indian Astronomers, with a knowledge
ofit, framed the system of the Varaha Kalpa. But on this head, and the connexion of the Bauddha be
lief with the worship of the sun, the translated inscriptions will afford information ; and are at least the
only authentic documents of antiquity, which embody primitive principles of this religion beyond the
chance ofsectarial interpolation.
* Genesis Chapter VI. v. 2 to 12.
f See Chapter II ofthe present work.
% Tumour's Bauddha Annals, Journal of the Bengal Asiatic Society for August 1838, p. 694.
§ See Hodgson's second question in his Sketch of Buddhism T. R. A. S. Vol. II page 234.
CAVE INSCRIPTIONS. 51
In the preceding Chapter we have shewn, on the authority of Masudi, that the general principles
.„ . „ , of Bauddha belief conform to the tenets of the Samaneans, or Sabeans; an opinion
Offerings to llie Sun and ' > r
stars. which is confirmed by a passage of the Mefatih-el-olum, quoted in Dr. Sprenger's
translation of the first part of Masudi, published by the Oriental Translation Fund of Great Britain:* and
is yet more clearly established by ihe following translated inscriptions, which record the presentation of
offerings to, or are dedications to the Sun, and other planetary bodies. One of these taken from a cave
near the summit ofthe Naneh Ghat, and published in the Royal Asiatic Society's Quarterly Journal, No.
VI II, was translated by the late Mr. Prinsep f who reads
(Ari) Yadhammasa namo ! lndasa namo! Sakesanam, vasudevanam, chanda suriyanam, dhammavata-
nam, vatanam va lokapalanam, yama varuna audheravdna, namo
translating it,
Glory to the supreme Dharma ( or virtue)! Glory to Indra ! To the lords of Sakra (?) the Vasudevas, to the Bun and moon, to
the sanctified by Dharma, to venerated (saints,) and the Lokapalas (upholders of the world), to Yama, Varuna, and the spirits of
the air, glory !
The above passage, which makes mention of Indra, the god of the firmament, of the Vasudevas, modi
fications of being emanating from a first cause, and the Lokapalas, or eight regents of the heavenly quar
ters, points out to us how intimately connected w ere once the principles of belief, common to the Bud
dhists and Brahmans, prior to the origin ofthose philosophical tenets, regarding the nature ofa first cause,
which created dissension and disunion between the rival sectaries.
The next inscription, of similar purport, No. 1. plate XXXVI, from the obelisk at Karli, is preceded
by an attempted representation ofthe Sum, resembling that on coin No. 2. of the Indo-Sassanian series,
published by Prinsep. J It records the dedication of a lion pillarto the Sun, and reads
Maharavisa § gatipuiasa, atimilra nakasa, Sihothaba \\ danum.
translated,
The gift ofa lion-pillar to the great Sun, the purified of nature, the supreme leader of Mitra.
No. 3. Inscription, plate XLIX, from the Caves of Junir, is of the same kind as the preceding, and
reads,
Tara kachakanam, lanko dyanam, tananam budha mitasa, budha ratanasacham vigatam, dayadhama :
translated,
A gift of compassionate virtue to the shining stars, the paradise of Lanka, the resting places of Jiuddha Mitra, and the emanci
pated jewels of wisdom.
Buddha Mitra, or Maitreya, the one yet to appear, for the renovation of the world, has according to
the above inscription his residence fixed in the heavenly bodies, or that Island of the southern quarter of
the world, which some identify with Ceylon, but which is equally venerated by Buddhist and Brahmani-
cal sectaries. The inscription is preceded by the Swastik, or mystical cross, which the Chinese Buddhist
traveller Fa-Hian, who visited India A. D. 399, mentions as being the distinguishing symbol of the
(Taosse,) or doctors of the Chinese rational system ; who, as shewn in the last chapter, held If opinions
similar to those of the ancient Sabeans.
• El Masudis Historical Encyclopaedia, translated from the Arabic by Aloys Spienger M. D. Voh 1, page 320.
f Prinsep's Journal, Vol. VII, page 566. J See his Journal Vol. VII, plate XIV.
§ Maharavisa, JTfRfaH, this is the fourth, or locative case of the second Pali declension, in relation to the word danum, a gift;
though Mr. Prinsep, in his reading of the same line (Journal VI, page 1044,) has erroneously put it in the genetive case. If the
fourth letter of the original inscription had a point in the middle, we might read it *T tha in place of ^ tea, and instead of Maharavisa
ffati, the inscription would give Maharatha Sugata, meaning the great vehicle of Sugata or Buddha ; allusive as would appear to the
sun's influence amid the signs of the Zodiac ; to which part of the Bauddha system of belief, the worship of the planetary powers, and
the efficacy of amulets and charms, for averting the evil influence of the stars, there are many references in the Cave inscriptions, and
in the Bauddha scriptures.
|| Sihothaba, which is the Pali substitution for Sinha Sthamba P9(4tfo of the Sanskrit, and means a lion-pillar, indicates that the
Bauddha sectaries, used the Prakrit Language in their proclamations, though Mr. Hodgson is of opinion, that the basis of their
philosophical dogmata were enounced, defended, and aystematised in Sanskrit.
% See page 41. According to Diodorus, the inhabitants of Ceylon, during the first century of the Christian era, were worship
pers of the Sun ; and about the same time Pliny, in Book VI, Chapter 22, of his naturql history, tells us that the only god worship
ped by the people of Toprobane, or Ceylon, was Hercules, another designation for the deified sun. He also adds that their prince was
arrayed in the same dress, a3 worn by Bacchus in ancient times, but that the common people were clad in the habit of Arabians,
similar probably to the dress of the figures, in Plate III of the present work. Certain it is, that at this time Sabean customs and belief
prevailed in the island, whatever may be said to the contrary by its native Bauddha annals ; and to Patriarchal traditions, regarding*
52 THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA
The preceding inscription and the one following are to bo found on a Viliara, situated to the right of
the principal temple in the centre of the excavations of the southern hill of Junir, or rather Seumir,by
which name this part of the Bauddha excavations are more commonly known. A drawing of the prin
cipal temple is given in Plate XVI ; and the first of the two inscriptions, which is well preserved, is carv
ed on a tablet smoothed for its reception, while the following one is on the side of the Vihara further
to the right.
No. 4 Inscription, which stands No. VI II of Plate L, reads,
Ganachaiiijanam, viva nalhayam, talasanam—tivasxmam, ativasunam, viranam—tayam,lichaityasanam-
tivasanam danam.
The iuscription translated is,
To the spiritual guides of the congregation, the powerful spirits of the air, the Vastis of the three worlds, the Ati- Varus, the
three powerful ones, the three Chaityas of the three wise Vasus, a gift.
The last part of the inscription is imperfect where the face of the rock is broken ; but in such part of
it as remains, we may read in the seventh line Guha-pati, the master of the house, and again in the eighth
line tananam dananam, gifts to the resting places, allusive, as appears from other insert ptions, to the course
of the Sun amidst the signs of the zodiac and places of the planets, connected with systems of Bauddha
astrological diagrams, and siderial astrology. *
In this inscription, the Vasus, or manifestations of the Supreme Being, abiding in all things, and identi
fied by the orthodox Hindus as Vishnu, otherwise denominated Vasudeva, are objects of Bauddha wor
ship ; and are proofs of the intimate connexion and similarity that existed in the theological ideas ofboth
Bauddhas and Vishnavas. This connexion will probably explain why in the Puranas, and system of
orthodox Hinduism, Buddha, or the Supreme Being, according to the atheistical or theistical ideas of his
followers, is made to be the ninth incarnation of Vishnu ; who, in the Vishnu Purana is called Vasudeva,
and considered by the wise in four different conditions, viz.—Pradhana—(primary or crude matter,)
Purusha (spirit,) Vyakta (visible substance,) and Kola (time).
The 5th inscription, which stands No IV. of Plate LI from the caves at Nasick, reads .--
Siddham! rajna kshaparatasa kshalrapasa nrippanasa jamatra-dinak putrasa ushavadatasa kra-deva
naya data mitrya daya-dhama : navarka.
And may be translated,
Be it auspicious ! the compassionate gift of the son of King Kshaparata, ruler of the Kshatriya trihe, and protector of men, the
lord Dinaka, resplendent as the morn, to the deity Kradeva, the bountiful Mitra ; the new sun.
In Mr. Prinsep's Journal of the Bengal Asiatic Society, Vol : V. under coin XXI, plate III, which is
represented by No 27 of the supplementary plate of coins in the present work, we have a Gnostic represen
tation of the sun, or the god of the Abrax, depicted with serpentine feet, and accompanied by a legend
in the cave character Thaka Kaka ; representing as would appear the genius of evil, to which the 365 in
telligences, composing the divine plerome, are incessantly opposed.f It is possible that the Kradeva of
this Nasick inscription is the same genius of evil, worshipped by the Sabeans, Fire-worshippers, and
Christian Gnostics; and who on one side of No 28 coin is called Kraka, while on tho reverse the word
Mit/ira is written ; or this may be Krakuchanda, the first of the five Buddhas of the present Kalpa, and
the predecessor of Sakya.J
On the reverse of the coins of Vologesis the Parthian king, who lived A. D. 02, and is well known
to Roman History, the sun represented as a human figure is denominated Kraka : and on coins
No 9 and 10 of those published by Lieut. Cunningham, in the Journal of the Bengal Asiatic Society,
No 105 for 1840, we find written in the alphabet of the Cave inscriptions the following legend—
Krakasa phrianakasa, with the word Nama on the obverse, and which if translated into English, would be
adoration to the sun god, king of snakes. Phrianak is the name among the Burmese followers of Bud
dha, for Ananta or Rajanaga, the king of snakes ; who is represented in the Phrabat or solar foot of
the fall of Adam, common to the Arabs and early Bauddhas, may be traced the analogy of their belief, that the figure of Buddha's
foot, existing at the top of Adam's peak in Ceylon, was a type of our great ancestor, acknowledged by the inhabitants of the island,
long previous to the arrival of the Portuguese on the shores of India. The Mahomedan author Masudi, A. D. 943, makes mention
ofmount Rahwan, and that Adam descended on it when expelled from Paradise.
* See journal of the Bombay Branch Royal Asiatic Society, Vol. I. p. 441, wherein I have translated the inscriptions from
the caves of Beira and Bajah.
f See Historie de Gnosticisme Vol. II Explication des Planches page 71.
■ % See supplementary plate of coins in the present work.
CAVE INSCRIPTIONS. 53
Buddha. Kraka, the same as Grag in Armenian, is as would appear an original Scythian word, which
Mr. Newmaun, in his translation of the history of Vartan, page 81, says was in common use among the
Armenians to designate the holy fire, which the Parsees name, in Zend, Azerail. Further proof ofthis con
nexion between the principles of Bauddha belief and those of the Sabeans and Fire-worshippers, is found
in Inscription XI V, plate XL1V, from the Kanari caves ; where the first line reads—Satharkaya Gatma—
putasa samasa rayarasa, meaning to the excellent one of the sun, the heavenly Gautama, the supreme king,
&c. &.c. The Bactrian and Mithraic coins also warrant us in tracing this connexion, which is confirmed
by a curious passage of Arrian's Parthics, wherein it is said that Spartembas, a friend of the conqueror
Bacchus, dying left his kingdom to his son Budyas, who after a reign of 20 years was succeeded by his
son Cradevas. The resemblance of Budyas to Buddha, and the perfect Sanskrit termination Deva,
coupled with Kra, the name for the sun, are striking coincidences which justify the beliefthat the mytholo
gy and idolatry of eastern Persia and of India, during the existence of the Parthian and Sassanian king
doms, took its rise in a system ofeclecticism, on the subject of the deities in both countries, which origin
ated soon after the time when the Greeks, who accompanied Alexander the Great into India, found that
the Suraseni worshipped deities similar in character to Bacchus and Hercules.* History also informs us
that the Parthian Kings of Persia, particularly from the period of their intercourse with the Romans,
cultivated an acquaintance with Chaldean and Greek philosophy, and occasionally represented on their
coins, current in Eastern Persia, Syrian and Grecian deities ; encouragement being thus given to an ec
lectic system, by which various nations of antiquity claimed a common origin for their gods. The series
of coins, called by Professor H. H. Wilson Indo-Parthian, afford undoubted evidence of such having been
the practice, on (he Indian side of the Persian King's dominions; and thedevices on the reverse of the
coins of Kodes,f or Arsaces Gotarz, are the head of a horse, representing the sun, and a standing figure
of Hercules, with a halo round his head, and the legend - - PAH0POMAKAP- -, of which the last is the
Phoenician name for the Grecian god. The appellation of the deity here is but a contracted form of ^pVa
( JVlelkar) or Hercules of Tyre ; of whose worship Gotarz was a partial follower, as noticed in the Histo
ry of Tacitus.J The first part of the inscribed legend, of which one letter has been obliterated, reads,
APAA9P0, and signifies the great light : Athro being the same as the Zend word Atars, a name of fire,
and the Pali word Atho,^ or the light of the sun.
The Parthians appear to have had a superstitious veneration for their Princes, so that they never ap
proached them but in the most humble manner, touching the ground with their mouths :|| and when the
later dynasty of the Arsacides, which commenced with Arsaces VononesII, younger brother of Arsaces
Artabanus III, had departed from the spirit of the ancient elementary worship of Persia, and grouped
around the sun many deified beings, H we find that the Royal Governors of Media, in the middle of the
first century of Christ, claimed for themselves divine honors in conjunction with the deities depicted
on their coins : a pretension conformable to the principles of Bauddha belief, which teach that by means
of abstinence, the practice of benevolence and virtue, and the abstract contemplation of the in
tellectual principle, men can raise themselves from mortals to divinities. We accordingly find, on
the reverse of the coins of Vonones II, a Bactrian Pali legend, around a seated figure of Hercules* *
which reads W£ P. "1 t>*l H*h Balhara patisa nama, and signifies glory to the supreme lord. On the
coins too of his son Pacorus, the Governor of Media, and brother of Vologesis II, A. D. 52, we have the
Greek title on the obverse, CnAAYPIDC AIKAIDY . AAEA+EJY TOY BAIIAEWC plainly intimating
that he was brother of the King, while on the reverse, around a figure of Hercules or Jupiter, is the Bac
trian Pali legend pUIlPA*hV)>l*X Pl-JHSHT alabarputttsa dhamiasa balafarmasa. Here balafar-
ffla is written for balavarma, or chief of the Kshetrya tribe, and the meaning of the whole legend
seems to be ofthe chosen son ft the just chiefof the warrior tribe. The same eclectic system of adopting
• Notices of Bactrian and Mithraic coins, in the Journal of the Bombay Branch Royal Asiatic Society, Vol. I page 302.
\ The devotion of this Prince to the worship of the sun is further shewn by the adopted title of Hyr-Kodes, which appears on
many of his coins and is an evident derivation from the Zend Huere, the same as the Hebrew '■fiji Aur, " the sun," "or light."
% Tacit: Annal: lib: 12 c: 14.
§ See Pali Grammar and Vocabulary by the Reverend B. Clough, printed at Colombo, 1824 p: 4 of the publication. It has been
already noticed, on Captain Low's authority, in the Introduction to the present work, that the Bauddhists of Siam worship the sun
under the name of Pra Athit, " supreme light," affording additional evidence that the principles and practice of Buddhism, though
originating in India, have been greatly modified and influenced by a foreign admixture ofmythological ideas. See Introduction p: 5.
|| Strab. lib. 13, Agathias, lib. 3. f Wilson's Ariana Antiqua, p. 360.
** See Prinsep's Journal of the Bengal Asiatic Society, June 1835, p. 342.
f\ See Wilson's Ariana Antiqua, page 318. Alabaraputasa, which is intended to represent the Greek appellation Adelphos, is
apparently a compound derivative of Chaldi or Phelvi and Pali : as 1-L Bar with the article in Chaldi would signify "the chosen." See
Gesenius's Hebrew and Chaldi Lexicon.
14
64 THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA
divinities, which had been introduced by the Arsacidee, was imitated and followed by the Indo-Scythians,
or the Doha, Sacee, and Hircanians; who, at various periods, were called in to assist in the quarrels of
the Arsacidae, particularly those which took place after the death of Arsaces Phrahales IV. Coins there
fore of the Hercules or Jupiter types, bearing the Indo- Parthian, or I ndo Scythian names of Azes, Gondo-
phares, Kadphises, and Kanerki, have on the reverse the names Krakasa, (of the holy fire,) and of Saka
or lndra, an appellation also made applicable to Buddha and Jupiter ; which last, Diodorns Siculus tells
us, was called by the Atlantides, Zena the son of Maia. Extended as were the tribes of the Sacee or Sakas
over the west of India, in the first ages of Christianity, the absence ofall evidence as to the influence ofthis
eclectic system among the early followers of Buddha, or of its existence in the Cave Inscriptions, would be
indeed proof that the Indian Mythological system had borrowed nothing from the fables and Mytho
logical ideas of the West ; though the contrary be the fact, and is not only manifest in the Cave Inscriptions,
but in the Hindu legends of Uma and Krishna.
No. 2 Inscription, XII of Plate XXXVI II, is found immediately over the Dehgop at Karli, and reads
Seharkataya tanam dhamula rayanam, ganakasa satya metasa sam-sirinnm thaba danam.
And may be translated,
To the three eminent ones of the Sun, the resting place of the most righteous of Kings, with the glories of the congregated as
sembly of pure friendship, the gift of a pillar.
Here the three eminent ones are the three Buddhasof the esoteric doctrine, who according to the moral
agency, translation, or revolution, (in Sanskrit Yana,) exerted over one's understanding, in order to attain
different degrees of perfection, are characterized by various terms. 1 he first, as explained by M. Remu-
sat, is that of the Buddhas, ( Mahayana,) who by their example draw all beings into nirvana, extinction or
quiescence ; and who are here represented by the Dehgop or symbol of the triune being, which is separa
tely invoked, in the Bauddha prayers, as Buddha, Dharma, and Sanga, and called "the three honorable,
adorable, and venerable beings." But while the Dehgop represents the triune being of creation, as an
original part of Sakga or Gautama's doctrine of Buddhism, it may be also considered as a type of elemen
tal creation, being an aggregation of the elements analogous to the mundane egg, or corporeal frame of
the five elements, (Dhyani Buddhas,) viewed as the secondary causes of creation, according to the more
decidedly theistical system of Buddhism, which acknowledges an intellectual essence as supreme, and
calls it Adi Buddha. The believers in the latter doctrine, in A. D. 399, are distinguished by the
Chinese Buddhist priest Fa Hian, as sectaries differing from the primitive followers of Sakya*
After the origin of the Zendiks, or followers of Mani, and particularly during the reign of Shapur II,
( from A. D. 310 to 380,) there appears to have been a strong tendency towards union of the Bauddha
and Magian faith ; and the worship of the Sun or Mithras unquestionably exercised powerful influence
overall other prevailing religions of the time. This prince is depicted in the fresco paintings at the
caves of Bamian (Plate LIII), and is at once recognized by the same head dress, as appears on his coins,
being surmounted by a pair of wings and a globe.
No. 7 Inscription of the same plate, which is written with white paint, in one of the side caves at Karli,
is further evidence of this connexion and reads,
Sidharka vasu thapanasa sariparma wacha ravinivasa thakara magana pati ganaya—deva savitri!
Of which the first part ofthe translation is,
The illustrious supreme word of the Sun-born lord of the Magas of Thakara to the congregation, during the established year of
Sidhara : O divine Sun !
There are others ofthe inscriptions, which contain foreign names and appellations that leave no doubt
Proofs in the cave in- of these caves of Western India having been occupied by sectaries, both of for-
scriptions that these exca- . . . ° 1 * '
vations were occupied by eign faith and origin ; among whom the Magas, mentioned by the Puranikas, who
people of foreign faith and came origina]ly) as asserted by Wilford, from the Dwipa of Saka, and gave name
to the province of Magadha, were the same as the Sakas or Sacae. In my anniversay discourse on Ori
ental Literature,f I noticed that in the Bhavishya Purana, these Magas J are described as silent wor
shippers of the sun ; and are associated by the compiler of this Purana with the fire-worshippers of Iran,
under the general term of Mogh.^ This identification is quite in accordance with what is known, from the
Geography of Ptolemy, that a race of foreigners, denominated Sadinoi, from the Sanskrit Sadhana, lords
• Relative to the proent inscription, it is here necessary to notice an error I made in reading Sansar-ratha for
Journal Bombay Asiatic Society, Vol. I, p. 488.
f Journal Bombay Branch Royal Asiatic Society, Vol. II. p. 486. £ The Pali word Magga signifies fire.
§ See preface to Wilson's translation of the Vishnu Purana, p. 40,
CAVE INSCRIPTIONS. 55
or masters, inhabited the mountains of the Dekhan, and were otherwise named the Tabaswi Magi :
whose capital was Banawasi ; of which the remains are yet to be seen southward of the Dharwar Col-
lectorate, near the sources of the Wardha river, that rises in the Bednore district. From an inscription,
in the Maga language, found at Islamabad and dated the 14th Magha, in the Samvat year 904, or A. D.
848, they appear to have been Bauddhas *
No. 8 Inscription, which is XI of plate XXXVIII, and found on a pillar on your left entering the
Karli cave, reads,
Dlw.no. kakaja yavanasa Sella dhyanam-thamba danum.
f
Its translation being,
The pillar gift of Dhana Kakaja the Yavan, the pre-eminent ofabstract beings. —
The term Yavana, used in this inscription, though applicable to all barbarians on the west of India,
was formerly used to designate the Greeks, particularly those of Bactria, and all such as were subject to
the empire of the Seleucidse ; whose country, in the inscription decyphered by Mr. Prinsep, (Journal
As. Soc. Beng. Feb. 1838) is called Yotia, and appears under the same name in Mr. Tumour's
translation of the Mahawanso ; where it is also called Aparanlaka, or the western countries, of which
Alasadda, (probably the Paropamisan Alexandria,) was the capital. But this term in an extended sense,
however applicable to barbarians in general, would appear to be meant for a Greek— whose name is
found repeated here, and in the inscriptions at Junir, with the same symbolical mark preceding them as
may be found on the coins of Kadphises supporting bilingual inscriptions in Greek and Bactrian Pali, f
No. 9 Inscription, which is VIII of Plate XXXVII, from Karli reads,
^ Dhana Kakaja-Sathakasa seha-datasa danam. Ya-ramya.
And translated is,
A gift to Dhana Kakaja become Buddha, the pre-eminent giver. Oh, illusion !
In this inscription the term Sathalci, might be translated making venerable, and as Saltha is one of the
Pali names of Buddha, such is evidently meant, as above rendered, to be applicable to a Buddha or
saint. The same person is again mentioned in the following inscription from the Sainhadri Caves north
of Junir.
No. 10 Inscription, X of Plate L, reads,
Dhamnak seniya satagatam pada cha daya dhama.
And translated is,
A foot mark-relic and a gift of faith to Dhamnak Sena become purity.
In the above inscription pada seems erroneously spelt with dh in place of d dental, though the text will
scarcely admit of any other interpretation than the one given.
The same person is again mentioned in XIII of Plate L, which is here inserted as having been taken
from the Caves at Junir, though I am not quite certain whether it is not to be found on one of the pillars
in the Cave of Karli.
No. 1 1 Inscription, reads,
Dhana Kakaja Usata-data putasa mitra vunakasa thaba danam.
The translation is,
The pillar ofDhana Kakaja the son of Usatadata, the priest of Mitra, a gift.
It is possible that the Dhana Kakaja, mentioned in this and the other inscriptions, is the same as Ka-
ka Raja of the Rashtra Kuta family of the Yadavas, whose Copper-plate grants of land, translated by
Mr. Wathen, Mr. Reid, and Ball Gangadhar Shastree, are of much interest and importance in relation to
the history of the Jaina religion.J The earliest Members of this family appear to have reigned towards
the end of the 1th century of Christ, and one ofthem Amoghaversha I, a Jain prince of the Arcot district,
in the end of the 9th century, was cotemporary with Jina Sina Acharya, the reputed author of the Jaina
Puranas.^ If the person commemorated in these Cave Inscriptions be the same with Kaka Raja, the ap
pellation Yavanasa, by which he is designated at Karli, would indicate that the Yadavas and Rashtra Kuta
* Asiatic Researches, Vol. II, p. 883.
f See Wilson's Ariana Antiqua plate 10, figs. 9 and 15. Also fig. 13 of the supplementary plate of coins in the present work.
% See Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, No. V p. 105. Ditto—No. X of the same work ; p. 350. Journal of the Bombay
Branch Royal Asiatic Society, Vol. I, p. 209 and Vol II, p. 378.
§ Wilson's Mackenzie Collection, Vol. I pref. p. xxvii.
THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA.
tribe were of foreign origin, probably from the westward of the Indus, and not considered members of
the Hindu community. Though nothing positive can be asserted on this subject, the opinion that these
tribes were of foreign origin is strengthened by our knowledge of the fact, that the Yudavas, both in the
Puranas and inscriptions from the west of India, are associated with the Indo-Scythian tribe of Haya-
hayas, called individually Gandharas and Balikas; who are without doubt the Hyathelitcs or Hayatelas
from the districts of Khutlan and Cheganian, and in the reign preceding thatofSagara overran the west
of India, along with the Sakas and other foreign tribes.*
No 12 Inscription, written over a water reservoir, and which is IX ol Plate XLI from the Caves of
Kanari, reads,
Wachamitlikasa liiratiakasya, kahan mitasa, Sulisadalasa hdi dayadhama. Maga.
And translated means,
This tank is the pious work of Sulisadata, ( in obedience to ) tiie word of the radical golden
originator of all things, the prophet of friendship.
The above inscription is divided by a perpendicular line from another in the same locality, which reads,
Saparata nagamasa samikapa sakasa pada dayadhama ;
And translated is,
A foot mark relic of the Ophite worshipper Saparata, lord of the Kappo (era) of Saka, a pious act of faith.
The name of the person who caused this tank to be excavated again occurs in an inscription at Junir,
IX of Plate L, where he is called the son of Kaliata, and lord ofthe city of Thakapur; of which mention
has been already made, in one of the previous inscriptions of Karli, as a town over which ruled the
chiefof the Magas, who were Bauddha worshippers ofthe sun and offire. It is worthy ofnotice that after
the Swastic mark, which occurs at the end of the first part of the Kanari inscription, the word Maga is
written, shewing that the principles of-religious belief, embodied in this inscription, were professed by
these people, who, as we have seen, were offoreign origin and faith. If I am right in translating Nagama
as a Prakrit attributive, signifying " a serpent worshipper," the Magas were also followers of that general
system of Gnosticism which borrowed its doctrines from ancient Egypt, and those of Judaism and Chris
tianity, and assimilated the Pantheism of its religious belief with that of the Sabaeans and disciples of
Mani. That the person who excavated the tank was at least a worshipper of the Sun, may be inferred
from the translation of his name Sulisadata, " given by the sun," equivalent, as Mr Prinsep remarks in his
observations on the Junir inscription,f to Apollodotus ofthe Greeks; and though such combined idolatry,
as the adoration of the sun and serpents, may at first sight appear somewhat at variance with Bauddha
profession, and denounced by pure Buddhism as heretical, it is well known to have preceded the latter in
Ceylon, and to have been even incorporated with this system in not very remote times. One thing seems
certain that the word Kahan made use ofin this inscription, is no other than the Hebrew and Syriac ap
pellation for a priest or astrologer, and of which such frequent mention is made in the earlier writings of
tho Arabs previous to the time of Mahomed, when these people were followers of the Samanean or Sabte-
anfaith— a. period to which must be traced, as elsewhere noticed, that analogy, between the traditions of
the Arabs and Bauddhas, who agree in identifying Adam's peak in the Island ofCeylon as the place on
which both Adam and Buddha descended from Paradise and left an impression of their feet. The for
mer among Bauddhas, evidently the same as the great ancestor of mankind, is called Maha Sammato,
(the great elect,) who at the commencement of the present Kappo of creation, was elected to render
mankind happy and righteous, when the creatures of the Abhassara-brahmaloko dying, through the influ
ence of passion and desire, gave rise to apparitional birth and returned to this world of sin and impurity. J
The intercourse which, in the second century of Christ, is known from Arrian's Periplus, to have subsist
ed between Egypt, Arabia, and the shores of India, will at once account for this interchange of mytho
logical sentiment met with in the Cave Inscriptions; for there is great reason to think that the Thakapur,
made mention of here, is no other than the city of Tagara, the great emporium ofthe country of Aryaca
at this time, and the common resort of the Greeks trading to India; who had, forsome unexplained cause,
been interdicted from visiting it at the period when Arrian wrote, and were directed by the sovereigns of
the country to confine their commercial transactions to the harbour of Barygaza, or the modern Broach.
No 13 Inscription, from the Caves of Junir, of which mention has been made in the preceding obser
vations, and Lithographed IX of plate L, reads,
♦WiWon'a Yiahnu Parana 4 to p. 418, at Note 20, and Journal of the Bombay Asiatic Society Vol. II p. 180.
f Journal of the Bengal Asiatic Society for 1837, Vol vi. p. 1046.
% Tumour's Examination of the Pali Buddhistical Annals No 3 in the Journal of the Bengal Asiatic Society , 1838 p. 697.
fiAVK INSCRIPTIONS.
Kala-utisa Hiramjak putasa, Sulisadalasa Thakapurisa sachaitya-garh niyuta dayadhama.
And may be translated,
This Chailya for the attendants on the temple, a pious gift of faith from Sulisadata of Thakapur, son of Kaliata,
(supreme time') the golden lord.
The same person is thus mentioned in the following inscription at Junir,
No. 14, preceded and followed by the Swastic mark, which is XII of Plate L, reads,
Kali-aiaka Saka-Hara-putasa, Sovanakarasa seyakasa, patha dayadhama.
And translated is,
The prayer of Kaliata, son of the Saka chief, the pre-eminent golden lord, a pious act of faith.
This inscription may be taken as undeniable evidence of the extension of the power of the Sakas, or
Sakya race, over the west of India, soon after the destruction of the Greek Empire of Bactria, and in the
early ages of Christianity. It is a fact of considerable importance in relation to the early history of this
country, and to all investigations intended to determine whether any of the original tribes residing west of
the Indus, previous to the institution of the present amalgamated system of Hinduism, had been incorpo
rated with the Kshatrya, or warrior tribe of the Hindus. No opinion, expressed by Colonel Tod in his
history of the Rajputs, was more assailed on its first publication than the one admitting that a body of
Scythians, or at least of cognate Indian tribes having Scythian manners, had been incorporated at an
early period with the proud Hindus of Rajputana ; and although Mr. Elphinstone, whose opinions are
always so worthy of deference, questions whether any of the Rajput tribes, except that of Yadir, ever
came from the west-ward of the Indus, later investigations into the text of the Vedas have confirmed the
soundness of Colonel Tod's opinion, and tend to shew that the Kshatrya Rishi himself, the celebrated Vis-
wamitfa, who obtained Brahmanhood through devotion, came from the northwest, ifnot from the west bank
of the Indus. It has been already shewn in this work that there was a connexion between the Grceco.
Baclrian Kingdom, and one ofthe Bauddha schools of philosophy, and both Arrian's Periplus and Ptole
my's Geography would authorize our opinion, that, in the second century ofChrist, a Parthian dynasty, or
at least an Indo-Scythian one, was in power over the Patalenc, Saurashtra, and northern Gujarat, as
far as the banks of the Nermada ; from whence came the tribes of Brahmans, by whom Hinduism was in
troduced into Malabar and the Dekhan. The cities of Minagara in Sindh, Ozene or Ujain in Malwa,
Tiagura and Nasica in the Dekhan, were esteemed by Ptolemy parts of Indo-Scythia ; while mixed tribes
of Indians speaking Prakrits, or dialects of the Sanskrit language, inhabited the Kohistan and country of
Kabul. The greatest influx of the Sakas into India appears to have taken place during the reign of Sila-
dytia I of Gujarat, or about the time of Shapur II of Persia. The history of Kashmir, however, states that
their power and influence throughout India had been established before this time, but it was not till after
the fall of the empire of Maghada, or in the end of the fifth century of our era, that these tribes of foreign
origin were incorporated with the great body of the Hindus. This fact is attested by the narrative of the
Vishnu Purana, which asserts that about this time Viswa-sphat'tka set up low castes in his kingdom, such
as the Kaivartas, Yadus, Putindas, and Brahmans of his own establishment. The principal city of the
Sakya race was the Bauddha capital Kapila-vastu, in the neighbourhood of Oude, which is mentioned by
the Bauddha annals, and early copper-plate grants in Sanskrit, under the name of Sawatthipur*
No. 15 Inscription, from the Caves of Kanari, XVI of Plate XLV, reads,
Sava-Kala Alakasa Nagama Sagala-naka-manasa Nugamasa-Isi-palasa, Sapara-virasa,manapatano pa-
yatha lennm padava dayadhama.
And translated is,
The pious gift of a foot relic cave, and house for Buddha, in the city of contemplation, by that supreme deity the
Gymnosophist Isipal, the intellectual chief of Sagala, the supreme naked ascetic of all time.
In a former part of this work it has been shewn that Aria Deva and Buddha Palita, the last of
whom is probably the same as 1st Pal, were principal disciples ofNagarjuna, founder of the Madhyamika
school of Bauddha philosophy, who lived and taught in the city of Sagala ; and the present inscription
only tends to confirm what was then said on the subject of a connexion between this city and the Grceco-
Bactriafi kingdom. In another inscription the attributive word Nagamasa has been translated "an Ophite
worshipper," but as I am not quite confident ofaccuracy in having done so, it is but right to point out that
it may be equivalent to the Sanskrit term Nagana, signifying naked ascetic or Gymnosophist, the same
as the Digamhara order of the Jains ; who, because they have thrown off the covering ofthe three Vedas,
* Tumour's Pali Bhuddistical Annals, Prinsep's Journal, 1837 p. 515.
15
58 THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA.
are called in the Puranas Naganas,* but on this subject of doubt and uncertainty the reader must decide
as to what may be the preferable explanation.
No. 16 inscription from the caves of Kanari, and XII of Plate XLI1, reads,
Valitasa seha-ratarasa lenam dayadhamala.
Which translated is,
The cave of Valit, the eminent Rata (saint), a righteous gift.
Here the tribe of Rata, which I take to be the same as the Rashtra Kuta family mentioned in the
preceding inscriptions, and in many copper plate grants of land met with in western India, seems to be
of the same royal descent as that commemorated by a scries of silver coins, of which the origin may be
traced to the Greek coinage of Bactria. That this tribe was of Indo Parthian lineage appears equally
probable, from Valit or Balit being a common appellation, in the first century ofChrist, on the coinage
ofthe Governors of Media belonging to the second family ofthe Arsacidae. If we can trust the authority
of Masudi, in whose age historical traditions of the former state of India were yet fresh, the dissension
and disunion of the Indians first took place soon after the reign of King Balit; an assertion which may
have reference to the great war of the Mahabarat, when difference of religious principles and belief in
duced the Indo-Scythian tribes, from the Oxus and west bank of the Indus, to make war on the pure In
dian race dwelling eastward of the latter river. We have little but conjecture to aid us in forming an opi
nion as to what the differences were, though there exist reasonable grounds for supposing that these must
have been the sectarian practices of the Buddhist and Vaishnava period, which had been introduced in
opposition to the Vedic sacrificial ritual and worship of Agni, Indra, Mitra, and Varuna. This opinion of
the subject is strengthened by what is expressed in the first part ofthe inscription below the feet of Bud
dha, No 1 Plate XLVIII, from the caves of Ajanta, which reads, Ya dhammya Shakya bhiksha la dingu.
nakarasya Yadava, meaning "Whatever is given through faith to Shakya, the same is given to the day
producing Yadava," (Krishna); plainly intimating, I think, that the religious worship of Buddha and
Krishna had a common origin, and that the latter deity is no other than the Apollo of the Greeks.
Inscription 17 from the caves of Nasik, No 1 of Plate L, reads,
Velidana putasa t.akamasa Rama Kacha Kalpakayasa lenam, dayadhama.
Translated is,
The cave of Rama Kacha Kalpakaya, son of Velidana, a gift of faith.
The name o(Vclida?ia sounds strangely foreign, and very similar to that of Valentin, founder of one of
the well known schools of Gnosticism, which flourished about A. D. 135, and derived its philosophical
tenets from Egypt; regarding the individual mentioned in this inscription I can however assert nothing,
and must leave the learned reader to draw his own inferences from the exposition of the inscriptions al
ready given.
Others of the inscriptions have reference to well known founders of Indian schools of philosophy ; two
The sages and founders of ofwhom, in their capacity of sages of the law, sanctioned the principles of the
philosophical schools spoken Sankhya, and are spoken of in the Vedas, and other early Sanskrit works, as
ofin the inscriptions. mythological personages entitled to be held in reverence as saints.
Inscription 18, and IV of Plate XXXVI, from the caves of Karli, reads,
Rajnava Satha putasa, samavira Devala Sathatoachari, sata magtayava, mahadhamatn, devasam satha
metya puvya devadikya, namo. Prithi Sakasaka, pula sugata devasa putiita, ravinavj. satha puiina, samade-
va Nagama-data valarkasya sava pur Kalnana, Sahara Kuka daya. Maya !
Translated is,
Glory tothe royal born saint, the purified Supreme Deity Devala, the venerable teacher, become emancipated truth, great and right
eous, and first among the venerated deities of primeval friendship. The gift of Sakara Kaka, the supreme divine Nagama, ruling
like the Sun over cities every where, son of the solar descended Buddha, son of the purified Sugata Deva, Sakasaka ( chief ) of the
whole earth. Illusion !
Buddha, or Sakya Muni, the reputed author of the religious system which bears his name, is always
classed by his Brahmanical opponents among those ofthe lunar race, though we have here a sun-descend
ed Buddha, entitled as would appear to rank among the Suryavansas. The inscription leaves it doubtful
whether Sakara Kaka, who presents his offering in honor of the emancipated Devala, intended to claim
descent from this celebrated sage, while it seems to put forth some such pretension, by making him the
offspring of the purified Sugata Deva, who, as one now become Buddha, is probably no other than Deva-
* See Wilson's Translation of the Vishnu Purana, Chap. xviip. 334 Note 1.
CAVE INSCRIPTIONS. 59
la,* mentioned by writers on the Vedanta school as having countenanced the Sankhya one, with which
latter the principles of the Bauddha religion are without doubt intimately connected-
Inscription 19, from Junir, XI of Plate L, reads,
Kapila vpasikasa nalhanatapasa upasikasa pulasa Anadasa dayadhama, Chailya gliar niyiita.
Translated is.
The Chaitya for the attendants on the temple, the righteous gift of Anada, son of one following religious austerity and the worship
of the Nath, (spirits oj the air,) the disciple of Kapila.
A re-examination ofthe original inscription seems desirable, as a doubt suggests itself whether the name,
here written Anada, should not be Atianda the Thero, who was one of the Sakya race, and cousin-ger-
man of Gautama.\ It would be curious were the original to confirm this conjecture, since it would be un
deniable evidence of the revered Ananda, so celebrated among the Bauddhas, having been a follower of
the Brahmanical sage Kapila, who founded the sect and school known by his name.
These inscribed fragments of religious principles and worship, addressed to Indra, Mitra, Varuna, and
spirits of the air, made secondary only to the supreme Dharma the foundation of Bauddha belief, afford
sufficient proof that theSabaean ceremonies and ritual of the Vedas existed before Buddhism, and even in
conjunction with it; and that the theology and metaphysical principles ofthe latter originated, as a sequence
from Indian schools of metaphysics and philosophy, some of which are held to be consistent with the doc
trines of the Vedas, and others incompatable with them, particularly the Sankhya school of Kapila, the
principles ofwhich had the sanction of Devala, who has been already mentioned. The inscriptions occupy
prominent and designed places in the Caves, to shew that they record the object of their original con-
Objects ofthe original con- struction, and the nature of the religious ceremonies and ritual, held in veneration
•traction ofthe Cave temples, by the sectaries who expended their wealth in excavating, and frequenting them
and names of persons who * , * . .° .„ . 7
caused their excavation re- as the temples of their faith. Sakyamuni regarded as sinful the sacrificial . cere-
corded by the inscriptions. monjes 0f lne Vedas, and came to proclaim the tenets of a new religious faith, by
inculcating adherence to the divine attribute of Dharma (Virtue), as the only attainable way for salvation ;
to be sought after by acts of mercy, charity, and chastity. J In some cases these great undertakings ap
pear to have proceeded from private zeal, as recorded by the inscriptions, but in others from the royal
authority of kings and chiefs, whose names are familiar in Buddhistical annals. Before proceeding to
notice such, I may mention one inscription at Karli, which seems to have reference to the traditional ap
pellation for this cave usually called Ekvira, meaning the one essence, or unity of the triune Being, whose
several hypostases, admitted by Bauddha belief, are represented by the Dehgop of the cave, and re
corded in previous inscriptions.
Inscription 20, II of Plate I, reads,
Guha tisa maha deva naka samajaya paya.
Which translated is,
A house for him the great god, the heavenly supreme One, victorious and beloved.
The following seem decisive in resolving the great question of the origin and use of the Gave temples
of Western India :
Inscription 21, being line 3d, IV of Plate LI, from the caves of Nasik, reads,
Slddham vasaru visadhamasa rajna kahaparalasa kshatrapasa nripapanasa jamalra-dinak putrena.
Translated is,
A habitation established, in the twentieth (year) of Dhamma, (the faith,) by the son of king Kshaparata, ruler of the Kshatrya
tribe, and protector of men, the lord Dinaka.
It may here be asked what is meant by the twentieth of Dhamma, mentioned in this inscription ? And
the reply will probably be found in the substance of remarks before made on No 6 inscription from Karli,
that after the origin ofthe followers ofMani, in the reign of Shapur I, and particularly during that of his
successor of the same name, an union of the Bhauddha and Magian tenets had been effected in Eastern
Persia, which communicated its influence to the then prevailing religious system of Western India; a re
lation which is still further established by the Indo-Sassanian coins extracted from the ha.mkya.la tope in
the Punjab, and so well illustrated by Mr. Prinsep ;^ who has successfully substantiated the ingrafting of
fire-worship on the native stock ofthe Buddhist and Brahmanical faiths.
* Mr Colebrooke's Analysis of the Uttara Mimarua, in the Translation of the Royal Asiatic Society, Vol II p. 19.
f See Tumour's examination of the Pali Buddhistical Annals, in Prinsep's Journal 1837, p. 514, and translation of the
Mahawanso, p. 13. % See Introduction to this work, p. 2.
§ Prinsep on specimens of Hindu coins descended from the Parthian type, and of the ancient coins of Ceylon, in the Journal of th«
Bengal Asiatic Society for 1837, p. 288.
THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA
Inscription 22, III of Plate XXXVI, from Karli, reads,
Vijayagata savajagatpalana shila ghar Harinu thapatam : Javudipa Maharaja utamvira.
Translated is,
A house for meditation established by the Lion Vijaya, (the vanquisher) protecting the whole world, and most
powerful of the kings of Jambudwipa (India).
The Rev. Dr. J. Wilson decyphered this inscription several years ago, and kindly presented mo with the
translation. I have in part altered both the reading and rendering of the inscription, though the general
sense is preserved. Dr. Wilson reads, for shila ghar harina, "sahaya raharini," and excepting the mis
spelt word ghar for garh (a house) in the former, I have no doubt that my own is the correct reading of
the inscription. Vijaya, the emperor of Jambudwipa, here referred to, is mentioned by Mr. Tumour in his
translation of the Mahawanso, under the year 543 B. C. about which time Dr. Wilson thought it probable
the caves had been designed and excavated ; but since there are undeniable and intentional perversions of
historical data, in the first centuries ofthe Buddistical era, by which Vijaya's landing in Ceylon is made to
agree with the day on which Sakya expired, it may be well doubted whether this cave can be so ancient a3
the inscription would make it, if the chronology of the Mahawanso be admitted as correct; particularly as
the subsequent inscription more directly ascribes the origin of the cave to one ofthe later kings of Ceylon.
Inscription 23 from Karli, V of Plate XXXVII, reads,
Yamnatnamajam aumacha. Paragalagama sava thala (sthalla) usala ( vasata) lukasa vathavana privajati
(privajyati) talena rata-sakyasa ; mahasriya yutya palya Dhulhama Mahahara ranaramagagamaka rajaka
ta Vihari rajima (ruchima) vivasat Samaka rajaka Sinhala daya: Haha valsa visa.
Translated is,
Glory to unborn sempiternal nature (prahriti) and the Triad ! This cave of the saint Sakya is for the accomodation, in the wild
of those practising asceticism, and for foreign pilgrims from all parts ofthe world. This Vihar of the radiant sun for the very prosper
ous emancipated lord, is the gift of Dhuthama Maha Hara (Dutthagamani), ruling lord of Anaramagama, (Anarajapura) Supreme
King of Sinhala ( Ceylon.) ah ! ah ! the twentieth year.
Inscribed evidence is thus at length elicited, calculated to explain the dispersion of Buddhist Missionaries
from the capital of their supreme Pontiff, in Ceylon, into foreign countries for the purpose ofpropagating
the faith, as detailed in the chapters of the Mahawanso. Mr. Tumour's excellent translation of this work,
which affords so much useful chronological information relative to ancient India, particularizes deputa
tions to the Mahasamandala, Wanawasa, (Banawasi,) and Aparataka {western) countries, including Maha-
ratta; the ancient history of which last is intimately connected with these stupendous excavations existing
on this side of India, and perpetuating the memory of the Buddistical creed, flourishing here under the
spiritual and temporal control of the supreme Raja of Ceylon ; called by Palladius of Galata, in A. D. 392,
greatest of the Kings of India, in obedience to whom all other are but as Satraps. This union of spiritual and
temporal authority is manifest from the title of Samaka Rajaka in the inscription, which, as Mr. Cole-
brooke observes, was assumed by those kings, who after the manner of the gods received the Abishek, or
ceremonial of anointing, they being consecrated to Samrajya, or equitable rule.* The person holding this
important office, at the period when the Karli caves appear to have been excavated, was Dutthagamini, here
called Dhuthama Hara, whose capital was' Anaramagama the Anurogrammam of Ptolemy's Geography,
the same as the ancient city of Anarajapura, of which Captain Chapman gives an account in the Transac
tions of the Royal Asiatic Society.f Dutthagamini, son of Kakawanna, ascended the throne B. C. 165, and
reigned, according to the Mahawanso, twenty four years. This inscription is dated in his twentieth year;
and if, as I think, the prior one ascribing the construction of the cave to Vijaya be apocryphal, the origin
of Karli cannot be dated earlier than B. f. 145.
Inscription 24, III of Plate LI, from Nasik, was decyphered by Dr. Stevenson, who kindly furnished
me with the following reading, which alters the Prakrit words to their synonymes in Sanskrit.
Siddham! Rajna Kshaparatasya Kashatrapasya nripapanasya jamalra dinak pulrenaushavadaieneti
goshatshahasra danam nadya Banasaya sovartia danam iirthakarena devalabhya Bramanebhyashcha sha-
tsatru mure na anuesham brahmana shatsahasraita japa yatra Prabhase punya-tirtha Brahm tnetya
ashtha Gayapure nagire Krichre Dashapure Goverdhane shesharangecha chatushala vasandha Pratisraya
pure na aromatate grihe Depankarena eva parada ramana Tapikaram vainada hanuka nava punya taraka-
nna vrita sachanodinam oddhri a tiram sama prapa karena pidita kavate Goverdhane sovarna mrigesha
pangtcha Ramatirthacha ranka pashubhya grame nana goletma ti shut nadim gairamula sahasram sudena
Goverdhaneti rashmesho parvatesho dharmatmana idam lenam karitamimacha parthevyai Bhatarka ayarti-
» Asiatic Researches, Vol. VIII p. 397. f Vol III, p. 468.
CAVE INSCRIPTIONS. 61
yochgata simam varshao ratarn malayai Vaishake hiradham utama Bhadram manchayitam teclia malaya
pranadenaiva apayata utama bhadrakanam rucha kshatayanam sarve pare graha karanta gatasmin gala
panksltaram tragre chainum ya all sitka krato linacha go sahasrena dite nigrama.
Of which the translation is,
To the perfect Being. May this prove auspicious. By the son of King Kshaparata, * ruler of the Kshatrya tritae and protector of
men, the lord Dinika, f resplendent as the morn, (was bestowed) % a gift of a hundred thousand cows along with the river Banasa §
and also a gift of gold even by him the constructor of this holy place for the gods, and for the Brahmans to mortify the passions
There is not so desirable a place even at Prabhasa, where hundreds of thousands of Brahmans go on pilgrimage to repeat sacred verses,
nor at the pure city of Gaya where Brahmans go, nor at the steep hill at Dasapura, nor the serpent's field at Govardhana, nor at the city
of Pratisraya, where there is a Buddhistical monastery, nor even at the edifice built by Depanakara on the shore of the fresh water
sea. This is a place which confers incomparable benefits, wholly pleasing, well fitted for the spotted deer skin of the ascetic A safe boat
has been provided by him, the maker also of a free ferry, which daily plies to the well supported bank. By him also, the construc
tor ofa house for travellers and a public reservoir of water, a gilded lion (deer 1) has been set up at the crowded gate of this Govar
dhana, || another also at the ferry, and another at Ramatirtha.fl For lean cattle, within the bounds of the village, there are various
kinds of food, for such cattle more than a hundred kinds of grass, and a thousand mountain roots given by this bounteous donor. In
this very Govardhana, in the radiant mountains, this excavation was ordered to be made by the same charitable person. And these ve
nerated by men, namely the Sun, Sukra, and Rahu, ** were in their exaltation in that year when the gift was bestowed. Lahshmi,
Indra and Yama also consecrated it (in Vaishakha,) and the couch was set up on the most fortunate day of the month Bhadrapat. ff
Thereafter these Lahshmi, Indra and Yama departed with a shout of triumph, for their excellent easy car, sustained by the force of
incantatory verses, on the unbroken road. When all their retinue had departed and was gone, there fell a shower of water before the
army, which being purified and having departed, and having passed over with the thousand cows, approaches the village.
Dr. Stevenson's reading and translation of the above inscription, except in reference to a few doubtful
letters of the original, seems unobjectionable; but to his opinion that the inscription in reality contains
an astronomical date, which would make the construction of the Nasik caves much anterior to the com
mencement of the Christian era, (B. C. 453,) I cannot so readily give my assent; more particularly as the
Hindu deities, Lahshmi, Indra, and Yama are mentioned, and are associated with the existence of a lingam
in these caves, indicating that here Buddhism had, at the period of their construction, been assimilated with
the mysterious rites of the Saiva Margis, and with those principles of Brahmanical belief, which gave rise
to the doctrines and practices of the Jainas. One is constantly reminded here of the poem of the Ra-
mayana, particularly as the name of this place Nasik {nose) originated from Lakshman, the brother of
Rama, having cut off the nose ofthe female Raksha Surpnakha, the sister of Ravan. The modern temple
of Rama, in this vicinity, is said to have been erected on the site of a more ancient one, which was probably
the Ramatirlha spoken ofin the inscription ; and as other places of public resort and pilgrimage, or Tir-
thas, such as Gaya on the Ganges, and Prabhasa or Somnath, the well known temple destroyed by Mah-
mud of Ghazni, are also alluded to, we must, I think, notwithstanding the rudeness and deficiency of
ornament in the Nasik caves, assign them to the Tirthakas or Jainas, who are emanations from the Bud
dhist stem. Nasik, however, being mentioned in the Geography of Ptolemy, cannot be later than the be
ginning ofthe second century ofour era, though it may be possible that the caves here are posterior to this
time, since both the Brahmanical ritual of the Vedas, and many of the Hindu legends embodied in the
poems of the Ramayana and Mahabaharat, were anterior to the Jaina modification of Buddhism and its
general reception by the natives of India. The mention ofthe river Bands, in Marwar, is an additional rea
son for supposing that these caves are comparatively modern, and not anterior to the third or fourth cen
tury of our era ; since in the Uttara Khanda of the Brahman Purana, the Mahatmya, or local legend, ce
lebrates the sanctity of the Balaja river, which is identical with the Banas.JJ
* i. e. Giver of night. f i. e. Belonging to day. J These words are brought up from near the
end of this part of the inscription. § An arrow from a bow.
|| As Govardhana was raised by Krishna, to form a shelter for the cow-herds, so by these excavations this hill has become a
Govardhana ; such seems to be the grounds of the application of this name in the latter part of the inscription.
% There is a place so named at Nasik. »» Explanation afterwards regarding this date-
ft There is such a couch in the cave I am told. There is a play of words on the form of the constellation Bhadra, which is like a
couch, and supposing the same play between the constellations Itadha and the month Vaisakha, I have supplied the broken part.
\X See Preface to Wilson's Vishnu Purana, p. XVII.
16
62
CHAPTER IV.
Symbolical Marks, preceding the Cave Inscriptions, analogous to those on the Coins found
west of the Indus and in the Punjab ; and the similarity of the Thupas, or Buddhist mausolea
OF THESE COUNTRIES, TO THOSE IN THE VICINITY OF THE WESTERN CAVES.
It has been already noticed that Mr. Colebrooke was of opinion * that the Brahmans of ancient times
Analogy of symbols, pre- worshipped the sun and other celestial bodies, and were thus distinguished from
to&^M to^fity' the Samanas or Sratnanas, (Bauddhas ); but there is abundant proof in the trans-
thian Coins, accounted lor. lation of the Cave Inscriptions, given in the preceding chapter, that the Bauddha
sectaries, who constructed the caves ofwestern India, continued to address their invocations to the Sun,
Mitra, Varuna, and spirits of the air, even after the origin of those philosophical principles on which were
based their faith and ritual. The Attha Katha of Ceylon, in narrating the history of the third Bauddha
convocation, which took place in the time of Asoka, (B. C. 242), has indeed told us that both the adora
tion of the Sun and of Fire were heretical, and inconsistent with the religion of Buddha Sakya; but the
Bauddhas of Nepal continue to perform the Vedic ceremony of the Hom, or the worship of fire ; those
of Siam adore the sun under the designation of Pra-Athit, and do homage to the Phra-Patha or solar
foot of Buddha ; while the astrological superstition of the Tartar tribes, manifest in their profession
of that gross form of Shakya's doctrine called Shamanism, indicates its admixture with the Sabean and
Magian faiths ; of which there is undoubted evidence in the emblems met with on the Indo-Scythian
coins of Kadphises and Kanerki. These symbols have been well arranged in a plate by Col : Sykes,f who
assigns them a purely Buddhist origin, though 1 am induced to refer them rather to solar and elemental
worship, out of which arose Buddhism, and with which it seems to have been intimately associated on its
first propagation as a creed. The Buddhist image discovered at Kabul, and depicted in the supplementary
plate with the flame ascending from the shoulder, similar to that represented rising from the pillars of
the composite Dehgop at Ajanta, plate VI, plainly demonstrates this union of the Bauddha and Mithraic
creeds ; to which probably may be traced that strange connexion between the circumstances and dates of
the Zerdashts of Persia and the Buddhas of India, remarked by professor Wilson in his Essay on tho His
tory of Kashmir. We are informed by Mr. Hodgson that the Chaitya ofSwayambhu-nath, or the selfexist
ent, is affirmed by theNepalese to cover the Jyoti-rupya, having possession ofits centre in the form offlame. X
For this reason the theistical system of Buddhism, which admits of five Dkyani Buddhas, and represents
four of them on the sides of the Dehgopas, supposes that Vairochanay% or light, occupies the centre ; and
this intellectual emblem of supreme essence at once explains to us why, in inscription XIV, plate XLIV,
to which the Sicastic jfl or mystic cross is terminal, Buddha is called the excellent one of the sun, the
heavenly Gautama. This emblem was adopted as the religious type ofthe Tao sse, or rationalists of China,
who were, as appears, followers of the Yin and Yan, the satya and rajasa of the Hindus, similar in all
respects to the qualities of good and evil acknowledged by the fire-worshippers, and named Ormazd and
Ahriman. Zoroaster and his followers placed the supreme good in the sun, which they called Mitlira, sig
nifying in Sanskrit both the sun andfriendship, and supposed to perform the office of mediator, as asserted
by Plutarch, between every thing in this world found in a state of enmity and opposition, such as light
and darkness, day and night.|| No6 Inscription,II over the Dehgop at Karli, acknowledges the sun to be the
abode of the triune Being of creation ; who in the opinion of the Gnostics was the principle of primitive
love, the source of light and life. The early Bauddha coins Nos. 6 and 8 of the supplementary plate, col
lected by Mr. Tregear of Juanpur, and arranged by Prinsep under the head of Indo-Sassanian coins, **
have on the obverse a bull, or a cock and tree, with legends on the reverse, Satya mitasa, vijaya mitasu,
epithets signifying " of the true and victorious sun, or principle of friendship;" otherwise denominated,
on coin No. 17, ff Bhagavata Kama, " the deified Kama," or the Hindu Cupid, an object ofgeneral ado
ration amongst the Hindus of former times.
* See note at p. 23. f Journal of the R. As Soc. Vol vi. p 454. \ Hodgson's Sanskrit Authorities
on Buddhism in the Journal of the Bengal As. Soc. Vol. v. p. 86. § See pages 24 and 42. || See page 41
of this work ; and Histoire critique du Manicheisme, par M. dc Beausobre, Tom 1. p. 563. f See it* translation p. 54.
*t Journal Bengal As Soc Vol. vi. p. 298. ft See Supplementary plate.
CAVE INSCRIPTIONS. 63
The connexion and union of Bauddha religious principles with those of the Sabeans and followers of
Mithra, would therefore appear to have arisen from a communion ofideas that Kradeva or Kraka, the sun
or holy fire, was, in his igneous essence, identical with the deity of creation, or Vulcan, the Heephaistos
ofthe Greeks, the Opi/ex Mundi, or mundane artisan, and the same as the Viswa Karma of the Hindus.
According to the Saiva faith ofthe latter, the Mithraoi the fire worshippers, is the Unadi or Agnilinga, the
pillar of radiance of the Linga Purana, from which the deity first manifested himself for the creation of
the world. This symbol )£T which precedes No. 4 inscription from Junir, is of constant occurrence* on the
gold coinage of Kadphises, and on the Indo-Scythic, or Indo-Mithraic series of coins from Kabul and the
Punjab. In combination with the emblem it is found on coin 13 of the supplementary plate belong
ing to the coinage of Kadphises. The King oh the obverse is represented seated on a war chariot, similar
to the chariot of the sun, while on the reverse the legend in Bactrian Pali, as made out from a collation of
three coins, reads,
Maharajasa raja dhi rajanam sidata mitra rata dhimukta satha nanada.
And translated is,
Of the great king, supreme king ofkings, the establishes the saint of Mithra, the supreme emancipated
Satha, (Buddha), the glorified.
Other coins of this series, show that Kadphises belonged to the people called Dards, who occupied the
country from Kaferistan to Chitral or Little Tibet. The Greek legend on the obverse of some specimens
styles him Zathos Kadaphes Khoranos, and gives him the Bauddha title ZA0OY, the same as the Pali
"Satha," meaning the venerated. All the coins belonging to this dynasty evidence the union of solar wor
ship with the Bauddha faith. The King in a Tartar dress is frequently represented making offerings on
what appears to be a low fire-altar, and sometimes holding a branch to his nose, the idolatry of sun-wor
ship, denounced by the prophet Ezekiel in these words, " they worshipped the sun toward the east, and,
lo ! they put the branch to their nose."*
The vast number of Sassanian coins, and of those belonging to worshippers of the sun and fire, met
. . m, . with in the Topes of Afghanistan and the Puniab, afford additional evidence of
Similarity ofthe Thupas of . r J° . _, J . . ...
the Punjab to the tumuli the union between the Bauddha and Magian faiths. A Sthupa in Sanskrit signi-
found near the Caves. fies a mourj(j or tumulus, and this word in Pali corrupted into Thupa or Tope, is
mado applicable to monumental receptacles for the bones of a Buddha or Rahat. A Tope, is generally a
circular building of stone or brick, erected either on a natural or artificial elevation ; and is distinguished
by a distinct cylindrical body, interposed, as in the Dehgops,\ between a circular basement and a hemis
pherical cupola.J The relics deposited in these structures are generally discovered in a small recess,
and are enclosed in vases of copper or brass, which contain smaller cases of gold or silver, sometimes dis
tinct and sometimes enclosed one within the other. Gold ornaments and rings, pieces of glass and crystal,
bits of bone, and teeth of animals, with occasionally pieces of cloth, have been found within the gold and
silver caskets; but in the larger vases, pearls, beads, seals, and gems, mixed with pulverized ashes, have
been usually met with. Sometimes the stone slab, which covers the recess in the centre, is inscribed with
Bactrian Pali characters, and sometimes on the lid of the brass or copper casket there is a punched or
dotted inscription. Outside of these vases, coins of Hermseus having a standing figure of Hercules
on the reverse; coins of Kadphises and Kanerkes, inscribed with rude Greek letters; and coins of the
Sassanian Kings of Persia, and their cotemporaries the Roman Emperors, are obtained from these monu
ments. The gold cup, found by Mr. Masson at Bimaran, is divided into eight compartments enshrining
four figures, delineated in duplicate, of which one isGautanWin the act of preaching, a mendicant on his
right hand, a lay follower on his left, and a female disciple behind the latter.^ On the vase ofsteatite, which
encased this golden cup, there is an inscription, || not decyphered by Professor Wilson, but which reads,
Kaj'o ratasa dhirata siddhala mira.1l shila mitra-put dhirajasa siddhuta sud/ia shila varaha
putasu dhipalati tisi dinakphralesa rata-ratisa bhutasa pupasa.
And may be translated,
Of the saint of Kafo, the supreme venerated cstablisher of meditation on the sun, the purified of Mitra, the supreme king,
establisher of holy meditation on Vishnu, the purified Phra-ates, of him a supreme ruler like the sun, the most
venerated of the Ratas, the divine being.
* Chap. VIII. verses 16and 17. See also Job xxxi, 226 and 27. f See plates V and VI. f Prof. Wilson's
description of those in Afghanistan, in his Ariana Antiqua p. 38. § Wilson's Ariana Antiquap. 41.
|| Plate II of the Ariana Antiqua. The difficulty ofprinting in Arianian characters in Bombay prevents me here giving the original.
f In this inscription tnira is read for mahira (the sun), and pupasa translated as the Pali word papatika, signifying,
" of divine origin."
64 THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA
The country of Kafoor Kaofu, mentioned in the Chinese accounts ofthe Indo-Scythians, has been sup
posed to be identical with Kabul, and, according to Professor Lassen, to have been conquered by the
Yeuchi, (Indo-Scythians or White Huns,)inthe middle of the century B. C. This learned illustrator of Bac-
trian antiquity considers that the King of the Yeuchi named Kiutsui-Kio, and his son Yenkao-ching, pro
secuting their career of victory, reduced the valley of the Indus, and founded the Kadphises dynasty ; but
though the time and circumstances of these conquests, as well as the assumption by these Kings of the
Bauddha title ZA0OY, would justify us in assigning to this race, the construction of the Tope at Bima-
ran, and others in the same neighbourhood, we may, with greater probability ofaccuracy, ascribe the for
mer to a King, belonging to the family of the Eastern Arsacidae, here named Phra-ates. This King appears
also to have borne the title of Gondophares, whose coins are distinguished by a peculiar monogram on the
reverse, in which maybe recognised a combination of Sanskrit letters expressive of the wOrd nama, signi
fying, glory ! and though his Greek appellation was Gondophares, his real name on the reverse ofhis coins is
Phra-ates, the same probably as the King mentioned by Philostratus, as a Prince who reigned A. D. 46 at
Taxiles, or the modern Manikyala in the Panjab. He was cotemporary with Bardanes the Parthian ; was
visited by Apollonius of Tyana, who conversed with him in the Greek language ; nnd being, as would ap
pear, of mixed or Indo-Parthian descent, was probably enshrined in the neighbourhood ofKabul, among
the Indo-Scythians ; an event of which the inscription just decyphered is a record as well as ofthe faith he
professed, being a mixture of the Bauddha and Magian. Professor Wilson's opinion, that most of the To
pes in this part of India were built between the beginning and sixth century of the Christian era, is well
worthy of credit, and the oldest of the caves of Western India could not not have been excavated much
earlier than two hundred years anterior to that time. The Topes are always accompanied, when erected
in the hill country, by a series of caves and inferior structures, called tumuli; with which last the monu
mental receptacles, erected in front ofthe western caves, have a remarkable analogy.
The one at Kanari, which was opened by me in 1839, appeared to have been originally twelve or six
teen feet in height, and of a pyramidal shape ; but being much dilapidated formed exteriorly a heap of
stones and rubbish. The largest ofseveral being selected for examination, was penetrated from above to
the base, which was built of cut stone. After digging to a level with the ground and clearing away the
loose materials, the workmen came to a circular stone, hollow in the centre, and covered at the top by a
piece of gypsum. This contained two small copper urns, in one of which were a ruby, a pearl, and small
piece of gold mixed with ashes. In this urn there was also a small gold box, containing a piece of cloth,
and in the other, ashes and a silver box were found. Outside the circular stone, there were two copper
plates, on which were legible inscriptions in the Lath or Cave character. The smaller ofthe plates had
two lines ofwriting in a character similar to that met with at the entrance of the Ajanta Caves; (he larger
one was inscribed with letters ofan earlier date. The last part of the first mentioned inscription contain
ed the Buddhist creed, as found on the base of the Bauddha image from Tirhut, and on the stone taken
from the Tope of Sarnalh near Benares ; an excellent commentary on which will be found in Mr. Prin-
scp's Journal for March and April, 1835. The original of the Kanari inscription reads,
Yi dharma Uetu prabhava, tesham hetu Tathagata suvacha teshancha yo nirodha evam vadi
Ma/ta Suvana.
And may be translated,
Whatever meritorious acts proceed from cause, of these the source Tathagata (Buddha) has declared; the opposing principle of
these the great one of golden origin, has also demonstrated.
The only difference between the text ofthe present inscription and the one from Tirhut, is the last word
suvana, (the Pali for Suvarna,) instead of framana ; and which signifies the golden one, or a person of
exalted birth or descent, here evidently an appellative of Buddha: for in the appendix to Mr. B. H. Hodg
son's quotation in proof of his sketch of Buddhism, one ofthe principal attributes ofAdi Buddha is Su-
vamavarnata. This discovery at Kanari of the Buddist confessio fidei establishes the Bauddha origin of
the Cave temples of Western India. It also strengthens the theory regarding the origin ofthe Dehgops of
Kanari, Manikyala, and Afghanistan, that they are Bauddha mausolea, budt over the remains of persons
of this faith, either of a royal or priestly character. There can be little doubt of the ashes found in the
urns at Kanari, being those ofpersons buried ; one of whom, according to the larger copper inscription,
erected the Chaitya in honour of Bliagavana Sakya Muni, called here the sou of Sarad' dhati, thus iden
tifying him with Vard/tamana, the last of the Jaina saints. The object of these monuments would thus ap
pear to have been twofold ; a memorial of the dead, and in honour of the deity, of which the enshrined
saint was only a portion, and as legitimately entitled to adoration as the source from which he had ema
nated, and to which, according to their creed, he could, after a life of virtuous penance and abstract me
ditation, return. The monuments in Kabul and the Panjab are therefore, we conclude the consecrated
CAVE THUPAS AND TUMULI. 65
tombs ofa race of princes, who professed the Buddhist faith. Their coins are engraved on one side with
Greek letters, and on the other with those of Bactrian Pali. The tribe to which they belonged is called
Khoranon, the same with the Grseco-Scythic race, mentioned by Marco Polo under the name of Karau.
nas, a tribe of robbers who scoured the country, and plundered every thing within their reach.* This
traveller informs us that the Jaghatai Tartars of Nikodar Og/ilan, the son of Hulaku, intermarrying with
dark Indian women, produced a race to which the appellation of Karaunas was given, signifying, in the
language of the country, a mixed people; but the designation was in use long anterior to this time, as in
Avdall's History of Armenia, the reigning families of the Parthians, in the beginning ofthe Christian era,
are divided into the Sureni Pehlavis or Western, and the Karani Pehlavis or Eastern.
Travels of Marco Polo, by Marsden, p. 86.
*7
66
! CHAPTER V.
The History of Buddhism.
In conducting the investigation into Buddhism I have endeavoured, throughout the preceding chapters,
„. . , to brine forward facts of the affiliation of this religion with other systems of anci-
Thephyscology andceno- ° ° . '
bite practices of Buddhism ent mythology ; and I now proceed to deduce such conclusions as seem warrant-
tTegphilSs%hVort^VeLs* ed by the doctrines and historical events both of Buddhism and Brahmanism.
and were opposed to their Some of the Cave inscriptions recording gifts and offerings made to the sun and
other celestial bodies, deify the former under the name of Kradeva and Milra,
while in others are to be found traces of theological philosophy, and the exaltation ofits teachers to rank
with divinities, indicative of a deviation from the primitive system of the Veda ritual, and the introduc
tion of anthropomorphism, by which the gods became assimilated with men, and men were raised to dei
ties. But when primitive Buddhism originated from Hindu schools of philosophy, it differed as widely from
that of later times, as did the Brahmanism of the Vedas from that of the Puranas and Tanlras. The 5an-
hita, or collection of hymns of the Veda, invoking Mitra, Agni, Varuna, and Indra, presents a system of
religion so entirely analogous to that of the Persians, in the time of Cyrus, that we can scarcely deem
extravagant the assertion of Sir W. Jones, that " a powerful monarchy (the Mahabadian) was established
in Persia* and that it was, in truth, a Hindu monarchy," when Sabreism and the adoration of the celestial
host was the religion of both countries. We are told by Herodotus that, in his time, the Persians offered
from the summits of the highest mountains, sacrifices to Jove (Indra), distinguishing by that appellation,
the whole expanse ofthe firmament. They also adored the sun^ the moon, earth, fire, water, and the winds,
which were their original deities, and had among them neither temples nor altars ; censuring the use of
such as impious, and a gross violation of reason, because, in opposition to the Greeks, they did not be
lieve that the gods partook of human nature.* In the 7th century B. C. the Hindu inhabitants of the
Panjab rendered thanks, in the hymns of the Veda, to the celestial powers who had dispensed favours to
them, and invoked the aid of Agni, Mitra, Varuna, and spirits of the air.f In the Lath edicts of the great
Asoka, engraved on rocks from Kattak to Girnar, in Gujarat, and on the Radiah, Mathiah, Delhi, and Al
lahabad columns, the sacrifice of blood and the meat offering are interdicted, as contrary to the tenets of
the converted sovereign's new creed, which inculcates mercy, charity, purity, and cha-tity, as forming the
chief excellence of religion, in combination with the exercise of solitary austerities. The worship of the
deities by sacrifice, gifts, and penance, along with a knowledge of the great universal spirit, acquired by
abstract and secluded meditation, seem to have been inculcated in the original Hindu system. In the
course of time, however, those who deemed sacrifice and works altogether unworthy of attention, de
serted the world for ascetic contemplation ; the foundation of the Vinaya or monastic discipline of Bud
dhism, which followed as a consequence thoscphilosophical principles of theology, for the study and inves
tigation of which, cenobitical seclusion was recommended and instituted. It may therefore, I think, be con
ceded that Brahmanism preceded Buddhism, and though progressive, both had their origin from a common
source, and nearly about the same time, namely, towards the middle ofthe 6th century B. C ; when the Brah-
mans of India investigated subjects of theological philosophy, and drew many oftheir opinions from the
same fountain, perhaps, as Plato and Pythagoras; who were indebted to Chaldean and Egyptian sources for
the doctrines which they taught. Previous to the Grecian invasion, the theology and metaphysical princi
ples, on which Bauddha belief were founded, must have been prevalent, since wo have the testimony
of Megasthenes and Strabo that, at this period, the Gymnosophists, Sarmanes, or Germanes, and Alobi
or Hylobii, and sects of the Digambara class, were already in existence. The error, therefore, ..of those
who conclude, that the Bauddha system is of greater antiquity than the Brahrnanical embodied in the
Vedas, is also apparent from philological evidence, since the Magadha Prakrit, or the language of the
Cave inscriptions, is a derivative of Sanskrit. Doubt may indeed be reasonably entertained whether the
Brahrnanical Buddha of the Puranas, considered by the Vaishnavas an incarnation of Vishnu, be the
same as Gautama or Sakya Muni of the Buddhists: though there exists a consistency in the narrative of
* Beloe's Herodotus, Book 1, clause 131. p. 84.
f Notice, of Dr. Roth'3 investigations of the Vedas, by the Rev. J. M. Mitchell, in the Journal of the
Bombay As. Soe. Vol II p. 404.
HISTORY OF BUDDHISM. 67
this matter, that Vishnu became incarnate under the name of Buddha for the purpose of deluding those at
tached to the ritual of the Vedas ; hence denominated the enemies of the gods. The legend related in
various Puranas is, that Divodasa, a King of the solar race, having established at Kashi, or Benares the
religion of the Vedas, rendered his people so virtuous and happy, that Indraand the gods became" alarm
ed lest they should lose their supremacy, and the heretical doctrines therefore, which Buddha taught, were
mischievous delusions, necessary to render the king and his subjects apostates from the system of the
Vedas. Buddhism was thus an appeal to popular feeling in opposition to the claims of an hereditary
hierarchy, by admitting all classes to the priesthood, denouncing as sinful the sacrificial ritual of the
Vedas, and proclaiming the divine attribute of Dharma (virtue), the basis of the new creed, and the only
means ofobtaining salvation. It is difficult if not impossible to determine whether any of those Buddhis-
tical principles were derived from the philosophy of Pythagoras and Plato, or whether the Greeks, in their
turn, were indebted for them to the Indians- The rebuke, however, said to have been addressed to the Par
thian King Bardanes, by the Pythagorean, Apollonius of Tyana, contains sentiments so much in unison
with those of the Buddhists, that I am tempted to narrate the interview as given in the life of the philoso
pher by Philostratus. Apollonius and his companion Damis, on their arrival at Babylon, were commanded
by the officer on guard at the gates to adore the King's golden image ; but the former refusing, was summon
ed to the royal presence. The King, when Apollonius appeared before him, saluted him in the Greek lan
guage, ordering him to sacrifice with him to the gods, as he was about to offer a choice Niscean horse to the
sun. " Apollonius answered, do you, O King! sacrifice after your manner, and give me leave to sacrifice
after mine." Thus speaking he took frankincense, and said, O Sun ! conduct me so far asit seemeth good
to me and thee; and let me know virtuous men, but asfor the wicked, let me neither know them, nor they
me. He then threw the frankincense into the fire, beholding how the smoke ascended, what turnings it
made, how many heads it lifted up, till observing that the fire was of good omen, he again said to the King,
" do you now sacrifice according to the custom of your country, for 1 have observed the fashion that we
have ; thereupon he withdrew himself from the sacrifice, that he might have nothing to do with blood."
Returning to the King at the end of the sacrifice, he explained to him that he was devoted to the wisdom
of Pythagoras, who had taught him to worship the gods in this manner, to clothe himself in linen, the pure
gift of water and earth, and to abstain from eating any living creature." * Though the Parthian Kings,
in conformity with Bauddha practice, claimed for themselves at this time divine honours, they were, as
would appear, still followers of Mithra; since Dion Cassius relates that when Tiridates, the brother of Ar-
saces Vologeses I, visited Rome to "receive his crown, he prostrated himself before Nero, and addressed
the Emperor saying, " 1 am come hither to adore you, and to pay you the same veneration which I.render
to the god Mithra."f The apostles of Buddhism, like the disciples of Pythagoras, travelled about to dif
fuse their tenets, teaching like them that virtue and mercy were the foundation ofall true religion, end
that the punishment of sin was the transmigration of souls from one body to another. Their practical dis
cipline, if not their philosophical principles, appears to have had many points in common with that fol
lowed by the Essenes among the Jews, who, accordingJ to Philo, resembled the Therapeutee, and built like
them monasteries and Semneia at/ivta (by which he probably means pyramidal altars covering relics), as
was the practice of the Indian Gymnosophists, called St/xvot by Clemens of Alexandria. § The philoso
phical sects therefore, known at the commencement ofour era, had so much common to their belief, that
we can neither wonder or doubt but that with the irruption of the Sakas, principles of foreign faiths
should have been brought into India, and mingled with Bauddha belief.
From the time of Strabo, (B. C. 25) to that of Porphyrius, (A. D. 303), there is a want of precision in
the classical histories, narrating the differences of principle and practice which
mi\^es""ndSSama^i, o^the distinguished the two leading Indian sects of Brahmans and Samanians. This has
Brahmans ami Bauddhas, as in(juced men ofacknowledged learning and discrimination to maintain an opinion
related by classical writers. . . ° ° r
that the iormer weie originally a purely secular class, and that the Gymnosophists,
or Sophists, belonged exclusively to the Samanians or Bauddhas, forming the only sacerdotal order then
known. An attentive consideration of all the passages of the original authorities, || has led me to con
clude that this idea is erroneous, and that, in the age of Alexander the Great, Brahmanical pretension to
hereditary sacerdotal succession and superiority of caste, formed as much a part of the Indian religious
system as they do at present. As followers of the Veda, the Brahmans composed a then exclusive body, of
whom some were householders, pursuing secular employments, and discharging the duties of their station
* Philostratus de Vita Apollon. lib. 9 c. 33, 34, &c. as quoted in Lewi's, Parthian Empire, p. 237.
f Dion Cassius lib. 63. abridged by Xiphilin, in Nerone.
I Philo apud Photii Bibliothec p. 275. § See note at p. 35 of this work.
|| In the work entitled Palladitis de Gentibus et Bragmenibus.
68 THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA
m
as described in the Vishnu Furana; * others, having arrived at the decline of life, consigned their wives
to the care of their sons and abandoned the world for the wild, as Vanaprasthas, or hermits, to conquer
all their imperfections and secure for themselves the mansions of eternity. In this state they subsisted on
leaves, roots, and fruit; were endurant of heat and cold; begged for alms, and presented food to all crea
tures; slept on the ground, and offered oblations to the gods and to fire. The first class of the Indians cal
led, by Arrian, Sophists or learned men, though inferior in numbers, were held in greatest estimation ; la
boured not for the public support, but sacrificed to the gods for the common welfare ; were skilled in di
vination, and foretold the changes and events of the year; basked in the sun or reposed in shady places ,
and lived on the fruit and the bark of trees. The habits here described, so closely resemble those of the
Vanaprasthas of the Vishnu Purana, as to carry conviction that the sectaries were Brahmanical ancho
rites, and not exclusively those of a like class among the Bauddhas or Samanians. Strabo divides the reli
gious orders into Brachmanes and Germanes, meaning by the latter the Sramanes or Samanians. He
has entered into minute details regarding the former, and particularly describes their Agrahars, or colle
giate establishments, which are said to have been situated midst groves in front of the city, and within an
enclosure of moderate extent; where these philosophers lived abstemiously, lay on skins and benches,
abstained from connexion with women, and from using as food every thing that had life, being intent on
serious discourses, and ready to communicate with those willing to listen. The Brahmans were, he says,
esteemed more excellent than the Germanes, because their doctrines were more reasonable ; and Near-
chus, whose authority he quotes, describes the former, as living in cities, being the followers and coun
sellors of Kings, though some ofthem turned to the contemplation ofthose things which belong to nature.
Among the Germanes, by whom doubtless are meant the Bauddhas, those were most honoured who are
called Hylobii, because they dwelt in the woods, living on leaves and wild fruits, clad from the bark of
trees, and abstaining from wine and all intercourse with women.
In the end of the second century Philostratus quoting Damis, the companion of Apollonius of Tyana,
says that the Brahmans slept on the ground and made their beds of grass, wore long hair with a white
mitre on their heads, went barefoot, were clothed in linen vestments ofan Exomidum f form, and carried
a staff and ring with which occult properties were associated. These Brahmans, whom Damis must have
seen at Taxiles in the Punjab, worshipped and sacrificed to the sun, obtained their fire from it as do the
Hindus for the Hom, and were, most probably, subjects of the very King Phra-ates, whose monumental
inscription, translated in the preceding chapter, supplies evidence that, while he continued a follower of
the Vedic ritual and of Vishnu, he had in part adopted Bauddha belief, that by Shila, or austere medita
tion, lie had himselfbecome part of the deity, or the great universal cause of nature and its manifestations.
Somewhat later Porphyrius, on the authority of Bardesanes a Babylonian, tells us that in various parts
of India there were certain wise men whom the Greeks were wont to call Gymnosophists. Of these there
were two sects, one the Brachmanes, the other the Samaneei. The former of these admitted the priest
hood and divine wisdom to be the hereditary right of birth. The Samanians consisted of those who were
selected and willing to devote themselves to divine wisdom, being collected from all the Indian tribes,
while the Brahmans were all of one family, claiming descent from one father and one mother. The Brah
mans lived not under the authority of Kings, nor held any office under others, but such of them as were
philosophers dwelt some on a mountain, and some near the Ganges ; where they subsisted on wild fruits
and coagulated milk. Those who were near the river appear to have used the nut of the lotus, and oc
casionally rice when this failed. They esteemed it unclean and impious to eat of anything which had life,
and religiously and strictly devoted themselves to the worship of God, by offering up prayers and hymns
to the gods day and night. Each ofthem lived in their own proper hut, and as much apart as possible, but
when by chance it happened that they came in contact with others, their seclusion then became the more
strict, so that they were silent for several days, and fasted frequently : all ofwhich peculiarities show the
arrogance of Brahmanical pretension and claims to superiority, which this hereditary priesthood assumed
over all other classes. Porphyrius, in his description of such of them as were located in the vicinity of the
Ganges, appears to have had specially in view the Vanaprasthas, and makes no allusion to those who were
secularly employed in cities as the counsellors of Kings.
The Samanaeans on the other hand were elected from the people at large. When anyone was ordain
ed to a college, he went before the chiefs ofthe village, and here abandoning his property and employ
ment, accepted a stole after the tonsure of his body; and relinquishing both wives and children to the
care of the King, was entered among the Samanaeans. These lived outside the city, where they had habi
tations and a temple constructed for them by the King, and spent the whole day in holy conversation .
some one from among them being appointed overseer to receive a certain royal allowance for their ne-
* Wilson's translation of the Vishnu Purana p. 294- f A Tunic without sleeves.
HISTORY OF BUDDHISM. 69
cessary maintenance. They lived on rice, bread, fruits, and pot-herbs. On entering their domiciles they
poured forth prayers at the sound of a bell; these finished, each had a platter of food brought to them
of which they partook at a signal again given, as no two could eat from the same dish. Both Brahrnans
and Samanaians were regarded with such veneration by all others, as to be sometimes visited by the King,
who supplicated their prayers for the welfare of his kingdom, and consulted them in whatever he was
about to do.
It is thus apparent, from internal and external evidence, that Buddhism was altogether the antithesis
Gautama, or rakya Muni, o^ Brahmanisui, which appealed to the common sense and interest of the mass,
B. C. 5S8, attained Buddha- against the hereditary pretension and arrogance of the few. It denounced the
hood, and proclaimed the ten- . , °. . .
ets of the new faith at Raja- Vedas and the sacrifice of animal hie, inscribing in Prakrit, on temples and pla-
gnha, mBahar. ceg Qf pUij]ic resort, its charities and offerings. The Bauddbas themselves have
therefore never questioned the superior antiquity of Brahmanism; * their annals indeed admitting that
when Kasyapa, the predecessor of Sakya, was proclaiming the principles of the faith, the latter, at that
period, " was one Jotipal, excelling in the mantra, and perfect master of the three wedd, which he used
to rehearse by note. He had also achieved the knowledge of signs, of the itihaso ( legends,) and of divi
nation." f
Sakya, according to both Brahmans and Buddhists, was a Ksahatrya born, the son of Suddhodana,
King of Kapilaicattha; who held his kingdom in dependence on the then supreme monarch of India,
called Vimbasara, ruling at Rajagriha in Bahar, the capital at that time of the Magadha empire. The
legends of the Puranas, relative to Buddha, make him an incarnation or manifestation of Vishnu, which
appeared in Kikata, (Bahar), for the purpose of deluding those who, faithful to the religion prescribed by
the Vedas, had become so virtuous and happy, as to alarm the gods for their supremacy, and were hence
considered their enemies. A close connection, as we have shown, existed in various points between the
religious principles of the Persian worshippers of the sun and fire, and those of the Bauddhas; and it
seems not impossible that some of the first principles of Buddhism are not indigenous to India, but
may have been brought by the Scythic tribes into the country, during the first emigrations of the Magus
from the westward. They, in giving name to the province of Magadha, introduced also the elements of
this new religion from Saka-dwipa, their original country. There is yet further persumptive evidence, of
this Extra-Indian origin ofsome first principles ofprimitive Buddhism, in the manifestly intimate connex
ion found subsisting between the idol statues of the caves at Balkh Bamian, and the Indo-Mithraic coins
discovered in the Thupas of Afghanistan and the Panjab. In a paper on Bactrian and Mithraic coins,
published in the Bombay Asiatic Society's Journal for 1843, I had occasion to point out that the Nanaia
of the Mithraic coins, whose statues were originally set up among the Bactrians and Persians, B. C. 357,
by Darius, the grandson of Ochus, was equivalent to Dharma among the Bauddhas, the type of inert
matter from which various forms are evolved ; being similar to Prajna, or deified nature ofthese Sectaries,
under more theistical ideas of the existence of deity, viewed in relation to the natural fecundity of the earth
and the passive influence ofthe sun. In these two several relations, Nanaia, or the Prajna ofthe Bauddhas,
had both a physical and an astral character; under which latter, associated with that of the Sun, she ap
pears represented by the female statue at the caves df Bamian, and on the coin of Kanerkes, which gave
rise to the comments then made. Traces of anthropomorphism, similar also to what we find among the
Bauddhas, are met with, in Scythia, so early as the age of Herodotus, who informs us that the Scythians,
near Tyras, on the Dneister,J reverenced an impression of the feet of Hercules. If however, the primary
elements of Buddhism were introduced into Magadha, by the Saca?, they were certainly improved and
extended by the philosophy of India, of which Kapila was the author, if Gautama, the nominal founder of
this faith be not identical with this sceptical expositor ofthe philosophy of the Vedas.§ The cave inscrip
tions, of western India, acknowlege him and his commentator Devala as intimately associated with the
Bauddha religion, if not teachers of its tenets ; and it seems a singular admission, on the part of the Bud-
dhistical annals, that the tapaso, (ascetic) named Kala-Dewalo, the confidant of Sakya's father Suddho
dana, should have been called at the birth of Sakya, in order that the infant might do him homage. The
Buddha elect, however, when brought into the'presence of the ascetic, planted his feet on thejata,or top-
* See page 38 of this work.
f Pali Buddhistical Annals, No. 3, translated by Turnour, in the Journal, ofthe Bengal As. Soc, Vol VII. p. 796.
X Herodotus, Book IV, para. LXXXII.
§The Jika, or Commentary on the Ceylon Pitakattaya and Atthakatha, quoted by Mr. Turnour, in his Introduction to the Ma-
hawanso, asserts this identity, and that the Brahmin Kapilo was Sakya Muni, before assuming, in the Himalaya country,
the sacerdotal character of the "Isi." Introduction, p. XXXVI.
18
.70 THE CAVES OF WESTERN INDIA
knot of Dewalo ; who, thus perceiving that Sakya had obtained the last stage of existence, bowed down to
him, with clasped hands raised over his head, in token of submission.* The Sakya tribes too are said to
have hymned forth the canticles of triumph and gratulation, peculiar to the Brahmanical observances
then prevalent.
The new creed soon became the dominant religion of North India ; but with its ascendancy, that
The new faith after the strugg'e with Brahmanism commenced, which after several centuries of fluctu-
third convocation of its disci- ating fortune, inclining sometimes to one and sometimes to the other of the
pies, and during the reign of . . . , _ , . - , - .
the Emperor Asoka, B. c. contending parties, terminated in the final expulsion from India of the Bauddha
SndatyTnd^ sectaries ; who, during the reign of Asoka, and after the third convocation of
rious countries, on theN. and Sakya's disciples, attained their utmost supremacy. The era ofSakya Muni's ob
taining Nirvan, or emancipation, is a subject both of uncertainty and dispute ;
this being placed, by Thibet authorities, in the eighteenth year of Ajata Satru, and by the Ceylon annals
in the eighth year of this monarch, corresponding with the year B. C. already given. Such discrepan
cies are however not unfrequent in the best European chronologies, and can scarcely be matter for wonder
in the history of so obscure a subject as that of the rise and progress of Buddhism ; the era of which varies
according to the supposed date of Alexander the Great's cotemporary, Chandra Gupta, whose reign is
made the key stone of the whole chronological system.
At the period when Sakya commenced to preach his doctrines, Rajagri/ia, now Rajgir, was the capital
of South Bahar and the celebrated metropolis of " Madya desa," or middle India, comprising the coun
try and petty principalities, between the Himalaya and the river Nermada. It is now reduced to a village
of about nine hundred houses, and lies about S. S. W. fourteen miles of the present town of Bahar, and
on the north side of a range of hills, enumerated, in the Buddhistical annals, as five mountains, which are
particularly named ; and in which the Saltapanni cave, where the first convocation was held, is said to
be situated. The modern town is described as rising on an open plain, surrounded by hills, about one
and half or two miles in diameter; where, in several places, the remains of the old city of Jarasandha is
pointed out, and where is a cave, in one of the hills, similar to those which exist near Gaya f Here Sak
ya's doctrines were first reduced to writing, and here the second Buddhist patriarch Ananda was born.
Several Brahmin families yet perform the worship of the Jain temples, which are numerous on the tops
of the neighbouring hills. It was long the capital of the Indian empire until Asoka, on becoming sole
sovereign of India, and a convert from the Brahmanical to the Buddhist faith, removed the Court to Pali-
bothra, which is generally identified with Patna.
From Rajagriha the founder ofBuddhism made several journies into the neighbouring region to preach
and propagate his doctrines ; and having devoted himself to six years of austere meditation and retirement
at Gaya, on the north ofthis ancient capital, this place has since been a celebrated resort of pilgrimage for
sectaries of this faith, who flocked to it from China, Ceylon, and Barmah. In Gaya the Brahmins have
changed Bauddha images into Brahmanical types of the Saiva worship, though a Buddhist temple of great
dimensions be found here in ruins, and an inscription in one of the caves records the name of Dasarat/ia,
the grandson of Asoka, who, immediately on ascending the throne caused the hermitage to be establish
ed for devoted Buddhist ascetics.J According to Sir VV. Jone's Hindu Chronology,^ this prince was the
fifth of the ten Mauryas; who, from the usual calculation of this series of Kings, given in the Puranas,
reigned a hundred and thirty seven years, reckoning from the expiation of Chanakya and the commence
ment of the reign of Chandra Gupta, the cotemporary of Alexander the Great. If this Dasaratka was, as
seems probable, the son of Suyasas, and grandson of Asoka, the earliest of the Bauddha caves, at Gaya,
cannot claim a higher antiquity than B. C. 202 ; a date which furnishes a clue to the actual age of most
other excavations in India, though that of some, like the one at Karli, is definitely known by the name of
the King and year of his reign being mentioned.
The time ofthe Emperor Asoka's conversion to Buddhism, by his nephew Nigrodho, is a cardinal point
of Bauddha chronology, and is generally ascribed to the fourth year after his accession to the throne ; when,
having been seized with religious remorse for the murder of his brothers, he erected Viharas, and asylums
for medical administration throughout his dominions, inculcating, by edicts published at this time, human
ity to every living creature. Both Brahmansand Buddhists claim him to be a follower of their respective
faiths ; though the latter admit that for three years, previous to his inauguration, he lived out of the pale
• Tumour's Buddhistical Annals, No. 8 in the Journal of the Bengal As. Soc. Vol. VII. p. 802.
\ SeePrinsep's Journal, Vol. II p. 336, and Tumour's Buddhistical Annals VII of the same work, p. 927.
\ Prinsep's Fac similes of ancient inscriptions from Gaya, in his Journal for 1837 p. 678.
§ Bengal Asiatic Researches, Vol. II. p. 139.
HISTORY OF BUDDHISM. 71
of Buddhism as a Brahman heretic; and that his father Varisara, or Bindusara, was a follower of the
Brahman creed. The Chinese traveller Fa Hian, when he visited Gradhra Kuta, (peak of the Vulture)
near Gaya, in the end of the fourth century of our era, saw there many cavern cells for ecclesiastics, and
spots consecrated by Asoka, in commemoration of the events of Buddha's life. The Hindu annals of Kash
mir relate that Asoka, before countenancing the new creed, had been a pious worshipper of Siva ; and that
in the reign of his son Jaloka, strenuous efforts were made by the Brahmans to suppress the extension of
the Bauddha schism.*
Immediately after the third Bauddha convocation, Mahindo, or Mahendra, another of Asoka's sons, who
Mahindo, or Mahendra, had become a devoted follower of Buddhism, was sent into Ceylon, for the
another of Asoka's sons and purpose of propagating the faith : and when Fa Hian, in his travels, visited the
a devoted follower of Bud-
dhism, carries this leiigion island, he found at Anaradhapurx a magnificent temple, erected B. C. 157, dur-
into Ceylon, B. c. 209,-165. Jng the reign of £>u(t/iagaminij 0f whom mention is made in the Karli inscrip
tion; and for laying the foundation of which thousands of Bauddha priests from Rajagriha, Ujaitt and
Kashmir, had come to assist. Before the dogmas of Buddhism were introduced into Ceylon and Kash
mir, Naga or snake worship appears to have been the prevailing superstition among the aborigines ; and
traces of its priority, or at least incorporation with the Buddhism of the Dekhan, are still discoverable in
the cave inscriptions, and in the relics occasionally found in the vicinity ofthe excavations. The Buddhism
of Ceylon was, however, orally promulgated and perpetuated, by the priesthood, till the reign of Wattagani-
ni, B. C. 104 to B. C. 76; when, as related in the Singhalese Atthakatha, the principles of this religion
were first recorded in books.
The evidence of the Karli inscription renders it more than probable that the Buddhism of the Dekhan
Extension of Buddhism, was introduced, during the reign of Dutthagamini ; and this inference is not inva-
from Ceylon into the Dekhan i^ated by proof, recorded at the caves of Kanari, that, in the middle of the cen-
B. C. 145, being the date of ' r '
the Karli inscription, which tury B. C. and during the supremacy, at Sagala, of the hierarch Nagarjuna, a
proVwragrofau'the'other close connection was maintained between the Panjab and Western India. Even
Dekhan caves- prior to this time the Buddhism of Northern India, under the Emperor Asoka,
appears to have spread into Malwa, and Girnar in Kahtiwar; though the Buddhism of the Dekhan was
evidently not established before the time of the Ceylon monarchs, commencing with the religious and po
litical ascendancy of Dutthagamini. The Bauddha deputations toMahasamandala, Wanawasa, Maharat-
ta, and Aparantaka countries, which are mentioned by the Mahawanso as having been sent for the pro
mulgation ofthe faith, furnish confirmatory evidence that the stupendous works of antiquity, in Western
India, had their origin from the connexion of the Peninsula with the island ofCeylon. Other admissions,
by the narrative of the Ceylon Pali annals, serve to prove this intimate connexion between the island and
the Dekhan'; and the not least important ofthese is the philological one of acknowledgment that the oldest
Pali Grammar, named the Rupasiddhi, was a revision, or compilation from the grammar of Kachchayana,
composed in the Dekhan, while Buddhism prevailed as the religion of the state.t Kachchayana, the Bhar-
man Katayana, was the earliest Sanskrit grammarian, who flourished, apparently as the cotemporary of
Sakya Muni, in the middle of the sixth century B. C. The manifest derivation from Sanskrit of the Pra-
krit of the cave inscriptions, and even ofthe Magadha Pali, renders it probable that the grammar, from
which the Rupasiddhi was taken, was a Sanskrit one, founded on the Pratis'akhya Sutrani, or grammati
cal aphorisms, belonging to the collection of the Vedas ; which, as Dr. Roth's investigations shew, cannot
be earlier than 500 B. C. The Karli cave, however, being the oldest of all the Dekhan excavations, and
not before the middle of the second century B. C. would reduce the origin of Pali Philology to a compa
ratively recent period, harmonizing well with the assertion of the Ceylon Buddhistical annals that the
principles of the Buddha faith there were not recorded in books until B. C. 76.
The Kanari excavations cannot be long after the date of the cave at Karli ; for if my conjecture be
_ - . .. well founded that the cross, and inscription in Roman letters, met with on the leg
Comparative age of other ' r ' °
Dekhan excavations, from of one of the statues of Buddha on the left ofthe great cave, indicate its connexion
B. c. 145 to A. D. 420. ^e doctrines of spurious Christianity, brought from the shores of Egypt and
Arabia, their age may be assigned to the century preceding the Christian era. It is probable that the
various caves, so extensive here, belong to different periods, and were constructed by a Bauddha colony.
Their completion and celebrity, in the beginning of the fourth century of the Christian era, may be in
ferred, however, from the marked allusion made to them, at this time, by the Chinese traveller Fa Hian.
* See Wilson's Essay on the History of Kashmir, Asiatic Researches, Vol. XV. p. 83.
f Tumour's Mahawanso, Chap 29. p. 171.
% Tumour's Introduction to the Mahawanso, p. 25.
V
Si
<?—' <?—' 5=- #=»
S
XX
-
XXVI
XXVIII.
XXIX.
XXXI.
X XXI J.
XI
s,—1
i
SB. fO
C H
r>j -orb
3
x1.
p 2 of
I' X3
1 3
0
.Oo
£7<r
X
0
-c
cr
1
I
3 H
-c
^1
o
9
C
»2 KJ
£ * 0 ^
r
L-^^'7^ ^f)
r
At
e
c?
^
«€
9
(V
ft
t"3
f
J
&
T
P
^
P
T
31
A
M
III
^
(7
t
IM
*>>n?
f
2:
I
r/A>
//////„>('//,
*
S
ft
n\
8
J
'ST.
a
II
*v 5\>
o<r<^>
»-C nl Oo
°" t X)
H -5 o
« » * o-
<
TO
—d
c
<
-9
X)
C
t
i
~? H
IIIX
4s
r ik t w ^
K>6 1-^ -<
— * 1 - "° ti 13 ^ 0-f
1 1
5?
K3
<3
4
K3
q «~ >k
'ft r4
3s*£F^^J>
.K3 ^» 0, V. ^
3?
XVI
XVII.
xviii.
id
*
T*;#3
^
y
0
y
y
?
>D _} ^ vr °
o -c * ? § *
-x a> *2. 'oCm
OSKJ
M
72 wO
c
XI
c
•i'
t
PO
H-5
\
4
9
B x ^ •« v<
* lL < HO £ u4
s -it
I
si
g
*C £ D ° *
lb K K *J
•oi £ it?
c
H
3-
-o
^ 0
X) ^
6* &
C w P'
EPfM S
*
Cr^) J^JJ «3 JO |s I
^ i & ^ X
^ ^ t> rl
3" 2 a
2 X) nj
I-
XJ ^ «<-
T
1
1
rC ^
^ (TP
a (pi
^ d3
III
* [?
era CP
go 5?
Oo r-
-3
t& SO
O
u
OA
rC
ITS
I
-c
6a
St
Kp
I
MI
an
1—1
<<&
or
*C -1 ^ ■£>
G nj
=9
•-a -
nl
A]
6>3 4
5
v
> X
0^
CO
§&
-'rfo 00(73
ski
O3 IK" 3)
03 CP
So 5°
Oo r-
0
K
? OO
&=
K £
Fc *
0-0
&^
o
to
I
-c
&
1
M
i
►0
WJ
a
arO
i—.
C
t>0
3 5 * »
*-3 —
Ad
<~5
6 rO
1
pj ror
rH^ HT.
£ 5? ^
x
-<
a.
H
:T* xr^D
1
^ ■ n-,
H
XJ
-9
I/O
H
1:
XJ
^ 9 ^ r
T
9
-n
T
r?
n
^
^
v
Xxi
£
_fp
91
I
•r
5
/Vo
<>>>jry
UK
ifuX
DT>
£
Fg>
Won
o>
aye
n^4jf
D
^
"XL
C
/&"
THA
f%w?{7^
nun
i
C^^t^/s^^
^t^y^yp^j^
AI
LI
jAl^-HC?,!
Y
k>
J:
I
n
R
t<^4
7
nf^
bTf
±
>x>
yoy
t
D
"k
^
JK
(3
Tt5
t
a
_n
T
TV
n
^
%
Tt>
^
i
^3
J
iJH
^
^
^1
,
y
..
IA
OTA
"fJ'fj
4l
VT
A
k
5>
*
CL
T
^
V
J-n^^f
t
n
c
^
!fi
V^CT^
^r^^VPr?
m^L^S
'
lp
£
in
