{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1847__bush___mesmer_and_swedenborg.pdf","mytitle":"Mesmer And Swedenborg","mylang":"de"}
,
!
/
~0
MESMER AND SWEDENBORG;
OR, I J li ~ •
THE RELATION
OF THE
DEVELOPMENTS OF MESMERISM
TO THE
. DOCTRINES AND DISCLOSURES
OF
SWEDENBORG.
''It certainly is a,reeable to rea.soo,lhat there are some light eftluxiona from apirit to
apirit, when men are in presenceone with another, as well aa from body to body."
-Bacma.
NEW YORK:
PUBLISHED BY JOHN ALLEN, 139 NASSAU STREET.
1847.
Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1846, by
GEORGE BUSH,
In the Clerk's Office of the Djstrict Court for the Southern District
of New York.
SNOWDEK & PRALL, Printers,
Corner of Ann & Nassau streetsJ N.Y.
\
PREFACE.
THE object aimed at in the present work is to elevate the phe-
nomena of Mesmerism to a higher plane than that on_
which they
have been wont to be contemplated. The fundamental ground as-
sumed is, that the most important facts disclosed in the Mesmeric
state are of a spiritual nature, and can only receive an adequate
solution by being viewed in connection ·with the state of disem-
bodied spirits and the laws of their intercourse with each other.
Perhaps the first impression would be, that the world of spirits is
so far beyond our ken-that everything pertaining to it is so shad-
owy, dim, and delusive-that it were idle to think that any certain
light can be reflected from it upon the psychological constitution
of our nature in the present life. It remains to be seen whether
this judgment be not premature. It is at any rate claimed in be-
half of Emanuel Swedenborg that he was in spirit intromitted into
that world, and has made a faithful revelation of the state of its
inhabitants and of the general laws and conditions of spiritual
being. It is essentially involved in these disclosures that man, in
this world, is a spirit clothed with a body-that in his interior prin-
ciples he is so constituted as to be even now a denizen of the
spiritual world and constantly associated with lcindred spirits-that
the laws of his intellectual life, which are operative here, are ope-
rative there also-and that consequently his future state is merely
the normal and necessary re~ult of the working of those elements,
psychical and moral, which distinguish him in his bodily life.
It is claimed, moreover, that many of the leading interior princi·
ples of his nature are developed, under a new a:,pect, in the Mes-
meric condition, and that we arc at full liberty to bring these de-
velopments into juxtaposition with those of Swedenborg to see how
far they coincide. If they are found to be in the most marked and
striking harmony with each other, it is surely djillcult to resist the
conclusion, that Swedenborg is entitled to our credence as a truth-
fnl reporter of the facts and phenomena of the spirit-world. If not
iv PREFACE.
an apostle to others, he certainly is to those who are satisfied of
the reality ofthe facts elicited in the Mesmeric state.
My object then is to show to 'vhat extent these coincidences ex-
ist. I propose to display the dominant phenomena of Mesmerism
by the side of the spiritual disclosures of Swedenborg. The rea-
der will thus have before him the adequate means of forming a
judgment on the grand question. It is not to be disguised that very
momentous issueshang upon the resull of the investigation. If, upon
a rigid interrogation ofthe laws ofour mental being, it turns out that
whathavebeenincredulously termed the reveriesanddreamsofthe
Swedish Seer are in fact no other than the eter,nal verities of things, a
!lew complexion is at onceput upon the sublime system of disclosure
which he has been made the instrument of imparting to the world.
His solemnlyassertedclaims a1·e no longer an idle pretence. Though
not professedly confirmed by miracles, as miracles are usually un-
derstood, yet they must be considered as hereby receiving the direct
seal and stamp of the authority of Heaven, and it can be no light
matter to pass them by unheeded. As he came avowedly not to
usher in a new religion to the world, but to develope the interior
and spiritual genius of one already given., his mission could only be
authenticated by an appeal to the universal reason of man acting
upon the alleged accordance between its soundest inductions and
the intrinsic character of his expose. It is by this test that his ad-
herents are supremely desirous that the truth ofhis mission should
be tried. They refuse to admit that they have yielded their cre-
dence to it on any other ground, and they are unable to see why
the evidence which has satisfied them should not satisfy others,
provided they will entertain it with equal fairne!s and candor; and
considering the magnitude of the interests at stake, in case it should
prove to be true, they are at a loss to conceive that it should not
be entitled to the most diligent examination. If the system bore
upon its face the self-evident marks of imposture and delusion-if
it contravened any settled first-truths of the reason-ifit arrayed
itself in obvious antagonism with the purport of the Christian Scrip-
tures-if, in a word, it bad only to be looked at to be at once war-
rantably rejected-then indeed every plea in its bf>halfwould be
a useless labor, if treason against Truth be not the more appropri-
ate appellation. But we confidently affirm that no man can in-
telligently pronounce such a verdict upon the alleged revelations
of Swedenborg. Apart from all the collateral confirmations which
we propose to exhibit in the ensuing pages, they commend them-
PREFACE. v
selves, by their internal evidence, to the calmest and profoundest
reflection of every enlightened mind. The crherion to which they
refer themselves is the intrinsic •11.at·ure of ma·n. and the report of his
clearest inttt,itions. lf they do not abide this ordeal, let them be l'e-
jected, and consigned for ever to the contempt which has tempo-
rarily been their lot. But we have no fears for the grand issue.
The evolutions of Providence may justly be expected to enhance
the testimony oftruths which its counsels have purposed to bestow
upon the world. From a source but little anticipated, this witness
is now forcing itself upon the human mind with an energy which
cannot be resisted. A new phasis of our nature has been recently
developed, and its plain bearing is to fortify the conclusions of the
reason by a demonstration made to the very senses.
It will be seen that in the ensuing discussion I have little to say
of the purely physical effects of Mesmerism, and that I propose no
theory of the ne1·vous infiuence, or any other, by which to account
for the phenomena. I trust this may not be set down to the ac-
count of a defective mode of treating the subject. My aim is alto-
gether different. It involves no attempt to solve the physiological
problems connected with the processes and results in question. I
do not underrate such inquiries, nor do I doubt that a continual
progress is making towards the discovery of the physical laws upon
which the physical manifestations of Mesmerism depend. That
many, or most, or all of them, may be resolved into the constitution
of the nervous system, is in the highest degree probable. But at
present we know very little of the 111terior economy of this part of
our organism, and to say that a particular phenomenon is to be
traced to the action of the nervous influence is merely stating a
fact without explaining it. We are not thereby advanced in our
knowledges of cattaes. The department I have chosen to consider
is that of psychology, and not of physiology. I wish to show that
certain psychological facts are strikingly illulltrated by the state-
ments of Sweclenborg in regard to the phenomena of the spiritual
world. These facts undoubtedly rest in a measure in a physiolog-
ical basis, but tl1is we have not yet compasiied, nor is it our impres-
sion that h will be compassed, except by the light reflected back
upon it from the spiritual ;:phere into which we are conducted by
Swedenborg's illuminated guidance. He alone, we conceive, has
set before us the true point of contact between the spiritual ana
the physical, and shown how the one :flows into, governs, and
moulds the other. Nothing, in my view, is more idle than the
p
Vl PREFACE.
attempt to refer the Mesmeric c.O.ccts, il1 tho light in which I con-
sider them, to physical or natural causes. They inevitably con·
duct us to n higher sphere. It is only tho condition of spirit out of
the body that can unfold to us the laws and operation of spirit in
the body, and the fixed relation that subsists between them. Cor·
rect knowledge upon this point is the universal desideratum of the
human mind. Nothing docs it more earnestly covet than an in-
sight into tlle mystery of the connexion between matter and
mind. The solving of this mystery is one of the grand ends of
Swedenborg's mission. For tllis he was pro~ridentially prepared
by those profound researches in the whole field of science and
philosophy, which bad condncted him to such splendid results
prior to his illumination. His spiritual illumination, however, was
the crown of his prerogatives, and subsequent to that epoch the
speculations of tho Sage gave place to the oracles of the Seer.
This we are willing should stand for the present as a simple a~ser·
tion; the sequel will discover, in some good degree, upon what
grounds it is made. But the body of his works must be consulted
for the full establishment of his claim.
Itcan hardly fail to be gathered, from the entire air of the present
work, that its ulterior object is to present, under a new form, a
plea for the trnth of Swcdcnborg's revolutions. The author has
no motive to disguise this as the real a-nimua of the undcrtnkiug.
In this he regards himself as entering into direct co-operation
with the designs of Providence. He has no scruple to a,•ow it as
his firm conviction that the phenomena of Mesmerism have been
developed in thi~ age with the e:rpress design of confirming the
message of Swcdcnl>org-of testifying, by external evidence, to
the absolute truth of the dil'closurcs and the doctrines which he
has promulgated to the world. If they are of God they are worthy
of special authentication at his hand. This, wo think, is afforded
in the extraordinary result::! which have grown out of the first dis-
covery of Mesmer.
Let me, however, on one point be distinctly understood. I do
not place the main evidence of Swedenborg's truth on the basis of
the discoveries made through Me:-merism. They are held to rest
upon the immovable ground of their internal character-of their
accordance at once with the voice of Reason and the voice of Rev-
elation. The Church of the New Jerusalem, to which his an-
nouncements have, under God, given birth, is not to be considered
as compromised, in any point of its faith, by '"·hat is in these pages
PREFACE. Vll
givea to the \Yorld. It is but justice to the members of that body to
say, that they have never consented to assume any peculiar responsi-
bility on the score of the alleged phenomena, as though the system of
doctrines they have embraced were in any way pledged for the verit-
able character of the Magnetic developments. So far as any palpable
and undeniable truth is brought out in connection with them-truth
which spontaneously alliE's itself with the laws of spiritual being un-
folded by Swedenborg-they, of course, willingly accept it. ·while
they uniformly, I believe, stand aloof from all public and promiscuous
exhibitions of the marvels of the Mesmeric trance, and while upon
their own principles they can readily account for all the delusions that
may be mixed up in the clairvoyant reports, yet they do not hesitate
to acknowledge anything in them that is absolutely true; and if, at
the same time, it affords a proof of the grander truths of Sweden-
borg's teachings, they gratefully recognize it as a providential attes-
tation which may be of service to thosi who are not convinced, as they
are, upon other and higher grcmnds *
• I insert in the present connection the following paragraph from a
pamphlet recently published in London, from the pen of a New
Churchman, bl the leading sentiments of which I fully subsct·ihe :-
u It is therefore impossible for the members of the New Church tore-
main silent and indifferent upon th1s interesting question. Can they
resist the inquiry thus forced upon them-What is the affinity Gr
connection vrhich exists between the principles of Swedenborg and
the science denominaled Animal Magnetism? Can any serious reader
of our author's theological works be persuaded that its principles
are irrelevant, or not iuterwoven, or do not form a prominent part of
all his doctrines? And if it is so, how vain the attempt to smother
and silence all inquiry and examination-to put a veto upon our lips
and to stay all fntnre correspondPnce upon a point in which the char-
acter of our author's doctrines is so deeply implicated ! The read-
ers of Swedenborg are not to bP. terrified by any gratuitous supposi-
tion about one finite mind interfering with the will and consciousness
of another, so as to bring it into a state or condition 'in which it is
not accountable, either in bodily words or worl{s.' Such a case is
entirely""'suppo~itious, and not possible. It cannot happen; nay,
a cherubic guard is ever ready to prevent it. 'In the natural
world, that which acts and that wbich,..reacts, is called a force
and an effert; but in the spiritual world, tllat which acts and that
which re~cts, is called life and 'IJ.ti/t. ~'lf.e ~s th.en a living force,
and will IS a living effort; and the eqUilJbnum 1s callad l1berty or
freedom.' Now, under any possibility, can tbis equilibrium he ever
frustrated or remain quiescent, even while its bodily or external sen-
sations have that appearance? There is a cherubic guard, as said be-
fore, ever rea<ly to prevent it, conducted by laws of order, and sus-
viii PREFACE.
'Vl1ile I thus uesire to be viewed as occupying a position which
•hall in no way commit the interests of the New Church with the
issues of what may be deemed an uncertain science, I would also
tained by the Divine Omnipotence. 'For the diYine sphere pro-
ceeding from the Lord is omnipresent, and constantly sees wh~re
anytlung is in danger; whereas an angel only sees what is near h1m,
and cannot so much as pt>rceivc, within himself, what is passing in
his own sCilciety.' And then may we not ask, in relation to the de·
velopment of this vital action, Can any gift or power be given t? man
for good and use, \Yithin the aphere of his operation, which it 11» not
his duty to accept and wisely adopt? It is unnecessary lo add any
more remarks at present upon this supposition and gratuitous as-
sertion, which requires proofs of its solidity, from tue writings of our
author. It is presumed, however, that in the theological writings of
Swedenborg, we have confinnatory proo(s of the existence, and of
some of the distinguishing properties, of this pnnciple of vital intl~­
ence. Its discovery is coincident in mantfestation and concurrent m
its effects. We therefore make our appeal to Swedenborg in proof or
testimony to the existence and to the order of this principle, for it is
the living principle in man, ant.! of which, as au organized form, he
is the proper recipient, and in different or distinct degrees; because
all the distinguishing qualities of his character, as a human being,
are the results of its manifestation, in the varieties of its development,
in the growth of his mind, ir. the arrangements, classifical ion, and
regeneration of all his active powers: in every moment of his exist-
ence, dependent and const.mtly receptive of ils jnflncuce, and this
both mediately and immediately. It iii the accomtnodated medium or
agent by which all activity and power originates, even all the forces
in the universe, and from which they subsist and continually exist.
To be thoroughly grounded in this conviction, the reader of 8'<'-eden-
borg must not only study the Little trE-atise on Influx, as au intn.>duc-
tlon, to gain some general ideas upon the suhject. but he must take
a more extensive range in tbe deep stuJy of the numbers of the ..&.1'-
cana Celestia, wherever the index refers to the terms Influx and Life.
And the reader of Swedenborg who has time and leisure to digest
these points _in our ~uthor, and then to compare them impartially with
the recent d1scover1es of the properties of this vital fluid in man, and
even Wlth the W@nders and phenomena of somnambulism will see
n~thing frightful, ~r repugnant, or contra1·y to our principle;4ftnd doc-
trmes, but all COIIStstent, Confirrualol'y, and in harmony ~\·ith S~·.-eden.
borg. For it is from him that we are instructed CI'DCernina the con-
tinual influx, passmg from the spiritual into the natural :orld · the
ioflowin~ of ltfe into organ~zed forms adapted to its reception: and
founded !D the nature of tbtngs, an~ .in harmony witb all the laws
of order.m the great systei? of lht:! d1v.1ne economy, and no less in har-
mony With the comm_?n. mflu.x, wbtch. descends by lower degrees,
equally sepat·ate and dtstmct, 1nto the hfe of animals and the sub.
jects of the vegetable kingdom."-Mesmeric Phenome;,a, 11. 25-27.
I
I
PREFACE. ix
deprecate the inference that I approve of the indiscriminate practice
of Mesmerism from motives of mere idle curiosity or public enter-
tainment, especially by novitiate hands. Indeed, I know of nothing
more calculated to bring the whole theme into contempt with the
SQber-minde<l than such Lectures as are frequently advertised by itin-
erant Magnetizers, who are willing to demean themselves to making
gain from the public exhibition of a power which can never be right-
ly regarded but as a most sacred endowment, that is positively pro-
faned by being turned to any account independent of 1tse and un-
prompted by benevolent motit'e. Moreover, when physically applied,
it is frequently a perilous agent in its effects upon the nervous iys-
tem, and though its curative powers in disease are oftentimes emi-
nently great, yet it is a law of its operation that its success shall de-
pend upon the character of the motive by which it is applied, and the
general discretion which governs its ministry. Regarded from a still
higher point of view-as the development of an interior state which
puts the subject into a new relation with the spiritual world-it is
fraught with a sanctity with which no right mind will trifle. The
highest moral and religious conditions are here requisite in both par-
ties, as the only guaranty not only against the most pernicious physi-
cal effects. but also against the liability to the most egregious delu-
sion!>, and a dangerous abuse of the moral sentiments.
I venture to express the hope that the copiousness of the quotations,
made necessary by the plan of the work, will not mar the reader's in-
terest in the perusal. Apart from their direct hearing on the general
scope, they will be seen to possess an intrinsic value from the character
of the psychological and moral principles which they embody. The
extracts from the various works on Mesmerism present an interesting
view of the main phenomena, while those from Swedenborg will be
seen to be entitled to the profoundest consideration, in whatever light
they are viewed, whether as confirming the truth of the former or not.
Nor would I ha,·e it overlooked, that, for the most }'art, I make no
account w:batever of the claims of clairvoyants to direct intercourse
with spirits. Without denying the possibility of the fact, or its oc-
casional actual occurrence, still I do not aim to e~tablish the truth of
Swedenborg's revelations by the similar revelations of Magnetic sub-
jects. Their alleged vi•ions may, for aught that concerns the scope
of my discussions, be justly regarded as artificial dreams, produced
by the excitement of the cerebral organs. On this head I have no-
thing to affirm-nothing to deny. I take simply the manifestations,
a.s developed in the ordinary state, and as evincing a peculiar mental
X PREFACE.
relation between the patties, and endeavor to show that these facts
receive their true and only explanation from what Swedcnborg bas
dtsclu.aed of the laws of ~piritua.l intercourse in the other life. The
ground of thi~:~ is his own grand position-that "man is a spirit as to r
his interiors," and in virtue of that fact, is unconsciously associated
with spil'its, and governed, as to his mental workings, by the same
laws with them. The denial and refutation of this principle will be
seen to be absolutely requisite to the rejection of the resulls which I
have affirmed to flow from it.
In relation to the extraordina1·y case of A. J. Davis, given in the
Appendix, I have indeed been compelled to view its phenomena in a
higher light than that pertaining to any other sample of the clair·
Toyant power. It will be seen at once to be a case altogether unique
and unprecedented. Still even this is not a case of direct revela-
tion of the facts of the spiritual world, like those of Swedenborg. It
is one where a supernatural knowledge is displayed on suejecta of
which be was previously ignorant, and which can only be explained
on the grour.d of the influx of the minds of spirits into his mind.
This circumstance renders his state a remarkable illustration, or de·
monstration rather, of the truth ofSwedenborg's disclosures, and how
vastly is the evidence of this heightened, when we find him uncon·
sciously reproducing Swedenborg's own philosophy, am) makiug long
verbal quotations from his works-works of which be had never read
a solitary page ! The narrative I have given relative to this young man
will doubtless encounter the most stubborn unbelief, but the facts by
which it ii fortified are beyond dispute, and I offer it to the world
without the slightestmisgiving on the score of ill po5sible future expo-
sure as an idle tale of imposition or delusion. That it will carry
conviction to the mass of my readers, I do not venture to say; but that
it defies contradiction in the form in which I bave given it, I unhesi-
tatingly affirm. Upon the evidence of the facts in the affair will de·
pend the soundness of the conclusion I draw from them. If, with
the impregnable array of the facts before them, my readers can draw
any other conclusion, I am assuredly somewhat curious to learn what
it is. G. B.
NEw·Yoax, Nov. 19,1846.
CONTENTS.
PAGE.
Introduction. , .........•.. , ....••.•.....••• , ••••• , . . . • 13
CHAP. I. Swedenborg's own state Psychologically
vie\ved. . • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . . • . . . . . . . . 23
CHAP. II. The more obvious Mental Phenomena of
Mesmerism-Transfer of Thought........ 34
CHAP. III. Phantasy. •• . • ••• •• • •••• •• •• . • •• •••• ••• • 57
CHAP. IT. Spheres.. ....•............••..... , . . . . . . 70
CHAP. V. Memory..........•.....•..... ~......... 86
CHAP. VI. Magnetic Vision•.•••••••••••••••••••••• 104
CHAP. VII.
CHAP. VIII.
CHAP. IX.
CHAP. X.
CHAP. XI.
Clairvoyance. . . . .. . . . . . ..• • . . . . . . . • . . . . . . 120
Magnetic Hearing•• , •••• , ••••.•••• , • •• • 138
Repugnance to Names••• , ••••••••• , •••• 144
'l,ruthfulness... .......••....••..•.• , • . . . 155
Conclusion. .......................• , . , . . 160
APPENDIX A. Revelations of A. J. Davis•••..••.•• ,., ••• 169
APPENDIX B. The Seeress of Prevorst••••••..••••• , ••• , 218
Distinction of Soul_, Body, and Spirit•• ,. 220
The Nerve-Spirit••••••••••••••..•• , •, , 22
The Sun-Circle and the Life-Circle. ••• 225
Separate Functions of the Soul and Spirit 228
The Language of Spirits•• , ••• , •,• •• ••• 234
On Spiiit-Seeing ••••••• , , • , , •• •• • •• • 239
Growth of Infants in the other Life. ••• 243
State of the Heathen in the other Life, • 245
The Forms of Spirits•• , •••••••••••••• 247
Spirits seen by a Spiritual Eye•• , •••.•• 249
The illuminated Eye •••••••••• •• • •• •• 350
APPENDIX. C. Swedish Document on Animal Magnetism. 253
APPENDIX D. Trance of Rev. William Tennent. ••••• • •• 281
ABBREVIATIONS.
TnE various works of Swedenborg are usually cited by the fol-
lowing abbreviated titles, which are adopted in the ensuing pages.
A. C.
A. E.
A.R.
T. C. R. -
C.L.
H. &H. -
D.L.&W.-
D.P.
S.D. -
E. U.
Ath. Creed -
.Arcafla. Oelest-ia.
- .Apocalypse Explained.
.Apocalyse Revealed.
Trtte Christian Religion.
Oonjugial Love.
- Heaven artd Hell.
Divine Love and Wisdom
- Divine Providence.
Spiritual Diary.
- Ea'rths i1~ the Universe.
.Athanastan C.reed
ERRATA.
The reader is requested to note the two following correc-
tions, which are important to a right view of the author's
mearung.
On page 163, seventeenth line from the top, instead of-
" when the only things,"-read "when the very things."
On page 252, near the bottom, read the whole sentence
thus :- "But a spiritual idea is one that excludes space and
time; and as death introduces a good spirit into a sphere in
which time and space are unknown, such a spirit comes, of
course, into a spiritual perception of the internal contents of
the Word." In the printing th~ word good was inadvertently
omitted, and universal 'vas erroneously written for internal
A few other trifling errors of type occur.
INTRODUCTION.
Tm: progress of scientific research at the present day has
distinguished itself not less by the \Videness of the field over
\Vhich its triumphs have spread, than by the soundness and
certainty of the inductions by 'vhich it is su~tained. The
bare mention of the sciences of Astronomy, Geology, Physi-
ology, and Chemistry, indicates the vast extent to which dis-
covery has pierced with penetrating eye; and though the
ultimatum of its conquests has left ne\v ".rorlds of truth to be
explored, yet it is impossible, on good grounds, to deny that
its main results have been e:stablbhed on the impregnable
basis of cautious observation and sound reasoning. This
claim, ho\veYer, does not preclude the ad1ni~sion, that theo-
ries of causation arc still broached, in many departments,
\vhich future and farther investigation "'\.Vill ~et aside or greatly
modify; but that an immense accession has been made, in
modern times, to the store of facts and phenomena previously
gathered, cannot be questioned. Equally indisputable is it,
that "'\.Ve arc continually approximating the true philosophy
\vhich underlies the enlarged and enlarging experience of the
current age. That this philosophy, \Vhen reached, will con-
duct ns into the sphere of the spirit11.al, as the true region of
causes, and disclose ne"'\.v and unthought of relations bet,veen
the 'vorlds of matter and of mind, is doubtless a very rea-
sonable anticipation, and one 'vhich is even no\v widely
though vaguely entertained. To multitudes of minds the
surprise will then probably be great to learn, that this result
had been long since not merely predicted, but actually
attained, in the sublime system of conjoint philosophy and
14 INTRODUCTION.
theology embodied in the works of Sv;'~'edenborg-a system
·which fully meets the present demand of the human mind in
this department, and supplies all the desiderata ·which ·will be
felt for ages to come.
It is of course by the limited few only who understand the
system in its length and breadth, that a concession ans"rera-
ble to so large a claim will be n1ade; by them, however, it
·will be made intelligeutly and cordially. They know that the
gulf of separation behveen the natural and the spiritual world
has been bridged by the disclosures of S"'·edenborg. They
are assured, too, that the conviction of this truth has come to
them in the on1y legitimate way-by a calm, careful, and
diligent pondering of its internal evidence. Nor can their
confidence in the results which they have reached be, by any
possibility, shaken, except by a process of reasoning which
shall show that the fundamental principles of the system are
'fl.ot the fundamental principles of hu1nan nature, anJ that the
clearest intuitions of their minds are not the intuitions of the
minds of other men. A prt'ori objections go with them for
nothing, so long as the specific testimonies of Swedenborg's
tntth are not encountered upon their own grounds.
:Meantime, as his adherents with one consent fu1d them-
selves forced to recognise a divine origin in these revela-
tions-as they refuse for one moment to regard them as the
outbirth or excogitation of any mere human intellect, ho\v-
ever exalted its order, however grand its endowments, how-
ever rich its resources-they naturally stand in ·watchful!JOS·
ture, looking for snch incidental confirmations of the truth as
the Divine Providence may see fit to bestow, for the sake of
those whose faith can only be yielded to higher verities by
being previously exto·rted to lower. Nor is it at all unreason-
able to suppose, that the same considerations \Vhich have
dictated the bestowment of a new revelation to the \vorld>
should operate to the gradual bringing forth of a mass of tes-
tunony that shall go to authenticate its claims. In this light
the recent marvellous developments of Mesmerism are un-
doubtedly to be viewed. These phenomena const1tute a
very interesting theme of study, considered silnpiy in therr
INTRODUCTION. 15
grosser physical relations, as pertaining to the human organ-
ism; but this is not the plane on which they prefer their highest
claizns to investigation. They bear as directly on psychology
as upon physiology. They c.ome into the sphere of Anthro-
pology just at the point where Anthropology \veds or v.relds
itself to Theology. These two departments \\'e hold it im-
possible fairly to separate. The truths of Anthropology are
the truths ''·hich take hold of the physical and psychical
natUl'e of man. They ascertain the constituent elements of
his being. They develope the laws, corporeal and mental, by
·which he is goven1ed in reference to the end of his being.
Theology also deals \\ith man as appointed to a destiny
·which shall be developed on the ground of his constitution
as a creature, as ,,-ell as of his character as a moral agent.
In conducting inquiry on this head, vve assume it as a postu-
late, that the facts of man's nature in the present \vorld, are
to be regarded as a criterion of the facts of his nature in the
other \Vorld; or, in other woTds, that what man is in the
present life, as far as his spirit is concerned, is to be consid-
ered as an exponent of what he is to be in the other life ; for
~-e hold it to be i1npossible to conceive, that he shall be
sub.
r;tantially different in the one state of his being from what
he is in the other. He lays aside i:o.deed, at death, his gross
material body, but the true man is the internal man, or ilie
soul, \vhich survives the body, and goes into the spiritua
world in the full possession of all the essential powers and
faculties by \Vhich he is distinguished here. His thoughts,
his memory, his affections, go ·with him \Vhen he forsakes the
earthly tenement, for they are the elements which constitute
his essential and identical self; and this, we say, must remain
substantially the same both before and after death.
It follows, then, from this, that whatever goes to throw
light upon the inner constitution and laws of our intellectual
being, while sojourning in the body, tends at the same time
to elucidate the conditions of our future existence. The more
we kno\v of ourselves here, the more ,,.e know of what \Ve
shall be hereafter. This knowledge is continually being aug-
mented by the results of physiological and psychological
16 INTRODUCTION.
research, and in this field of science it cannot be questioned
that the phenomena of l\1esmerism have unfolded a ne'\V
pbasis of our natnre, replete 'vith novel, striking, and
momentous bearingf' npon the philosophy of mind. What-
ever else may he said of them, they do assuredly disclose an
entirely new class of facts in the department of psychology-
facts, the reality of which it is impossible to explain away,
and the importance of which it is impo.;:;sible to overrate.
After every abatement on the score of delusion, whether vol-
untary or involuntary-after the fullest concession that may
be demanded as to the unhappy auspices under 'vhich the
facts have often been exhibited to the ·world-yet we confi-
dently affirm that the leading phenomena, both physical and
mental, have been clearly established; and the rejection of
the evidence of this, so largely accumulated, affords one of
the most astounding proofs of incorrigible scepticism and
direct hostility to truth that stands on record in the annals of
the hmnan mind.
It falls not within the scope of the present essay, to attempt
the proof of the dominant facts of .l\1esmcrism, nor to deal
with the physical branch of the subject, any further than 1nay
be requisite to the adequate exhibition of the lllgher and 1nore
spiritual phenomena. The general truth of the .:Mesmeric in-
fluence 1ve shall take for granted, because we consider it
incontestably established; and we shall address our remarks
to those who share with us in this conviction. For ourselves
we have seen, heard, read, examined, and experimented,
and having, in common 'vith thousands of others who have
gone through the same process, become perfectly satisfied
as to the leading facts in the case, 've come before the world
with the results of our induction in our particular department
of the subject-the psychological or spiritual. To those who
are inveterately skeptical on the whole then1e, \Ve can pro-
mise neither satisfaction nor entertainment. We shall proba-
bly be barbarians to all such. They must first cross the ves-
tibule before they can take their place in the temple. vVe
speak to tho~e who can understand us, and of these happily
the number lS not small. Among them we have the inward
INTRODUCTION. 17
assurance, that there are multitudes who are darkly groping
for the light ,lV·hicL. we hope to proffer them. They have be-
come acquainted with phenom.ena of a ne'v and astounding
character~ and which they are confident are to be referred to
some grand and fundamental law of our being that has hith·
erto escaped detection. They are therefore eagerly looking
for some clew that shall guide them to a true solution of the
many marvels 'vhich cluster upon them. We have a strong
conviction that tllis clew maybe afforded. Not perhaps that
every 1nystery pertaining to the subject shall be fully cleared
up, but 've are still firm in the belief that the curtain may be
in a good degree lifted from the hidden things of this science.
This we propose to attempt; and that, too, by bringing the
subject into juxtaposition ·with the spiritual disclosures of
Swedenborg. The main phenomena of Mes1nerism are men-
tal. They involve the laws of mental communication between
one spirit and another. They bring us, therefore, into pre-
cisely that sphere of phenomena ·which Swedenborg pro·
fesses to unfold. His claim, it is 'veil kno,vn, is to have been
supernaturally put into a eondition that enabled him to hold
converse 'vith the spiritual '\Vorld, and to lay open tc? human
view its otherwise inscrutable mysteries.
This, w·e readily grant, is a high claim, and one that is to
be substantiated by adequate evidence. \Vhatever may be
our estimate of the intellectual endowments or moral worth
of the man, his o'vn bare assertion will be insufficient to
beget faith in his revelations. The requisite evidence must
either be that of miracles, or an internal evidence pertaining
intrinsically to the disclosures themselves, by 'vhich they
shall so approve themselves to our reason-so seize upon
and command our convictions-that the necessity of farther
testimony shall be superseded. It cannot be doubted that
this latter kind of evidence is by far the most valuable and
important; for though we do not hesitate to affirm that mira-
culous testimony can be adduced in favor of Swedenborg's
revelations, yet it is equally certainthat those miracles would
be explained away by the incredulous philosophy of the
present age, nor have we any reason to .suppose that they
18 INTRODUCTION.
'\vould have been admitted by the mass of men, even though
they had occurred before their own eyes. They would have
found s01ne mode of accounting for then1 other than that
'\Vhich implied their truth, just as the Je,vs did in regard to
the miracles of the Saviour. The intrinsic evidence of truth
is no sufficient guaranty of its admission where the fitting
moral conditions are 'vanting. Accordingly Swedenborg
himself never relied on them or referre 1 to thetn in proof of
the authority of his mission. He built his claims to credence
on entirely another basis. He appealed exclusively to the
intrinsic character of the things declared to be revealed to
him. He submitted the whole matter to the intuitions of the
human mind in regard to the fundamental principles jnvolved
in it. He left it wholly to the decisions of the universal rea-
son of man, judging from internal evidence, to authenticate
or annihilate the truth of his pretensions. He is indeed to be
considered as virtually, though not fonnally, making one
simple demand, ·which '\Vill be conceded to be entirely rea-
sonable in itself, viz. that sufficient time should be allowed
for the maturing of that evidence on which a portjon of his
ui::;closures resLeu, aiHl uy which Ll1ey were ultimately to be
established. This, I say, was a reasonable demand, and so
it will appear if it be considered that he grounded his dis-
closures of man's destiny hereafter upon the truth of man's
essential naturehere. But this nature was notfully developed
in the age iu which he liveu. The true science of 1nau, like
all other sciences, is progressive. His bodily and mental
constitution was not then sufficiently unfolded to afford all
the test of the truth of his averments of '\Vhich it 'vas capa-
ble; nor is it yet by any means fully developed. But in the
space of eighty or a hundred years since Swedenborg made
his revelations. great advances have been made in the field
of Antluopology, and we have at least neareel the time when
we are justly authorized to submit his claims to the appro-
priate test.
It strikes us that this condition is entirely equitable, and
that upon the grounds of it a perfectly fair issue is made. A
man rises up in the n1iddle of the eighteenth century, and
•
INTRODUCTION. 19
assures the world that for moral ends of the utmost moment
to mankind, he has been intromitted, in a supernatural way, "
into the spiritual ·world, and been thereby enabled to n1ake
known to his fello-w-creatures the essential nature of Heaven
and Hell, or, in other words, the veritable state of human
spirits after their departure from the body. He most expli-
citly declares that the future destiny of every individual is
the natural, normal, and necessary result of those laws, whe-
ther physical, psychical, or moral, by which he is distinguish-
ed in the present life. At the same time, he goes on the
tacit assumption that a portion of those la·ws ·were not yet,
in his life-time, disclosed with sufficient clearness to make
the truth of his revelations at once universally apparent.
But the time was to come when the great facts of Anthro-
pology would be so investigated and established as inevita-
bly to compel the inference, that just 'vhat he has stated of
the other life is true, and that no other conclusion can possi-
bly be dra·wn. \Vhen this state of things is reached he may
justly·be entitled to say," From the evidence afforded I claim
to be received as a truthful reporter of the facts of the spirit-
ual world ; and if the facts are sustained by the evidence,
then I den1and a statement of the grounds on 'vhich my
claims to the character of a commissioned messenger from
Heaven are denied. Could I have revealed the facts if I had
not been divinely empowered to do it?" Can anything be
more fair and reasonable? Can any just exceptions be taken
to the criterion thus propounded ? The test is before us; we
have only to apply it.
Here then is the pointwherethe phenomena of 1\fesmerism
come into contact with the professed revelations of Sweden-
borg-and the object \Ve now have in view is to point out,
with as much distinctness as possjble, the coincidences be-
tween them. It will, we think, be granted that if it can be
satisfactorily shown that the leading facts of Mesmerism, in
what may be termed its higher or spiritual manifestations,
are precisely those which 've should be led to anticipate, pro-
vided Swedenborg's announcements of the nature of spirits
and the laws of their intercourse are true, the inference can-
•
20 l'XTRODUCTION.
not well be resisted that they are tnte. It is certainly upon
no different principle that we receive and rest in the New-
tonian theory of the great law of gravitation, viz. that the
facts ·which come under our obsen~ation are just such facts
as would occur on the assumption that the theory is a sound
one. The theory accounts, and accounts satisfactorily, for
the facts.
I know, indeed, that the asserted facts of Mesmerism are
regarded by multitudes as no facts at all. They contend that
the evidence adduced in their support is inconclusive, and
that \Vhatever effects of this nature may realJy have been
produced, arc due to other causes, and are capable of some
other solution, than one which supposes the absolute truth of
the alleged influence. \Vith such persons I propose to have
no controversy. The ohject of the present discussion \vill
not allo\v of any such diversion as would be requisite to
meet and answer inextenso the objections urged on this score.
To those who are candidly in pursuit of evidence, I can only
say they will find it in large abundance in the numerous pub-
lications-now amounting to at lea..c;;t 2000-devoted to the
subject; and ifthis does not satisfy them, the ·way is open to
put the matter to the test of their own personal experiments,
as there is no mystery in the process, and no privileged caste
to whom the phenomena are laid open.
In accomplishing the object I have before me, it \Vill be ex-
pedient, on the one hand, to display the prominent facts and
phenomena which usually reveal themselves in the Mesmeric
experiments; and, on the other, to adduce such portions of
the disclosures of Swedenborg as obviously coincide with
them, and explain them; and thus show that the t\vo classes
of developments belong to the same order of phenomena.
My ultimate scope is to evince that all the higher or mental
manifestations brought out in the l\fesmeric processes were
well known, though not under this name, to Swedenborg;-
that he has fully and perfectly described them ;-and conse-
quently, that whatever there is of the character of fact in the
:Mesmeric results, it reflects the character of truth upon Swe-
denborg's revelations; for it is impossible, when the evidence
•
INTRODUCTION. 21
is 1nesented, not to see that ·we are brought in both into con-
tact with precisely the same class of phenomena. vVhen this
is shown beyond dispute, it will remain for a skeptical world,
so long habituated to ridicule Swedenborg's disclosures as
the dreams and visions of a crazed enthusiast, to reconsider
the verdict which it has so selftcomplaisantly pronounced.
It will remain to be accounted for, how the ravings of a
·wild monomaniac should have uttered themselves, 'vithscien-
tific exactness, in the language of the soundest philosophy,
Nor is it to be forgotten, that the facts which have no'\V be-
came science, ''"ere at the outset, upon their first annuncia-
tion, rejected and ridiculed with just as hearty a good "'\Villas
the reputed idle dreams of Sweuenborg, ·which those very
facts are now turning into philosophical verities.
As, in the prosecution of my argument, I shall have fre-
quent occasion to refer to tny own experience, I beg leave, in
the outset, to bespeak a charitable and favorable opinion, on
the part of my readers, as to the intrinsic reliableness of my
statements. I am indeed willing that he should make all the
abatement he deems necessary, on the score of the propen-
sity which every man has to plead strongly in behalf of any
conviction that has sprung up and become established in
his own mit1d. But in regar<l to the process by which this
conviction was originally produced, I am emboldened to de-
mand that I should be considered as hav.ing been governed
by adequate evidence, and as having taken all due precau-
tions to guard against imposition and delnsion. So far as
my own consciousness may be appealed to, I can say that I
was prompted in the first instance to inquiry uy the simple
desire to attain the truth. I cannot conce<le that I \vas ac-
tuated by any other motive than would naturally infinence
any candid and reflecting reader of these pages, to institute
an impartial inquest into the alleged faets of Mesmerism.
Having no personal interests to warp my judgment, and being
well aware of the need of caution in dealing with develop-
ments of so strange a character, I proceeded, as I think any
careful inquirer '\Vould do, to submit the matter to repeated
and rigid tests, and that in a great variety of forms and in an
extended list of cases. Many of them were cases in which
22 INTRODUCTION.
he subjects had never before l>een brought under the ]nflu-
ence, and \vho were of a general character snch as utterly to
preclude the idea of any thing like trickery or deception. As
to deception on my own part it'\vas wholly '\vithout an object,
and in many instances I hau no one to deceive ueside myself
and the unconscious subject, with perhal)S a mother or sister
sitting by.
If, then, auy one can conceiYe hilnself as carrying on such
a process of experiment in a fair and rationaln1anncr, '\Vith-
out a predetermination to beheve, and without a special lia-
bility to be duped by his o\vn senses, 1 trust he w·ill be willing
to allow to me the capability of pursuing the same course
unuer the same conditions; and if he \vould deem it an inju-
rious reflection, to be charged '\Vith a ,,·eak credulity, when
perfectly conscious that he had only yieldeu to the ilnpera-
tive force of evidence, let it not be thought strange that I also
co11fess to some c..legrce of sensitiveness on tllis score. I ask,
therefore, of 1ny reader, that he grant to me \Vhat he would
ueem it equitable should be granted to himself in like circum.
stances.
SWEDENBORG'S OWN STATE. 23
CHAPTER I.
SWEDENBORG'S OWN STATE PSYCHOLOGICALLY VIEWED.
IT ·would doubtless be a very natural a pri01·i inference, that
if Swedenborg, in virtue of his being brought into a preter-
natural state of extacy or trance, has been enabled to disclose
the peculiar phenomena elicited by Mesmeristn, his state
must itself have been in reality l\1esmeric. The probability
of this may also be said to be heightened by the fact, that the
reports of clairvoyants, wherever they touch upon the mar-
vellous things of the spirit-world, are usually found to be in
marked analogy, so far as they go, with what Swedenborg
himself says in regaru to the same class of subjects. All this
would seem to imply a community of condition in the re-
spective cases; and advantage has sometimes been taken of
the coincidence to throw a disparaging cloud over the claims
of Swedcnborg. He has been tenned a self-mesmerised clair-
voyant, although of a very high order, and his revelations
held to differ only in degree from those ·which are frequently
elicited from other subjects, less gifted, indeed, but, in their
measure, no less truly illuminated. An admission to this
effect ·would strike at once at the root of all the peculiar au.-
tlwrity claimed for his disclosures and doctrines, which
1nakes it important that the truth on this head should be set
in a clear light.
The point at issue can only be determined by presenting
the ordinary characteristics of the Mesmeric state by the side
of those ·which distinguished the case of Swedenborg. The
main facts in the usual processes are, the agency of one per-
son in producing what is termed the magnetic sleep in ano-
ther, by means of certain manual and mental 011erations, and
the complete subsequent oblivion, in the subject, of every-
•
2-l 1\IES::\IER AND S\VEDENBORG.
thing that had occurred during the trance. The case of S'\\·e-
dcnborg, in all these respects, was cutirely the rever:o1c. His
state was not a state of sleep-it was not one which any
other lnnnau being had any agency in producing-nor was
it marked by the least ab~euce of recollection upon coming
out of it, if indeed there was any such thing as coming out.
On the contrary, he was in the perfect possession of his con-
sciousness during the whole time. Unlike the magnetic
seers who are in a state of internal but not, at the same tin1e,
of external consciousness, Swedenborg was in both at once.
His prerogati\·e ·w·as the opening of a spiritual sight which
left him still in the full enjoyment of his natural sight.
" Hence he could know and distinctly describe, in his state of
external consciousness, what he s:nv with his sph·itual eyes,
and could know, with perfect accuracy, free from all illusion,
what was going on around hin1 in the natural \Vorld, at the
same time that he perceived what was transpiring in the
spiritual \Vorld. And so perfectly \\'as he in the possession
of external consciousness while in the exercise of his spiritual
perceptions, that on one onca~ion, when moving in a funeral
procession, he was actually engaged in conYersation with
the spirit of the person whose body he was following to the
grave.''* So 'vide is the interval that separates the state of
orilinary clairvoyants from that of the ilhuninated l1erald of
the New Jcn1salen1. There is, "'e conceive, just the same
ground for afiirming that Isaiah, and Daniel, and John were
:Mesmerised, as that Swcdenhorg was.
Our main proof in regard to this position is to be derived
from Swedcnborg's o'vu statements respecting the condition
into which he was brought in order to be made a 1nedium of
divine communications. His 'vorks are rich in references
to the psychical peculiarities of his own case, as if from a
foresight of the very natural and proper curiosity which
would be entertained respecting it; and the citations will be
founcl highly interesting frmn the fact that, in making the re-
quisite discriminationsbetween his own and all similar states,
he has evitu·ed a 1ninnte acquaintance ·with the promineut
• New Charchman, Yol. I. p. 33.
S\VEDEN:BORG'S O'VN STATE. 25
Mesmeric phenomena, and that at a time 'vhen these dis-
coveries, under the name, were as yet unknown to the ,,.·orld.*
No one acquainted with the l\iesn1eric effects can fail to
recognise a most distinct portraiture of them in the following
extract:
" There are two kinds of visions, differing from those"\Vhich
are ordinarily experienced, and which I was let into only that
I might kno'.v the natnre of them, and 'vhat is meant by its
being said in the \Vord, that they were taken out of the body,
* The following passage contains what is to be regarded as little
short of a direct and formal enunciation of the remarkable power
which has been so clearly developed since his day. The work
from which it is taken was published in 17G3; Lhe clairvoyant fac-
ulty was discovered, not by Mesmer, but Puysegur, in 1784.
"Human wisdom, which is natural so long as a man lives in the
world, cannot possibly be exalted into angelic wisdom, but only
into a certain image of it; but still the man in whom the spiritual
degree is open, comes into that wisdom when he dies, and may
also come into it by laying asleep the sensations of the body, and by
influx from above at the same time into the spiritual (principles) of
his mind."-D. L. ~· W. 257.
Romething very similar appears also in the following passage :-
"Even with the wicked corporeal and worldly things may be laid
asleep, and they are then capable of being elevated into something
heavenly; as is sometimes done with souls in the other life, par-
ticularly such as are recently arrived, w·ho have an intense desire
to see the glory of the Lord, because they had heard so much about
heaven when they lived in the world. Those external things with
such are then. laid asleep, and they are thus raised into the first hea-
ven, and enjoy their desi1·e."-A. 0. 20U.
A more distinct alluswn to the fact of spirits' sleeping in the other
world may be seen, H. 4- H. 411: "Certain spirits, not of au evil
sort, sunk into rest, as into sleep, and thus as to the interiors, which
are of their mind, they were translated into heaven; for spirits,
before their interiors are opened, can be translated 111to heaven,
and be instructed concerning the happiness of those who dwell
there; I saw them when they had thus rested for half an hour,
and were afterwards conveyed back into the exteriors in which
tbey before \Vere, aud at the same time also into the recollection of
what tlley h!d seen: they said that they had been amongst angels
in heaven, and that they had there seen and perceived things stu-
pendous, all shining as of gold, silver, ancl precious stones, in won-
derful forms, which were admirably varied; and that the angels
were not so much delighted with the external things themselves, as
with those which they represented, which \-Vere cliviue, ineifable,
and of infinite wisdom, and that these things were to tllem a source
ofjoy; besides innumerable things which could not be expressed
in human languages, not even as to a ten thousandth part, nor be
admitted into ideas containing any thing material.''
,
,
26 MESMER .AND S\VEDEN.OORG.
and that they '\Vere carried by the spirit into another place.
As to the first viz. the being taken out of the body, the case
is this: 1nan i~ reduced into a certain state, which is Inediate
between sleepina and ·waking; when he is in this state) he
cannoL know bt7t that he is ·wholly awake, all his senses
beino- as much awake as in the most perfect state of bodily
wak~fulness, not only those of sig~t a~1d hearing, but ':rl~at
is wonderful, that of touch also, which lS then 1nore exqu1s1te
than it is possible for it to be in bodily ·wak~fulness. In this
state also s-pirits and angels are seen to the hfe, and are a.lso
heard and what is wonderful, are touched, scarce anytlung
of the' body then intervening. This is the.state described as
being' taken out of the body,' and in 'vhwh they kno·w not
'vhether they are in the body or out of t~e bo~ly.. I have
only been let into this state three or four times, JUst m order
that I 1night know the nature of it, ~nd that spirits and an-
gels enjoy every sense, even touch, in a 1nore perfect and
exquisite degree than that of the body. As to the other
ltinu, viz. the being carried by the spirit to another place,
the nature of this abo \vas sho'\Vll me, by lively expe-
rience, lmt only t\vice or three times. I \vill 1nerely re-
late the experience. \Valking tluough the streets of a
city, and through the country, and being at the same time
in discourse ·with spirits, I \vas not aware but that 1 was
equally ~wake, and seeing as at other times, consequently
\valking without 1nistakiug my way. ln the 1neantime I
was in vision, seeing groves, rivers, palaces, houses, men,
and other objects : bnt after walking thus for son1e hours, on
a sudden I w·as in bodily vision, and observed that I \Vas in
another place. Being greatly amazed at this, I perceiveu
that I had been in such a state as they were, of wh01n it is
sa~d, that.they "\Vere carri~d by the s~irit to another place.
It lS so smd, becaw:~e, dnnng the continuance of this state
there is no reflection on the length of the \vay, were it ever{
many mile.s; nor on the lapse of t~ne, \Vere it 1nany hours or
days; nor 1s there any sense of faugne : the person i:s also led
through way~ which he hi~self is ignorant of, lmtil he c01nes
to the place Intended. Tlus \vas done that I 1nirrht kno\v
also that man 1:nay be leu by the Lord withottt his
0
kno,ving
'\Vhence .or 'vhlther. But these two specie~ of 'Visions are
extraordmary, and \Vere shown 1ne only "\Vith tllis intent that
I might knowthe nature and quality of them. But the v'ie,vs
of the spirit~1<1;l world ordinarily vouchsafed me, are all such
as, ~y the <.hvme mercy of th~ Lord, are related in the FIRST
PART of the present work, bemg annexed to the be{J'inning
and er:d of eacl~ chapter. These however, are not ~isions,
but th1ngs seen m the most perfect state of bodily ·wakeful-
ness, and now for several years."-A. C. 1882-1885.
SWEDENBORG'S OWN STATE. 21
It cannot be questioned that this is a very striking descrip-
tion of the leading phenomena of ~Ie81neris1n. Yet the fol-
lowing extracts will show that the state induced upon Swe-
denborg hi1nself \Vas altogether of a superior nature.
cc Since by the splrit of man is meant his 1ni.nd, therefore,
BY BEIXG I~ TIIE sPIRIT, which is sometimes said in the \Vord,
is meant a state of the mind separate from the body; and be-
cause, in that state, the prophets saw such things as exist in,
the spiritual 'vorld, therefore that is called the t•ision of God.
Their state thenwas such as that of spirits the1nselves is, and
angels in that world. In that state. the spirit of man, like his
mind as to sight, may be transported from place to place, the
body remaining in its o'\\'11. This ig the state in"\Yhich I have
now been for twenty-six years, "\Vith this difference, that I
have been in the spirit and at the same tiine in the body, and
only seYeral times out of the body. That Ezekiel, Zechariah,
Daniel, and John when he ":-rote the Revelation, were in that
state, is evideut."-T. C. R., 157.
"In~tead of 1niracles, there has taken place at the present
day an open manifestation of the Lord Himself, an intromis-
sion into the spiritual world, and with it illumination by
immediate light from the Lord in 'vhatever relates to the inte-
rior things of the church, but principally an opening of the
spiritual ~c11:::e of the '\Vord, in \vhich the Lord is present in
his O"\"\tll Divine Light. The~e revelations are not miracles,
because every man as to his f.pirit is in the spiritual 'vorld,
"·ithout separation fr01n his body in the natural ,\·orlcl. As
to myself, indeed, my presence in the .spiritual world is
attended '\''ith a certain separation, bnt only as to the intel-
lectual part of my 1nind, not as to the will part. This mani-
festation of the Lord, and intromis~ion into the spiritual world,
is more excellent than all miracles; but it has not been
granted to any one since the creation of the world as it has
been to me. The men of the goltlen age indeed conversed
\vith angels; but it was ·not grautcc.l to them to be in any
other light than what is natural. To me, however, it has
beeu granted to be in both spiritnal and natural light at the
same time; and hereby I have been privileged to sec the
wonderful things of heaven, to be in company "\Vith angels,
just as I am with n1en, and at the same time to pursue truths
in the light of truth, and thns to perceive and be gifted with
them, consequently to be led by the Lord.>'-.Hobart's Life of
Su-ed., p. 42.
"I foresee that many, who read the Relations after the
chapters, ·will believe that they arc inventjons of the imagi-
nation; but I assert in truth, that they are not inventions, but
28 MESrtiER AND SWEDENDORG.
"~ere truly seen and heard ; not _B-een and heard ~1 _
any st~te
of the mind burjed in sleep, but 111 a state of full" al...efulne~s.
· For it has pleased the Lord to n1nnif~st Hin;tself to me! aU<.l to
send me to teach those rhmgs \vhich wtll be _
of lus Ne'v
Church. 'vhich is meant uy the Ne\v Jerusal~m n;t the Reve-
lation; for '"'hich enu He has opened. the 1ntenors ~f my
mind Of spirit, lJy \Vhich it has been grven !TIC ~0 be lll the
spiritual \vorhl with angels, ":nd at the sa1ne tune 1n the ~at~I­
ral world with men, and th1s no\v for twenty-seven ) e~IS.
Who in the Christian world would have known anythmg
concernin(Y HEAYE:-l AND HELL, unless it had pleased the Lord
to open inbsome one the sight of his spirit, and to sho\v and
teach ?''-T. C. R., 851.
"After that the problem concerning the soul ·wa~ can,·ass~d
and solved in the gymnasimn, I smv the1n conung forth 111
order, and before thetn the chief teacher, after lum the elders;
in the midst of the1n were the five youths who replied, and
after these the rest; and ·when they ·were come forth, they
went apart to the environs about the house, \Vhere ,~·ere
piazzas encompassed 'vlth shrubs; aud being there gathered
together they uivided themselves into small companies, which
were so 1nany assemblies of youths discoursing tog-ether on
subjects of wisdom, iu each of which was one wise person.
age from the orchestra. These being seen by me fr01n my
lodging, I became in spirit, and in spirit I went forth to then1,
and came near to the chief teacher, who had lately proposed
the problem concerning the soul. He, on seeing me, ~aid,
' Who art thou ? I was s1.uprised as I saw thee approaching
in the "\Vay, that at oue 1nstant thou earnest into my sight,
and the next instant thon \veutcst out of it, or that one \\·hile
thou.wast seen by ~e, anu suddenly thou wast not seen;
certamly thou art not 111 the same state of life that we are in.'
To this I replieu smHing, 'I a1n not a puppet nor a Vertummr.s,
but I am alternate, one while in your light, and another "·hile
in you~ shade, thus a foreigner and also a. native.' Hereupon
the ch1ef teacher looked at me, and said, • Thou speakcst
things strange and wonderful; tell me \d10 thou art.' And I
sai~, 'I am in the world in ~vhi~h ye have been, and from
WhlCh ye have ueparted, Wluch lS called the natural \VOrld
an~ I am abo in tl_te '~orld into which yc have come, and i1
{
~1uch ye are! wJuch 1s called the spiritual "\Yorlu; hence it
lS,.t~mt I am ~ a natural state, and at the san1e tilne in a
~p1ntua~ ~tate, m a na~nral state with men of the earth, and
111 a sprr1tnal state With you; and when I an1 in a natural
state I am not seen by you, and when I mn iu a spiritual state,
I am seen; tl~at such should be my conditio11, ,,,.as !!h-en of
the Lord. It lS known to thee, 0 illustrious man, that a man
of the natural world doth not see a man of the spiritual \Vorld,
S\VEDEN'BORG'S OWN STATE. 29
nor vice versa; wherefore when I let my spirH into the body,
I 'vas not seen by thee, but when I let it out of the body, I
'vas seen."-C. J., 326.
From these paragraphs it is obvious, that Swedenborg's
extatic state was of a vastly higher order than any that come
under the ordinary denomination of :Magnetic or :Mesmeric.
As he claims-and that, as \Ve believe, on vali<.l grounds-to
have been selecte<.l by the ~lost High himself, to be the de-
positary of the most momentous revelations respecting the
world of spirits, and the laws of its intercourse with the natu-
ral world, it is reasonable to suppose that he should have
been gifted with an interior illumination far transcending that
which is ever witnessed in those psychical phenmnena that
are every day elicited under the hands of professed magneti-
zers, and which are as easily exhibited as the commonest
experiments in chemistry or natural philosophy. At the same
time ·we are ready to conceue, that there is not only a resem-
blance, but an actual and intimate relation, bet\\reen the states
of the clairvoyants and of S'vedenborg. They both rest to
such a degree on the common laws or potentialities of our
nature, that the case of the former makes that ofthe latter alto-
gether credible. There is in both a species of awakening ofan
interior spiritual faculty; or, as it is more frequently termed,
the opening of an interior spiritual sense, w·hich clouhtless de-
pends upon the operation of a common la\v. 'Ve do not see,
at any rate, how any one who has, or has had, before him a
clear case of the ~1esmeric extase, can doubt the possibzhty of
Swedenborg's having been iu precisely the condition he
affirms of himself; and the admission of the bare possibility of
the fact removes perhaps the grand objection to its actual
occurrence. At the same time, it wonld be eminently unjust
to overlook the marked clistinctions 'vhich he himself lays
down between them, anti to confound the lower \V"ith the
higher manifestations. It is obvious that Swe<.lcnborg recog-
nised an immense difference between the power ''.rith which
he was giftecl, and that which is clevcloped in the case of
ordinary clairvoyance. He speaks with the knowlcclge of one
who had experienced both ; for he tells us that nlthough he
was three or four times " let into " what was virtually the
30 MESMER AND SWEDENBORG.
magnetic state, it "·as only that he might know the nature of
it, while hi' ordinary state "·as incomparably more elevated,
as was plainly required hy the euds which "·ere to be an-
swered hy it. He is therefore fully competent to speak npon
the subject u as one hadng authority ;" and considering the
stupendous order of his intellect, and the distinguished sanc-
tity of his private life, no man was ever less likely to be iln-
poscd upon by the hallucinations of fancy or the illusions of
sense. That he actually needed all the securities derivable
from these source", in order to guard him frolll the invasion
of those delnsi\·c and phantastic influences w·hich 'vould
have rendered him, ·what multitudes still demn hi1n, a dream-
ing visionary, is clear fron1 his 0\"\'11 statements.
"Something shall no\v be said concerning the disconrse of
spirits with 1nan. It is believed by 1nany that man may be
tan!!ht of the Lord by spirits speaking with him; but they wlw
believe this, and are 'willing to believe it, do not know that it is
contlectetl trith danger to their souls. l\'Ian, so long as he lives
in the world, is in the midst of spirits as to his spirit, nnd yet
spirits clo not know that they are \Vith rnan. nor doth man
know that he is with ~pir~ts ; the reason is, because they are
conjoined as to affections of the will immediately, anti a::, to
thoughts of the understanding mediately; for 1nan thinks
naturally, hut spirits think spiritually; anc.l natural and ~pi­
ritual thought do not otherwise make one than by corres~
pondences: a union by correspondences causes that one
doth not know anything concerning the other. But as soon
as ~ph·its begin to speak with man, they come ont of their
spiritual state into the natural state of Inan, and in this C!ase
they know that they arc \.Vith 1nan, and conjoin themselves
with the thought::; of his affection, and from those thonrrhts
spe~k \\·ith h~m: they cannot cuter iuto anything else~for
Sl_mt_lar_ afTectwn and co~1sequ~nt thought conjoins all, and
d1ssnn1lar separates. It 1s ow1ng to this circumstance that
the speaking spirit i<; in the same prz11c1ples wtth the mntl to ~l'lwm
h~ :>peaks. u•hether tl~ey_bc true ~,.false, pt~d likewise that he ex-
c.ttes them, aucl by Ius a!Tectwn conJomed to the man's affec-
tion ~trongl~ c~mfir~s. them: hence it is evident thnt none
other than s!mtlar sprrtt~ speak wi~h mat~, or manifestly ope-
rnte np.OI~ lum, for mamfe~t opcrattm~ co~ncitl_es with speech.
Hence .1t b that no other than enthuc;;tastlc ~ptrits speak \Vith
enthusm-..ts_; ~lso, that no ~ther t!1~n Quaker spirits operate
upon Unal\.er;:,, an.cl ~Iorav~an sp~nts upon l\Ioravinns; tlte
ca.~e would be .sumlar w1~h. Anans, with ~ocinians, atHl
w1th other heretics. All spu1ts speaking with man are 110
SWEDENBORG'S 0\VN STATE. 31
other than such as have been men in the world, and were
then of such a qnality; that this is the case hath been given
me to kno'\v by repeated. experience. And what is ridicu-
lous, 'vhen man believes the Holy Spirit speaks with him,
or operates upon him, the spirit also beliet-·cs tltat he is the Holy
Spirit; this is common with enthusia-;tic spirits. From these
consi<.lerations it is e·vident to u•hat danger man is e:r::posed, who
speaks ·with spirits, or who manifestly feels their operation.
1\Ian is ignorant of the quality of his own affection, whether
it be good or evil, and '\?ith what other being.:. it is conjoined;
and if he is in the conceit of his own intelligence, his attend-
ant spirits favor every thought which is thence derived ; in
like manner if any one £s disposed to favor particular principles.
enkindled by a certah~ fire, '\vhich hath place with those who
are not in truths from genuine affection; when a spirit from
similar affection favors man's thoughts or principles, then
one leads the other, as the blind the blind, until both fall
into the pit."-A.. E. 1182.
" Those who think much on religious subjects, and are so
intent upon them as to see them as it were inwardly in them-
sel\'es, alsobegin to hear spirits speaking with them; for the
things of religion, whatever they are, when man from him-
self d\.vells upon them, and does not modify them by the va-
rious things '\Vhich are of use in the 'vorld, go interiorly, and
there sulJsist, ami occupy the whole spirit of the man, and
enter the spiritual 'vorld, and move the spirits who are
there ; but such persons are visionaries and enthusiasts, and
whatever spirit they hear, they believe to be the Holy Spirit,
when yet they are enthusiastic spirits. Those 'vho are such
see falses as truths; and because they see them, they per-
suade themselves, and like\vise persuade those '\vith whom
they flow in."-H. ~ II. 249.
"They who are simply called spirits infuse falses, inas-
much as they reason against the truth, and are in the delight
of their life, -when they can make what is true to appear as
false, and what is false to appear as true; hut they, w·ho are
called genii, infuse evils, act into the affections and concupi-
scences of man, and scent in a moment what man desires ;
if this be good, they bend it most cunningly into evil, and
are in the delight of their life, when they can make good to
be apperceived as evil, and evil as good. It was permitted
them to act into my desires, that I might know of 'vhat na-
ture they are, and how they act; and I can confess, that
unless tl1e Lord had guarded me by angels, they would have
perverted my desires into concupisccnces of evil, and this in
a manner so hidden and silent, that I shonld scarcely have
apperceived anything about it.-A.. C. 5977.
MESMER AND SW'EDENBORG.
" Tlwt spirits relaw titinsts exceedingly.fictitions, and lie. When
spirits uegjn to 5peak "\Vlth man, he lllUSt beware }cRt he.be-
lieve them in anything; for they ~ay a~m<:>st anythmg; tlnn~s
are fauricated by them, and they he: for if they w~re permtt-
ted to relnte 'vhat benven is, and bow things are m the hea-
Yens, they ,vould tell so many lies, and indeed ·with solemn
affirmation, thatman 'vould be astonish~d; wherefore, :vh~n
spirits ,vere speaking, I ·was not perm1tted to have fa1th lll
the things which they related. For tl~ey are ~xtremely fond
of fabricatin 0'; and 'vvheuever any subJeCt of d1scourse JS pro-
posed, they tbink that they kn~'v it, and give their opinio~s
upon it one after another, one ill one w.ay and anot~er m
another, altogether as if they kne'v; and If man the~1 h?tens
and. believes, they press on, and deceive and seduce In dtvers
ways: for example, if they 'vere permitted to tell about things
to come, about things unknown in the universal heaven,
about all things whatsoever that1nau desires, yet [they would
tell] all the things falsely, 'vhile from themselves: wherefore
let men be,vare lest they believe them. On this account the
state of speaking with spirits on this earth is most perilous,
unless one is in true faith. They induce so strong a persua-
sion that it is the Lord Himself 'vho speaks and who com-
mands, that man cannot but believe and obey."-S. D. 1622.
" Tltat the things which I learned in rep?·eserztations, visions, and
from discourses with spirits and angels, are j1·om the Lord alone.
\Vhenever there ·was any representation, vision, and dis-
course, I was kept interiorly and most interiorly in reflection
upon it, as to what thence was useful and good, thus what I
might learn therefrom; which reflection was not thus attend-
ed to by those who presented the representations and vis-
~ons, and who were speak.ing ; yea, smnetimes they ·were
mdignant, wh.en they percerved that I 'vas reflecting. Thus
have I been mstructecl; consequently by no spirit, nor by
any angel, but by the Lord alone, from whom is all truth and
~ood : rea, when they wished to instruct me concerning va-
rtons tlungs, there was scarcely anythina but what was false:
wherefore I was prohib.ited fro~ believil~g anything that they
spake; nor was I pe~1rutted to infer any such th]ng as was
prop.er .to them.. Bes~des, when th~y '':ished to persnade me,
I I?erce1ved an mtenor or 1nost mtenor persuasion that the
thing was such, and not a~ they wished ; which also they
wo~dered a.t: the perception \V~ manifest, but cannot be
eas1ly clescnbed to the apprehenswn of men."-S. D. 1647.
".T.hat spi1'i~s .speaking are little t~ be believed. Nothing is more
famlhar to sp1nts who a.re speakmg, than to say that a thing
~ so or so ; for they thmk tl~at. they kJlO'\V everything, and
mdeed solemnly assert that It 1s so, when yet it is not so.
SWEDENBORG's OWN STATE. 33
From cxperiinents made several times, it may be evident of
what quality they are, and ho'v they are to be believed:
'vhen it is asked [of them] '"hether they know how this or
that is, then one after another says that it is so, one different-
ly from another; even if there were a hun<lred, one w·ould
say differently fr01n another; and indeed for the time with
confidence, as if it "\Vere so, 'vhen yet it is not so. As soon
as they notice anything which they do not kno,v, they im-
mediately E-ay that it is so: besides very n1any other proofs
that they speak as ifthey kne'v, \vhen yetthey do not lmo"\v."
8. D. 1902.
" That spirits may be 1.'nduced, who 1·epresentanotherperson; and
the spn·it, as also he who was known to the spirit, cannot kno'W
othe·rwise than that he was tlte same. This has many times been
sho·wn to me, that the spirits speaking with me did notknow
otherwise than thatthey vvere the 1nen "\vho were the subject
of thought; and neither did other spirits know otherwise ;
as yesterday and to-day, some one known to me in life [was
represented by one] ·who "\Vas so like him, in all things which
belonged to him, so far as they were known to me, thatnoth-
ing was more like: "\vherefore, let those who speak "\vith spi-
rits beware lest they be deceived, when they say that they
are those whom they know, and that they are dead.
" For there are genera and species of spirits of a like facul-
ty; and when similar things are called up in the memory of
man, and are thus represented to them, they think that they
are the same person: then all the things are called forth fr01n
the memory ·which represent those persons, both the words,
the speech, the tone, the gesture, and other things; besides
thatthey are induced to think thus, when other spirits inspire
them; for then they are in the fantasy of those, and think
that they are the same.-S. D. 2860, 2861.
Fron1 all this the grounds 'vill be apparent on which the
men of the Ne'v Church unanimously refuse to admit, that
Swedenborg's extatic state, psychologically considered, is to
be regarded as but a peculiar form or phase of the ordinary
Mesmeric state, and therefore that his visions are no more to
be deemed the embodiment of 1·evealed verities, clothed with
the authority of heaven, than those ofthe Seeress ofProvost, or
any other lucid subject of these mysterious workings of the
inly awakened spirit. To their estimate he stands before the
·world in entirely another character. Although they profess
not to comprehend the real intrinsic nature of the effect
wrought upon his spirit, to enable him to hold converse 'vith
34 MES!'tiER AND SWEDENBORG.
the spiritual ·world, yet they have no hesitation to decl~re,
that they regard it as substantially the san1c a~ that wluch
<.1istinl')'uished the ancient prophets, ·when u thmr eyes were
open;d and they beheld the visions of God." The intuitions
ofclairvoyance they put in entirely another_cate,gory. Tho~1?h
referable in the frrst instance to the same mherent capalnl1ty
-the same psychical potency-with that on ·which the exta-
cies of the prophets rest, yet the conditions under whioh the
faculty is developed in the re~pective cases, puts a heaven-
wide difference between then1 and also between their results.
Cl{APTER II.
THE MORE O'BVIOUS blENTA.L PHENOMENA OF MESMERIS.l\1,-TRANS-
FER OF TIIOUGHT,
h is not, perhaps, an easy matter to drn:w the exact line of
demarcation between those effects of the lVIesmeric agency
which may be denominated physical, and those that are usu-
ally classed under the head of mental or spiritual. vVhat are
in ordinary parlance termed [Jodtly sensations, are doubtless.
in strict propriety, to be referred, not to the body, but to the
spirit; for the bouy being in itself a mass of dead matter, can
not in truth be the subject of sensation. A lifeless corpse feels
nothing, although the material organism remains as perfect
as before. The body plaillly derives all its sensitive po·wer
from the animating soul or spirit. 1-Vhen, therefore, we per-
ceive the evidence of a certain relation established bet\veen
the l\Iesmeriser and his subject, in virtue of ·which a sympa-
thy or community of sensation is n1anifestly seen to take
place, \ve ~re doubtless dealing with phenomena which pro-
perly pertam to the mental sphere. That facts of this nature
perpetually occur in the Inagnetic processes, is well kno\vn
to all those who are conversant with the subject. Indeed
TRANSFER OF THOUGHT. 35
they constitute a leading part of their most familiar experi-
ence. The operator, unc;een by his subject, puts a pnngent
substance int<:> his tnouth; the J\Iesn1erisee immediately tastes
it, and will usually designate the article. ~o let the mag-
netiser receive a prick from a pin on his hand or any pnrt of
his person, an<.l the subject will complain of being hurt, fre-
quently in the part affected, but if not there, \viii still evince
by uneasy and \vincing movements, that a sensation of pain
is experienced. And \\rhat renders the fact still more astound-
ing is, that in these cases the subject is in his own person
usually altogether or partially insensible to pain from any
source.* This, in a variety of forms, has fallen so often
* "'The operator next asked if we had any substance, of a de-
cided or pungent tnste, that we could put into his mouth? I had
a few strong ginger lozenges in my pocket; I placed one of them
in his mouth, while he was holding the patient's hands in his. He
then asked her, in. a low voice, what she had in her month'! Her
lip~ moved, as if in the act of tasting, and she replied, without
hesitation, ·It is ginger.' I then took the operator's seat, silently
putting into my own mouth a quantity of common salt, from a
salt-dish on the table. I took firm hold of the patient's hands, and
!he was again a:-.ked what she had in her mouth. Her lips moved
agflin, as in the act of tasting, ant!. she hesitated. 1 had, up till
this Lime, kept the salt on my tongue, without any action or suction,
so that it was not di~~olved, or, at all events, had never touched
the palate. The operator told me to ~wallo..,..,· the substance which
I had in my ruouth. Tlus I accordingly diu, and she immediately
said, 'It ic; salt.' Se\leral of the other vi ~iters tried other sub-
stanccs,-sugar, water, ginger again,-and ::-he never failed to state,
'\Vith perfect correctne=-,, what the :mbst:lnce was. One of the
gentlemen who accompanied me was sitting opposite the patient,
holding her han(l:, in his, and when we pulled lns hair, or pinched
l1is arm, or pricked his hand with a. needle, sl1c shrunk at every
one of thc~e opcrations,-told distinctly, and without a moment's
he!-titation, whether her hair was pulled, her arm pinched, or her
hand' jaggeu with pin'l,' as she called it. The smgular part of this
experiment is~ that while ~he feels mo-.t acurely anytl1ing that
may be done to a person holding her hauds at the time, !'he is to-
tally unconc:cions and jnsensiblc in her own person. Her own
hanils were pricked with a needle., anu a few hairs were pulled
by the roots from her head~ WJthout the :.lightest shrinking or symp-
tom of sensation."--La1tg on .:J1'Iesmcr·ism~ p. 102.
"Did any one strike or hurt mo in any part of the body when
Ann~ )I-- was in ~leepwaking, ~he i~t~media.t ely c ~trricd her
hnnd to a corresprmding part of her own pexsou. Thus ~he would
rub her own shoulder when mine was smarting with a blow, mani-
festing that the actual n{trves of that part were, pro tempore,
36 1\!ESl\[ER AND SWEDENBORG.
'vithin the range of my o\vn observation, and fr~quently 'vhile
being myself in a different room fron1 the subJect, that not a
shadow of doubt as to the grand fact remains. It has been
repeatedly tried in the presence of wituesses who ·were in-
'rited, when in another room, to submit the matter to any test
they pleased, and whose peculiar n1ode of producing sensa-
tions in the magnetizer 'vas extemporaneously sugge~ted to
their own minds, and could not therefore have been 111 any
way the result of collusion.
But upon this class of phenomena I do not propose to
d'vell, although I cannot but regard them as being intrin-
sically as ·wonderful as anything 'vithin the range of the
1\lesmeric developments. For what can be more surprising
than this1msignalled transfer ofsensation? Yet as they will not
be regarded as falling within the range of the more purely
spiritttal characteristics of the state, I for the present pass them
by ; and so also with respect to the effect of 'volition upon tlz.e
musculm· organization of the other party. This is one of the most
restored to their functions. Once an incredulous person came
near me \lnawares and trod upon n1y font, which was quite hidden
under a chair. The sleepwaker instantly darted down her hand
and rulJbed her own foot, \\~iLh an expression of p:Un. Again, if
my hair was pulled from behind_, Anna directly rai5ed her hand to
the back of her head. A pin thrust into my hand elicited an equal
demonstration of sympathy.
"I have already remarked that, when the mesmeriser eats, or
drinks, or smells anytlling, his patients go through the same mo-
tions, as if the impact of the substances were on their own nerves.
But this, it may be said, m.ight be referrecl to the simultaneity of
motion which I have shown to exist occasionally between the sleep-
waker and the Me:-meriser. I have, however, a very strona- proof
that tbc former has reaUy au impression on the nerves of tas~e cor-
responding with ~hat of the lat.ter. Three of my sleepwakers (on
whom alone I tned the .exper.Iment) could in no way distmguish
substances when placed m theu own mouths_, nor discriminate be-
tween a piece of apple and a piece of cheese· but the moment
that~ ·was eating, they_, seeming to eat also, c~nld ;ell me what I
had 1.n my r:nouth. Once. I tried this_, before many witnesses, on
the su;ter of Theodore~ Wlth some pieces of fig which I had care-
ful}.Y co~cealed_, and the experiment answered perfectly.
Agam, Anna l\'1-- heard my watch ticking when I held it to
my O'-VO ear, though not when she held it to her own. In the
former ca.~e. she assured me that she heard the sotmd exactly as if
the:vatchwereclosetoher own ear.''-Townshtnd'a Facts in. Mts-
merum, p. 150.
TRANSFER OF THOUGHT. 37
obvious among the mesrneric manifestations. The move-
ment of the head, hands, and arn1s, will generally, especially
in fresh subjects, be found to be obedient to the 1vill of the
magnetizer.* The cause of this we pretend not to explain,
any farther than to say, that it depends upon the peculiar
psychological relation which subsists, for the time, between
the parties, and upon this a strong light at least \Vill be cast,
by ,..,hat \Ve shall by and by adduce from Swedenborg,
respecting the influence ofspheres.
In relation to both these classes of phenomena, I ·would
here however observe, that if the asserted facts are true, l.VIes-
merism is true. The great gulf of admission is shot when
the evidence is conceded to be sound, that one person comes
into such a peculiar relation to another, that his sensations
and volitions, without the medium of vocal or ocular, or any
other outward signs, are reflected from the corporeal organ-
ism of the other. There are in fact no subsequent develop-
nlents which tax credulity any more than this. If my sen-
sations may thus l>e made to pass into another corporeal sys-
tem, and be there reproduced-if my volitions can be made to
act on the nervea and muscles of another frame, and be there
followed by the same effects as in rny o\vn-then it is per-
fectly easy to conceive that my thoughts also n1ay be, in like
manner, transferred from my own mind to that of another.
For it is plain that neither my sensation nor volition fall simply
upon dead matter. They come into contact with that inte-
rior psychical apparatus which animates and orders the phy-
sical organism, and which is equally the seat of thought.
How can it be any more difficult for my thought to be repro-
duced in another than my taste, my smell, or my sense ofpain?
Are not these all really mental IJhenomena? I say, if these
,. The truth of this may easily be put to the test by a very simple
experiment. Select a person who h::ts a soft moist hand. Let him
lay it with the inside of the palm upwards upon his knee. Let the
operator draw his own palm several times over it witl.t considera·
ble vigor. If he then holds his hand over it, gradually elevating it
as with the purpose of raising the other hand) it will often be found
to yield to the attraction and follow it, as the metal docs the mag-
net, to a greater or less height. When this experiment succeeds,
the same effect may usually be produced by simply willing the
hand to rise.
3
I
38 MESJ\-IER AND SWEDENDORG.
facts 01·e true, the grand conclusion results that the substantial
claims of l\Jesmerism are established. And surely alleged
facts of this nature are tcorthy the investigation of scientific
minds. They ovgltt to be put to the test, ancl their trnth or
falsehood unequivocally settled. The process is perfectly
shnple, involving nothing operose or ambiguous. There are
hundreds of judivicluals in the community, having control of
l\1esmeric subjects, \vbo \\7ould be most happy to afford every
facility to any commission of medical or scientific men, to-
wards submitting the matter to the most Tigid and satisfac-
tory test. They are willing to do it under circumstances
'\vhich shoJI preclude the possibility of their ov.rn collusive
agency in any one step of the process. They '\Vill consent to
leave the specific arrange1nents very much to the choice and
dictation of the arbiters, with however one clause of excep-
tion, viz. that the object of the h1quest shall be, at any given
time, a single class of phenomena only. They will not consent
that what are called the physical and the mental shall be inclis.
criminately mixed up in the investigation, so that a failure in
clauvoyrmce, for iiistance, shall nullify, as it will be very apt to
do, the eviclence of the truth of sympathetic sensatzon. As they
haYe not a command over the laws and influences which
often 1nodify or frustrate the 1neutal effects, they dee1n it due
to themselves not to peril the judgment of the whole by the
possible non-success of a part, when their experience teaches
tbem that this ·will invariably l>e the result. The success of
one class of experilneuts w·illnext to never be admitted, if
there is the least failure in another. Their ground, therefore,
'\vhich is perfectly fair, is this-they ·will say to any commis-
sion:-(( Gentlemen, '\ve profess ourselves aule and entirely
\Villing to afford you conclusive proof that our sensatwns and
volitions are reflected, without the use of any intermediate
signs whatever, in the person of the Mesmerised. subject. \.Ye
ple_clge our~elves to .this and to nothing more. If you are
sat1sfied w1th the evidence, we are willing to leave it to you
to draw the legitimate inference from the facts established as
to the possibility and probability of such higher manife~ta­
tions of the state as are often said to be '\vitnesseu, and as '\ve
are assured are witnessed, but 'vhich we do not see fit to en-
TRANSFER OF THOUGIIT. 39
gage to produce, and that simply for the reason that we some.
ti1nes find hidden canses at "·ork, over wlueh ·we have no
controlt that pre,·ent then1. Among these is a certain impres.
sion of sacred,1ess in the n1inds of subjects as to the intended
use of these remarkable po,vers, which is not favorable to
exhibitions aiming solely to gratify curiosity. But "\Ve claim,
that if the one class of phenomena he true, the other may be
also; and not only so, but that the fair inference i~, that they
are true, inasmuch asthe same psychieal principles arc brought
into play in both." :Multitudes of enuorsers to this challenge
are ready at any time to step forth. But will it be accepted ?
Yes, ,,-hen a pure unadulterated LoYe of Truth shall over.
S\"Vay the paltry pleadings of self-interest, as controlled by
popular prejudices.
As the evidence of the tmn.ifer of thought in the 1\fesmeric
relation is conclusiye to the minds of all who are conversant
with the subject, I shall make that the theme of my present
reu1arks. It is to this feature of the phenomena that s,veden-
borg·s elucidations pre-eminently apply. In adducing the
proofs of the fact I shall draw in part from my o'vn experi-
ments, and in part from the relations of ot11ers, the truth of
'Yhich I know no reason to question, since thousands of siln-
ilar testilnonies could easily be brought together. Should this
be deemed a loose and unscientific method of procedure-a
hasty endorsement of apocryphal narratives-and that too in
a department of inqu.iry where nothing ought to be taken for
granted-1 can only repeat in reply, that I write not to con-
vince skeptics, but to inform believers. I have those in my
eye wlw know the grand asserted facts to be tn1e ; and even
if the particular accounts cited should be in some points,
upou strict inve~tigation, liable to doubt, still there remains
an immense amount of state1neuts of a similar character,
sufficient to establish the main position. The object of the
present 'vork being to explain facts, ancl not to snbslantiate
them, I feel entirely at liberty to adduce such instances as
shall subserve that design, ·without entering into a critical
estimate of their authenticity. I repeat, if they are not true,
thousan<ls of similar ones are. As to my own statements of
facts, they 1
nay be relied on as punctilwusly true. The reader,
40 l'IIEStm::R AND SWF.DENDORG.
ho,,-e,·er, will of course exercise his o\vn discretion ac: to the
degree of erccJit to "hich he may think them entitlccl, an(l !30
also as to the inferences he may be con$traincd to draw fron1
them. I haYc little concern as to the verdict of another's juclg-
mei1t, \Vheu fortifie.d by that of Iny O\VU conscience.
\Yhile engaged ln \vritiug the work on the "Rcsurrectjon
of the Body," I \ras put in couunuuication \V.ith a lady in the
magnetic swte, to "·hotn I proposed the question, ·whether
she would 1nentally visit 1ny stndy-,vluch, by the way, as
1ny friends can testify, does not afford a very remarkaule
specimen of onlerly arrangement. She alluded to this cir-
cumstance-spoke of the queer appearance of my books-that
many of them were old, some open, and son1e shut, but that
they \Vcre in such strange languages that site could scarcely
read one of then1. I then asked her if she could sec n1y
manuscript papers ? " Yes," she replied, .. but I do not see
bo'v you are ever going to get them printed, unless you put
them together. \Vhy don't yon arrange them uettcr?" I had
said nothing about any intention of printmg. I then proposed
the question, whether she could tell 1ne the subject Twas
\\Triting upon, of which I am perfectly confident she had not
lhe lea!'t intimation.• After a short pause she said, in a solilo-
quizing "'Tay, " Raisec.l up-the raising of the c.lead-the dead
* I am well aware of tlte futility of all attempts, in case~ like the
pre~enr, to convince the skeptical rea<lcr of the previon~ ignorance,
~n tl!e pn.r~ o~ tile subje~t, of tllc fact::- adv~rted to. He w~ll per-
stst In behevtng tlwt th1:5 yonnti lady, for m~tnnce, hatl in some
way Lecamc apprised of my intention of pnblishing a work on the
Rc.-urrectiou_, and of the particular vie\YS it was designed to aclvo-
ca.te. To tlns I can only oppose my o"·n absolute assurance, that
t1us was not the ca::;e. She was then almost an entire stran"'Cr to
me, moving in a~ entirely difll.~rent ·walk in life-! had never before
seen her but twJCe or three tunes-there were no circumstances
that c?~1ld tend to make l:er acquainted with my private purposes
of wnt111g-and at a pen~d when many of my intimate friends
·were no~ aware of my bemg en~pged in the work allu<lecl to, it is
very unlikely tllat .an obscure m1lliuer girl should have obtained
the knowledge. ~f lt. There was intrinsicaiJy just as much reason
for tile su~po:s~t1on, t~at five hun~lrccl other young latlies, in the
same vocatiOn m the. c1ty of~cw 1: ork, shoultl have known of m
purpo~e and my subJect, as that she should. I c::ay t'-
1
'.;; }
10
, ..e y
. b l d d u -' "' vcr,
'\\'11 . ver:r s eu er hope that .any a_ssertion or asseveration to this
effect, will have the least wmght w1th the maJ·ority of p 1
1 · d '· · . ersons w 10
1ave never ·w1tnesse any tu1ng sunilar.
TRANSFER OF THOUGIIT. 41
raised up." To this she added that she had never before
heard of any such ideas on the subject as those she perceh·ed
in tny mind, nor had she ever known any one who had. She
\vas of the Epi.5copal Church, and had never been in contact
'vith those who had called in question the literal resurrection
of the body.*
On several subsequent occasions I put this po,"'.·er of fol-
lowing my thoughts to still fnrth~r tests. I once took her to
"' I adduce in this connection the following extract from :Miss
Martineau's Letters, to which the reader will gi,·c a.s much or as
little weight as be may dee111 it to desen·e. I think I may state it,
howc\'er, as a general fact, that Mesmeric subjects, whatever were
their previous opinions, know in that state nothing of the resurrec-
tion of the body.
"On Saturday, October 12, she had told us that -:he now' saw the
shade::. or things' that ~he wanted to know, and that she should
'soon ~ce clearer.' The next evening, she went into a great rap-
ture about the' gleam::-' becoming brighter, so that she should soon
see all ::.he wished. The light came through the brain,- not like
sunlight, nor moonlight; 'No, there is no light on earth like this:'
the knowledge she got' comes astonishingly-amazingly- so pleas-
antly!' 'How is the Mcsmcrizing done which causes this ~ ' 'By
all the powers at once.' '\Vhat powers l' 'The soul, and the
mind, and the vital powers of the body.' Then, as we inquired-
' Tlle mind is not the same as the soul. All ;:ne required in 1\Ies-
merizing, but the mind mo::.t, though :Mesmerism is still something
ebe.' 'Those three things exist in every human being, (the soul,
the mind, ancl the body,) separate from one another; but the
facultie:; belonging to them are not the same in everybody; some
have more, some le::.s. The body dies, and the mind dies with it;
bnt the soul lives after it. Tl.te SOLll is independent and self-existent,
and therefore live::, for ever. It depends upon nothing.' Here J
prompted the question, ' \Vhat then is its relation to God~' She
hastily replied, 'He takes care of it, to reunite it with the body a t
the day of judgment.' Here I was forcibly and painfully struck
with tbe incompatibili1y of the former and latter saying, not (as I
hope it is needles~ to explain), from any waiting on her lip:; for
revelations on this class of ~ul>ject:., but becau.:e it wa· painful to
find ltcr faculties working faultily. As I felt this disappointment
come over me, an expre:5sion of trouble disturbed J."s face, so inef-
falJly happy always during her sleep. ' Stop,' said she, 'I am not
sure al.>ont the last. All I said before was true-the real lUesmcric
truth. But I can't make out about that last; I heard it when I was
awake-! heard it in church-that all the particles of our uotlies,
however they may be scattered, will be gathere'l together at tite
day of judgment; but I am not sure.' And :;ltc became excited,
~aying that it ' bothered her,' what she knew and what she had
heard being mixed up."- l).l iss :fti artineau's Ltttcr~ on Jl.l umerilm,
p. 12.
42 !>IES;:\lER AND SWEDENDOilG.
the interior of a cotton factory, which she fir~t thought to be
a church fr01n the nmnbcr of people collected there, but after.
w·ards said she saw them taking off something "~hite, and
then remarked that there ,,~as so ~nuch noise and coufu::.ion
that she could not stay there. On coming out she described
the surrounding scenery with great correctnes:;, though she
had never been '':ithin several hundre<l 1niles of the place.
At another time I took her in the same way to the Falls o
Niagara. She described the fall of 'Yater; anti saic.l she
should become <leaf if she staid near it. On still another oc-
casion I requested her to describe what I ,,~as theu contem-
plating in my own 1nincl,-a torch-light procession in Broad-
\vay. She spoke of the banners, the n1ottoes of w·hich she
tried to read, the horses, and the multitudes of people, say-
ing, "There's no end to them." In all these cases she had
no clew '\vhatever to my thoughts, except the thoughts the1n·
selves.
\Yith this subject I have tried scores of similar experiments
with similar success. Her ans""vers 'vere not in all cases
given "\Vilh the same precision, but there was still evidence
that her tho11ghts were controlled by mine, and though the
impression was somewhat obsc1u·e, yet the original prompt-
ing idea was plainly to be recognised. And I may here re-
mark, that nothing is more unreasonable than to make the
degree of the reflection of thought the criterion of its reality.
The great question is, whether there is decisive e,·i<lence that
the silent action of one 111incl is made in a11y degree to bear
upon that of another. If so, JJiesmerism is true. There are a
thousand secret influences 'vhich prevent the perfect transfer
of mental conceptions. But the claim ought to be conceded
if the phenomena be witnessed even in the smallest de"'ree.
If a ce~tain effect is, in full view of all the conditions, fairly to
be attnbuted to but one cause, that cause is entitled to be
recognised as the true one."'
* On anoth~r occasion ! w?-s pr7sent when a clair"Voyant young
lady was.put m commn.mcauon wnh a distinguished actrc='s, with
~vhose.mtnd she came 1~1 such close contact, that she detailed in
lts mam features, an<.l wtth the utmost correctness, the entire plot
of a play of which the other lady was in the habit of acting the
TRANSFER OF THOUGHT. 43
The follo\ving cases, taken from different authorities, 'vill
be seen to be of the same character. If they are doubted, it
·will be by those who 'vould doubt any statements of a simi-
lar kind, no matter by \Vhat testimony supported. With such
've have no argument to 1naintain. \Ve refer them to their
o'vn senses.
''On a great number of small cards there were ·written be-
forehand the different movements which the persons present
may make the somnambulist perform, by presenting to the
l\Iagnetizer such of the cards as tnay express their desire.
1\I. Ricard, after this plain adn1onition, repeated each time,
Callixte, my fnend, pay attention, I am going to speak to you;
reads mentally the phrase, or phrases, \vhich were just pre-
sented to him, adds not a 'vorcl, makes no gestnre, and Cal-
li:\:te, who constantly has the bandage on him, obeys his
thought.
"a. The first card presented toM:. Ricard bears this phrase:
Let the somnamhulist 1·aise~ at the same time, his two legs. The
lVlagnetiser, after his usual admonition, proceeds, but Callixte
does not comprehend; his lower extremities are agitated by
different movements, but his feet do not quit the ground.
" b. The second card bore this phrase : Let the somnambulist
raise the left arm. The mental order is given; Callixte performs
it, and. raises mecharucally the left ann, sayiug, with a tone
of impatience, that he does not tmderstand.
"c. Tbe third card: Let the somnambulist rise, talce foU1· steps,
and tottch with hi.s right hand the chest of his 11Iagnetizer. The
same procedure on the part of 1\I. Ricard; Calli..\:te reflects an
instant, rises, \valks, counting his steps, hesitates s01ne sec-
onds, then finishes by completing the performance of the
myste1ious order which he has received.
''d. Callixte is seated at the extrem.lty of the room, in such a
manner as to turn his back to us ; an organ is going to play
an air in the ante-cha1nber, and 1\l. Ricard says to me,' vVben
you 'vill make me the signal, the somnambulist shall beat
the time of the air which is going to be ].Jerformed, and
he ·will cease to beat when you 'vill express to me the
'vish that he should do so by another signal. This being
agreed on, the organ commences; I make a signal to .lYI.
Ricard, and Callixte beats the time: some minutes after,
principal female part, and which the Mesmcrisee had never read
or heard de'lcribed. The fact of the relation of the plot can be
attested by five witnesses of most uncrnestionaule integrity, and the
character of the young lady is a sufficient voucher with all who
know her for the truth of her statement, that she had never read
the play.
•
44 MESl\lER AND SWEDENBORG.
make my second signal, ana Callixte ceases.to beat the ti~e.
I recommence he recommenccR; I wjsh bnn to stop agnm,
and he stops; 'quicker than lightning my thought ilies from
me to the l\1agnetizer, and fr01n the .:Magnetizer to the som-
n mnbuli~t.
He. I myself dra\v at hazard three of the cards fr01n a hat
where they ''T
ere mixed; their united sen.se forms this phrase :
Let the somnambullst 'riM, mount on a chau, and let lumself fall
BACKWARDs 1nto the arms of Ids 1J!agnet£zer. The cards being
presented to the 1\Iagnet'i:z;er, Cal1ixte rises, ~ounts on a
chair, hesitates, then lets hrmself fall all at once Into the arms
of J\1. Ricard, \Vho fancies himself upset by the violence-of
the shock.
" These are the facts such as they occurred, without any
change, exaggeration, or addition by me; fifty-nine persons
'vould be there to convict me of a lie if I acted othenvise. I
kno\v already what consequences disinterested readers "\Vill
draw from them. "\Vith respect to medical1nen most of them
will not believe them, because that, as they do not under-
stand them, the 'vhole is either a self-deception or a decep-
tion of them. To explain conunon facts, as they explain
everything, and to deny extraordinary facts, that is their eter-
nal system, th~ vicious circle, ar~und which their incredulity
has been runnmg for the last slX.ty years."-Teste An. .Jlag.,
pp. 12-!-126.
"The singular faculty with which certain extatics, and a
small number of somnambulists, are endo\ved of penetrating
into the thoughts of the persons around them before these
thoughts have assumed a sensible form, is one of those \vhich
haYe excited the greatest share of incredulity. However
even before direct observation had. convinced me of the ex~
istence of this faculty, the testimorues which go to establish
it are so numerous, and seem to me so respectable, that I felt
mvself rather dir.posed to believe in it. In fact, since the
l\liddle Ages, at the time of those epid.e1nic extasies, \vhich
Prof~ssor Ar~dral wc.~s the first ~o consider in a truly philo-
soplucal pomt of v1ew by rangmg them in the numher of
pathological facts; from the tune of the convulsionaries and
of the possessed, the communicationoftltoucrht \vas an admitted
fact, so much so, that it constituted the l~atborrnomonic cha-
racter. of pos.~essio~1, an~ it was not permittedbto proceed to
exorCisms before 1ts ex~stence '\Vas ascertained. Father Snrin,
\Vhen charged to recapltnlate the proofs of the possession of
the religious nrsnlines of Loudun, presents us oue of the 1
nost
indisputable., th~t th~y told t.he most. secret thoughts. 'The day
after my arr~val, \Vntes th1s cand1d ecclesiastic, 'there \Vas
at the exormsm a man \vho expressed to me a desire to see
•
TRANSFER OF THOUGHT. 45
if the <lemon kne'\v onr thoughts. I bid hun to form a com-
mand in his mind, and, after he had made it, I pressed the
demon to do that which the man had commanded hiln; after
having refused for some time, he went to take on the altar
the case 'vhere the Gospel of St. John was, and this man
stated positively that he had commanded in his mind the
dem.on to show the last gospel which had been said at ma8S.
" ' One of our fathers, wishing to try if it was true that the
demon knows our thoughts, formed another command \V'ithin
his breast for the demon, \vho was on duty, and then formed
another,-in a ·word, \dthin tlle ~pace of an instant, he formed
five or six commands, and, revoking them one after the other,
he tormented the demon by saying, obedwt ad menlem. The
demon repeated quite a/owl aLl the commands which this jathe1· had
formed in his mi11d for him. He coiiDnenced at the first, then
said, '' But monsieur does not ·wish it." Being at the seventh,
he said, "\Ve'll see whether we shall execute this," where he
has at length fixed., •
"In a case communicated by l\1. Barrier, a physician of
Privas, to Dr. Foissac, the subject of it \vas a young e.xtatic
female, named Euphrosine, \Vho possessed so perfectly the
gift of clivining the thoughts of the person with \vhom she
happened to be, that she readily kept up a very well-con-
necteLl conversation. in which one of the interlocutors spoke
but mentally. 'At the time of my second ,-isit,' says l\1. Bar-
rier, 'I fouucl Euphrosinc, ~..ith her body forming the arch of
a circle. in tLe middle of her room. She restecJ on the grotuld
by the heels ancJ the top of her head ; more than tweuty per-
sons \vere around her ; all observed the 1nost religious silence.
I approached, came up close to her, and Yvished the patient
good nwrning, carefully checkil1g my tollgve and bps.
"'Good 1noming. :Monsieur Barrier,' she replied.
" ' "\\ hen will vou c01ne to La Voutte ?'
cc' As soon as "ever it is possible.'
"I turned to\vards the mother, and said to her,-
"' Your daughter divines the thoughts, place yourself in
contact with her and try.' \Ve soon heard Euphrosine pro-
nounce these ·words, 'To Alissas.' A moment after, she re-
peated~ in a sprightly manner, 'No, to Alissas, I told you.'
]}lladame Bonneau had proposed to her daughter to go the
following day to Cous to walk with her; the secmrl time she
pressed the same plnce for a walk. A friend of hers placed
herself in contact with her, and presently \.Ve collected these
\\~onls, 'Eh, fool, do yon think I do not know that you are to
go to Vernoux?' The friend grew pale, but recommenced
her questions. 'No, it is very far from that,' replied Euphro-
sine. This lad.y stated to us that she had said to the }Jatient,
mentally, that she had to go the next day the journey to
3*
46 !\1E5MER AND SWEDENDORG.
Yasencc, and that she "~m1hl execute her commissions if she
hnd nny to g-ive her; at her ::.e.-·ond qnc:Stion, sllc nsh:ed her
if ::she ~hould lind l1cr llll~lmnd nt Venwnx. Three or four
dayR afrcr, I met this pcr:::-on at Vcruou.x; ~he l omcs np to
me an1l with a terrified air she told me of tlw abscncu of
her' tw...l;~md. A wngoncr tiwn con1es,_nucl itnmetliatcly '"·e
heard the "·ord:S, '~o. to Ia Voutte.' 'flus mau had proposed
to her to bring her to Auuenas. The greater part of those
J>reo:.ent ntldrcssed mental qnc~tions to her; ~h.e. answered
finnh· and instantancono:.lv \Vlth the grcate~t preet:--t.m. Some
ehildi·cn abo wi~hcd to niakc trial~. bnt she ~c11t thmn away
good-lunnoredly, calling each uy name.'
.. Case~ similar to that JlO\V stated nrc, no doubt, very nn-
lncrons in the annal-. of the medical ::-cicnce~, ntHl \Ve mi!!ht
readily <Hhlucc proof:; of jt if we were not afraid to augn1eut
our work by t\\'O many quotations; bnt a matter which it. is
of importance to n to oh ·crvc is, that solely to the exi::>tence
of thi" facnltt\Jf mental peuctration n1ust be referred the sup-
po::ition, formerly as:::crtcd by exorci::;ts and magncti.sers, viz.
that the po;:.ses:s !u of the one, and the somn:nnbuli~ts of the
others, understood alllangn:tgcs.* \Ve shall ta kc the oppor-
tunity at another time of recurring to this subject.
"The communication ofthoughts is ob:'ervcd less freqnently
in ma!,!nctic somnambuli::.ts than iu extatics ~ and yet. "\Vhat
is somewhat remarkable, it is one vf the fir:st facnltit•s noticed
by the 1nagnctizers of .i\Ieo;;mer·s ti.Ine, ,,·ho :;et it down as a
chara~teri:stic trait of the l\l:1gnetic :sleep. Thu~ we read in
the letter of the 1\lnrcptis of Pnysegnr, pmily transcribed in
"' '\Ve rcatl in the Dcmonomrmic de Lowlull,-' l\t. Lannay de
Barilh:, who ha<.l re:>ide<l in America, bore tc::.tiuwny that, in a voy-
ng.-• he m;ule to Loudon, he hnd spoken to the relioriotls persons the
laugnag1! of certain savages of this country, nncl th~t they an:swered
him \'cry rca<lily.
'Tlu~ Bi::.ltop of Nimes, h:l\'ing put que tions in Greek and. Ger-
man, 'va" an~wcrcd in both lan~nagec:.
'The Bi..hop of Nimes commanded Si:stcr Claire in Greek to
raise her veil and kiss the grating in a place which h~ mcution~u.
she obcy~d him, an<.l dit~ -:-C\'Cral other things which he desired
hcr,-a carcum-.tance w.htch m:t<le the hisltop declare, publicly,
t~mt he must be an Atlte1st or a fool who did not believe in posse3•
::;JOn.
'Sam? p~y~ic!ans inter.rogatccl them al.:;o in Greek on some
term~ of tltetr sciCuce, wluch were very diftienlt, ancl known only
by tlw learned amongst them,-they gave a clear explanation of
tllCm.
' S~me get~~cmen o~ Norma~dy certi.fied in writing tl1at they had
que.slloncd Stster Clam~ de Sarelly tn Turkish, Spanish and
ltahan, and that she answered them very readily.' '
TRANSFER OF THOUGHT, 47
our introduction, that he made the peasant Victor dance in
his chair by singing an air to him mentally.
"For my part, I have seen but a very small nmnber of
somnambulists \Vho were endowed with this faculty; I have,
however, seen some, and among the modern 1Hagnetizers
several respectable writers also quote instances of it.
"Alexander Bertrand, among others, relates,* that, on un-
magnetizing the first somnambulist he ever had an opportu-
nity of observing, he had one day, at the sa1ne time, the
determined ·wish that she should not awake. Convulsive
movements were immediately observed in the somnambulist.
"' What ails you?' said the :Magnetizer to her.
" '\Vhy,' ans\vered she, 'do you tell 1ne to awake, and you
do not wish that I should a·wake ?'
"l\1. Bertrand again cites in the same wod{. t the example
of a poor woman, uneducated, not even knowing how to
read, and who, nevertheless, was capable, in a state of som-
.J;lambulism, of understanding the meaning of words, the sig-
nification of which was wholly unknown to her inher waking
state. This woman explained to him, in the most accurate
and ingenious manner, what was understood by the term
encephalon, ·which he proposed to her,-' A phenomenon,'
adds Bertrand, 'which, if people will not see in it a chance
as difficult, perhaps, to be admitted as the faculty 'vhich it
supposes, can on-ly be explamed by acknowledging that this
v.roman read in my very thoughts the signification of the word
on 'vhich I questioned her."-Teste Am. JJJag., pp. 117-122.
u ¥Vhen a somnambulist has anything in his hand, the
1\'laguetizer may will him to give it to any person in the room,
and it will be done accordingly, though not a ·word be said
by any one. If another individual attempt to take it bygrasp-
ing it, or by insinuating his hand between the object aud the
hand of the person to whom it is offered, the somnambulist
evades him with the rapidity of thought, and places it where
he was reqnested to place it. I have seen several persons
try in this manner, all at a time, to seize the object, but with-
out success. 1-Vith almost inconceivable dexterity of evasion,
the somnambulists retained their own hold, and conveyed
the charge in safety.
(( \Vhat is equally singular, 'vas related to me by Mr. Pot-
ter. A patient of his with whom I am acquainted, when she
]sin the somnambulic state, though she does not see, that is,
has no clairvoyance, when requested to hand any object to
another, though the Magnetizer endeavor to exert no influ-
ence at the time, will not give it up to any but the person
designated. She does not offer any explanation of this her-
• T~te du Somnambulisme, Paris, 1823. P. 247. t P. 729.
48 MESMER AND SW'EDENBORC.
self, but says she always lulo\\·s when ~1e right ~')ersou pr:~
sents his hand even ·when he says nothmg. Th1s has be
witnessed by ;everal of my frieuus."-Dclew::e An. lllag.' Ap-
pendix, p. 68.
'Ve ha,·e nO\V to direct our inquiry to the pages of Swe-
denborrr to see hmv far this striking fact receives illustration
from h~,disclosures. It is obvious that the laying aside of
the material body mnst, in the nature of the case, effect a
great alteration in the mode of intercourse \Vith oth~r beil~g.s.
Spirit then comes into more immediate contact w1th sp1.nt,
and the transmissiou of thought and feeling naturally beco1nes
more direct and sensible. As the very elements of then· being
are Affection and Iutellcct, they, acconling to him, mutually
impress themselves npon each other in such a n1anner, that
the Inental ·working~ of one arc distinctly made 1n10\Vn to
another. Nothing can be more express to this point than
the followu1g extracts:
" Souls are surprised, on their entrance into another life,
that there is such a com1nunication of the thoughts of others,
and that they instantly kno,v, not only the character of ano-
ther's mind, but also lllut of his faith. But they are told, that
the spirit has its faculties. much ~mproveJ when it is sepa-
rated from the body. Dunng the life of the body there is an
infitLX of sensible object8, and also ofphantasies,arisingfron1
those thing& which thence inhere .in the memory: there are
also aiL'-ieties about the future, various lusts excited by thinO"s
exten1al, c<ucs re!3pectillg food, railnent, habitation, childre~1
".nd other thi11gs, 'vhich are uot at all thought of in the othe;
i1[e: wherefore on the ~emoyal of tlw~e, as it \Yere, clogs and
huulrances, together \nth the corporeal organs, which are of
a gross seu~ation, tl1e spirit mu!:>t ueeds be il1 a much more
perfect state. T~1e same faculties remain, but 1nueh n1ore
perfec~, mo!e luc1~, and mo~e f~ee ; especially ,,·ith those Ydlo
have lived.m ch_
anty and fa~th m the Lord, and in innocence.
The facul~1es of these are nnmensely ele,·ated abm:e whHt
they l~ad 111 tlJe body, even at length to the augelic nature of
the th1rd heaYeu.
"Nor is there only a coml?unication of another·s affections
and thoughts, but also .o~ lus k~wwledge, and that so com-
pletely, as for one sptnt to tltlllk that he knew whatever
another. know·s, although he l~atl before no knowledge of
• such tlnngs. Thus all th~ _attam~ents of one are communi-
cated ~o others. Some sp1nts retam ·what they are thusmade
a~quamted wuh, but others do not. C01nmunications are
TRANSFER OF THOUGHT. 49
effected, both by the discourse of spirits with each other, and
by iclcn~ accompanied with representations: for the ideas of
their thoughts are repre~entative at the same time, and hence
all thiugs are abundantly presented to view. l\1ore 1nay be
represented by a single idea, than can be expressed by a
thousand \Yorcls. But the angels perceive what is within in
eYcry idea: what is the affection, what is the origin of that
aflcc.tion, what is its end; with many things l>e.sid"e of an in-
terior nature.
" In the other life delights and felicities arc also \vont to be
communicated from one to others by a real transmis::;ion,
\Vhich is wonderful; and then others arc afrecte<.l by them in
the same manner as him~elf: nor does he experience any
diminution of thetn from their communication to others. It
has al'o been granted me thus to communicate enjoyments
to others by trausmi::-sions. Hence 1nay appear the quality
of the happiness of those who love their neighbor more than
themselves, nnd \dlo desire nothing n1ore ardently than to
transfer their own happiness to others. This tendency to
communicate derives its originfrom the Lord, who thus com-
municates happinc:"s to the angels. Communications of
happiness are continual tnmsmissions of this kind; which
arc effected ·without any reflection on them as proceeding
frm? ~uch an active origin, and from a sort of open determi-
nation of the "-ill.''-A. C. 13S9-1392.
"A certain spirit came to me not long after his decease.
It was perceh·ed that he had been devoted to studies, con-
cerning ,\·hich I conYer~ed with him; bnt then suddenly he
:vas taken up on high. Thence he discoursed with me, say-
mg that he saw things of such suLlimity as uo human mind
conltl comprehend. * * • He said, moreover, that from
thence he was able to penetrate thoroughly illlO miJ thoughts and
my oJfections, in which he could perceive more things than he
could cxpres~; such as causes, influxes, the origius thereof,
and how ideas were mixed \dth earthly thiugs, and that
they \\·ere to be altogether ~eparated; with other particulars."
-A. C.l760.
"It is one of the \Vonders of the other life, which scarce
any one in the '""orld can believe, that, a::; ~oon as any spirit
comes to another, l1e iw;,frmtly knou·s his tluwghts aml l{ffeclLOJIS,
and what he had l>eeu doing to that time, thns allltis present
state, exactly as if he ha<.l been with hin1 ever so long ; such
is the nature of communication."-A. C. 5385.
•
"Because spirits pos:::ess aU the things which are of man's
thon!!ht and \Ylll, aud augcls the thiugs which are yet more
inward, and thereby man is most closely co11joined to them,
50 ME5J:\1Blt Al\D SWEDENBORG.
therefore man cannot othen\'isc apperceive and feel, than
that it is himself who thinks ancl w·ills; for ~o the ~ase
is with cotiHnnnicationc: in the other life, that ill a soc1et.Y
containing ~imil::tr spirits, e\·cry o!1e believes that to be lus
own, "'"hich is another's; wherefore the goo~l, \vhen tl~ey
come into a hea,·enly society, ente~ iust~ntly mto all the 111-
telligence nud wiscl01n of that soCiety, ms?much t~1at they
do not k.J.ww· otherwise, than ihat thos? thmgs_ ~re 1~1 the.m-
seh·es · so also it is with a 1nan, and w1tlt a sp1nt \Vlth h1m.
As oft~n as anything has fallen mto ~he thought, and into the
desires of the will, the source of whtch I have not kno·wn, so
often, \Yhen I have w1Hcd to kno\v it, it has been shown me,
namely, from what societies it came, and sometin1es by wl~at
spirits as subjects; and also then they have discoursed \Vlth
me, and confessed that they thought the thing, and like\vise
that they knew that it flowed in with me, and appeared to
my:self as in me. The deceitful, \vho appear directly above
the head, have occasionally flowed in \Vith me with such
subtlety, that I knew not whence the intlux \vas, and also
that I ·scarcely perceived any otherwise. than that \Vhat
flowed in was iu myself, and from myself, as is the usual
perception with others; but because I knew of a certainty it
\\Yas from another source, perception w•as given me fron1 the
Lord so exqnisite, that I apperceivP-d each si11gle influx of
them, also where they ·ytrere, and who they\vere; \vhen they
observed this, they \Vere exceedingly indignant, especially
that I reflectec.l upon \Vlmt came from them; that re1lection
flowed in through the angels. Those deceitful ones princi-
pally insinuated such lhings as were contrary to the Lord;
antl then it was also given to reflect upou this, that no one in
hell ac~~no'':led_ge~ tl:e Lord, but. t!1at on the contrary they
treat Him \VItl~ uHhgmty so far as 1t JS allowed them; yet that
they are not dLspleased to hear mention made of the Father
the Creator of the uuiver$e.''-A. C. 6193, 6197. '
((How di~cnlt it is fm~ man to believe that spirits kno\v his
thoughts, ~n1ght_ ~e ~antfcst to me from this. Before I dis-
cou~sed \\~Hh sp1nts, 1t happ_ened that a certai.J.1 spirit accosted
me ill a few words concermng ~~e subject of my thoughts : I
w~s ~mazed hereat, that a sp1nt should ltno"v what I \Vas
thmkmg about, because I supposed that such thiuO's ·were
deeply concealed, and k~own .t? God alone. Aft~rwards
when I bega_n to spe~k wtth sputts, 1 was indignant that I
co_uld ~lot thmk anythmg but \Vhat they kne·w, and because
tlus ~mgh~ ~e troublesom~. to me; but afterwards by some
days habtt 1t b~c~me fam1llar to me. At lennth it \vas also
kno,~n, that SI?Ints not only apperceive all tbmgs of man's
thouoht and will, but even many more things than the man
TRANSFER OF TIIOUG.Hr. 51
himself; and that the angels apperceive still more, namely,
intentions and ends, from the first through the nliddlc to the
last. .And that the Lord knows not only the quality of the
·\\'hole man, bnt also what his quality '"ill be to eternit~r.
Hence it may be manifest, that nothing at all is hi_ddef?, but
what man inwardly thinks and devises is open to v1ew ll1 the
other life, as in clear day."-A. C. 6214.
" That innumerable things are in one idea, might also be
manifest to me from this, that angels perceive in a moment
the life appertaining to a spirit and to a man,on merely hear-
ing him speak, m· on looking into his thoughts."-A. C. 6617.
In various other parts of the disclosures, S'\\..edenborg
•
speaks of the extension ofthought into societies, in such a way as
to lead to the impression that there is, in the other world, a
diffuseu element of thought not unlike that of light in the
present world. There is an incessant mental radiation-a
perpetual efflux of thoughts-into which, as an intellectual
atmosphere, all spirits come, and apart from which their
minds cannot act. " There was a certain spirit," says S\\1
e-
denborg, "who believed that he thought from himself, and
thus 'vithout any extension out of himself, or any consequent
communication with societies 'vhich are out of him ; to con-
vince him that he was in error, all communication with the
societies nearest him was taken away, in consequence of
which he was not only deprived of thought, bnt fell down as
if dead, except that he threw his arms about like a ne,v-bom
infant.n-H. ~ H., 203. The 1\Iesmeric process brings the
spirit, in a degree, into this general sphere of thought, in the
spiritual world, in which is every one's mind even in the
present world ; and as the 11agnetizer's is in more definite
'·ommtmication with his, it is "'"ith that that his o'vn more
especially assimilates.
But this feature of the revelations is more fully developed
m what follows.
" An arcanum concen1ing the state of faith and of love with
man iu this world, and afterwards in the other, into which he
comes after death, shall be made known. The a-rcanum is
this, that all the thoughts of man diffuse themselves into the
S1Jiritual world, in every direction,not unlike the rays of light
diffnsed from flame. lnas1nnch as the spiritual world con-
sists of heaven and hell; and heaven consists of innulnera-
ble societies, and in like manner hell, hence the thoughts of
.MESMER AND SWEDENBORO
man must needs diffuse tl1emselvc5' into societieF-_; spirit.na
thonghts, which relate to the Lord, to love and fmth m l!1m,
and to the truths and goods of heaven atH.l the clmrc.h, 1uto
heavenlv :-ocietics; but thonghts n1erelyuatnml,\vluch re-
late to self auu the ·world. aml the love thereof, and not ~0
God at the same tune, into infernal societies. That there 1s
such an extension and determination of all the thoughts of
man ha::. hitherto been unknown, lJecause it was unknown
wlwt the quality of heayen is, antl what the quality of he~l,
thus that they consist of ~ocicties, co~1seqnently that there ts
nn exten::::.ion of the thonghts of man uno another \vorld than
the natnrnl, into which latter worltl there is indeed an exten-
sion of the sight of his eyes ; but it is the P.piritunl ,,,.orld ~nto
\d1ich thought extends itself, and. it is rhe natural worl~ 1nt.o
which. vision extends itself, since the thought of the 1n1u<l 1s
spiritual, and the vision of tbe eye is natural. That there is
au extension of all the thoughts of man into societies of the
spil'itunl world, and that no thought ean be given without
such extension, has ueen so testified to me from rhe experi-
ence of many years, that with all faith, I can assert it to be
true. Tn a ,,~ord, man with his head is in the spiritual ,,.,.odd,
as \.vith his body he is in the natural ·world.: by head is here
meant his mind, consisting of understanding, thought, will,
and love; and by body is here meant hi::, seuses. which are
seeing, hearing, smelling, taste, and touch: and whereas
man as to his head, that is, as to his mind, is in the spiritual
"·orld, therefore he is either in heaven or in hell, and \Vhere
the rnind is, there the whole man is ·with head and body,
when he becomes a spirit; and man is altogether of a quality
agreeable.to his conjunction \Vith the societies of the spiritual
':·orlu,.bemg an c,tn~el of a quality agree~ble to his conjunc-
twn w1th. the s~c1ct~es of heaven, or a <lev1l of a quality agree-
ublc to hts couJunctwn w1th the societies of hell. From ·what
lms lJceu said., it is eviuent that the thoucrhts of man are ex-
tensions into societies ?ithcr heavenly o
0
r infernal, and that
nnlec::s they were exteuswns they would be no thoucrhts . for
~he thought ~f tnan is a? the sight of his eyes, which, u~less
1t had extenswu out of tt6elf, would. either l>e no sit•ht or be
bliudness.-Ath. Creed, 2, 3. 0
"On.e morning .it was sho\rn ~anifestly, that in every idea
and nunut~ affection were ~outameu thmgs innumerable, also
that t~ese Ideas au~ aff~ctlons r~netrateu into societies.• I
\Vas kept for some t.une m a certam affection and consequent
thought, and then 1t was ~l~o\yu how nl'my societies con-
curre<l; th~r~ '-"~~e five soc1et1es, which manifested thezn-
selves l>y h"mg d1scour;:,e: they said \vlmt they thonO'ht and
also that they apperceived that those thoughts a.pp~rt;li.ned
TRANSFER OF THOUGHT. 53
to me; moreover that they ]\new also, to which I did not at-
tend, the causes of the things wbich were thought, and also
the ends: the rest of the societies, which were severc:1l, to
which the thought 'vas extended, were not eo manifested ;
they ''Tere also 1nore remote. vVith the extension of thought
from the objects which are the things thought of, the case is
as with the objects of sight: from these diffuses itself a sphere
of rays to a considerable distance, which falls into the sight
of man, and this to a greater alllllesser distance according to
the sparkling and flaming property in the object~ for if it be
flaming, it appears at a much greater distance than what is
cloudy and dusky. The case is similar with the internal
sight, 'vhieh is that of the Lhought, in regard to itl" objects :
the objects of this sight are not material, like the objects in
the ·world, but they are spiritual, aml therefore they diffuse
themselves to such things as are in the spiritual world, thus
to tn1ths and goods there, con~equently to the societies which
are therein; and as what is flaming in the world spreads
itself to the greatest extent, so does good audits affection in
the spiritual world, for flame corresponds to the affection of
good. From these thin!!s it may be manifest, that the quality
of man's life is altogether according to the societies into
which his thought aud affection extend themselves, and ac-
cording to the quality and quantity of the extem=ion.
" That the spheres of the thoughts and affections extend
themselves around into the spheres of societies which are far
ofJ' thence, might be made ma11ifest to me also from this, that
whilst I was thinking from affection concerning such things
as particularly moved a society at a distance, they then dis-
coursed 'vith me on the same subject, telling what their sen-
timents were. This has repeatedly been done."-A. C. 6601-
6602.
"I have observed when discoursing '\"dth angelic spirits,
that the affections and thoughts appeared like a strenm round
about, and the oLject of the thought \vas in the midst encom-
passed with that ~tream, and that this w·as tl1encc extended
in aU directions. From this also it has been made manifest,
that the thoughts and affections extended lhemselves on all
sides to societics."-A. C. 6606.
" It has been shown by living experience, how angelic ideas
fio,v-in into the ideas of the spirits, who are beneath, and
therefore in grosser ideas. A store of ideas from the an~elic
heaven ''tas presented visible as a bright eland di~tinguGhed
jnto little masses; each little mass, wl1ich cousisted of things
innumerable, produced one simple idea '\Yith a spirit, and it
was afterwards shown, that a thousand nnd a thousand
things were in it, which were also represented by a cloud to
TRANSFER OF THOUGHT. 55
the spirit, or what is the quality of the man. This also has
been confirmed by experience: when TRUTH \\ras also named,
as was done by several spirits ~nccessively, it 'vas instantly
heard 'vhether hardness, or harshness, or softness, or infan-
tility, or tenderness, or innocence, or fulness, or emptiness,
or falsity, was therein; also ,,-heth~r it 'vas pretended, or
closed, or open, and in what degree It was so.~ m a w_ord, the
very quality of the idea was heard, and tlus only m '"'hat
was general ; what then must be the case in the particulars
which the angels perceive?
"Inasmuch as man thinks from the sensual, such things
are obscure to him, vea so obscure, that he does not know
·what an idea is, and especially that thought is distinguished
into ideas, as speech is into expression; for thought appears
to him to be continuous, and not discrete, when yet the ideas
of thought are the expressions of spirits, and ideas of more
interior thought are the expressions of angels. Ideas, inas·
much as they are the expressions of speech, are also sono-
rous among spirits anu angels; hence the tacit thought of
1nan is audible to spirits and angels, when it so pleases the
Lord. How perfect the ideas of thought are in comparison
·with the expressions of speech, may be manifest frmn this,
that a man can think more things within a minute, than he
can utter or w·rite in an hour : it might also be manifest from
discourse with spirits and angels. for then in a moment I have
filled a general subject\vith singulars, affection being adjoined,
wlJ.ence the angels and spirits distinctly comprehended all
things, and many more, which appeared about that subject
us a cloud."-.i.l. C. 6622-6624.
The fact which we have above considered-the transfer of
thought-may perhaps be regarded as the cardinal fact of
the 1\Iesmeric developments. In the whole category of its
munrels there is nothing more wonderful-nothiug more diffi-
cult to believe, yet nothing more easy to prove. Still farther
evidence of the tn1th of the phenomenon will be adduced in
the succeeding chapter on Phantasy, and in a subsequent one
on 1\.-femory. Indeed nearly all the mental effects resolve
themselves ultimately into some form of this. Two minds
come, in such a way, into conjunction, that the operations of
one are reproduced or reflected in the other. Yet the result
is not reciprocal. The mind of the agent does not take on
the internal workings of that of the subject. The grossness
of the bodily apparatus interposes a barrier to their access to
the consciousness. Yet it is easy to conceive, that if both
56 1\IESliER AND SWEDENBORG.
''rere disembodied the interchange \Vould be mutual, or at
least mm·c mutual. The predominance of sphere might give
one an advantage o\·er the other, but the law of the relation
is clearly indicated by the facts clisp1ayeu, and "\Ve see no
possibility of denying that Swedeuborg has laid open the
heart of the mystery. Is not the coincidence of the phe-
nomena too palpaule to be questioned? Where then is the
bac;is on \vhich to folllld a donut that he was truly admitted
into the very penetralia of the spirit-\vorld? But if this be con.
ceded, what inference more legitimate, than that the Divine
\Visdom had special ends of the utnwst moment to the world
to accomplish, by thus translating the spir'lt of this remarka-
ble man into the sphere of spirits? And do we not read
these enlls in the uses actually achieved by them ? Has he not
unYeiled the rudden \vorld of souls, and shown its thousand-
fold points of contact ·with the ·world of bodily being ? ls not
this a great mission? Is it not a stupendous discovery to
acquaint us with the laws and conditions of the future life-
to disclose the forms of destiny-to expound the es~011tial
nature of heaven and hell? Do revelations, thus fraught \ 1th
the characters of intrinsic tn1th, bear the impress of dreaming
phantasy? Do madmen rave in reason, and d'ream out sublime
systems of philosophy? \-Vho would not crave to be de-
mented if such are its issues-if the ruin and chaos of a
wrel.:.ked intellect not only afford the materials, but sponta-
neously rear themselves into a splendid and symmetrical
Temple of Truth! We look for '\vonuers both in conuno- time
b
and in e~ernity, but we anticipate very few that shall surpass
that wh1ch '"·e every day behold in the absurd solutions
given to the greatest moral problmn that has ever addressed
itself to the intelligence of the human race.
PHANTASY. 57
CIIAPTER III.
P@"ANTASY.
THE phenomena developed in the present chapter differ not
essentially f1·om those detailed in the preceding. The psy-
chological principles on which they rest are the same. They
illustrate, ho,vever, the power of a peculiar form of thought
to reproduce itself in another mind. They sho'v that the
111ost arbitrary and phantnstic creations of one intellect may
be mysteriou::;ly infused into another, and then be recognized
as bonafide realities. The Yeriest gambolings of imagination
shall become, ·when lhus transferred, the most assured truths
to the rnind of the other party. A handkerchief thro,vn into
the lap shill be transformed, at the will of the operator, into
an infant, a kitten, a bird, or a serpent which shall be rejected
with horror. No fact of this condition is better established
or more familiar than that to '\vhich we now· allude. In the
ca--es 'vhich follow, this law of the l\lesmeric state is dis-
played in a most striking manner, and, in some of them, in a
higher form than is u.snally witnessed. \Ve are unal>le of
cour:::c to verify the truthfulness of the report, but facts which
hav-e been a hundred times verified authorize us to rely im-
plicitly upon it.
"Dr. C. then requested a tumbler of water to be brought;
and after drinking about half of it him~elf, he roused :Miss
B., who had apparently sunk inro a profound and quietsleep,
as she afterwards did repeatedly, and requested her to drink
some of it. She did so, when l\ir. H. drew to a corner of the
room, and, after ,\·riting on a slip of paper, beckoned me to
him and simply held the paper before me, on \Vhich 'vas
written 'T-Vill the contents of the tumVler to be castor oil,' or words
to that effect. lie then beckoned to Dr. C., 'vho ·went to him,
aud reading the sentcuce, indicated by a nod that he would
cheerfully do it, and retaking his seat, \Vhi~h was placed
between two and three feet before l\Iis:::- B., he said, without
moving a limb, or uttering a syllable more, 'Come, Lurena,
drink a little of this, and you will feel better, I think.' Al-
58 !IIES~IER AND S'\YEDENUORG.
ludin!!, as I supposed, to a severe heaclnche, of ~vhich she
had ~!>Oken to us in the ·otlr'C of onr con,·ersatiOll: hefore
1he Doctor·s entr8Hcc. ~he 1-.Li~etl the tnmbler to her ltp~. "n<l
suddenly replaced it iu her lnp, ,~·ith C\'.i(!cut na~t,ca aud aver-
sion. Dr. C. • Come. driuk a httle of lt. It 1s Yery good.'
1\liss B. 'Good!' movin~ her Jip~. 'you kno,,· it is not good!'
Dr. C. • \Yhy ? ' ~li~s B~' \\'hy! lt make~ 1ne ~kk.' Dr..c.
'O, no; <lrillk one monthfnl.' She did so; n11d had sh~ Wlt-
nesscd the l'eremony of taking pure castvt a thou~aud t1mes,
the <1pparent etTect ou her conld not have been more. true to
nature. 1\Ir. JI. again summoned the Doctor, and whispered
too low to l>c lJeanl by any other JlCr:--on in the room, 'Tr1ll,
now, that it i;; ~m{ff.' He returned, atH.l repeated only '\·o~ds
rc~cmbling- those w~ed in the first expermtent. On lookmg
i!llO the tUJ11bler, she sccmec_l to smile ironically, anu f=:aid,
' Dri11k thi:-.! drink tlus 1 you kuow I cauuot ;' '\ nh a11 ex-
}Jresswn of <'Otlllteuauce which anv one, ~ceiug ~nuff to be
the contents of a tmnl>ler about to· be drank o!f, must havc
assumed. I theJJ rcque~ted Dr. C. in the same manner, to
'?.t•W il lu be pleosallt lemonade.' After long persuasion, ·without
a "-onl or ge:--tnre, however, which could have indicatell the
nature of my request, on Dr. C.'s part, she put the tmnbler
cantiom;;ly to her lips, and tasting, drank the 'vhole of the wa-
ter that remained. Dr. C. '\\•ell, Lnrena, how do you like
that?' .1\Iiss B. ' \Vhy, it's very good, bul n lillie too sour.'
Some one of the strangers present now requested in a whis-
per that he woul<.l 'will the tumbler to bejillerl with an icc cream.'
I ~at nt l\Iiss B.'s elbow, and watched both her cmmtenance
nud Dr. C.'s worrls rmd motious. Collusion, or a11ything lil~e
a secret under<:tancling bct,wecn them in what followed, I
believe to have been impossible. Dr. C. 'Come, Lurena, drink
what. I have got for y~u now. You will find it ,-ery q;ood.'
Rou::,mg she looke<l mto the e1npty tuml.>lc>r, and continued
silent. On further inqniry, she sa1<.l, ' Yon kuow 1 cannot
drink it:' Dr. C. ':vhy?' .:Miss B. c J·ve bce,l tt•aitznr:r for a
spoon tlus ltalf hour. A F-poon 'vas then brouaht and criven
her. ~he rni~fd the tt~mhler, .anti imita.t~ng to pcrfectio~1 the
manner of a. Indy takmg an we cream 111 a fasltionaule and
elegant circle, she finic::hecl it, and replaced the tumbler in her
lap, a... one waitin~ for a serYant to take it. Dr. C. '\Veil is
n~r that good!' ~l18s B. ·Yes, it's very good, but a liulc too
btg?ly _fl::t\rorcd for me.' I e--hould have mentioned that while
eatmg, 1t, sl.lC put her hand.to her face in apparent pain. Dr.
C. '\\hat 1s the m~~er \nth yonr face?' l\Jiss B. ' Tf'h y, il
makes my teetlt ache, 1[ s so cold.' 1 then requested Dr. C. to take
tl~e tm~1bler trom h~r, aud, i1~ a whiP-per ~carcely audible to
hu~l·'· to .wdl a black fatten to be 111. l~er lttp.' lie as5cnted, and,
takmg h1s seat before her, as I d1d 1nme at her side, he said,
PHANTASY. 59
without previously uttering a syllable even in 'vhisper to any
one, or making the least motion, 'Lnrena, come, wake up
and sec what von haYe in your lap.' She seemed graclually
to wnl\e. '\Viw.t have you in your lap?' Looki11g clown,
she in~tantly began to draw her arms up with ayer:;,ion at the
object f'eeu, but remained silent. Dr. C. ''Vhat is the matter?
Is it uot pretty?' Drawing ber arms still further up, she :::aid,
eYidently offended, 'Pretty ? no. 'Vhat haYe yon put that
in n1y lap for? I sha'nt take h! I wont_!' Dr. C. '0! ye_s,
take it.' l\Iiss B. 'I wont.' Dr. C. '\Vel!, 1fyon do not ltlw 1t,
giye it to me.' Lifting it precisely as one "~auld by the nape
of the necl\:, and to~~ing it, she said, ' 'J'Itae, take the dirty Uack
tltin ~!' The precedjug e.x1,erirneuts were tried. in con~c­
quence of our having henn.l that si1nilnr ones had been made
withont failure h1 any instance; aud I mn as certain as I
am of being able to see or hear anything directlr before me,
that uo direction, either by a whisper, pause, or ge5ture, was
giYen by the magnetizer to 1he maguctized ; and I know that
the directions I gave D. C. couh.l not have been anticipated by
him or any one clse."-Dclcu:;e's A11. :ftlag. Append. p. 131-134.
The snLjoiued narrative exhibits this feature of the subject
in a some\Yhat higher light. In reading it, i& is importa11t to
bear in 1nind that \vhat the author terms magnetizing an in-
animate object, is really a mental process by which he £m-
agines or 1.cills such and such transfonnations to take }llace
as are alluded to.
"Rosalia, on whom the follo\vjng experiments \Vere made,
is a youug girl ofauout eighteen years of age, of a somewhat
sanguineous temperament. Her nerYons Eystem does not
appear to be too much de,·cloped. ~he would enjoy Yery
good health, if, from the age of puberty, she did not sufier,
from time to time, rather violent pains in the stomach. Her
education is that of a poor artisan, solely occupied in sup-
porting by the labor of her hands an aged and feeble mother.
To this must be adued, in order to have a physical and mora.
appreciation of the subject, that Rosalia never left a province
which \vas very distant frmn Paris.
"Rosalia being in a ~tate of somnnmbnlism in a separate
and well-clo5ed closet, a ball of \vool is magnetized hy the
person who put her to slee1), aud placed in one of the hats of
the men, which were thrcnvn carelessly in a corner of the
room. The somnambuli:-5t is then introduced iuto the apart-
ment, and invited to seek out an obiect, without giviug this ob-
ject any other desi!!llation. She begins by walkillg around
the room, touches different pieces of furuiture, uut stops uot;
then, at length, after having carrjed her examination towards
60
the corner above mentioned, she <.li~covcrs the bal1 of wool,
whirb "he bri11g::> with her without hc~itnt~ion.
• cc Ro::::alin i~ n.;.;leep for soml" minutes. Anmcred nlous doctor,
with the iutentiou of $atisfying hitnself, as to.wh~ther the ~nag­
netic action1nay be really concentrated on manunate obJeCts,
carries away the :Magnetizer out of th? ro01n, aud proposes
to him to operate on a step of the stmrs-tlle t~nth was the
one chosen by the doctor. ~he tenth step, s~ttmg ont from
the bottom of the stairs, recelVes the mngnette passes. At
the moment of witlulr::nvincr, the 1\Iagnetizer ·wishing, in his
turn. and atthe same time, t~ make an experiment of his O\Vn,
declares that he mentally places a barrier above the tenth
step, to prevent Ro~alia from continuing her route. Things
thus prepared, the doctor leads back the Magnetizer, \:Vhom
he no longer quits, to the somnmnlmlist still asleep. Ac-
cording to his express wish, she is aroused \Vithout beiug
totlched, and merely by some gestm·es mn.de at a distance.
It is only after a :::;erious examination of the perfectly nortnal
state of the youn~ girl, that, ou the order of the incredulous
doctor, Rosalia takes a taper in order to go to bed. In so do-
ing ~he 1nnst necessarily pass by the stairs to the magnetiz-
ed ::;tep. After five or six n1inutes they go in pursuit of her;
the Joctor passes fir~t, and ·what is his nstonishmemt, when
having arrivec.l at the bottmn of the stairs, he perceives the
young girl standing up and immovable on the tenth step.
The following dialogue then takes place:-
"'Rosalia, 'vhat, then, are yon doing there?' 'I am asleep,
sir.' 'And who has put you to sleep?' 'The step on ·which
I stand: there escapes from it a hot vapor, which has as-
cended. to my legs, anc.l has put n1e to sleep.' '\.Yell, then,
since you nre asleep, are you going to bed?' 'I cannot, sir,
because t~tere i~ a banier which prevents me fr01n passing.'
"Rosrl:lm, bemg asleep, 'vas placed at the extre1nity of a
room, w1th her head tnrned towarus the wall. An incredu-
lous per5on requires that the :Th'lagnet1zer, placed at the dis-
tance of several feet from the somnambulist, should break
one of the feet ofthechair on which she ·wassitting. Scarce-
ly were two or th~ee passes directed towards the object de-
Signed, than Rosaha nses abruptly, and cries out, 'My God!
I am a going to fall, my chair has but three feet.' Another
time, in. the a~senre ?f Ro~alia, the floor of the room was
magnet1zTed, w1th t~e mtenti?n of changing it into ploughed
land. When the gul, ·who 1s fast asleep, \Vas introduced,
she refuses to advance, and pretends that the furrows prevent
her from walking, and thatshe knows not ·where to place her
feet. . The same floor .also assumes the appearance of a fro-
zen nver, &c., accordmg to the demand made on it
The following facts consist in proving that· Magne-
PHANTASY. 61
tism may give to m atter a virtue which it does not possess
of itself. Examples :-Rosalia is in a closet adjoining that in
which her magnetiser is, and in a state of somnambulism.
Before a bracket are placed, casually, two chairs, one of \Vhich
is very light. This is precisely the one which the l\1agnetiser
is requested to load with a considerable weight, which he
sets about doing by means of numerous passes. The opera-
tion being over, the somnambulist is introduced. After some
experiments of another kind, she is asked to take one of the
chairs and to sit near the fire. Chance made her select that
one of the two which was really the heavier. Rosalia brings
it ·with ease np near the fire. A lady being in\Vant of a seat,
Rosalia is asked to go for the other. She goes up to it, takes
it with her two hands, then seems to make a violent effort to
raise it; the chair remains immovable. At the request of
those around her she tries again, but still without success;
however, her muscles are tense, her face is flushed; at last,
she cries out, 'vith a voice, altered, as it \Vere, by the violent
efforts she had made, ' My God ! I never shall be able, it is
too heavy.' A book was magnetised on the chimney-piece,
with the intention of making it adhere to the marble. At the
request made to Rosalia, she goes to bring it, but her efforts
to raise it are 1mayailing; only, as the will of the magnetiser
had no other end than to affi..~ to the marble that part of the
cover in contact with it, Rosalia opens the book, turns over
the leaves, but without being any more able to tear it from
the chimney-piece, than if oue of the sides of the covers were
really affixed to it. Thus, again, a saucer having been mag-
netised, Rosalia is requested to take and carry it. At the mo-
ment she presents it, her fingers were contracted tightly on
the china, and she declares that she cannot let it go. Such
was the will of the magnetiser, communicated through the
medium of the object.
"'Ye no'v come, we might almost say, by an insensible
transition, to a series of facts which still constitute a particu-
lar class. For we have seen that the modifications occa-
sioned in the form of objects were such in the experiments of
the ploughed land and of the frozen river, that they may be
well considered as creations completely new. It will be un-
derstood then, at least by analogy, that the magnetic action
may create objects entirely imaginary. Here are some exam-
ples of it. Rosalia, in a state of somnambulism, converses
with some persons. An incredulous spectator entreats the
magnetiser to place on an unoccupied scat an open pair of
scissors. Some passes are made on the seat pointed at.
After about a quarter of an hour the somna1nbulist is 1nade to
rise ; ilien, as if brought by mere chance~ she is invited to sit
4
62 MESMER AND t!\VEDE.NDORG.
on the scat \vhich has just been magneti~crl: Rosalia refuses
'\Vhy. then: will you uol sit tlo"'ll ?' they ask her. '.Decause
I do not wi~h to hurt 1nyF:elf.' 'Come, no\V, do stt down.
'No, sir, there are sci~t:ors there that \vonld hurt me.'
"Another time, at the request of a person \'dlo docs not
yet belic,·c, n wooden pilla! was raised ~agnetically in the
centre of the room; there IS attache<l to 1t n1entally a cord
which is to CTO round the neck of the somnambulist. Rosalia
cries out alt;o:-.t at the instant: 'Ah! s1r, how this squeezes
mv ueck.' ' \Vhat then?' 'The cord fasteneu to this wooden
pillar.' On asking h~r when~ this pillar is, a~ter she was freed
from the ilnaO'inarv t1e of wlnch she complamed, she gets up
and points "~~h lie~ finger t? th~ very place ·where the mag-
netiser had nused lus fantastic pillar.
H Ro~alia is ~lceping her magnetic sleep calmly on the sofa.
Her mDgnetiser raises her feet, then passes his hand between
thcn1 and the floor. This signal, according to the request
maue of him, is to place a stool under the feet of the som-
nambulist. Actually, from this moment the two feet of Ro-
salia remain in the air as if they were supported by an object
placed beneath the1n. \Vhen strong pressure is made on
them, they are forced to yield ; but then the entire bouy fol-
lowti the moyement, and instantly as the action ceases the two
feet rise together in the pos1tion given the1n by the magnet-
iser. This is somc'\vhat the effect experienced by a person
jolted in a Ychicle; the point of support on which the feet
rest, rise~ au<.l falls, '\Vithout, ho·wcYer, the relations of posi-
tion of the diiferent parts of the bouy being sensibly changed.
After haYillg remained a long time in this way without evinc-
ing any fatigue, Rosalia is asked why she keeps her feet
raised. 'Because,' says she, 'I have placed them on a stool.'
1Vithout ennmeratmg a greater number of fac.ts of the same
kind, in order to terminate this order of phen01nena. here is a
case, which it is useful to notice, because \Ve ~hall haYe oc-
casion to recur to H. Rosalia is 111 a closet adjoiuing a dra\\·-
ing·room in a state of somnambulism; the connnurncation
between the~e two apartments is closed, but another door
gn~mg egress from the drawing-room to a staircase has re-
maiued open. The tnagnetiser places a barrier there macr-
netically; then Rosalia is introduced by a stranger. Sheis
~ then requested to go cut to thestai.rcase; but she declares that
she cannot do so, 'because,' says she, 'this door is barred!
In orde~ that she m~y pass through, it is necessary that the
magnetlser should, m a manner, break the charm.
"Not only, a~ has .been just &een by the above examples,
?an t~1e mngnet1c nct1011 create for Rof:alia obJeCts completely
1magmary, but, further, at the will of the magnetiser, it de-
PHA~"TASY. 63
prives her of the power of seeing objects which really exist,
and which are placed in states so as to be perfectly distinct
to her in the ordinary state. Thus a simple mngnetic pass is
sufficient for a piece of furniture, a person, a portion of a
room, to disappear from the eyes of a somnambulist: Ques-
tion her by surprise, lay for her all the snares you will, never
will she s€e any of the persons or things that her magnetiser
shall hm;e rendered invisible, and \vhat should scarcely leave
any apprehension of fraud in this experiment is, that those
"'.Vho n1ay be so disposed \v~th respect to the subject of invisi-
bility will try in nl.in to call forth in the somnambulist a laugh,
astonishment, fright, &c., &c.,., or any other impression what-
ever.
" All those "rho ha\re given their attention to magnetism
have remarked, that one of the characters of somnambulism
is not to leaYe any recollectiou on awaking, except, how-
eyer, the magneti~er muy have ha.d the intention of making
an idea surviYe the cessation of the magnetic effect. Then
the thought conceived under the sway of the agent is con-
tinued in the onliuary State, anu almost ahYays produces the
expected result. This observation n1ust necessarily incline
one to think, that perhaps it might he possible to transport
into the natural life of somnambulists some other phenome-
non of their magnetic existence. \Vith respect to invisil>ility,
numerous experiments have left no doubt of this possibility.
\Ye shall content ourselves by quoting merely the follmving
fact. Rosalia is asleep. A thick layer of carded cotton is ap-
plied toller, coveretl with a bandage fastened behind her head.
In tills state she is brought into the midst of people whom
she does not know. Among these, they select, for the pur-
pose of rendering invisible, a strange person \vhmn she
never could ha\e seen. After some magtletic passes, this
person goes \Vith t'vo others clad in the same manner behind
a screen. The bandage is then taken from Rosalia,-she is
demagnetisecl.. She resumes her habitual countenance, con-
v-erses as nsual with those arom1d her. Suddenly an arm
rises above the screen. Rosalia is one of the first to perceive
it; a secoud arm then appears,-sbe sees it again; but when
the third is raised near the others, she persists in saying that
she sees but two. The third arn1 is really that of the person
rendered invisible. This experiment is repeated ten times,
t\Yenty times, always in a different way; nc·ver does Rosalia
perceive the person that had been rendered. invisible, though
that person changed clolhes \Vith those who were placed be-
hind the screen "'.Vith him.
" A fact of the same kind took place 1\'i.th respect to the
barriers of which I have spoken. \Vhilst Rosalia is in a state
64 MESMER AND S\~EDENBORG.
of somnambulism the entnmce-door of the closet in which
she is was shut magnetically' though in reali_ty ~t is oven.
At the conclusion of the sitting, when Rosn.ba IS ent1rely
awake, she takes leaYe uml prepares to go out~ but on ap-
proaching the door, ~he says she sees a clotld \Vluch, accord-
ing to her O\\'U expression, obstructs her, an.d prev~nt~ her
from passing. In vain docs the magnetiser stnve t.o d1ss1pate
thi~ apparition: he cannot succeed until after havmg put the
gir] to sleep again.
"\Ve UO\V cmne to thelast experiment,the object of which,
as of the preceding, is to make the fantastic creations of_mag-
netism pass into real life; and this time, as the case 1~ not
my 0\\'11, I quote from tl1e original, so as to omi~ no dctml :-
"'After having maguetised Rosalia in the httlc closet of
Madame ***,I ask what it is they desire I should make her
see. "A little girr,·· replied one of the bystaudcrs. I then
approach a cbajr, and etrive in making some passes to .fix my
idea to it, as 've have often done together. Rosalia, whom I
bring right before me, after a moment's hesitation, concludes
by sayu1g to me," It is little Hortense." Having sent her into
another room, I remove the chair from its place, in order that
she may not recognise it; but I hesitate, and place it in seve-
ral different places before fixing it. I then go to awake Ro-
salia in the closet of Madame ***, then I proceed \\~ith her
into the little room. Now that she 'is v·cll awake, \~.That does she
see? Not one little gu·l, but six little girls, to my great aston-
ishment. In vain I endeavor hy transverse passes to abolish
n1y manifold creation; 'tis quite impossible. Curious to have
an explanation of all this, l again put Ro~alia to sleep, and
ask her the solution of the enigma. "In good faith, sir," re-
plies the girl, "you need not l1ave removed the chair from
its place; then I should have seen but one child; but every
"\Vbere you put it down, thejlu.id passed through, and formed
a child quite like to that one which is above." "Vvhatis that
fluid?" "A slight \Vind passing out of your fingers?" '-Teste
on An. ]!agnetism, p. 218-225.
Such, then,are among the undeniable mental effectswrought
in connection with the ].fesmeric state. The state is such
that ·what is subjective to one mind becomes objective to an-
other. In other words, mental phantasies are transferrable,
and become real entities to the recipient. Their nature is
sufficiently obvious without explanation. The question is,
how far this fact is confirmed or illustrated by s,vedenborg
in his disclosures of the laws of spiritual operation. A very
limited acquaintance with his works will suffice to show, that
PHANTASY. 65
it is continually recognised by him in his relations of the
phenomena of the other life. It is among the most familiar
experience which he is all the time giving forth of his com-
merce 'vith the world of spirits, that spirits act upon each
other by the infusion of their phantasies, and that a great por-
tion of the misery of the wicked is derived from this source.
The extracts that follow contain not a hundredth part of the
testimony, all equally pertinent, which might be adduced
from his revelations, bearing on the point in hand.
"The way in which visions take place~ and what visions
are genuine, is kl1o1vn to fe,v: and becanse I have no\v for
several years been almost continually with those who are in
the other life, as may abundantly appear from the First Part
of thjs \Vork, and have there seen stupendous things; so also
1 have been informed concerning visions and dreams by lively
experience, and am at liberty to relate the following particu-
lars respecting them. The visions of some are much spoken
of, who have said that they have seen many things: they did
see them, it is true, but in phantasy. I have been instructed
concerning those visions, and it was likewise shown me ho\v
they exist. There are spirits who induce such appearances
by phantasies, that they see1n as if they \Vere real. For ex-
ample; if anything is seen in the 5hade, or by moonlight, or
even in open day if the object be in a dark place, those spirits
keep the mind of the beholder fixedly and unceasingly in the
thought of some particular thing, either of an animal, or a
monster, or a forest, or some such thing; and so long as the
mind is kept in this thought, the phantasy is increased, and
that to such a degree, that the person is persuaded, and sees,
just as if the things were really there; when, nevertheless,
they are nothing but illusions. Such occurrences take place
with those who indulge much in phantasies, and are in in-
firmity of mind and hence are rendered credulous. Such are
visionaries. Enthusiastic spirits are of a similar nature: but
these have visions about matters of faith, by which they are
so firmly persuaded, and persuade others, that they ·will
swear what is false to be true, and what is fallacious to ue
real. Concerning tllis kind of spirits many things might be
here related from experience; but, by the divine mercy of
the Lord, we shall speak specially concerning them. They
contracted that nature from the persuasions and principles of
the false, ·when they lived in the 'vorlcl.. Evil spirits in the
other life are scarce anything but lusts and phantasies, hav-
ing acquired to themselves no other life. Their phantasies
66 .MES:tlER AND SWEDENBORG.
are such, that they perceiYe no other than that the thingis as
they fancy. The phantasies of rneu cannot be compareu
'vith theirs, for spirits are iu n 1nore excellent stn_te eyen. as to
such things. Such phantasies Ltre perpetual ''Tl.th the mfer-
nals; and thereby they miserably torment one another.. By
genuine visions are meant viswns, or sights, of those obJeCts
'vhich really exist in the other life, and which art! notl~il.rg but
real things, which may be seen by the eyes of the sprnt, but
not by the eyes of the body-, and which appea.r t? tn~n \\"!ren
his interior sight is opened by the Lord. Thts rntenor s1~ht
is that of his spirit; into which, also, ~1e comes, 'vhe1~, bemg
separated li:01n the body, he pusses mto the other .h[e: for
man is a spirit clothed with body. Such ·were the VlSlons of
the prophets. When this sight is opened, then the things
which exist amongst spirits are seen in a clearer light than that
of 1nid-day in tllis ·world, and not only are representa~ives
seen, but also the spirits themselves, accompanied v..~lth a
perception who they are, and like·wise of \.\'"hat quality they
are, ,,,.here they are, 'vhence they come, and whither they
go, of what affection, of what persuasion, yea, of \Vhat faith
they are, all confirmed byliving discourse altogether like that
of men, and this ·without any fallacy."-A.. C. 1966-1970.
"There \vas a certain person 'vith ':vhom I \.Vas acquainted
in the life of the bouy, but not as to the 1nind [animus] and
interior affections: he occa::;ionally couverseu with 111e in the
other life, but a little at a distance ; in general he manifested
himself by pleasant representatives, for he conld pre!'ent
things which delighted, as colors of every kind, and beautiful
colored forms, and could introduce infants beautifully deco-
rated as angels, and very many like things which 'vere plea-
sant and delightfnl."-A.. C. 4412.
" The punishment of the veil is a very comtnon one, and is
in this manner. The offender seems to himself, in conse-
quence of.the phantasies whereby he is impressed, to be
under a veil, stretched out to a great <listance: it is as it \\,.ere
a cohering cloud, 'vhich is conuensed according to the cul-
prit's phantasy : under this cloud tbe sufferers run here and
th~rc, '~ith a most e.a?Ser des~re to make their escape, and
·w1th d1ffereut veloC1ttes, unt1l they are ·wearied out· tllls
generally continnes for the space of an hour, more o; less
and is attenued \\'ith divers degrees of torture acconling t~
the degree of their desire to extricate themselves. The pun-
ishment of the veil is inflicted. on those \Vho, although they
see the truth, yet are rendereu by self-love unwillino- to ac-
knowledge it, and are angry to think that it is truth.t:: Some
spirits have such anxiety and terror 1mder the veil, that they
PHANTASY. 67
despair of ever being set at liberty, as I was informed by one
who had been led out.
"There is also another kind of veil, wherein the offender is
wrapped up as in a sheet, so that he seems to himself to be
bound as to his hands, feet, and body, and at the same time
is impressed with a strong desire to extricate himself: this he
in1agines may be easily effected, inasmuch as he is only
wrapped up \vith a single fold~ but when he attempts to
undo it, the 1nore he unfolds of it, the longer it grows ; until
he is driven at last to despair."-A. C. 963-964.
"There were \vith me some \vho were \Vithout subjects,
but yet attempted to flow in by the foulest ideas. vVherefore
they made their ideas visible ·with rne, which often happens
in the other life, viz. that ideas should be set forth as visible,
or that they should be able, by phantasies, to present any-
thing as visible in another place, ·when yet it ]s really nothing
else than a phantasy. Accordingly a certain female spirit pre-
sented before me in iuea an infant, which it was given to per-
ceive was only the phantasy of smnethiug thus made visi-
ble."-S. D. 3869.
"Itis wonderful that the1)hantasies of evil spirits should ap-
pear as altogether real, as for instance that they should deem
them~elves clothed with garments. ·with hair. and the like;
nay, when these garments were Sl_}oken of, they touched
them, saw them, and said they were real, and yet they can
be taken away by phantasies, and others substituted in their
place. They are even made to believe, that instead of two
arms they have many, and say that such is the fact. The
illusions of the kind which I have seen are innumerable, and
'vhen it has been given me to speak with them, and to say
that they were phantasies, they still thought them real."-
S. D. 4339.
u I have seen and been instructed as to the state of the
hells in general. Phantasies are what rule them, and they
appear real to the life, because those who are there are in
phantasies, and have no other life than that of phantasies.
* * * Their genera and species are very nu1nerous, agreeing
with the number of the hells, and (attended) "
With living pain,
torment, and perception. I have seen how they 1nutually
torment each other in the hells by means of phantasies. One
would bind another so tightlywith cords, that the spiritkne'\V
no otherwise that he was actually bound as to his hands
and feet, and ·was thus cast whenever the other sa'v fit.
They would then turn him into a wild animal, a bear or some-
thing else, and bind him by the neck and head, and even by
68 MESl\lER AND S\VEDENJ30RG.
the teeth, aud draw him, if he lagged~ nnd that. with sensible
pain. I haYc seen also that thl'Y would proJect a serpent,
and he woulcl womH.l them in the ftct, whence the blood
would be sec>n flowing over the place on which they stood.
By these nntl such like phantasies one tortures another, and
he 1Yho inflicts it is f:.ent into similar tortures. The genera
and species of phantasies are innumerable, according to their
hells."-S. D. 4381.
"Evil and infernal spirits who nre let loose to serve men,
thus 'vho are in the world of spirits, know how to leau all
those ,,·ho think (sole1y) of themselves, and they do lead
the1n whithersoever they ,,.,.ill, even to whatever is infernal,
in so far as they can turn their thoughts in upon themselves;
but those 'vho do uot regard themselves, but others whom
they deem as worthy as themselves, and particularly '\vho
look to the Lord supremely, they cannot move. Evil and
infernal spirits know· ho,v, by various acts, to turn the
thoughts of another spirit upon himself, and thus to lead him
wherever they wish, some by magical art, some by phan-
tastic art, some by cmnmunication of thoughts, and then by
influx from themselves."-S. D. 5463.
"These things may be further illustrated by 'vhat takes
place amongst spirits ; for they present to vie·w palaces
almost like those in the heavens, also groves and rural ob-
jects nearly resen1bling fuose presented by the Lord amongst
good ~pirits ; they adorn the1nselves with shining garments,
yea, the syrens also jndnce a beauty almost angelical; but all
these things are the effect of art byphantasies."-A. C. 10,286.
From this it is obvious that the same phantastic phenmnena
occur in the other life, which are here witnessed in the .lYies-
meric condition. The creations of one mind are transferreu to
another, and nothing is more obvious than that the state in-
duced by the process of Magnetization, is one 'vbich ap-
proximates closely to that of a disembodied spirit. It is this
fact which brings it into such intimate relation to the devel-
opments of Swedenborg. The grand objection hitherto made
to his claims, has been founded on the lack of competent
evidence as to the truth of his revelations. "\Vhat have ,ve,"
it has been said, " but his simple asse1tion in proof that he
sa'v and heard the wonderful things of heaven and hell?"
The evidence of this has indeed approved itself us sound and
satisfactory to multitudes of minds, apart from any external
PHANTASY. 69
testimony. They have been fnlly convinced that his mar-
vellous relations carried their O\Vll evidence ·with them to
eyery one ,vho coul<l be persuaded to a candid and careful
examination of his disclosures as a whole. But the Divine
Providence is now accumulating an entirelyne\v mass of tes-
timony. The indubitable facts of l\!esmerism are affording
to the very senses of 1nan a demonstration which cannot
be resisted, that Su:edenborg has told the truth of the othe1· lift.
The denial of his claims has now to encounter something
moTe than the intrinsic character of his state1nents. It must
meet, and, in order to be successful, must overcome, the
strong anay offacts planted arotmd it by the progress of Mes.
1neric discovery. These facts are intuitively seen to connec~
themselves indissolubly 'Yith. the 'd10le tissue of Sweden-
borg's relations, as to the laws and phenomena of the spiritual
'vorld. The result is inevitable. If lJiesme·rism is t'rue, Swe-
denborg is ttue. Can the farther inference be resisted, that if
Swedenborg is true, he is a divinely commissioned messen-
ger frmn heaven to man? It avails not to say in 1aeply that
his revelations may have been merely 11esmeric, and conse-
quently are no 1nore authoritative than those elicited from
persons in ordinary Magnetic extase. We have already shown
that his state differed from that of ordinary Mes1neric sub-
jects-that while there are certain points of resemblance and
relation between them, his psychological condition \vas dis-
tinguished by peculiarities '''hich elevated it immeasurably
above theirs. The repetition of our proofs on this head will
be unnecessary here. We content ourselYes with the Simple
affinnation,thatit is impossible to deny, on intelligent grounds,
that the higher l\Iesmeric phenomena fall into the same cate-
gory with the relations of the Swedish seer, and that the
truth of the former establishes that of the latter. The con-
verse, however, we do not admit as holding.good-viz. that
if 1\Iesmerism be false, Swedenborg is false. The evidence
of his truth we contend to be irrefutable, when judged upon
its own grounds, and independent of all relation to other facts
and inferences, although capable of being vastly corroborated
by them.
4*
10 1UES:'IIER AND SWEDE~BORG.
CHAPTER IV.
SP1JERI:S.
IT is 'vell known to those who are conversantwith the facts
o~ the ~Icsmeric state, that one of the most common manifes-
tntions is a peculiar and painful sensitiveness to the proximity,
and especially to the touch, of any other person than the
Mesmerizer, or of one with whom the subject is put in rap-
port or comtnunication. This is pre.eminently the case ·with
f~esh subjects. They almost universally affirm, that it is iln-
:possil>le to describe the disagreeableness of the sensation pro-
duced by the contact or the near approach even of their
dearest friends and relatives, when the requisite communica-
1ion has not been established; and "rith some it is.almost im-
possible to establish it at all.* I \\~as once upon the point of
* The followiug is a lranf:lation from the German of Werner.
"After some time my mother entered the chamber, and her
~the patient's) whole body began to tremble, as hnd happened
Jcfore when any urothcr came in. I then asked hN·, ' Can you
not do something to prevent this tr<>t>idation upon the entrance of
other persons into the room~· She ans'\vered, 'Nothing in this
case can be done; I cnnnot prevent it. You know so little; it is
thP, consequence of my excitai.Jle comlition. It ah>;'ays causes me
pain when other per5ons besides your~elf approach me, be tl1ey
whc. they may. But eo:pecially painful and afllictiYe to me are
thost who5e influence upon my nerves does not correspond with
yours; spasms tbt:n immediately ensue. The princiJJle which
ammares my nen·es seems not to be in harmony wilh that ''· hich
animates theirs. \Vhat thi-: is T cannot ~ay, slill less can I define
the natue of the difference, hut this I hav,t( from my Albert (her
gnardian Fpirit) to whom I refer it, that the source of it is to be
traced both to the body ancl the spi1·it. The gcncml state of health
~nd the mo(~e ~flife,ha,s an infincnce al5<o, aud so has lhe disposi-
tiOn and prmc1ples. But how can you experience pain from
others, when they only. approach you at a <.hstance 1' ' Every
man~ when a·wal;:~ and m ~ood health, ~as an ntmol'phere ·which
possesses a certam extens10n. That of magnetized persons is
·wider than that of the healthy. \Vhen they both come in con-
tact and mingle, there arises to me~ because I am much more
sus?eptible in. my present condition, a distres~ing sensation, to
whiCh I can gwe no name; the healthy know nothina of it. \Vilh
you, bowevei, it i~. the _reYer~e;. I am comfortable inyonr pro:xim-
lty, because the ammatmg pnnctple of our nerves is in harmony.",
-Die Schutzgeister ( Gt,ardia% .Angels) of II. Werne1·, p. 70. •
SPHERES. 71
being thus put in rapport. with a subject, and moved my seat
near her for the purpose, when she requested me to wait
awhile till she became a little habituated to n1y sphere, say-
ing at the same time that the sphere of some persons was so
uncongenial, repugnant, and distressing to her, as to thro\v
her into convulsions. This, ho,vever, \Vas a degree of sensi-
bility, arising from a very exquisite nervous temperament,
't\.·hich is but seldom found to exist. But nothing is 1nore
usual than to witness a striking effect of a nervous kind indi-
cated by shrinkings and tremors which the Mesmerisee is
unable to control, however much he may try.
Now there can be. no doubt whatever that this effect is
owing to the influence of spheres. Every one is surrounded
by an invisible aura or ahnosphere, which is constantly ex-
haling from his person and spreading to son1e distance on
every side, and bearing to him somewhat the same relation
that the aerial atmosphere does to the earth. The first effect
of the Magnetic condition is to produce a blending or conge-
nial inter-relation of the respective spheres of the operator
and the subject, and the more perfect is the moral affiu.ity of
the parties, the more complete is the amalgamation in this
re&pect; for the sphere is not merely the effiux of the corpo-
real system, but it emanates also from the interior spirit, the
seat of sentiments and intellectual sympathies. A very de-
cided opposition or antipathy of internal spheres is extremely
unfavorable to the Mesmeric influence, and often avails to
counteract it altogether.
It is unnecessary, however, for one to be brought into the
Magnetic state in order to•be assured of the existence and
operation of internal spheres. It is a matter of 'vaking as
well as of sleeping experience. We perceive it in the instinc-
tive likes and dislikes by which we are dra,vn to some per-
sons and repelled from others, even when the judgment does
not recognise a particular cause for either.* It is the going
• It is on the same principle that the spheres of certain animals
are so unendurably repugnant to persons of a particular tempera-
ment. 1 once knew a clergyman who w.as ~h~own into c~nvu~sions
by a eat's leaping upon his bed, and h1s 1d10syncrasy m th1s re-
12 .MES:uER AND SWEDENDORG,
forth of the inner man-of the inner lifc-:which produces
the effect. Of the effect it:;elf every one is conscious. though
he may know nothing about the phi1oso1Jhy of it. This effect,
it \Vill be obsen•cd, is prodneed in the present life, aml even
through the interposing medinn1 of the gross fleshly body.
But suppose the body to be lai<l aside and the obstacles
thence arising to be <lone a"~ay, is it not reasonable to believe
that this emmiating sphere will then manifest itself in a still
more signal manner ?"' No·w in the n1n.gnctic sleep the body,
though not laid a:;ide, is comparatively in abeyance, and of-
fers less obstruction tll.an usual to the free operations of the
soul, hence the more obvious the attraction and repulsion of
spheres in that state. The sphit is developed in proportion
spect was so well known among his people, that wherever he
mo.dc o. call the first preliminary was to remove all the cats to
private quarters Lill he had retired.
" "Sympathies and antipathies are nothing else than exhalations
of atl"cctiouc., from minds which a11e<·t one another, accordmg to
similitudes and excite aversion according to dissimilitudes. These,
although thP.y nre innume1·a.ble, and are not sensibly perce.ivcu by
any sen:-'0 of the uo<iy, are yet pi:rceiveu by the sense of the soul as
one; and according to them aU conjunctions and consociations in
the spiritual world are made."-7. C. R. 3U5.
"\Vhen those "\\'ho in the natural world have been adulterers
from a coufirmctl principle perceive a ~phere of conjugial love
flowing down from heaven, they instantly either flee away into
caverns and hide themselves, or~ 1f they persist oustinat~ly in con-
trariety to it, they grow angry with rage, and become like furies.
The reason ·why they are so affccteu is, uecause all tltin.,s of th(}
affections, whether delightful or unuebghtfu1, are perc~iv€d in
that world, an.<.l in some cases a.s clearly as an odor i::; perceived
uy the sense of smelling; jot the ·
inhabitants of that u•orlri hat•e
not a material body 1d1ich absorbs surh things."-C. L. 42.3.
"They w<:rc nnwilling to think at all about their body, or even
about anythmg corpore31l and r11aterial, contrary to the spirits
from our eart.h_; hence 1~ w::ts that. the~ "\\'ere not willing to ap-
proach, for spu1ts con:.octate and dtssoctate accordinfl' to affections
and the thoughts thence derived ; nevertheless afte~ the removal
of several pirits from our earth, they came nearer and discoursed
with me. lll_l~ on this occasion tLer~ was felt an anxiety arising
from the collls~o~ of sph~r~s : for ;pmtual spheres encompass aU
spirits and soc1et1es of spwts, flowm3 forth from the life of the af-
f('ctions and of the thoughts thence ucrivctl: wherefore if the af-
fections be contrary, collision takes place, whence comes anxiety.,
- A. c. 10,312.
SPHERES. 73
as the body is quiescent; it is enabled therefore to assert it.
self 1nore fully under its appropriate la\vs as a spirit.
No\v on the supposition that SweJenborg has made a true
discovery of the state of spirits after <.leatll, shonlJ \Ve not be
authorized to expect that this fact of the existence and opera-
tion of spheres \vould be laid open to us ? Has he done it?
Does he thrmv any light upon this part of the \vouderful
economy of our being ? This qnestion receiyes an instanta-
neous ans\ver upon the most casual opening of any one of
his volumes. No subject holds a more prominent place in
his revealed psychology than the doctrine of spheres, nor is
any part of the system more re1narkable. The ensuing ex-
tracts will be fnll of meaning to any who has made himself
conversant \\·ith the phenmnena of the niesmeric state.
In speaking of the spiritual sun as an emanation from the
Lord he says :
"It i~ called a proceeding,because that sun \vas produced
from divine love and from divine wisdom, whjch in them-
selves are substance and form, and by it the divine proceeds.
But because human reason is such, that it does not acqui-
esce, unless it sees a thing from its cause, thns unless it also
perceives hvw, here how the Eun of the spiritual world,
\\r}rich is not the Lord, but a proceeding from Him, \Vas pro-
duced; therefore, concerning this also something shall be
said. On this subject I have spoken muc·.h with the angels,
who said, that they perceive this clearly in their spiritual
light, but that they can hardly set it before man in his natu-
ral light, because there is such a difference between the two
lights, ancl the thoughts thence. They said, however, that
this is similar to the sphere of affections, and of thoughts
thence, \vhich encompasses every angel, whereby his pre-
sence is manifested to those who are near and remote; and
that this encmnpassing sphere is not the angel himself, but
that it is fr01n all and everythillg of ills body, fr01n which
sub:;tances continually emanate, as a stream, and the things
that e1nanate surround hi1n, and that these substances being
contiguous to his body, and continually actuated by the two
fountains of the n1otion of his life, the heart and the hmgs,
exc.ite the atmospheres into their activities, and thereby pro-
duce a perception as of his presence \Vith others; and thus
that there is not auother sphere of atfections, and of thoughts
thence, although it is so called, \vhich goes forth and 1s con-
tinued, because the affections are the mere states of the forms
..
74 MESMER. AND SWEDENBORG.
of the mind in him. They said, moreover, that there is snch
a sphere around every angel, because it is around the Lord,
and that that sphere around the Lord is in like manner from
Him, and that that sphere is their sun, or the sun of the spi-
ritnal world
"It has often been given to perceive that there is such
a sphere around an angel and a spirit, and also a common
sphere aronncl many in society; and it has also been gi,Ten
to see it under various appearances; in heaven sometimes
under the appearance of thin flame, in hell under the appear-
ance of a thick fire; and sometimes in heaven nuder the ap-
pe~n·ance of a thin and bright cloud, and in hell under the ap-
pearance of a thick and blaek cloud; and it has also been
given to perceive those spheres untler various species of
odors and stenches.-From which I 'vas confirmed, that
there is diffused aronnd every one in heaven, aud every one
in heU, a sphere cow::isting of substances resolved aucl sepa-
rated from their bodies.
" It "\Vas also perceived, that a sphere diifuses itself,
not only from angels and spirits, but al::;o from all and each
of the things \vhich appear in that ·world, as fr01n the trees
and from their frnits there, from~ shrubs and from their flow-
ers, from herbs and from grasseR, yea, from earths and from
everything of them; from \Vhich it \vas evident, that this is
universal as ·welt in things living o.s dead, that everything
is surrouuded by something similar to that which is \Vithin
in it, and that this is continually exhaled from it. That it js
similar in the natural world, is known from the experience
of many of the learned; as that a continual stream of effiuvia
flows forth from a ma.n, also from every animal, and like\Yise
from trees, fruits, shrubs, flow·ers, yea, fron1 metals and
stones. This the natural world derives fr01n the spiritual
world, and the spiritual \vorld from the Divine."-D. L. fr
D. TV. 2Dl-293.
"There flows forth, yea, overflows, from every man a spj-
ritual sphere, Jerived from the affections of his lo\"'e, ,,-hich
encompasses him, and infuses itself into the natural sphere
derived from the body, so that the two spheres are conjoined.
That a natural sphere is continually fio·wing forth, not only
from man, but also from beasts, yea, from trees, fruits, flowers,
and also from metals, is a thing genera1ly known; the case
is the same in the spiritnal world; but the spheres fio,·dno-
forth from subjects in that ·world are spiritual, and thos~
which emane from spirits and angels are altogether spirjtual
because there appertain thereto affections of love, and thenc~
perceptions and interior thoughts; all of sympathy and anti.
•
•
•
SPHERES. 75
pathy hath hence its rise, and likewise all conjunction and
disjunction, and acconliug thereto presence and absence in
the spiritual world, for 'vhat is homogenous or concordant
causes conjm1ction and presence, and what is heterogenous
and discordant causes disjunction and absence. wherefore
those spheres cause distances in that world. \Vhat those
spiritual spheres operate in the natural ·world, is also known
to some. The inclination of conjugial partners one towards
the other is fr01n no other origin than this ; such partners
are united by unanimous and conconlant spheres, and dis-
united by adveTse and discordant spheres; for concordant
spheres are delightful and grateful, whereas disconlaut
spheres are undelightful and ungrateful. I have been in-
formed by the angels, who are in a clear perception of those
spheres, that there is not any part 'vithin in man, nor any
without, 'vhich doth not rene\\T itself, and that this renewal
is effected by solutions and reparations, and that hence is the
sphere ·which continually issues forth."-C. L. 171.
"The sphere of a spirit is, as it 'vere, his image extended
'vithont him, and is indeed the image of all things appertain-
ing to him. But what is exhibited visibly or perceptibly in
the ·world. of spirits, is only a something general: its q11ality,
however, as to its particular~ is disc.erned in heaven; but its
quality as to its particulars of particulars, no one kno·ws but
the Lord alone."-A. C. 1505.
" Every spirit, and still more every society of spirits, has
its own sphere proceeding from the principles and persua-
sions imbibed, ._,hich is a sphere of those principles and per-
suasions. Evil genii have a sphere of lusts. The sphere of
principles and persuasions is such, that, when it acts upon
another, it causes truths to appear like falses, and calls forth
all sorts of confirmatory arguments, so as to induce the belief
that things false are true, and that things evil are good.
Hence it may appear, ho'v easily man may be confirmed in
falses and evils, unless he believe the truths 'vhich arc from
the Lord. Such spheres have a greater density according to
the nature of the falses. These spheres can in no respect
accord with the spheres of spirits \vho are in truths; if they
approximate each other, there arises a conflict; if, by per-
mission, the sphere of the false prevails, the good come into
temptation, and iuto anxiety. There was perceived also a
sphere of incredulity, which iR of ~uch a nature, that the sri-
rits from whom it proceeds believe nothing which is told
them, and scarcely ·what is exhibited to their vie·w."-A. C.
1510.
76 1\IESf!IER AND S\VEDENBORG.
"The 8pheres of charity an<l faith, when perceived as I
odors. are moo;;,t ddirrhtful; the odors are sweet antl pleasant,
like those of fiower8~ lilies, and species of divers Jduds, with
an indc11uite Yariety. .1\loreover, the spheres of the angels I
are sometimes rendered. visible like atmot:pherc~, or mm.e,
which are of such be::lllty, plea~antncss, and yariety, as to
admit of no description.''-.A. C. 1519.
"l\Ian docs not kuow, that according to the life of his af-
fections, a certain spiritnnl sphere encompa:.::ses him, which
sphere is 1nore percepti~le to the ?-ngels, than a SJ?h~re.of
odor is to the n1ost exqmstte sense 111 the world. lilu~ hfe
has been in externals alone, namely, ill pleasures denved
from hatreds aga insL ltif:. neighbor, from reYengcs and fr01n
cruelty thence, from arlnlterics, fron1 self-exaltation, and
thence contempt of others, {rom clandestine rapines, from
avarice, from d(;ceits, fron1 lux.1.uy, aud the like, the spiritual
sphere which encompacsses lum if:. as foul and oiTeu:.;;ive, as
is in the \VOrlU the sphere of Ouor from d.eau bodies, from
dunghills, from stinkiug filth, and the like. The man. vd10
had led such a life, carries with hi1n this sphere after death;
and because he is wholly and entirely in tllat sphere. he can-
not be anywhere but in hell, ''·here such spheres are.
But they who are in internal things, namely, \rho have had
delight in benevolence and charity towards the neighbor, and
especially who have lmu ble::3seduess in love to the Lord,
are encompassed with a grateful and pleasant sphere, which
is essentially heavenly, on which account they are in hea-
ven. The spheres \vhich are perceived in the other life, all
ari~e from the loves and. afT...:ctions thence, in \lrhi.ch they had
been, con"equently from the life, for the loves auJ affections
thence make the life itself."-A. C. 446-t
" The spiritual sphere appertaining to man or to a spirit is
the exhalation flowing forth from the life of his loves, {rom
which it is known at a distance what is his quality; accord·
iug to ~pheres all are conjoined in the other Jife, even socie-
ties among themselves; aud are also <lissociated, {or oppo·
site spheres are in colli::~ion, and mntnally repel each other;
hence the spheres of the loves of evil are all in hell, and the
spheres of the loves of good are aU in heaven that js they
who are in those spheres."-A. C. 6206. ' '
"How the case herein is, is evident frmn those thinas which
~anifest thems~lves in the other life; every spirit, a~1d. e~pe­
ctally eyery socte.ty, have ab?ut then: ~he sphere of their faith
anc.l then hfe, '\YhlCh sphere lS a spmtual sphere; hereby a
SPHERES. 77
spirit is distinguished, and especially a society, as to their
quality, for it is perceived by those "\Yho are in perception,
sometimes at a considerable distance; and this although they
are in coucealment, and neither comtnunicate by thought nor
by speech: this spiritual sphere may be compared to the
material sphere "\vhich encompasses the head of a man in the
world, "\vhich sphere is a sphere of eilluvias exuding from him,
and is sensibly smelt by sagacious beasts. From what has
been said concerning the spir1tual SI)here, or the sphere of
faith and life, "\vhich exhales fron1 every spirit, and especial-
ly from a society of spirits, it may further be nwnifest, that
there is nothing at all concealed, but everything is in mani-
festation, whatsoever man in the world has thought, has
spoken and done, for these are the things which constitute
that sphere : such a sphere also exudes from the spirit of a
man whilst he is in the body in the "\vorld ; hence also it is
kno"\vn what this quality is: let it not therefore be believed,
that what things a 111an thinks in secret, and \Vhat things he
acts in secret, are secret, for they are as manifest in heaYen,
as the things \vhich appear in mid-day light, according to
the Lord's words in Luke,' There is nothing concealed,which
shall not be revealed, or hidden, ·which shall not be known;
therefore w·hatsoever things ye have said in darkness, shall
be heard in light, and what ye have spoken into the ear in
closets, shall be preached upon the tops of houses,' xii. 2, 3."
-A. C. 7454.
"The reason why to touch denotes communication, trans-
lation, and reception is, because the interiors of man put
themselves forth by external things, especially l>y the touch,
and thereby communicate tbems·elves with another, and
transfer themselves to another, and so far as the will is in
further agree1nent, and makes one, they are received; whe-
ther \Ve speak of the will or the love, it is the same thing, for
"\Vhat is of the love of man, this also is of his will. Hence
also it follows that the interiors of man, which are of his love
and of the thought thence derived, put themselves forth by
the touch, and thus communicate themselves with another,
and transfer thmnselves into another; and so far as another
loves the person or the things which the person speaks or
acts, so far they are received. This especially manifests it-
self in the other life, for all in that life act fr01n the heart, that
is, from the will or love, and it is not allowed to act from
gestures separate from thence, nor to speak from the mouth
according to pretence, that is, separately from the thoug~1t of
the heart; it is there evident how the interiors con1mumcate
themselves with another, and transfer themselves into ano-
78 MESMER AND SWEDENBORG.
ther by the touch; and how another receives them c,tccorcling
to lu5 loYe. The will or love of every one coustttntes the
whole man there, and the sphere of the life thence flows
forth from him as an exhalation or vapor, and encompns~es
him, aml makes as it were himself around him; resembling
in a o-reat measure the eilluvia encompassing "~e~etables in
the \\7orld which is also macle sensible at a distance by
odors; als~ that encompassing beasts, of ':·hich a sag~e1ons
dog is exquisitely seusiblc; such an effinvnun also dtffuses
itself from e,·ery man, as is 1noreover kuo\Vll. fro1n much ex-
perience. \Vhen, however, man lays aside .the body, ~nd
becomes a spirit or au ::mgel, then the e1llnvmm. or e.x.plra-
tory principle is not J.natcrial, as in the worlJ, but 1s spu1tual,
flowing forth from his love; this then forms a sphere around
him, 'vhich causes his quality to be perceived at a distance
by others. Now as tlus sphere co1nn1uuicates \Yith another,
and is there transferred into him, and is received by another
according to his love, hence 1nany wonderful things there
exist which nre mlknown to tnan in the \i\•orl<l: as 1st, That
all presence is according to similitudes of loves, and all ab-
sence acconling to their dissilnilitndes. Zdly, That all are
consociatc<l according to loves; those ·who are in love to the
Lord from the Lord, consociate in the innwst heaven; those
who are in love to,vards the neighbor from the Lord, conso-
ciate in the middle heaven; those who are in the obedience
of faith, that is, who do the truth for the sake of the truth,
consociate in the ultimate heaven; but those who are in the
love of self and of the ·world, that is, ,,·ho do \vhat they do
for the sake of themselves and the \Vorld. as ends, consociate
in hell. 'Yhen an angel of heaven determinates his sight to
others, in such case his interiors are communicated andtrans~
ferred into them, accorclil1g to the quantity aud quality of his
loYe; .and are r~ceiged by them ac.cording to the quality and
quan.tlty of the1r lo~·e; 'vherefore 1f by an angel of heayen
the s1ght he determLDed to the good, the effect is oladness and
joy; but if to the evil, the effect is grief and to~ment. The
reason, moreover, why by the touch of the hand is also si,.-
nified ~omm.un~cation~ translation, and reception, is beeou~e
~he act1ve pnnc1pl~ of the whole body is brought together
mto the arms and mto the hands, and interior thinas are ex-
pressed in the \Vord by exte~ior. Hence it is th~t by the
a~ms, by the ~ands, and especmlly by the right hand, is sig-
nified power. -A. C. 10,130.
"In h.eaven there. are spheres of love and of faith, which
are manifestly percetVed : spheres are of such a nature, that
SPHERES. 79
when a good spirit or angel, or a society of good spirits or
~ngels, approaches, it is then instantly perceived, as often as
It seems good unto the Lord, what is the quality of the spirit,
angel, or society, in regard to love and.faith; and this at a
distance, but more particularly as they approach nearer:
this is incredible, but still it is most true : such is the cOln-
munication which prevails in another life, and such the per-
~eption ; wherefore, when it seems good unto the Lord, there
IS no need of much examination as to the qua1ity of a soul,
or spirit, for it may be known at the first approach. To these
spheres the spheres of odors in the world correspond; that
they correspond, may appear from this, that the spheres of
love and faith, whenever it seems good unto the Lord, are
manifestly changed in the 'vorld of spirits into spheres of
delightful and sweet odors, anu are sensibly perceived."-A.
c. 925.
"That the truth or the false which are derived from man's
loves, encompass him and also flow forth from him, may
appear from this consideration, that all things which are in
the world, as well animate as inanimate, pour forth from
themselves a sphere, which is sometimes perceivable to the
senses at a considerable distance, as from animals in the
'voods. which dogs exquisitely smell out, and pursue by the
scent from step to step; likewise fr01n vegetables in gardeus
and forests, 'vhich emit an odoriferous sphere in every direc-
tion ; in like manner from the ground and its various mine-
rals; but these exhalations are natural exhalations. Similar
is the case in the spiritual world, where from every spirit and
angel flows forth a sphere of his love, and of its derivative
truth or false, and this in every direction; hence it is that all
spirits may be known as to their quality, from the spiritual
sphere alone which exudes from them, and that according to
those spheres they have conjunction with societies which
are in similar love, and thence in a similar truth or false.
They who are in the love of good and thence of truth, are
conjoined with the societies of heaven, and they who are in
the love of evil and thence of the false, are conjoined with
the societies of hell. I can assert that there is not even a
single thought appertaining to a spirit, and also to a man,
which does not communicate by that sphere with some
society : that this is the case, has not hitherto been known to
man, but it has been made evident to me from a thousand
instances in the spiritual world, wherefore also wh_en spiri~
are explored as to their quality, it is traced out wh1ther the1r
thouahts extend themselves, whence it is known with what
societies they are conjoined, and thus their quality is ascer-
80
.
tained, and that the evil are conjoined '"Tith societies of helJ,
and. the ..,.ood wiLh societies of hea\'en ?''-A. E. 889.
0
This doctrine of spheres as pertaining to spirits in the other
world, is exceedingly important and wonderful, as may be
seen frmn Sw-cdcnborg's development of it in the .Arc. Celes.
1504-1520. He remarks, it will be seen, that the interiors o(
man are in a certain uukno,vn activity, by means of "rhich
the character of a spirit is perceivaLlc, and that the sphere of
such activity not only extends itself to a considerable dis-
tance around hiln, but is occasionally made manifest by
beautiful variations of light, and in some cases by being con-
verted into a peculiar odor. This odor, though of the most
exquisite fragrance in the case of good spirits, is so offensive
to the evil that the very percc1Jtion of it fills them ·with un-
utterable distress n.nd anguish. This constitutes one am.:>ng
other reasons "\vby the wicked cannot dwell in heaven.
They cannot abide the celestial aura. The inhaling the least
porlion of it puts them into a frenzy of torment, while every
kind of foul and fetid odor is to them an aroma of delight.•
Butthe nature ofspheresbecomes peculiarly interestingfrom
the mental phenomena connecte<.l with them.t The sphere
• " Good cannot be approached by evils, for evils cannot sustain
in any measure the sphere of good. When evils, that is, they
who nre in evils, or they who are from hell1 come into that sphere,
which sphere is the sphere of heaven, they are direfully tormented,
and so far as they enter into that sphere, so far they are made
sensible of infernal tortures in themselves, and become thence
like those who lie in the agony of death, wherefore they cast them-
selves down instantly into hell, and dare not any longer lift up
their heads."-.A. a. 10,157.
t ''Was the discernment of spirits mentioned in the apostolic
age, anything more than the Injlue'Yice of Spheres ? This was called
a miraculous gift, but the vulgar definition of miracle;:;, that ' they
are events contrary to the common course of nature,' is inconsist-
ent with reason, and a disgrace to religion. God cannot contradict
himself either in his word or in his works. He is the one eternal
all perfect. Several things appear miraculous becau~e we ar~
ignorant; we know not the powers of nature; we see not the im-
mediat~ connecti~n betwc~n cause and effect. \Vhen the spiritual
degree 1~ opened Ill the mmd; when the outward man is reduced
into some degree. of order, then he is susceptible of now feelings,
and capable ofh1gher degrees of knowledge. This may rationally
SPHERES• 81
•
of a spirit, according to Swedenborg, is his image extended
without him, and to the keen perception of another spirit,
immediately reveals his internal quality, and, still more, indu-
ces a recognition of his identity, ifhe had been before known.
A parallel to this we see again in the facts of Mesmerism.
A subject in that state, with his eyes hermetically sealed, and
it may be, bandaged, will indicate by name a person of his
acquaintance who unexpectedly enters the room ; and this is
often referred to a preternatural power of vision with which
he is then endowed. Without denying the fact of such vision,
we presume the truth to be , that they generally tell the per-·
son by his sphere. Sight is superseded by sensation, unless
indeed this perception of·spheres is their vision. I once in-
account for the wonderful presentiments which people of extraor-
dinary piety have had of approaching calamities, the sickness or
death of relations and friends, &.c. Their spirits, which are their
real selves, were as much influenced by the spheres of others as if
they had been bodily present, for spirits are not confined to time
or place; although in general this influence is by far the strongest,
and in some cases not t>asily to be overcome, when the person is
actually present : hence that visible uneasiness which is felt in the
company of certain persons; the breast as it w~.re contracts, the
power of conversation is suspended, and you do not recover your
ease and spirits until they are removed. Some men of loose and
profligate lives have been uncommonly deranged and. distressed
when in the company of persons of eminent piety: for a time they
are not themselves. The professed libertine, who has forgot to
blush, has been discomposed and confounded at the simplicity and
innocence of a young girl. Such are the powers of virtue ; and
such is the respect which vice must involuntary pay to it. Virtue,
meekness, forbearance, and humanity appear to be weak, yet
are they founded on eternal strength ; whereas profligacy and vice
vannt of their strength, when they are only forms of weakness and
death. Every principle of tl"uth applies to the good oflife. The
doctrine here laid down is of great practical import. We see a
deep ground for being peculiarly careful ef the company we keep;
when we associate with them by choice and unreserve, we imme-
diately expose ourselves to the influence of their sphere, which
may corrupt not only good manners, but good principles. We
are wonderfully combined together; therefore we cannot be too
watchful over ourselves, or too circumspect of our companions.
Man is no independent being; he experiences a healthful sympa-
thy or a morbid contagion from those who surround him; _perh~ps
he is alway rendered better or wor~e by every company m wh1ch
he is; and our companions in this worlcl prepare us for our com-
panions in the next."-New Jeruaalem Mag. 1790 p. 193.
82 .1\U:S:MI~R AND SW.EDENDOHG.
terrogated a I\Jesmeric subject on this point, ho\V ~he dis-
criminated difTercnt individuals when ulindfoldcd-whether
she actuallv sa'v them. "No," :3he replied, " [ do not see
them, I f eci them." They are reYcaled by their sphere. In
accordance wi1h tl!i::::, Swedenborg remnrl,s, that, "\Vhen
any spirit is coming towarus others, aliliough he is yet at a
distance, and not mani[e;:,t to the sight, his presence is per-
ceived, as often as the Lord grants, from a eertoin SlJiritual
sphere.''*
As these ::;phcres are the grand media of conjunction be-
t,"treen spirit~, being the c.:mauations of their interior al1ct;tions,
we see in them the ground ofthatpeculinr attachment which,
for the time lJcing, is evinced by the l\Icsmcrised towards his
:J\Icsmerisce, uud which undoubtedly tends to iix itself as a
permanent seutimcnt, except as circumstances antl higher
promptings may exercise their due control over the cmotions.t
The inflnencc exerted, however, in this manner, doubtless
• Thi!'l may perhaps afford a solution of the circnm<:tance of
vd1ich ncarlr cvl!ry one has been at some time con:::<.:ious, viz. that
when "''Hlclt·uly lei.} tu think of an absent per:;on who has not for
a long time been in his thoughts, he as suddenly uJcets him in the
street or elsewhere. May uot tills be owing to the 5phcrc which
is sent before him~
t It is proper, howeYcr, to say in tl1is connexion that it is no
other than the purest 1orm of this tender sentiment which i.s iu
tlteso circumstances awakened. ''The attraction towards the
mcsmcri8cr testitlc<.l by the patient is of a natmc totnlly distinct
from the prompting of passion. If compared to any lo•;e, it Ulttilt
be likened to self-love; for it seems to result from the identifiention
of tlw vital nncl nervous system of the two parties." *' * * "\VI.H.•n
we ~?nsiclcr thcs~ and other proo_fs displayed l>y slecpwakers of
sensittve nnd mouvc sy111pathy With their mcsmcri..;cr; '\Vhcn we
reflect that they nrc actually heedless of injuries intlictcd on them-
sehrcs, but. tn.:n~bliugly alive to all that he is made to sufrt.:r, we
n~ay well. unngmc that. he stands to them in a very peculiar and
v~tal relatton: nor can 1t seem wonderful that, '\Vhcn ~cvercd from
hun, that they ~hould ncknowlf'dge a schism in. their being nnd
seem ot~t of all unity w_itl.t thel!lseh·es., * * * " .,.othing ca'n uo
mor~ C\•uleut than that tt ~~ an mstinct, not a pa~sion: the ::<.tnings
?f ~fc.are tot:chc~, and the powerfu.l inpnlse of :-elf-presen·mion
1'> !'~t m. pl~~. ...o, also, the repuls1on from all others than the
mesmc_n ·er 15 but a measure or the attractive force which draws
the pataent thcro, where he e.x.tsts even more thau in himself.''-
Toumshend.
SPHERES. 83
throws a ~trong light upon the operation of lo-re and the na-
ture of the unions '"':hich it prompts in the other life. It
·woultl a11pear that when the reqnisite moral affinity exists,
sonls come into a sul>limated magnetic couuntmication or
'rapport with each other, '"':hich binds them far more closely
together than the mere attraction of kindrcu sentiment, as we
see its effects n1anife~ted in the present world. Congeniahty
of ~phere is the celestial cement 'vhich unites together all
spirits that are in\Yardly in unison."' And \\'hat is remarka-
ble, Swcdeuborg informs us, that the spheres of frienuship
'""'hich are often formed in the present life betvveeu those who
are uot in deep Inoral affinity with each other become so
firmly established-so hnvrought into the nature-that they
follo'v the parties after death, and frequently prove Yery de-
trimental in their influences. The following is, in this vie\v,
Yery striking.
" That the friendship of lo'\re is detrimental after death, may
be evident fr01n the state of heaven, from the state of hell,
and from the stutc of the spirit of man respectively. As to
the state of hea-ven; it is distingu1shed into inuumerable so-
cieties, u<.;<..:ortliug to all the vm·ieties of the affections of the
love of good; hell also is divided into societies, according to
• "The somnambulist has no perception of anything in the visi-
ble worhl. ·with the exception ofthe souls of those individuals that
arc brought into a corr<>~ponding connexion, or into rapport with
him: throu~h these he learns what passes in the visible world. The
soul, after death, enters into connexion ""'ith tho..-e that bear the
greate~t affinity to its own nature: if it enter into this kind of con-
tact with other~, it feels a pain, the extent of which corre~ponds
with the degree of cliifercnce. 0 happy they that have approach-
ed so ne:lr to the charac.;tcr of the Redeemer, as to come into con-
nexiou with him, that is, attain to the felicity of beholding him;
they will then be in communion also with all his saints! In this
manner also, those friends, who much resembll! each other in their
moral character, will there abide together, in eternal connexion
and harmonious union. From the preceding ob~crvallons, we
mny therefore comprehend what will be the nature of communi-
cntion in the world to come~ The somnambulist reads in the soul
of him with whom he is placed in rapport; there is no need of
lant!uage for the purpo~c, and such al~o is the case after death,
the~onu rc<1ds in tho soul of the other. "-Stilli1tg's Prt.eumatology,
p. 63.
MESMER AND S\VEDl;NBORG.
all the \Ttrieties of the 8 ffections of the lo~e ofevil; and mnn,
after death, who then is a spirit, according to his.life.in ~he
""orieL is present!\~ assigned to the society where lllf'l'CJgumg
love is; to some ·heavenly society, if lovc to ~Jod aud love
towards the neirrhhor had made the hcncl of Ius loves; and
to some infcrnal~ociC'ty, ifthe love ofselfanu. the world !1ad
made the head of his love-3. Presently after h1s entrance mto
tlle spiritual world (which is 1nadc by death and t.he rejection
of the material uoclv into the sepulchre), man 1~ for smne
time being prepared- for his society to which he.ha~ been as-
sianed, an<l the preparation i~ 1nade by the reJectiOn of the
lo~cs which do not ag-ree with his principal love; ·wherefore
one is then separated from another, friends fr<?m f~iends,
clients irom pntrons, nnd ali'o parents from thctr clulclren,
and brother from brother; and each of them is joined to his
like, ·with whom he is to live a life in co1runon ''·ith them
and properly his O'\\ll. to eternity. But, at the first time of
the preparation, they 1neet together and converse in a friend-
ly manner, as in the world; but by degrees they are sepa-
rated, which is done insensibly.
"But those who in the world have contracted friendships
of love one ·with another, cannot, like others, be separated
according to order, and assigned to the society correspond-
ing to their life; for they are inwardly, as to the spirit, tied,
nor can they he torn asunder, because they are like branches
ingrafted into branches; wherefore, if one, as to his interiors,
is in heaven, and another, as to his interiors, in bell, they co-
here scarcely otherwise than as a sheep tied to a ·wolf or as
a goose to a fox, or as a do\·e to a hawk; and be \Vhose iu-
teriors are in hell breathes his infernal influences into him
\vhose interiors are in heaven ; for among the knowlcdges
which are in heaven, this also is one, that evils n1ay be ill-
spired into the good, but not goods into the evil. The reason
is, becnuse every one, by birth, is in evils; thence the interi-
ors of the good, who thus cohere with the evil, arc shut up,
and both are thrust down into hell, w·here the good F;uifer hard I
things ; but at length, after a certain space of time, they are
taken out, an~ then they first begin to be prepared for heaYen.
It has been gtven ~e to see such tyings, particnlarly between
brothers and relatwns, and also between patrons aud clients,
and of many with flatterers, 'vho possessed contrary affec·
tions and diverse dispositions.
'' The case is altogether otherwise \vith those who love the
~ood in another, that i~, '':lLO love j~1stice, judgment, sincer-
Ity, benevolence from chanty, especmlly who love faith and
love t? the Lord; tl.wse, bccanc:.c they love the things which
are Wlthm a man abstracted from. those which are without
SPHERES. 85
hitn, lf they do not absenTe the same qualities in the person
after death, immediately break off frientbhip, and are a~so­
ciatcil by the Lon.l with those who are in si~nila! good. It
may be said that no one can eA'"Plore the mtenors of the
mind of those with \VhOin he is associated and connected;
but this is not necessary ; only let him be cautious of forming
a friendship of love with every one; external friendship, for
the sake of various uses, is not hurtful."-T. C. R. 4-17-449,
Everything relative to the subject of spheres goes to evince
that there is a physiology of pS1jchology-that 1he true basis of
everything menta.l and spiritual is to be found in those sub-
tle elements of our being ·which come as truly under the op~
eration of fixed law, as do any of the processes of attraction
and repulsion in the physical \vorld. The interior essence of
these ele1nents we may be as yet unable to grasp, but that
1nental phenomena are in some my~terions manner cmmect-
e<.l \Vith the influences and agencies, electric and magnetic,
which, in s01ne of their forms, come under the cognizance of
the s mses, is beyond a doubt. The J\:Iesmeric state is as
much. distinguished by mental as by physical phenomena
Yet this state is iudnced by physical means, that is to say, by
manual movements or passE's made in a downward (lirec-
tion, and it is removed by passes made in the reverse direc-
tion. By precisely the same process, a bar of steel is first
magnetized and then demagnetized. These are thefacts in
the t\\TO cases. Let him, who can, resist the evidence of a
close and indissoluble relation-of the operation of a kindred
la'\v-in the respective classes of phenomena. The assertion
of this inference is notthe propounding of a theory. We know
nothing of the intrinsic nature of the principle involved in
either case. All that \Ve affinn is the fact of an analogy in
the respective phenomena so striking as to warrant the con-
clusion, that the same hidden law is at ·work in both. If this
suggestion shall be taxed as savoring of the heresy of mate-
Tialism, we shall1neekly allow the authors of the charge to
glory over us in the imputation, provided they '\vill define
the precise boundaries that separate the domain of matter
from that of 1nind. Let them say how 1nuch of the purely
physical, and how much of the purely spiritual, there 1s in
0
86 l\IESMER AND SWEDENBORG.
the process by \vhich one person, employing at the same
time Yolition aml manipulation, puts another into the mag-
netic sleep.* Is he prepareu to say that his mind and his
hands do not deal \vith precisely tho same agent in its trans-
mission to tlle subject organi..stn? And what will he 1nake
of the fact, that in transmitting this agent, which is palpably
removeLL by np'\rard passes purely mechanical, he has trans-
ferred his own thoughts and volitions to the psychical element
of the other party? All this is matter of indubitablefact, com-
ing ,,·ithin the range of every day experience, and \Ve submit
\vhether the simply charge of materialism is a sufficient reply
to the evidence of facts which appeal as directly to the ob-
jector's reason as to ours.
CHAPTER V.
MEMORY.
A striking phasis of the l\fesmeric \\renders displays itself
in the evidence afforded that the records of JJ:lemory are
equally transferrable in that state with t.he present train of
thought aud the arbitrary creations of fancy. The one fact is
• "By an impnlsion of my will I convey the f]nid to the extrem-
ity of my h:mds; by the same act of volition I impress it \vith a
determinate da?ctwn, which communicates the motion of my fluid
to that of the dtseased person. Nothmg prevents me f1 om emit-
ting it; Lut there may be in the individual upon whom I act some
obstacle which prcyents the effect::; I intend to proc.lncc ; an~l then
I experience a greater or less resi~tn.nce, in the same manner as
wllen I employ my stren~th to lift a burden that is too hcayy: this
resistance mny cYen be invinriblc. The mat•nctical fluid is con-
tinnnlly esc:aping f~om us, and i~ fonns.an at~10spbcre round our
~od1es, wh1cll hav:mg. n.o <.lcternuuate dtrection, docs not percep-
tibly ac.t npon the md.tvlcl~tals \dlO are about ns, but it is impelled
anc.l gmtled by our WJll; 1~ tno\·es forward with the whole of that
~orce which ~''e .have imparted to it, like t~1e .luminous rays which
tsst~e fro~n 1.gnacu suLst?nces. Tl1e pnnc1plc which sets iL in
acnon extsts m onr souls_, 1n tlle same way as that "\vhich C'Ommu-
nic~l.lcs ::>trcngLh to our arm, anc.l its na.lure is similar."-De/ettze
Hist. Cn't. du l'llagflCf. Vol. f. p. !)3.
MEMORY. 87
not perhaps in itself any more marvellous than the other.
Our present thoughts are always more or less connectell with
our past memories, and if the operations of mind in general
may be reflected in t!a;.manner we have above described, we
see nothing incre<libm:in the idea that, by the law of mental
association, the chain of reminiscences may be viviilly
awakened in the subject intellect. However it may be
accounted for, the fact is un<loubteclly so. You recal to
1nind a past event, or a remembered locality, and the clairvoy-
ant describes it as if actually passing before his O'W'Il mind.
And it is remarkable that in many cases where you have
failed to recollect correctly the featm·es and circumstances of
a particular occurrence, the descriptions thus elicited will
agree with the truth rather than witb your impressions. This
has been frequently teste<l. Thus, for instance, you have in
your mind's eye a picture representing a person sitting by a
table with a letter in his hand,.but in regard to which you
have in some "ray taken up the impression that the letter lies
on the table instead of being in the hand of the person por-
trayed. You request the subject to describe the painting.
He assures you the letter is in the haucl. You arc quite con-
fident that he is mistaken, but he insists that he is right. On
repairing to the room.' and consulting your eyes, you find, to
your surprise, that the descril;er was right and that you were
·wrong. The letter is in the hand and not on the table. Ho\V
is this to be accounted for? So far as you were conscious, you
conceived the letter as lying on the tabJe, and if the conception
of your mind was transferred to the other, why did not the
image in both cases correspond? The disagreement in in·
stances like this has led many persons to suppose that the
clairvoyant's spirit, in somemysterious way, emerged from the
body and \\yent actnally to the place,and there examining the
picture for itself, reported the fact as it was. vVithout deny-
ing the possibility of this, I still venture to think there is an-
other and better solution. I believe the itnprcssion was taken,
and taken correctly, from your 1nind. The process, if 1 mi!-
take not, was this. vVhen you first saw the painting, you
sa\v it as it was. It impressed itself in its tn1e features on
88 :1\IES:'ItER AND SW'EDENDORO.
the tablet ofyour 1nincl. It painted it~clf there in its genuine
traits as really as the colors aud fonn~ ·were impres:::-c<.l upon
the cnnYa~s Ly the hand of the mtist. And so, it is probable.
the impression for sometime rcmaiuc Snbscqnently, from
some inexplicable cause, the en-or crept i11to your n1ind in
regard to the position of the letter. But this n1cre error of
judgment diu not obliterate the true underlyiug impression
originally made. The senses then did their duty and made
a veritable report. The image then daguerreotypctl upon
your mind in fact remains there still, unconsciously to your-
self, and from this image the corresponding image in the
mind of the mesmerisee is dcriYed. All this is indeed \Yon-
dcrful, but the elucidations we are abont to give fr01n Swe-
denborg ''rill IJtol>ably evince that it is tlte true explanation
of the fact.
Previously, hm\·ever, we exhibit some attested iustanccs
of the phenomena in questi-on as developed in .Thiesmeris1n.
The fList is a cuse directly in point, in illustration of the re-
lnarks just made.
"Calixte being ju the state of Extase (to be hcreafrcr de-
scribed) reproached himself f:evere1y for the levity of his lm-
hitual rontluct. lie ~poke to him~elf, as if addressing ~moth­
er, and discoursed \Vith a tone and a. facility which w·ould
ha,·e been 'vorthy of one of the doctors of the Sorbonne.
'c Being brought back to the s1a.te of simple somnambulism,
Cali_~tc obeyed thE> orders \Vhich ·were mentally given him by
his magne_tizer. The latter,. among ma.uy other convincing
proofs, tacttly commanded hun, on the suggestion which had
been made to J~i1n by a third person, to go to a certain table,
<l:nd take from 1~ ~ glass full of water, and to place it npon a
llt~e box contammg vhosphorus, which had been placed,
w1th.several other thmgs, upon.the chimney-vicec. Then
walkmg ·veryfast, .the :;omnanilmlLst went to take up the glass
f~ll of water, carr1ed 1t, .and plaC'e~ it rapidly npon the said
httle recept~cle, where 1t restecl Wtth perfecL secnrity, to the
great astom:::lnnent of those pre~eut, \\rho havino- afterwards
tried to do the same thing could never find the perfect equi-
librium.
." :UI. S., a solicitor, t~en Wi;:,hcLl. to be placed 'en rapport'
wtth the somnambulist, and to mduce him to explore his
house.
,
MEMORY. 89
"' \Vill yon sec my house, and tell me the arrangement of
the ground floor?'
H' 1\'lostwillingly. I am there. I enter by a door with two
leaves into a large hall; I see two doors on the right, two
door~ ou the left, a great staircase at the bottom, and a little
to the left;-and near to, and on the right of the staircase, a
little door \Yhich opens into the court.'
"' Vcry well ; go up stairs to the Hrst floor, and into the
first room on the left.'
"'I mn there. It is your library. I see eYerywhere books
and papers. I will go round the room beginning on the
right side, and will tell yon what it contains. Come then-
follow me. Here, near to the door, is your book-case, occu-
})ying the whole side: there, are four chairs, there is the
chimney-piece, on which stands a bronze dial: there are
also t\vo candles,-a book open and some papers : further
on a \vriting-tablc :-there, opposite to the book-case, two
windO\\rs,-bet\vecn the two, there is nothing except a sofa.
The \\"'i.ndo\v blinds are of blue silk-and the curtains are
\d1ite and embroidered: there, opposite to the chimney, are
four easy chairs. In the middle of the roon1 is a large library
table furnished with a covering of green cloth, ornamented
\Vith yellow fringe; upon it there are only some papers, an
inkstand, and--and a box, the top of \vhich is IJaiuted, and
represents a lawbcape.'
"'All that you have said is perfectly correct, except in one
particular; that is the last which you have mentioned, there
is no box on my usual study table.'
" ' There is no box, do you say ? you are wrong: I am
certain that there is a box there, I see it distinctly still. Look
now, there, at the place \vhere you write. Do you not see
it? That is astoni~hing, for it is of considerable size.'
" 'I assure you, my friend, it is yon who arc wrong and
not I :-but enough of this, besides I am quite satisfied with
you. and I thank you.'
"The sotnnambulist appeared much disconcerted relative
to the box, and besides he 'vas fatigued; the magnetizer
awakeuccl him, and sent him to breathe the fresh air.
"Then sc,·eral persons inqujred of :i.\1. S-, if he was quite
snre, that there "·as no box upon his taule; he ngain affinn-
ed that there was nothing of the kind, ancl added: 'I possess
indeed a box answering to the description which the som-
nambulist has given of the one he affirme<.l to see, but it is
invnriably kept in my Ledroom.' Tl~is avo\ntl of l\1..S-
that l•e pos~es~ed a Lox greatly resemhlmg the one dc::;cnbcd
Ly Cnlixte, indueecl the mag-nenzer to n~k J\1: R- to make
himself quite sure when he returned home w1th regard to
90 1\lESM:ER AND SWEDENBORG.
the fact in doubt. 1\I. S- then proposed to sevc:al person~,
and to the ma..,.netizer himself, to accompany hun home, m
order to Ycrifyo the error, which according to his belief the
somnambulist had committed. This was agreed upon, and
on entering the library of l'rl. S-. every one inlmedi~te]y re-
cognized that the lucidity of Cahxte had not be~n at 1t1;nlt, ~ut
the n1emory of 1\I. S-; tor there stood the box lit the ulentt~al
place pointed out by the magnell:::cd. 11.. S-, thorot~ghly satl~
fied by the sight, nm,rrecollected, that m t1~e m.ornmg. he had
had occasion to open the box, an<l that lus 1nmJ be.mg.P~·e­
occupied with other business, be must have brought 1t 1n,
and left it in its unwonted position."-Newnha1n's An.lJlag.
p. 262-265, Lond. Ed.
The annexed letter from Mr. Church we insertfrom the ap-
pendL"t to Delenze's Animal Magnetis1n, translated by Mr.
Hartshorn, \Vho has embodied a large supplementary 1nass
of facts of a very interesting character, and from sources of
the highest respectability.
" Sm-In a conversation with lou a fe'v evenings ago,
you asked. of me a short sketch o what I had seen of the
phenomenon called somnambulis1n.
"In reply, I can only say that my observation has been
confined principally to one case, aud that of a young lady
of this city known to you. I first saw her the latter part of
~Iay, and having previously heard. much, but seen nothing,
I was like most others, rather incredulous respecting the facts
related to me by those who had witnessed them. After see-
ing her put into an apparently sound and qniet sleep, fi.·om
which she could not be awakened by any of the means usu-
ally employed to rouse sleeping persons, the 1nagnetizer pro-
ceed.eel to sho·w the influence of his will, by causing her to
see things, which existed only in imagination. For instance,
to drink water fr01n an empty cup, and to eat bread, fruit,
cake, &c. frmn an empty plate. She '\Vas also made to see
an~ <lescnbe clist~uctly the number of persons in the room,
art~cles of small slZe 'vrapped in many thicknessess of cloth,
or m t~e pockets of the persons present. Having known of
her bern~ sent abroad and .de.scribing persons and things,
and havmg found her descnptwns to be generally correct,
·where proof was to be had, I was once induced to request
her being sent to the island of Cuba, k.no,vincr that itshe
could describe things there of ·which neither she~or any one
present•. save myself, had the most remote conception, it
would, m my ~~r:d, put the matter of her sp1ritual ,,_.i.'iion be-
yond the poss1bihty of a doubt. The 1·cquest was complied
blJ:MORY. 91
with, by sending her along the sea coast iu a southwesterly
direction, until she came to the peninsula of Florida. She
'vas then directed to go directly south over the sea until she
can1e to land. Not more than half a minute elapsed before
she announced her arrival. She 'vas then told to seek a
city. It was almost inunediately found, and on being called
on to describe the entrance from the sea, I was satisfied she
'vas at Matanzas. ·vvishing at that time to have her at Ha-
vanna, she was directed to go ·west abont si..~ty miles, unti.l she
can1e to another city, which she did. Being told to enter it
by the harbor, and relate what she sa,v, on the right hand
side going in, she described a large stone building, unfinish-
ed, which I knew to be a new prison then building, likewise
the city walls, mounted with cannon, the shipping and the
harbor generally, 'vith the forts on the opposite side of the
entrance, 1\ioro Castle, Castle Blanco, the light-house, &c.
Leading questions ·were of course avoided.
"She also described correctly the quay, the launches load-
ing from an open shed, with many persons there collected,
standing smoking, &c.; which place is used as a kind of Ex-
change, where the ' merchants do most cong1·egate.'
(( She was then directed to enter a large building in that vi-
cinity, the Cathedral, and her description of it was very mi-
nute, and so far as my memory served, was very correct.
Being asked what kind of church it was, she replied she did
not know, having never seen anything of the kind before.
Observing a number of priests officiating at the altar, her at-
tention was directed to the1n. Onbeing asked their probable
age, she said that' two were nearly bald, and three, although
very young, 'vere beginning to be so,' fully satisfying me,
that she recognized the 'pnest w£th the shaven c1·own.' She
saw one bearing a bright vessel, suspended by a chain, from
whence issued a smoke, which he swung before; and others
engaged apparently at prayer and kneeling before the altar.
Occasjonally a lid would close over it and the s1noke cease,
'vhen it would be handed to a boy in attendance, then taken
back again, and so used several tilnes during the ceremony.
She described 'vith exactness the organ as being very small
for so large a building, and much out of place, which is the
fact, being situated in an arch of the ceiling above the capi-
tals of the columns; the floor ofthe altar as being beautifully
inlaid with marble in Mosaic; also the many and splendid
paintings on the walls.
" At another time she visited Matanzas, describing the ves-
sels in the harbor with sufficient exactness for me to identify
one in which I wasinterested; the quay or landing; the pub-
lic square, with orange trees on the border; and a marble
92 M:E::Il\lER AND SWEl>ENBORG.
statne in the centre· the church at that place with the pe-
culiar architecture m~d location of the to·wn; together with
the interior of the church, tl1e altar, statues, ornaments, &c.,
iucluding a miuiature brig suspended from the c~iling, by
some pious individual,"~ho had bee~1 saved from ~lupwrcc~,
by praying heartily to his patron samt, .and thus fulftlle<l Ius
''ows by dedicating the sa1cl ve.ss~l to h1s or her. glory.
"I recognized by her descnptwn three Iad1es of my ac-
quaintance at their residence. And her "'\vhole description,
so far as my memory could be relied on, was strictly correct.
I ,~-ould obscn'e, that on being first sent to Cuba, no uatne
of place ,,-as giYen her, and nearly ten days elapsed before I
met her again, '\Vhcn she asked me where she had been sent;
as she knew it n1nst have been in a foreign country, the ap-
pearance of things being so ei)tirely diirerent from anything
she had before seen.
"I close by giving you the assurance of my most implicit
belief in what 1have witneP.sed, only stating facts, and not at-
tempting to account for them.
Respectfully yours,
FREDERICK S. CHURCH."
[Deleuze on An. lJiag. p. 147- 150.
The following extract is fro1n a London periodical, entitled
" The Zoist,, which is mainly devoted to the interests of
psychological ::;<.;.ieuce .in every deparlruent, and especially
in that of l\1esmerism. It ·will be seen to be very pertinent
in illustration of what we have said of memory.
"The first I heard of Alexis was Colonel Gurwood's inter-
views with him at Paris. The Colonel at his O'\vn house one
day read to me his notes of varions interviews w1th Alexis,
written the same evening or the next morning after each inter-
vie'\v. Ifthe Colonel was astouuded and satisfied so was I: be-
c~use he is _known to al_l the world as a 1nan of perfect pro-
bity, a plam and strmghtforward soldier and gentleman,
without any freaks of fancy or hastiness of opinion. He had
never a~compa~ied lus family to my house to 'vitness my
rnesmenc experm1entg, and he doubted the truth of Inestner-
ism altogether, '"'"hen he at length gave way to the entreaties
of a friend in Paris to visit Alexis. I do not hesitate to nlen-
tion briefly some pa~ticulars of the 1nany he read to 1ne be-
cause the reports are Ill the month of all the fashio11able ".,.orld
and I heanlnothing from him that 1have not since heard fro~
other~ in ~cnerul ~ociety. Ale.x1:- wr~ ~ 1Pd by hi1n to his house
in Lun nde"' ~ 1 'are; and thl d aractr r ,r th., rnr"'~ a1 rl
houses ou lanuing in Englaud, the statue at Charmg Cross,
MEMORY. 93
·u.~.c -=l.Ueen's palace, and the situation and number of the
Colonel's hquse, then the interior, the stairs, landing-place,
drawing roon1s, and the persons actually in it at the time, as
\vas proved afterwards by a letter received from lVlrs. Gur-
wood, he described admirably. He described the Colonel's
own room, the number of engravings hanging on the wall,
1naintaiuing there \Vere seven, \vhereas the Colonel declared
they were but six and found himself wrong on returning to
England: the subject of the engraving over the fire-place: a
box in the room, and a yery handsomely-bound volume in it,
wrapped up:!'\Vith French words upon the cover-(a volume
of the Duke's Despatches, bound in green morocco and gilt,
\Vith the garter and French motto on the cover) : the book
closets on each side of the fire-place, and the very confused
state of the books in one : an inner room, with a closet at the
further end, and t\,-o S\Vords hanging in it, one from a very
distant country, the point of one rusty : an eastern inscription
upon one (a Damascus blade 1V-ith Persian or Arabic charac-
ters): the relation ot the Colonel's apartn1ent in the Tower to
other rooms: a Hebre\v inscription on one of the \\calls of one
of the rooms : the relations betv;-eeu the Duke and the Colonel,
and many particulars respecting them and others, which could
not l>e geuerally known, and which he of course did not read
to me, were exact. He was taken to periods of the Colonel's
life in the Peninsula: and saw him save a Frenchman's life
after bo.ttlc; saw him disinterring the corpse of a friend; and
enabled him to trace out persons afterwards, who supplied
hin1 with testimony which he had long been in want of. The
Colonel had prevented the murder of a French officer after
battle: and, on a subsequent visit to Spain, disinterred the
body of a dear friend who had been thrown. into the earth
y\."ith others, and given him honorable burial. I ca1mot re-
member half or a qnarter: nor do I pretend to perfect accu~
racy. He told the Colonel that the latter was going to dine
jn such a street and -would go to the opera in the e\'ening.
The Colonel was goiug to dine in that street with Lord Cow-
ley; but had no iclea of going to the opera: however in the
evening Lord Cowley 11roposed their going, and they \Vent.''
"In Vol. II. of Tlte Zoist, p. 482, after slightly mentioning a
number of facts 1vitnessed, and detailed to me from his notes,
by Colonel Gnnvood, proving beyond all doubt the extraordi-
nary powers of Alexis, I stated that the Colonel had promised
to give me a full account for publication, but afterwards ex-
cused himself. I consider him on every account very wrong:
and am now enabled, notwithstanding the non-fulfilment of
hi::; promise, to fnrni::;h your readers, in a. circuitous way,
with his own account of the extraordinary revelations made
s•
94 MESl\IER AND SWEUENBORC.
to hi1n by Alexis respecting ~omc testimony of which he had
lonO' stood in ueccl to do justice to himself. In the Journal
de Hat•re, la~t Augnst, 20th, is an extract from t1~e .Jollmal
Pandore containin('J' an account l>y a gentleman of lns JOnrucy
in the ~Ialle Post~ fr01n Bordeanx to Paris, accidently with
Colonel Gurwood on the 24th of last November. After a
time the convers~tion turned upon mesmerism, in which
the ~entlcmnn 'vas a decided unbeliever, ·while Colonel Gur~
wo;d " ·ho till t\\-o years ago had been a de~pising sceptic
too (leclared his finn conviction of its truth. A friend, he
said bad with difficulty prevailed U}JOn him at Paris to visit a
sleep-,vaker and mesineriser. I give yo~l the rest of the
account h1 the writer's \\·ords, translated 111 the Cheltcnltanl
Free Pres~, of September 6th.
" The mesmeriser was JYI. JHarcillet, the patient Alexis
Didier.
" I shall pass over without notice a game of cards played
between me andAlexis, and guiued by him through his nam~
ing the cards, allbough I had myself attached a triple band-
age over his eyes. I shall not observe either upon the tetanic
state of his legs, 'vbich 'vere stiff and insensible, under the
influence of the fluid. I hasten to come to the statement of
facts personal to myself.
"AftCl· several experiments, I seated myself by the side of
Alexis, my hand in his, and there we were chatting.
"•l\!y frieml,' sait.l I to hin1, 'I an1 incredllluus, but I urn
so with good faith; so do not fear on 1ny part a systematic
opposition.'
"' Oh! I know that well ! yoll have too much good sense
to deny evidence, and too much heart not to love those who
love you--and I love you much myself, Englishman as you
are ; I love you because you generously saved the life of a
Frenchman !'
"Singularly struckby this remark, I begged him to continue.
"' Yes,' continued Alexi~, ' it is a long tin1~ a.go ! Ic is,'
added he, aft~r a pause, 'thir~y years ! . The affair took place
there a\\'ay, m the sonth, durmg the \Vlnter. The countrv is
wil~. There, see, the ~gltt, aud your troops, provided ,\-ith
scahng-ladtlers, apf!carmg under the ''-ralls of a strong place.
l\1y Gocl, ';h3:t a uo1?e! wh~t a ~attle! Poor mau, you were
"\vounded, smd Alcxtf;, placmg h1s hand on my head; 'it was
there that the blow fcll-l>u~ your 'votmd did uot stop you.
I ~ee you farther on, mountmg to the assault-on the breach.
St1fted cnes come to your ears: some English soldiers sur-
round a Frenclunan, '"'l~om they wish to kill. You run
bravely. .You hft up w1th your arms the ,,·eapons that
menace Jns head, and you command them to rcspcd his life.
MEMORY. 95
Oh ? come, I love you, indeed. The officer follows you to a
square tower, where several of his comrades are made
prisoners. You traverse the town to find your general, to
whom, by your orders, the French general surrenders his
sword.'
" ' And what became of this sword ?'
" ' Your general presented it to you-and you have it still
in London, suspended to the wall of your room; the blade
only is the same; the scabbard w·as changed in 1827.'
" 'And does the officer, whose life I saved, still exist?'
" ' Yes, he exists ; and for a long time you have made use-
less researches to find him again. But have good hope,
come again to-morrow, and we ,~-ill discover him.'
" Struck, affected by what I had just heard, I went out
from 1\1. Marcillet's with my head all on fire, not knowing
what to think or believe; for, in fine, Alexis has said \Vhat
\Vas the truth."
\Ve are now prepared to submit these narratives to the
test of Swedenborg's averments respecting the transfer of
memory in the other life. As the subject is full of interest
from its relations to the law of mind and the developments
of destiny in the world to come, we shall be ample in our
extracts:
"I imagined, like other people, before I was instructed by
living experiences, that it was absolutely impossible for any
spirit to kno1v what ·was in my memory, and in my thought,
those things being solely \vith myself, and concealed : but I
can assert, that spirits, who are with man, kno\v and observe I'
the minutest particulars of his memory and thoughts, and
this more clearly than man himself does; and that angels
know and observe the very ends, how they bend themselves
from good to evil, and from evil to good, and many more
things than 1nan knows, as those things which he has im-
mersed in delights, and thereby as it were in nature, and
natural propensities, and 'vhen this is done, they no longer
appear, because he no longer reflects upon them. Let not
man therefore any longer believe, that his thoughts are con~
cealed, and that he must not give an account of his thoughts,
and of his actions according to the quantity and quality of
the thoughts which 1vere in them; for actions have their
quality from the thoughts, and thoughts have their qnality
from the ends."-A. C. 2488.
'' It has been shown me to the life, in 'vhat manner spirits
:r.IES~IER A:SD S\VEDENBORG.
flow in mth man; when they come to him~ they put on all
things of his memory, thus all things ·which t~l~ man has
leawed and imbibed from mfaucy, and the !'Pints suppose
these thing~ to be their O\nl, thns they act as 1t were the part
of man with a mnn; but it is not allowed the1n to enter fur-
ther 'lvith man, than to his interiors \\·hich are of the thought
awl will, not to the exteriors ,,·hich are of the actions and
speech; for these latter things come i-?to act bY: a gener~l
influx from the Lord without the methatwn of particular spl-
rirs aod angels. But spirits, al~hough ~hey act tl~e part of
1nan with a man, as to thos-e thmgs \VhiCh arc of lus thought
anJ will, still however they do not kno\v that they arc with
man, by reason that they possess all things of h\s me1nory,
and believe that those things arc not another's but their own;
and 11y reason also. lest they should hurt man; for nnless the
spirits ,·dw are with mau from hell Lelieved those things to
be their O\Vll, they 'voul<l attempt by every method to destroy
man as to the botly and as to the soul, for this is infernal de-
ligllt itself."-A. C. 6192.
"Because spirits possess all the thiugs which are of man's
thou!!ht aud will, anu augelF- the things wlnch are yet 1nore
ilnvard, and thereby man is most closely conjoined to them,
therefore man cannot otherwise apperceive and feel, than
tlwtit is hims.elf who thinks and \Vills ; for sothe case is ·with
communications in the other life, Uwt in a society contajuing
similar spir.its, every one Lelieve~ tlmt to be his own, which
i:; another's; wherefore the good, when they c01ne into a hea-
venly s.ociety, enter inf:.tautly into all the intelligence and wis-
dOin of thar ~ociety, iusomuch that they do not know other-
'\Vise, than that those things are in themselves; so also it is
with a man, and wjth a spirit with him."-A. C. 6193.
" How difficult it is for man to believe that spirits know his
thongl1ts, might be manifest to me from this. Before I d1s-
conn•ed wirh spirits, it happened that a certain spirit accosted
me m a few words concerning !l~e subject of n1y thoughts.:
I "·as amazcJ. he1·eat, that a spmt should know what 1 '\vas
thinking about, becau~e 1 supposed that such things '\Vere
deeply concealed, aud I~nown to God aloue. After\\ards
when I 1Jegan to speak with spirits, I was indianant that I
co.uld. ~ot think anything but what they knew, a~d because
this 1rugh.t ~Je troubleso~~ to me; but afterv..rards by some
days' habit 1t became fmmhar 1o me. At lewrtll jt \Vas also
kno"·n, that ~p_irits not only appen.:eivc a~l things of man's
thon!!ltt ~tnd \n il , but e,·e11 liJaliY tnor<> th utgF than the man
hiln ::::elf; miLl tlwt 1l1
e ~u·gel..... c.tt•pert-:...;1\ e ~~ill liwre t1<11aely
intentions aucl ends, from the fir::::L through the nw.ldle to th~
1\fEMORY. 97
last. And that the Lord kno\YS not only the quality of the
'vhole tnan, bnt also what his quality will be to eternity.
Hence it may be manifest, that nothing at all is hidden, 'but
what man inwardly thinks and devises is open to view in the
other life, as iu clear day."-A. C. 6214.
"'\.Vhen spirits come to man, they enter into all his memo-
ry, and excite thence whatever suits themselves; yea, ·what
I have often observed, they read the things contained there-
in as out of a book."-E. U. 13.
"The spirits which haYe intercourse ':vith man, enter into
all his memory, and into all the sciences of tnemory '\\hich
tnan possesses; thus they put on all things which are man's,
insomuch that they kno'v not otherwise than that those
things are theirs; spirits have this prerogative abot·e man.
Hence it is, that all things which man thinks, they think, and
that all things "-hich man '\Yills, they will; and reciprocally,
all things which tbose spirits think, man thinks, and all
things \vhich thoEe spirits will, manwills; for they act as one
by conjunction; yet it is supposed by both, that such things
are in themselves, and from themselves ; so spirit.:; suppose,
and so men, but this is a faliacy."-A. C. 5853.
"lna::.much as men after death are in the interior memory,
which was of their rational, hence it is, that they who have
been distinguished iu the \\·orld for their skill in languages,
are not able to call forth into utterance a single expression of
those languages; and that they who have been distinguished
for skill in the sciences, are not able to recollect anything of
scientilics, and that these are sometimes more stupid than
others. But ·whatever they have imbibed by languages or
by sciences, this, because it has formed their rational, is
brought forth into use ; the rational thence procured, is that,
from which they think and speak; he who has imbibed
falses by lallguage~ and sciences, and has confirmed him~elf
therein, reasons only from falses, but he ,,·ho has imuibed
truths, reasons aud. speaks from m1ths; the affection is what
gives life, the affection of evil ,,·hat gives life to falses, aud
the affection of good what gives life to truths, for every one
tl1inks fr01n affection, and no one without a.fiection."*-A. C.
2480.
* The case of the Re\>·. '\Vm. Tennant strildngly illustrates what
is l1cre sa.iJ of the obliternuon of the memory of langnnge". He
wn s :-oe\'\:l'id day:; i ll a. trance anu suppo~etl lObe Ul·ad. Fpon rc·
con:dng be wa.; li.Hi liU to have lo:;t all recollt:ct10n ofwhnt ltc had
Pl'('V10U.::-Iy lcarucu, aud Wtl.::i COUlpdlLU to UC~lll tile acquisiLion or
98 liiESJ'tER AND S\VEDENBOilG.
\Ve arc at a loss to concciYc what ground there can be for
questioning the truth of the coincidences here po1ntcd out.
The l\fesmeric fact of the transfusion of 1nemory is obvious,
and the spiritual phenomena detailed by Swedenborg evince
the operation of precisely the same law in the intcrcolnmtmi-
tious of LL.e other ·world. Kindred spirits come into each other's
memo1·y. \Ve have indeed become somewhat prepared for
such a deyclopment hy \vhat is previously shown respecting
the transfer of present thought, and yet the revelation is full
of wonder. 'Ve can easily appreciate the incredulity ·which
Swcdenborg's announcement of the fact would be likely to
encounter at the period \Vhen it was made, \Vhicb \Vas many
years prior to the discovery of Mestnerism. Yet tlw light
thrown bythis discovery on the hidden powers of our nature,
has afforded a sust..1..inin~roof of the truth of his disclosures.
vVhy should not this fact be allowed to plead strongly in be·
half of alL his alleged revelations? Are they intrinsically any
Inore incredible than the present? vVas a higher illun1illa·
tiou requisite to the unveiling of all the phenomena he has
made lnlo\vn than of any pa1·t of them? Do not the same
rea~ons ·which moved the Divine Wisdom to open to him a
part of the tn1ths he has unfollled, apply to the \vhole? We
pause for a reply.
The bearings of these mnemonic phenomena upon the sub-
ject. of judgment aud destiny in the other life are very ilnpres-
sive. It appears, if the above disclosures are true, that the
records of memory are int1.estructible-that the faintest lines
traced by the most transient. impressions are as indelible as if
"engraven \vith the point of a diamond in the lead and rock
for ever." There they are in everlasting pennanence. And
yet so aerial are they in their natnre that even in the present
life they may be transferred. by the 1nystic magnetic com-
la~guage de novo. The.recollection, however, of his former at-
tamments occurred to h1m suddenly, and cverytl!ing was t once
restored. But had he never recovered from his trance he neYer
would have r~gained the use of tlu~, his corporeal men~.ory. His
state ~as v:ry near death, and he expenenccd in part what others
expertence m full when they pass from the present to the futu
life. His case is given in the Appendix. re
MEMORY. 99
n1unication nnd reproduced in all their original freshness and
truth, in another mind! How luminously clear and lme-
qnivocal then must be the unveiling of spirit to spirit in
the world of perfect vision ! What a mystery of Inys-
teries is the intellectual and 1noral nature of man ! What
eternal elements of happiness or misery are laid up in
the stores of his memory ! The process of judgment is but
the plenary revelation of the internal man, not to the eye of
Jehovah, to whom it was always known, but to his o'vn and
to that of associated spirits in whose presence he cannot but
be.* His entire moral history is ·written on his memory,
\Vhich is one \vith the perpetnity of his l1je, and this life is
reproduced in its minutest items in the future world, and as
jt is reproduced, it is read as a present -reality, and not merely
as a recital of past events. A man's life on earth is lived for
ever. How momentous the \Vitnessings to this effect con-
tail.led in the ensuing extracts :
"The interior mmnory therefore, is such, that there are in-
scribed in it all the particular things, yea the most particular,
wllich man has at any time thought, spoken, and done, yea
\\rllich have appeared to hin1 as a shado,v, '~rith the most
minute circumstances, from his earliest infancy to extreme
old age. 1\1an has with him the memory of all these things
w·hen he comes into another life, and is successively brought
into all recollection of them; this is the Boox. OF his LIFE,
which is opened in another life, and according to \Vhieh he
is judged; man can scarce believe this, but still it is most
true : all his ends, 'vhich '\rere to him in obscurity, all that
he had thought, and likewise all that he had spoken and
done, as derived from those ends, are to the most minute
point, in that book, that is, in the interior memory, and are
made manifest before the angels, in a light as clear as day,
'vhenever the Lord concedes it: this has attimes been shown
'* cc The damnation of those who are in evils is not effeeted in a
moment, when they come into the other life, but after they have
been first visited, that is, explored. Explora tions are made to the
intent that they themselves may apperceive that they must needs
be damned, because they have not lived otherwise; also that
spirits and angels m ay know that they have been of such a quality;
thus they can no longer be exculpated by either themselves or
others."-.A. C. 7273.
100 l\1ESM.ER AND SW.EDBNDOlU.":.
me, and eyidenced by so much ancl varions experience, that
not the least of doubt is left.
"It is kno\vn to no one hitherto, what the state of s~mls
after death is in respect to the n1emory; bnt it has bc.cn gn·en.
me to know, by mnch and daily e'perieuce no'\v durmg seve-
ral years, that man after death does n<?t lose the le.ast of those
thinO's which have beeu in his mcmones, as 'vellm rhe exte-
co • b
rior as in the interior so that no CITClnnstance can e con-
cei~ed so small or triflmg, that it is not. rese~·ved 'vith hj1n;
he leaves nothinO' at all therefore belund hm1 at death, but
only bones and b Jlesh, which, while he live~ in th~ ''o~·l~l,
\vere not animated of themselves, but by the llfe of Ius sp1nt,
whi~h was his purer substance annexed to corporeals."
-A. C. 247-t-2475.
"That men have ·with them in another life all and single
things of the corporeal memory, ,,ras ale-o ve1y frequent~y
made 1nanifest to me from those, whom I had kuo'vn 1n
their lifetime, in that, when I spoke 'vith them, they recol4
lected. all and single things which they had. done ,,-hen I \vas
present, and 'vhich they had spol{en, and wh.ir-h at such
times they had thought. From these, and many other expe-
riences, it hn~ been given me to know certainly, that 1nan
carries with him into another life all things pertaining to the
exterior or corporeal memory."-.A. C. 2486.
The following has respect especially to the relation of the
records ofmetnory to the process of judgment in the other life.
" That man, when he passes out of the ,~~orid, has also
with him all his memory, has been shown by many circnm-
stances: coucerning which many things worthy toLe men-
tioned have been seen aud heard, some of which I will relate
in order. There 'vere those who clcnied their crimes and
villanies ·which they had perpetrated in the world ; 'vhere-
fore, lest they should be believed innocent, all were disclosed,
and \vere recounted from their Jnemory in order, fronl their
earliest age to the latest; they were principally adulteries
and whoredoms. There \vere so1ne ''T
ho had deceived otlters
by \Yicked arts, and \\·ho bad stolen: their deceits and thefts
·were also enumerated in a series, 1nany of which "·ere known
to scarcely any one in the world, exceptto themselves alone;
they. also a~knowle?ged t~1ern, Lecanse they were 1nade
~amfest as m the ~1ght, w1th every thought, intention, de-
hght, and fear, 'vh1ch then together a~ilatecl their minds.
There were some who had accepted bribes, and had 1nade
gain of jmlgment: they from their mewory \vere in lake man-
ner exploreu, and from it were recounted all things, from the
MEMORY. 101
fust period of their office to the last; every particular, as to
quantity and quality, together ,·dth the tilne, and their state
of mind and intention, all which things were at the same
time brought to their recollection, and shown to their sight,
which were more than several hundreds. This 'vas done
·with some; anti what is wonderful, their lnemorandum-
books themselves, in which they had \VTitten such things,
·were opened and read before them, from page to page.
There ·were some who had enticed virgins to acts of fornica-
tion, and who had violated chastity, and they ''""ere called to
a similar judgment; and every particular of thejr crimes was
dra,vn forth and recited from their memory : the very faces
of the virgins and "'omen were also exhibited as present,
'vith the places, conversation, and purposes, and this as sud-
denly as 'vhen anything is presented to view; the manifest-
ations continued sometimes for hours together. There '''as
one who had estee1ned backbiting others as nothing, and I
heard his backbitings recounted in order, and defamations
also, with the very words,the persons concerning whom and
before '\"lwm; all which 'vere produced and presented to the
life at the ~arne tin1e; and yet everything was studiou~ly con-
cealed by him when he lived in the world. There 'vas a
certain one who had deprived a relative of his inheritance,
under a fraudulent pretext: he also was in like manner con-
victed and judged, and w·hat "'·as wonderful, the letters and
papers which passed between them, were read in my hear-
ing, and it was said that not a w·ord was wanting. The
same person also, shortly before his death, clandestinely
destroyed his neighbor by poison, \vhich was disclosed in
this manner. He appeared to dig a hole under feet, from
which a man came forth, as out of a sepulchre, and cried out
to him, \Vltat hast thou done to me? Then everything 'vas
revealed, how the murderer talked with him in a friendly
manner, and held out the cnp, also what he thought before,
and what afterwards came to pa~s; which things being dis-
cloc:;ed, he was sentenced to hell. In a 'vord, all evils, vil-
lanies, robberies, artifices, deceits, are manifested to every
evil spirit, and brought forth fron1 their very memory, and
they are convicted; nor is there any room given for denial,
because all the circumstances appear together. I have heard
also from the memory of a certa1n one, when it was seen
and surveyed by the angels, 'vhat his thoughts had been
during a month, one day after another, and this without fal-
lacy; which were r• called as he himself was in them on
tho'=e d<~ys. From thc::::e examples it 1nny be nmuifest, that
mnn c~nies nloug wirll him a1l l1is memory, and tlmt there
is nothing so coucenled m the world, that it is not manifested
after death; and this in the company of many, according to
102 lllESMER AND SWEDJ~NBORG.
the Lord's words: 'There is nothing hidden which shall not
be uncovered and nothiurr concealed which ~hall not be
known • therefore the thing~ which yc have ~aid !n darkness
shall be heard in light, and what yc hnvc ~pol~~nnluto,the ear
shall be preached on the house-tops' (~ukc xn...., 3).
"\Vhen mau's acts are disclosed to hun after death, the an-
gels to \vhom is gn:en the office of inqnisinon, look into his
face, and the search is extct1ded throngh the whole body,
bc,.innina from the J}nrrers of one hand, and of the other, and
0 :::J ;:, .l d
thus prol'eedin~ through the whole. Becnnsc I \vonucre
whence this '\vas it was disclosed to me, namely, that as all
thino·3 of the thot;aht and will are inscribed on the brain, for
thedprinciples arg there, so also they arc iuscri~ed on the
whole body; since all the things of thought ~uu \Vllll~rocee_d
thither from their principles, ant! there termmate, as 111 ~llClr
ultimates. lienee it is, that the things \vhich n.rc i.nscnbeu
on the Ineu1ory, from the will, and thence its thought, are
not only inscribed. on the brain, but also on the ·whole 1nau,
and there exi.st in order, according to the order of the parts
of the body. Hence it was 1nade evident, that man in the
whole is such as he is in his \vill and thonght thence, so that
an evil man is his own evil, and a good man his owu good.
From these things also it 111ny be 1nanifest ·what is 1neant by
the book of man's life, spoken of in the vVon.l, na1nely, this,
tha.t all things, both wlnch have been acteu c:mu which have
been thought, are inscribed on the ·whole 1nan, and that they
appear as if read in a book \vheu they are called forth from
the memory, aud as if seen in effigy, when the spirit is view-
ed in the light of heaven. To these things I \.Vonld add some-
thing memorable concerning the memory of man remaining
after death; by which I ·was confirmed, that not only general
things, but also the most singular, 'vhich have entered the
1nemory, remain, an<l are never obliterated. There appeared
to me books with \.Vritings therein as in the world, and I \vas
instructed that they ·were fron1 the n1emory of those 'vho
wrote, anu that there \.vas not a single word wantina there,
\vhich \Vas in the book \.Vritten by the same perso~ in the
world.; and ~at thus fro_m the men1ory of another may be
taken the 1nmutest particulars, even those which he hi1nself
in the worl<l had forgotten. The reason was also disclosed,
namely, that man has ~n ~xtern~l and an internal1nmnory,
an external men1ory wluch 1s of hlS natural man and aninter-
nal_memory which is of his ~piritual man; and th'at everything
whlCh man has thought, \Vtlled, spoken, done also ,vhich he
has heard and seen, is inscribed. on his inter~1al or spiritual
memory : and that the things which are there are never
~rased, since they are inscribed .at the same tin1e on the spirit
1tself, and on the 1nembers of 1ts body, as was said above;
I
rriEMORY. 103
and thus that the spirit is formed according to the thoughts
and acts of its will. I kno'v that these things appear as para-
doxes, and thence are scarcely believed, but still they are
true. Let no man therefore believe, that anything 'vhich a
man has thought in himself, and has done in secret, is con-
cealed after death: bnt let him believe that each and all
things then appear as in clear day."-}!. ~H. 462-463.
Such is the process of judicial exploration in the other
world-a process upon which the spirit enters, not at some
indefinitely distant period called "the end of the 'vorld," but
itnmediately upon its emergence from the earthly tenement.
But the judgment of each individual cannot occur prior to
his resurrection. The resunectiou therefore must be simul-
taneous with his departure from the flesh. It is in fact mere-
ly his resuscitation into the ne'v life of the spirit-world, and
it is by this name that it is mostly called by Swedenborg.
The true judgment and the tr11e resurrection are both to be
referred to the same era of man's existence. Both take
place immediately after death, and the Ieason why both these
events have been deferred by theologians to the so-called
"end of the urorld" is because they have suffered themselves
to be governed by the sense of letter of the Word, as express-
ed in certain texts, instead of forming their conclusions from
the general tenor ofthe •whole, as elicited by a diligent compari-
son of Scripture with Scripture; to which \Ve 1nay add an
almost total neglect of the study of the psychological nature of
man nuder the influence of the false and pernicious tenet,
that in regard to all the profoundest themes of revelation, the
understandmg is to be held subject to faith. A new vie\V of hu-
man destiny must inevitably be adopted when it is seen, as
it eventually will be, that Swedenborg's disclosures rest upon
principles \vhich carry with them as much evidence of truth
as it i~ possible for the literal announcements of the Scrip-
tures to do. If the nature of man is intrinsically such that all
his 'vords, actions, and thoughts are indelibly inscribed upon
the very essential elements of his being, and the record is
capable of being intuitively read by the eyes of spirits, his
judgment, in the exploration of his interiors, must necessari-
ly ensue upon his being introduced into the sphere of spirit.
ual communication.
•
•
104 MESMER AND SWEDENDORG.
CI-IAPTER Vl.
l\IAGNETIC YISlON.
\VHA.TEVF.R else may be rcgnnled us doubtful in reference
to the effects produced by the JHesmcric action, it is clearly
beyond question, that a ne'v n1odc of vision is developed in
its subjects. They give evidence of a species of s1ght which
does not. ucpencl upon the functions of the outward organ.
'\Yith their eyes bandaged, or in the darkest room, they 'vill
often read, either fr01n printed or mannscript matter, 'vill de-
tect the true time by a ·yratch, and accurately describe per-
sons and objects 'vhich no other one present can by any pos-
sibility perceive. Facts of this kind, though doubtless of an
abnormal character, are rendered credible by similar phe-
nomena often witnessed in natural somnambulism, as in fact
are nearly all the distinguishing features of Mesn1erism.* Of
the philosophy of this we do not at present speak. The
reader will Rhortly sec the solution of the problem on the
principles laid down by Swedenborg, as to whlch he ·will be
able to judge for himself whether any better has been or can
l>e proposed. As a suitable introduction to this ·we present
the following array of te~tilnonies as to the alleged fact.
"I have already stated that I have seen sleepwakers descry
objects when their eres w·ere, to.all appearance, perfectly
close<l ; bnt l?Y ~xperu:nents OJ?- tlus head were not so rigor-
ous bnt that 1t mtght st1ll be ObJected that 1nesmeric patients
like certain politicians, '
"See through all things with their half-shut eyes."
".I.now: proceed to show that, in many cases, such a sup_
pos1t1on 1s untenable,. ~nd that ~he mesmeric slcep,\"aker
may have a nwde of VJswn to wlnch the usual conwtions of
sight are altogether wanting.
"The first time that I mesmerized Anna M--. a work-
box, which she had never seen before, was held before her.
She stooped her forehead towards it in a manner that ~truck
* .An extend ed rccttal o!' fact.:: or lh ~ na ture w.ll hu l OlllHl in
Bertrand'$ work on the Extase lllagnctiquc, Pans, 182().
•
:MAGNETIC VlSION. 105
me, and immediately named what it was. The box having
been opened, the sleepv,raker again bent her forehead till it
was nearly parallel with its snrface, then rapidly named the
various obJects it contained, and, taking them up one by one
in her hand, seemed desirous of examining them more par-
ticularly. But, to my surprise, she waved the articles about
before her, as if trying in what point of view she could best
descry them, holding them to various parts of her face and
forehead, and exclaiming, as if perplexed, '"\Vhere, then, are
1ny eyes?' At length she see1necl best satisfied w·hen hold-
ing objects before her forehead, at the uistance of a few inches,
declaring that she saw them most distinctly there. In order
to put her assertions to the proof, I held my watch before the
forehead of the sleepwaker, without descending it to the level
of her eyes. She took it from rne, and, not lowering it in
the least, held it so turned as that it formed an acute angle
with her forehead, immediately above her eyebrow. It is to
be remarked that she thus presented the watch to her fore-
head, first on the right side, then on the left, as if to submit
it to the scrutiny of a double organ. After this she named
the exact hour and minute. The hands having been altered,
she found the time with equal correctness.
" A poppy being held before her forehead, she said, 'I see
a red fiower, l>nt J do not exactly know its name.'
"Remembering that an experienced mesmerizer had told
me that sleepwakers in general perform most readily any-
thing which gives them pleasure in their waking state, and
observing, in conformity with this statement, that Anna
l\1--, who was an expert neeule-·woman, took particular
interest in the ·workbox and its appendages, I proposed to her
to proceed with a piece of work which was at hand. She
immediately took the work, and, holding it always on a level
'vith her forehead, went on methodically 'vith t~e he1n of
the piece of muslin I had given her. When necessary, she
turned down a new fold, and in every respect performed her
task as well as she could have done awake. The ·work, sub-
mitted to female judgment, was pronounced to be a capital
piece of sempstress-craft, the stiches f'>eing even, and not one
of them dropped.
"After this vve often gave Anna l\1-- vvork to do in the
mesmeric state, when parties of ten or twelve persons have
been present, to witness her extraordinary development of
vision. Rhe continued to hold everything to her forehead ;
and 'vith her hands raised to that level, in a position which,
nnder ordinary circumstances, would be difficult and painful,
has embroidered delicate Rowers upon muslin, and even
threaded her needle, without apparent effort.
106 MESr.lER AND S\VEDENDORG.
"As it is my sincere desire to give a correct pictnre C?f
me~meric ~lee1nYaking, I \vould on no acconnt repr~scnt t~us
po\\·er of Yision as greater than it really_ \Vas, or on_11t the 111-
consistcncics which attended its exerc1se. That 1t ·was hy
no means even or constant cannot 1Jut be ackuo,vledged,
though I am by no means preparet~ t~ d~ye]ope the cause of
its caprices. Thus Anna, though g1vmg illContesta?l~ pro?fs
of vision by the forehead, conld not be ~rought to tbstmgtnsh
printed or \VTittcnletters in the mes1nenc stn~e except on_ one
occasion, when she read her O\nl name, 'vh1ch I had \Vntten
in a larCTe hand and held at once before her forehead. It
0 ) . •
seemed to 1ne that her ne\v visual faculty was always m Its
best condition when spontaneously exerted, and that_a~1y ef-
fort on her part, any over-mLxiety to fulfil our reqUlSitl~ns,
marred it altoCTether. I have often asked her to name an obJect,
which I have
0
allowed her to exan1ine us she wonld; but she
has not named it, though apparently striving earnestly to do
so. Again, she has indicated other things spontuneou~ly
when it \.Vas quite impossible for her to have discerned them
in the orclinary manner. 1t 'vas when she \vas sitting quietly,
and apparently forgetful that she was an object of observa-
tion, that she dis1)layed the 1nost remarkable phenomena of
vision. One instance, ho,vever, is better than a thousaud as-
sertions. She was sitting with her head so n1uch bent down
as to bring the upper part of her forehead parallel lo Lhe wall
of the· apartment. In this position, with her eyes closed, it
·was impossiule for her to have seen, in any usual way, ob-
jects thatwere immeuiately fronting her. So placed, I observ-
ed her smile, and asked her why she djcl so. 'I am s1niling,'
she saidJ ' because I am pleased to see :1\Irs.-- opposite to
me.' ' You see her, then, well ?' 1 inquired. 'Yes ; she has
a cup of tea in her hand.' Upon this the lady in question
adroitly changed the cup of tea for a book ; upon \Vhich Anna
immediately remarked, 'But now she has taken a book.'
The lady then opened the book, and held it bv the two siues
spread out exactly on a level \vith the forehead of the sleep~
waker, who said directly, 'Oh! she holds the book quite
open by its two ends.'
" This experiment, n~ither s~1ggcsted nor in any \Vay con-
ducted by myself, \Vas mterestmg to me in no triflina deo·rce
and \Vas convincing to all who ·witnessed it. o b '
" Another singular drcumstance was. that no one could
put on an ugly mask that lay about the room and to vvhich
Anna, in her mesmeric state, had a great av~rsion ,vithout
her testifying, by faces expressive of dislike, that' she "\vas
aware of the circumstance. \Ve have tried this ,vhen the
sleepwaker was occupied by other things, and with every
1\!A.GNETIO VISION. 107
precaution of making no noise, &c., yet the result was al-
·ways the same.
" \Vhen placed before a lookin.g-glass, she could indicate,
more correctly than at any other t1me, the gestures of persons
standing near her and seen by reflection. I have pulled out
her comb, and she has arranged her hair again perfectly be-
fore a mirror, holding her forehead parallel to its surface.
Being asked if she sa-w herself with l1er eyes open or sh~1t,
she replied, 'Open, to be sure;' and, w·hen I reasoned ·w1th
her on this point, she replied, 'I see as ifmy eyes 'vere open;
and so they must a1Jpearto me open.' It is singular that another
sleep,,-aker gave me exactly the same answers under the
same circumstances. I shall refer again to the subject, which
is of metaphysical ilnportance.
"A gentleman who ·was once present during a mesmeriza-
tion of Anna M--, beingplaced ' en rapport • with her, laid
his hand upon her forehead, when she exclaimed, 'Why do
you cover my eyes ?' He then touched her eyes, and asked,
' \Vhatpart of your face am l touching now ?' The sleepwaker
seemed pe111le.xed, and at length answered, 'It is a part of
my cheek, is it not?'
" vVhen asked to point out where different persons \Vere
placed in the apartment during her sleepwaking, she never
failed. to do so, however their respective positions might be
changed, leaning her forehead forward all the time~ and pre-
sentiug it to each individual. At the instant of recognising
each person she always gave one or two convulsive starts,
as if her forehead came in contact with some invisible tiling.
" The account that she gave of her visual perceptions was
sufficiently confused. These are her own words relative to
this subject, taken down on one occasion by a friend: ' It is
all clear through my forehead. Sometimes I see so clear !
But then, again, there is a sort of light cloud that cmnes over
the clearness, and then I can hardly see anything. I do not see
as with two eyes, hut here (passing her hand across her fore-
head), with my brain.'
"Already, iu various accotmts ofexperiments, I have men-
tioned E. A--, a boy aged fifteen, ".-hom I had opportuni-
ties of frequently mcsmerising. This patient, of all ·whom I
have ever seen, 1nanifested in sleepwaking the most extraor-
dinary dev~opment of visual po-urer.
" Thougn the power of vision was greatestin the forehead,
yet at times, and especially when he was excited, and not in
any way called upon to exhibit (for such requisitions often
seemed to fetter his faculties), be seemed to see on every side
of him, as if his head were one organ of visual perception.
This i.s no exaggeration, as the follo,ving instance will show:
108 lllES.i'rlER AND SWEDENBORG.
He \vas once ~itting on n sofa in the mesmeric state, " ...he!l a
gentleman with wh J111 he ''a~ well a~quaiutcJ came helu11u
the sofu and made all kinds of amics. OH Lhis tlJe :o.leep-
'\\~aker ex:da.imed, 'Oh, 1\lr. D--! do not supp~se I cannot
see yon: you are uow doing so and ~o' (<lc:scnbmg all_Mr.
D--'s ge.::;ture~). 'Yon have now taken a paper-cutter mto
your hand, anu now a knife. Indc~cl, you hatl better. go
a\\-ay, and not mal~e yourself so ri<l~culot;Is.' _Another tune
he was sitting at a table, writing mus1c, w1th lus Lack ro tl~e
door, \\·hen a servant entered the apartment: '. Oh, 1\la<.lemot-
selle L--! is that yon?' he sattl. 'llo'': qmetly Y<?u qtand
there "·ith your arms folded.' He was qmte correct m all he
said. Directly after this I took up a bottle fron~ a table be-
hind the 11at1ent, and held it up to the b8ck of lns hea_d, ask-
ing him if he knew what I held. He instautly replled, 'A
bottle to be snre.'
"I have tried vnrious methods of bandaging the patient's
eyes. I have tied a broad and thick silk hamlkerch..ief o\~er
them, and theu. I have held dowu with my fingers or the
palms of my hands the whole of the bottom part of the band-
age. This method seeuts to n1e as perfect us any. It did uot at
all impede the sleepwaker's vision. fn addition to this (the
same result always ensuing), l have laid strips of \Vadding
o\·N the eyes before applying the handkerchief, and I have
firmly secured every pof:sible interstice between it and the
cheek with cotton. I11 the presence of Dr. Fois.sac, strips of
diachylum were added to all the above apparatus, in order
to fasten down the edges of the handkerchief to the cheek;
bnt the sleepwaker saw as well as ever. On several occa-
sions I bandaged his eyeR, adding the cotton and the '"·adding
before beginning to mesmerize him,whenhe assured 1ne that he
could not clistmguish da.y from night. Then, havino· passcu
~t<? sleep,_vakiug, he has ~mmediately given proofs ;f})erfcct
V1swn, qmte as perfect, mdccd, as that enjoyed by pcr:::ous
whose eyes are open and unbound. Again, on :nvakinc.r (the
bau~age neYer _having been stirred duriug the \Yholc 1~eriou
of Ius :::.-leepwaku:~), he has found him;;elf iu perfect clark-
ness. The tn.lllSl~wn was marked. One moment, drawn by
the strong attraction of my pre~ence, he \Vas followinrr me
about the room, through intricacies of chairs and tables,
0
with
perfect ea~e ; the next, he was stancl.iucr help1es not carinrr
to.be near me., and i~ c~lled upo1~, un~hle to move, except
w1th the gr~tnng hes1tatwn of a ?lmdfold person. I remark-
ed that he du.l not wake so eaRlly with the bandarre on as
when he had no bandage. Tbe action of the t:'ansYerse
passe~ that I used to that effe?t. seemeu modified by the in-
terposmg snbstance. The strikmg proofs of vision that the
MAGNETIC VISION. 109
patient gave when properly banda~cl were, that he read iu
books, and distinguished cards, their colors, suit, &c., often
playing with me at various gmnes up~n them. I ren1arked
that in sleepwaking he \Vas quite adroit at the game of ens-
sino, \Vhich I had almostvainly triec.l to teach him in the wak-
ing state. It will be allowec.l thatfor a person, even bandaged
in a slovenly m.'lnner, to perceive at a glance the combina-
tions on the board, woulJ be no easy matter; yet this he c.lid
·with rapidity, completely bandaged as he was.
"Remembering that E. A--, on his father's testimony~
had, in natural sleep1.vaking, seemed to perceive obJects in
total darkness, I was curious to see \vhether, in mes1neric
sleepwaking, he would manifest a similar phenomena ofsen-
sation. I therefore, having mesmerised hiln, took hiln with
me into a dark press or closet, of \vhichi e1nployed a friend
to hold Lo the door in such a tnatmer as that no ray of light
should penetrate through the crevice or keyhole. Then, like
the hero of' The Curse of Kehama.'
1
I opcn'd my eyes and I closed them,
And the blackness and blank were the same.'
"My utmost efforts to see my hand only produced those
sparks and flashes that waverbefore the eye in complete ob-
s;curity. Having thus ascertained the perfect darkness of the
closet, I urew a c::mi at hazard from a par.k ·with which I had
;provided myself, and presented it to the sleepwaker. He said
1t 1vas so and so. I repeated this to 1ny friend, whom I then
told to open the door. The admis5ion of light established tlle
correctness of the sleepwaker: it was the card he had nmned.
The experiment repeated four tunes gave the same satisfacto-
ry result. This peculiar develop1nent of vision was, like the
other faculties of the sleepwaker, capable of improvement
through exercise. At first he seemed unable to read in the
dark; then, like a person learning the alphabet, he came to
distingui5h large single letters, which I hacl printed for hin1
on card, and at length he could make out whole sentences of
even small print. \Vhile thus engaged in deciphering letters
or in ascertaining cards, the patient always held one of my
hands, and sometimes laid it on his bro\v, affirming that it
increased his clair-voyance. He would also beg 1ne to breathe
upon the objects which he desired to see. He used to de-
clare that the more complete the darkness \.Vas, the better he
could exercise his new mode of perception; asserting that,
w·hen in the dark, he did not come to the knowledge of ob-
jects in the same manner as wheu he was in the light:
'Quand je suis dans l'obscurite,' he said, 'il y a une lumiere
qui sort demon cerveau, et qui tappe justement sur l'objet;
6
110 MES~I.ER AND SWEDENDORG.
tanc.lis que, dans la lumi~re, }'impression monte dcpuis l'objet
jusqu· amon cerrcau.' Often, ·when I could not f'Ce a ray of
light, he u~eu to complnin that the closet :wa8 not <.lark
CllOUCTh anu in Ol'UC! tO thicken the ObSCUrJty, he WOUld
wrap
0
tll~ his }~cad in a drcssing-go''~n which ~nmg in the closet.
At other times he would thrust lu~ heau 111 to the ren1otest
corner of the pre~s. Ilis perception of c~lors, 'vllcn exercis-
ed in obscurity, snstaine<l but httlc altcrntwn. He has named
correctly the difTercnt tints of a set of colored glasses. It '"·as,
how·ever ,,·orthr of remark, that he "·as apt to mistake be.
t"·een th~ harmonic colors green and re<l, not only ·when he
·was in the dark, lJut when his eyes 'vere handaged.
":Many persons can bear testin1ony to the ac~nracy of the
aboYe experiments; and I refer to the Appentl1x for proofs
thatI sought for wiJ.nesses and invited scrutiny, feeli1~g thnt
such things as I lw.~ to narrate could. scarcely be cre<l1ted on
the word of a single person."-ToU'ns!tend's Facts, JJ. 1G0-175.
"Sir,-Since the account ofthe 1Jhen01ncnaofclairvoyance,
exhibited by l\1r. Alexis, appeared in your columns of last
\\-eck, auother private party have witnessed a similar exhibi·
tion at the house of Dr. Elliotson, at which I had the honor
of being present ; ana the following plain statement of what
I then saw will, I think, be interesting to your readers. I
must premise, that I had. never before seen any experiments
·whatever in anunal magnetis1n, &c.; that I '\vas totally unac·
quainted \\-ith Dr. ElUotson, Mr. Marcillet, and Mr. Alexis;
and that I \Vent, note-book in hand, prepared to watch and
observe as accurately as possible, and that this account is
drawn np frmn the notes I then maue. Alexis having seated
himself in a large easy chair, Mr. Marcillet stood in front of
him, and after fixing his eyes upon him for about four nli-
nutes the magnetic sleep was produced. During this opera-
tion there were convulsive motions of the lilnbs and n1uscles
of the face, aral every ll?W ancl then Alexis turned his eyes
towa~ds the operator, as 1t seetned t.o 1ne, 'vith an expression
of pam, and almost entreaty to des1st. The convulsive mo.
tions subsided after a fe,v passes by the operator, and then
the phenomena of catalepsy 'vere shown, His hands ,vere
extended,.and bec~me (Jtlite rigid, and were again relaxed by
Mr. Marc1llet passmg lus hand once or twice over them. His
legs were the~ st!etched out, and, to test their rigidity, a
gentleman,_\\"eJglung ~t least 14 stone, stood upright upon
them! Alexis'. body bemg kept ~al~nced by t\Vo gentlemen
pressmg on lus shoulders. Alexis 1s by no 1neans stron{T in
appearance ; bn.t I apprehend the strongest 111an wonld ftnd
the above feat difficult. It was then proposed to bandage his
MAGNETIC VISION. 111
eyes. A quantity of cotton \VOol was placed over them, and
kept down hy three handkerchiefs, one encircling the head,
the other two placed diagonally. The gentleman-a visitor,
like myself-who undertook Jthe tying, did not seem to do it
to Alexis' satisfaction, for he said, 'Serrez fort, serrez fo'rt'
(tie it tight), and, still being dissatisfied, he seized the ends
of the hauclkerchief, and tied them himself. The visitors
\vere then asked to examine the handkerchiefs, and each per-
son who did so was satisfied that vision was impossible. A
pack of cards was then brought, which, itshoulU be remark-
ed, ha<l glazed and ornamented backs, so that it would have
been more than ordinarily difficult to see through them, even
"~ith a strong light behind. A visitor came forward to play.
and Alexis seated himself at the table \vhich was in the mid-
dle of the room, so that there was a cross light. He seized
the cards, a full pack, in a quick, hurried manner, and sorted
them for ecarte. He did this w·ith great rapidity, and 1nade
bnt one mistake. Several games were played, dnring which
he frequently told his adversary what cards he had in his
hand, as on one occasion that he had three tens, on another
that he had four trumps; and agaiu be called for the cards
seriatim \vhich his adversary \vas to play. Once or twice he
made n1istakes, as saying the nine of hearts instead of the
seven, but in the great majority ofinstances \Vas right. Anoth-
er person then took the cards, and the same wonders \Vere
repen.ted. He them moved away fron1 the table, and played
at the distance of about four yards from his adversary, but he
still told the cards as before, and played his own frequently
withont looking at tl.teir faces. During the \Vholc of this time
Mr. l\Iarcillet stood at some little distance, and from time to
time reJ>eateJ the passes. Dr. Elliotson took no part in the
proceedings. Alexis was then asked to read, anti a volume
of Le JJfoyen, Age Pitto"resq?.te, was placed before him. The
wool and bandages were still unmoved, but he read offfrom
the J>age wherever he was told by any of the visitorsJ and
by 1nyself amongst the rest. On one occasion he continued
to do so, although two hands were placed before his face aud
the type. He seemed, however, to find this somewhat more
difficult. He \vas very anunated, and talked rapidly as he
turned over the pages, as if pleased \vith his own exploits.
1Vhilst doing this, and just as he had said, in ans·wer to a
question, that the picture was a cathedral, I interrllpteu him
hastily with, 'j}Jais quelle catltedrale 'J, He replied, ' C'est vne
bonne question,' and placing his hand upon the letter-press, in-
stantly said, 'NotTe dame de Chalon,' which was quite correct.
He also accurately described some figures in armor. He then,
of his own accord, offered to read a line five pages off; bnt
11:.! l\l.ESl\1 F.ll. .AND SWEDENBOTIO.
in this he failed. A ,·olnmc of Bossnct wa~ then brought .
fron1 Dr. Elliot5on's lihmry. no visitor haYing 1•ronght oue.
He took my hautl and asl{ec.lme to ~how h!m what to read,
and read :o:everal times eorrcetly. ]u ouc mstance he read
the two following Jines,-' C'csl encote pour cu:t· ·tm grand em-
barras de t•oir que (lc) propltef·'fusse aller le te111ps du Cltri:it (Jcsns).'
He ho"·ever in~isted tlw.t it was ' le' and not 'ce' and read
'Jesus Christ· instead of' ChriF-t' only. On this part of the ex-
periments no greater stress can l>e laid, as after the BoF.suet
'\\·a~ brought he complained .or the great heat and threw ~1r
the handkerchief:;:, so that lus eyes were only closed as m
sleep. He then said, scparntillg nbont 150 pages of the vol-
ume, and holding them firmly together, that he '\\>-ould read
some words on whicheyer pmt of the page I please(l, but
\Voulcl not uuuertake to say how far off tbe words were. I
then pointed ont the side and part of the page that I wished,
and he gave the \vonls ' Tite-Lit;'e' and 'Ro11wlus;' ~aying
that each commenced a pamgrnph. This '\vas uot done im-
mediately, but the leaves were not openetl at all. l exam.iu-
ed the book, and fouud alJont 80 pages on the words ' Tite-
Liv~.' and about 150 the word 'Romulus,' each in the place
anti position required by me, and each conuncncing a para-
graph. He then seated himself iu the large chair once n1ore,
and a stranger (I believe, Dr. Castle of 1\'lilan) sat down by
him, aucl put himself en rapport with him. I did not hear the
COli\ er::;alion, uut Dr. Castle afl~n'li anl::; slaleu lo lll0!:5e present,
that Alexis hail described to him aecurately ho\v he (Dr. Cas-
tle) had passed the preceding u]ght, and the nature anti seat
of the pain that he had. suilereti from. Dnt furtlter anu more
sati:.:factory proofs of clajrvoyance were given. Alexis read
a word (content) that was enclosed in a card-board l>ox, and
presented to him for that purpose by a visitor. He made out
~he letters on ~rst_, aud the others afler smne ilifficulty. Bnt
1n a case of th1s kuu.l, every one naturally distrusts every ex-
periment not made by himself. I therefore took out 1ny
pocket-book and ~v"Tote three ·words; but being asked to put
one only, 1wrote m another place' ami.' I sho\\·ecl this to no
one, but tuminr.r a le<1f over it, said I had \Vritten a \Yord
·which 1 wishcJ him to read. It \Yas one of Penny's n1etallic
~ock~~-books, S? that ~ny of yom· readers may test the prac-
tlcablhty of secmg a light peucil-1nark throngh. I kept the
leaf pressed furD;lY. ov~r the \Yon]? und upon the body of the
~ook, and. held. 1t m h1s .hand. _Dlrc<"tly he placed his hand
m my ot~1er h.a~cl, he sal(~'- mernly,' Que vous ~tes &on! Il n'y
a que trozs lett1es (How knH.l you are-there arc butthree let-
ters).. I assented. He then wrote nearly, but not exactly
over 1t, the letter a, then turned. to me, and said, 'That is
MAGNETIC VISION. 113
right.' I assented. He then wrote m, and inquired in the
same '\vay. I said nothing. He repeated the question. I re-
nutincd silent. He then said in a jocose half-bantering tone
-(to this effect)-' You 1nay just as \Veil say so, because you
kno\\~ it is.' I then said ' Oui.' He repeated it after 1ne in
high glee, and added instantly the i, scratching a :fine flourish
underneath to show that he had succeeded. I showed the
pocket-book to those present, and all \Vere satisfied that they
could not have read it. It is no\V in my possession, and I
·would show i.tto any one ·who might wish to see it.
"I male no comments on the above facts, I attemptno ex~
planation; but it is right to add, that all present, and among
them were several medical men, ,,.,.ere perfectly satisfied of
the fairness of the experiments. No one would suggest any
possjbJe plan of collusion. I can be surprised at no one be-
ing incredulous until he has seen the experiments with his
O\vn eyes. For even now, without again scrutinizing anoth-
er series of experiments, I could not honestly say that I was
altogether convinced. I only say, that if there be deception,
the deception would be almost 1nore \Vonderful than the re-
ality. I send you my name and address, and remain,
Sir, your obedient servant,
AN INQUIRER AFTER TRUTH."
[The Zoist, p. 496-499.
Such is a very small portion of the evidence capable ofbe-
ing adduced in support of the fact, that Mesmeric subjects
are frequently able to see without the use of their eyes.
" Vision," says M. Teste, f( through the closed eyelids and
through opaque bodies, is not only a real fact, but a very fre-
quent fact. There is no magnetiser \vho has not observed it
twenty times, and I kno·w at the present day, in Paris alone,
a very great number of somnambulists who might furnish
proofs of it. The fact of reading under the same conditions,
a fact which, in the whole, is just the same, is met much
more seldom, which may readily be conceived ; this is the
phenomenon in all its perfection."
On turning to the pages of Swedenborg a new and sublime
philosophy of visual sensation is opened before us. Accord-
ing to his profound teaching, the sight of the eye L'3 in fact the
sight of the intellect going forth, as it were, through the por-
tal of the outward sense, and thus holding converse with the
material 'vorld. This po,ver is usually and normally exer-
114 MESMER AND SWEDENDORG.
cised throuoh the medimn of the optic apparatus, bnt is not
absolutely Jependeut upon it, for there is in fact an interior
eye-an eye of the spirit-and this eye sees by another light
than that of the natural sun. As the internal eye ordinarily
acts in tllis life in conjunction with the external, so that man
cannot discriminate between the functions of the one and
those of the other, in li.ke n1anner the element of spiritual
light is invisiuly interfused within that of nattual light, and
it is only by an abnormal process that this interior vision
is 'opened and that objects previously hidden come to the
mind's knowledge. Such an effect is, to a greater or less
extent, produced in the somnambulic or Mesmeric state. All
men possess the power in potency, but is is only in given
conditions that it is developed. It is a faculty into \Vhich all
come in the other life, and it is because the 1:1esmeric state
has so near an affinity with the state of disembodied spirits
that it is so strikingly evinced in the subjects of that state.*
The pertinency of the following paragraphs to the subject
before us will strike the reader at once.
" The intellectual in general is the visual of the internal
man, ·which sees fr01n the light of heaven ·which is from the
Lord, and ·what it sees, is all spiritual and celestial; but the
* It is, however, to be remarked, that spirits fully disembodied
tlo not see material objects unless it be through the eyes of those
whose spiritual sight is opened in the present life. Tllat such ob-
jects are visible to the magnetised is doubtless owing to the fact
that they are still so far connected with the corporeal thnt thei;
visual functions follow, in this ·respect, the usual law, althou~'~'h the
mode of their seeing i~, notwithstanding, different, as the ligl{t does
not reach the sensonum through the same medium. It is, more-
over, dou~tles~ true, that the .clearne~s with which material objects
are pcrce~ved m th~ ~esmen? state 1s not a test of the superiority
?f the clm!voyant vtsJou.. Thts. po~er usually becomes diminished
1~ proportion as the subJect r1~es mto the region of pure spiriLual
di~c~rnment. H~ then approxnnates more nearly the state of a
spult fully emanetpa~~d from .the flesh. It is for the most part
f~om recen~ ~nd noVlttate subJects ~hat the very striking descrip-
nous are ~hCited of pcr3ons and ObJects and scenery pertaining to
the matenal world. By degrees they come to consider evcrythin
of this. nature com.paratively trifling and as not altogether consis~
tent ~v1th the high and sacred uses to which the power is to be
applted.
MAGNETIC VISION. 115
sensual in general is of the externaltnan, here the sensual of
sight, because this corresponds and is subordinate to the
intellectual; this sensual sees from the light of the world
which is from the sun, and \vhat it sees, is all \Vol'ldly, corpo-
real, and terrestial. There are given in man deriV"ations fr01n
the intellectual, which is in the light of heaven, to the sen~
sual which is in the light of the world; tmless these 'vere
given, the sensual could not have any life, such as the human
life is: the sensual of man has not life in consequence of see-
ing from the light of the world, for the light of the \.t7orld has
in it no life, but in consequence of seeing from the light of
heaven, for this light has life in it; when this light falls with
man into those things \Vhich are from the light of the world,
then it vivifies them, and causes him to see objects intellec-
tually, thus as a man; thence man, from the scientifics which
• had their birth from those things which he had seen andheard
in the world, consequently from those things which had en-
tered by sensuals, has intelligence and wisdom, and from this
latter, civil, moral, and spirituallife."-A. C. 5114.
" I have discoursed with some within a fetv days after
their decease, and because they were then recently come,
they were in a light there, which differed little in their sight
from the light of the world. And because the light appeared
such to them, they doubted whether they had light from any
other source, wherefore they were taken into the firRt of hea-
ven, where the light was still brighter, and from thence speak-
ing with me, they said, that they had never before seen such
a light; and this took place when the sun was already set.
They then wondered, that spirits h~d eyes by which they
saw, when yet they believed in the life of the body, that the
life of spirits was tnerelythought, and indeed abstractly 'vith-
out a subject, by reason that they had not been able to think
of any subject of thought, inasmuch as they had not seen
any ; and this being the case, they had not then perceived
otherwise, than that because it was mere thought alone, it
\vas dissipated, together with the body in which it was, just
as any atua or any fire, unless it should miraculously be kept
together and subsist from the Lord. And they saw then ho'v
easily the learned fall into error concerning life after death,
au~ that they more than others do not believe except in things
wh1ch they see. Therefore they 'vere surprised now, that
they not only had thought, but also sight, and likewise the
other senses; and especially that they appear to themselves
altogether as men, that they mutually see and hear each
other, converse together, feel their otvtl members by the
touch, and this more exquisitely than in the life of the body.
Hence they were amazed that man is altogether ignorant of
116
th1s, wl1ile he lh·L~s in the ·worlcl: and they pitied the hnman
r<H:e, that they know nothiug of ~uch thiu~!3. Lccn~1se they
believe nothing, nml more e::-peL"i<llly they who nre m :::~npc­
rior ligltr. munely. they \\·ho are within the clw~c.h, cmd ha\·c
the \V.onl. Some of them bcfie,·cd 110 otherw1se, tlwn tlmt
men aftt>r deDth "onl1l be ns gho~t5, in whic:h opi11iou !hey
coll11rmed thcmsch c::. from the spectres of which they had
hearJ; hur L~nce they dre"r no other conclusion, than that
it was ~ome gro~s Tital principle, which it fir::.t exhaled frozn
the life of the body, but which again falls back t<? the dead
body, and is thus extinguished. ~nt some beh~ved, tliat
they were first to rise aO'aiu at the hu1e of the last Jlldgment,
when the "·orld ,,·as to perish, and then with the body,
'rhich, though fallen into dust, ·would be then collected. to-
gether. and thus they would rise ngain with bone and flesh.
And whereas mankind have in vain for many ages ex1)ectecl
that last judgment or clestnlCtion of the world, they have fall-
en into the error thnt they should never rise again; thinking
nothing in this case of that '\vhich they have learned fron1 the
\.Voru, and fr01n which they have also son1etimes so spoken,
that '\vhen man dies, his soul is in the hand of God, mnong
the happy or unhappy acconling to the life '\vhich he had
acquainted himself 'vith, and '\vas be~ome familiar to; nei-
ther of what the Lord said concer1ung the rich man and
Lazarus. Bnt they were instructed, that every one's last
judgment is ·when he dies, and that then he appears ~o himself
endo'\'\...cd '\Vith a body as in the world, and to enjoy every
sense as in the 'vorld, but more pure and exquisite, inasmuch
as corporeal things do not hinder, and tho~e things 'vhich
are of the light of the world do not overshadow those which
are of the light of heaven; thus that they are in a body as it
'vere purified; and that after death, the body cannot possi-
bly partake of 'vhat is bony and fleshy such as it had in the
·world., because this would be to be again encompassed ·with
earthly dust. \Vith some I conversed on this subject on the
same day that their bodies were entombed, '\rho saw· through
my eyes their own corpse, the bier, and the ceremony of
~Jurial; and they said, that tl~ey reject tha~ corpse, and that
1t had served them f~r uses m the ·world 111 which they had
been, au~l that they l1ye no~v in a body which serves them
for uses m the world m w~nch they. now are. They ·wished
also, that I ~honld tell th1s to the1r relations who were in
motm1ing; bnt it was !riven to rep1y, that if I should tell
them, they won1c1.mock.at it, iuaf'nmch as what they cannot
thcmseh·e~ ~ee w1th then· o'\vn eyes, they believe to be noth-
ing, and thus they would reckon it amn11g the Yif:ions ,dtich
are illusions. For they cannot be brought to believe, that as
·.
1\IAGNETlC VISION. 117
n1en see each other with their eyes, so spirits see each other
''rith theirs, and tllat man cannot see spirits unless \\ith the
eyes of his spirit, and that he then sees them when the Lord
opens the internal sight, as was done to th~ prophets, \vho
saw spirits and angels, and also many thmgs fif heaven.
\Vhethcr they \Vho live at this day ~would have believed
those things, if they had lived at that tune, there is room to
doubt."-.A. c. 4527.
" It is surprising that man does not as yet know, that his
intellectualtninc.l is in a certain light, \Yhich is altogether dif-
ferent from the light of the world: but such is the constitu-
tion of things, that to those who are in the light ofthe world,
the light of he~n·eu is as it were darkness, aud to those 'vho
are in the ljgh~ of heanm, the light of the world is as it were
darkne~s; this arises principally from the loves, which are
the heats of light; they 'vho arc ill the loves of self and of
the \Vorld, thus in the heat only of the light of the '';\'Orld, are
only atTected with evils and falses, and these are the things
which extin~ui:;h truths, \vhic:h are of the light of heaven;
but they who are in love to the Lord and in love towards the
neig-huor, thus in spiritual heat, 'vhich is of the light of hea-
ven, are affected with goods and truths, which extinguish
fab;es."-A. C. 3224.
"That the light of heaven has in itself intelligence and
'visrlom, and that it is the intelligence of truth and the wis-
dom of good from the Lord, ·which appears as light before
the eyes of the angels, has been given me to know by living
experience. I have been elevated into the light, 'vhich glit-
tered like the light radiating from diamonds; and whHe I
was kept in it, I seen1cd to myself to I.Je withdrawn from cor-
poreal ideas, and to be led into spiritual ideas, and thus into
those things which are of the intelligence of tn1th and good.
The ideas of thought, which derived their origin frmn the
light of the world, then appeared removed from me, and as
it \Vere not belonging to 1ne, although they were obscurely
present. Hence it was given to kno\V, that so far as man
comes into that light, so far he comes into intelligence.
Thence it is, that the more intelligent the angels are, ill so
much greater and more illustrious light are they."-.A.. C.
4413.
"Recent souls, ornovitiate spirits, natnely, those who some
days after the death of the body come into the other life, are
greatly surprised that there is light in the other life; for they
bring along with them the ignorance that light is from any
6•
118 M£Sl\1Ell AND S\\~J::.lJ£!'1J.lOltG.
other source than fr01n tl1e sun, and fr01n J?.atcrial_ fla~c ;
and still less tlo they know, that there is any hgllt wh1ch.lllu-
minates the uuuerstnnding, for they have not 3.}1perce~ved
this in the life of the body ; and stillles~, that that light g1:res
the faculty of thinking, and by iuflux. mto the fo_nns wh~ch
are from the lii'Tht of the \\ orl<l, const1tutes all tlnngs ·wlnch
are of the und:r.;tanding. These, if they have been good,
that they may be instructed, are elevated to heavenly _?OCte-
ties, and from society into society, t~1at they 1!1ay perceiVe by
living experience, t!Htt in the othe~· life .there lS lJgbt, awl tlus
more intense than IS any,vhere g1ven m the world, and that
at the same time they may apperceive, that so far as they are
in the li....ht there, so far they arc in intelligence. Some, who
were taken up into ~phercs of celestial light, spoke with me
thence, and confessed that they had ne,er believed anything
of the kind. and that the ]jght or the 'vorld is respectively
... ' .
darkness. They also looked thence through 1ny eyes 1nto
the light of the world, and this they do not perceive other-
wise than as a dark cloud ; anu from commiseration said,
that man is in such a cloud. Frmn what bas been said it
may also appear, why the celestial angels are in the world
called angels of light; and that the Lord is the llght and
thence the life of men. John i. 1 to 9; chap. viiL. 12."-A.. C.
4415.
" ' Thou God seest me.'-That it signifies influx, may ap-
pear from \vhat has now been stated. Intuition from the
superior into the iuferior, or, what is the same, from the in-
terior into the exterior, is called influx, for it is effected by in-
filL'{; as the interior vif'ion with man, unless it ilowed con-
tin~ally into his external vision, or. that of the eye, it would
be 1mpo~s1~le fo~ the.laue! ~o take.m and discern any object;
~ecause 1t .ts the m.tenor VlSlOll whwh, through the eye, takes
1n those. thmgs wluch the eye sees, and not the eye itself, al-
though 1t ~o ~ppears. .Hence also it may be seen,.how much
t~at Inan 1~ ~nvolved 111 the fallacies of the senses, who be-
h~ves .t~1at It ~s t?e ~ye ~hat sees, when yet it is the sight of
hiS sp1~1t., whiCh Is mter~or sight, that sees through the eye.
~he sp1n~ who were wlth me saw through my eyes the ob-
JeCts of.th~s world, as .perfectly as I; but some of them, ,vho
1vere still1n the falla~1es of the senses, supposed that they
~a·w them through their own eyes; but it was shown them that
~t wc:u'not so, for .'vhen my eye~ were s~ut.they sa1-v nothing
~n.tlns atrnosphen?al ''rorld. 1he case 1s sunilar with man:
1t IS notthe eye wlnch sees, but his spirit~hrough the eye. The
same may al?o appear front dreams, m which ROlnetimes
man sees as 111 opeu day. But this )s uot all : the case is
MAGNETIC VISION. 119
similar with this interior sight, or that of the spirit. This
does not see of itself, but from a vision still more interior, or
that of its rational: yea neither does this see of itself, but
there is a sight still more interior, which is that of the inter-
nal man : but not even does this see of itself: but it is the
Lord, through the internal man, who alone sees, because he
~lone lives; and he gives to man t~at he may se~, '!ll~ that
1t may appear as if he saw from himself. Thus 1t IS m re-
gard to inflnx.,-A.. C. 1954.
"That the light in the heavens is spiritual, and that that
light is divine truth, 1nay be concluded also from this, that
man also has spiritual light, and from that light has illustra-
tion, as far as he is in intelligence and wisdom from divine
truth. The spiritual light of man is the light of his under-
standing, the objects of which are trnths, which he dis-
poses analytically into orders, forms into reasons, and from
them concludes things in a series. That it is real light, from
which the understanding sees such things, natural man does
not know, because he does not see it "\Vith the eyes, nor per-
ceive it with the thought; but many still know it, and also
distinguish it fron1 natural light, in which those are who
think naturally and not spiritually: those think naturally,
"\Vho only look into the "\vorld and attribute all things to na-
ture ; but those think spiritually, who look to heaven and at-
tribute all things to the Divine. That it is true light, which
enlightens the mind, plainly distinct from the light which is
called natural light [lumen], has many times been given me to
perceive, and also to see. I have been elevated into that
light interiorly by degrees, and as I was elevated, my under-
standing was enlightened, so that at length I perceived what
I did not perceive before, and at last such things as I could
not even comprehend by thought from natural light: I was
sometimes indignant that they ·were not comprehended,
"\Vhen yet they ·were clearly and perspicuously perceived in
heavenly light. Because the understanding has light, there-
fore the like is said concerning it as concerning the eye, as
that it sees and is in the light, when it perceives, and that it is
obscure and in the shade, when it does not perceive; and
other like things."-H. fr H 130.
It must be admitted to be somewhat difficult, accustomed
ns we are to derive our thou~hts from the material world, to
conceive of the relation of Light to the Intellect, though we
are in the constant use ofthe same language in a metaphorical
sense, and though the relation of Heat to Affection is the
1:20 .Mr.s::HER Al:\D SW.ED.ENDOl'tG.
smue. Yet the philosophy is nndonLtedly smllld, and it is iu
effect recognised by intelligent clain'oynuts, for they n::.ually
say that they do not so much see the olJjects of their pcrccp-
tiou as know them. They fintl great diillcnlty iu couvcyiug
to other:S a precise idea of the unture of their vision, and one
once remarked to me tllat though sl1e used the \Yord see, yet
she wished to l1rn·c it understood that the proces:::; "'as not
like that of ~eei.ng with the ont\Yarcl eye. She employed the
tenn because she knc\v no other that came so near to an ad-
eqnatc expression of the fact. If Swec.1enl..>Org has correctly
developed the theor)r of the vi~ual .,cnsation of :::pirit~, it ap-
proxiumtes so 11early to iHtellection that it is not easy for us to
draw the distinction, and the case is the same 'vith maguetic
vi.6ion. I an1 ::nrare it n1ay be said, that we are still left with-
out any clear couceptions of the rationale of the pheuomenon,
but the inevitable vagueness arises from. the nature of the sub-
ject. Until we have gained a deeper kno\Yledge of the spirit-
ual in contradistinction from the 1nater.ial, and of the mode
ofinllux from the one into the other, we shall doubtless con-
tinue to labor under the same difficulty.
CHAPTER VII.
CLAIIlVOYANCE.
FRo~r the tenor of the preceding chapter it must undoubted-
ly appear, that the mental relation of the parties in the 1\fes-
meric communication is such, that the train of thoucrht in the
b
one governs, more or less, that of the other. In virtue of the
mysterious intercourse established, the mind ofthe one is led
by that of the other to the contemplation of whatever scenes
and objects it is pleased to array before it.* The evidence of
.
. ~ The £Jllowi_ng p_nssag~ i~ so pertinent to tLis point tl1at I an-
hclpate a httle 1n grvmg lt m th1s connection. " A ce-rtain spirit
CLJ.IR\'OYA.NCE. 121
this, as a matter of fact, is altogether too strong to be re~.isted,
and to this extent the claims of 'vhat is termed Clairvoyance
are Ly multitudes atlmitted. Hut hesitation immediately en-
sues 'vhen '"~e 0'0 beyonll this, and affirm the possibility of a
0 .
sight or perception on the part of tl1e subject entirely trans-
cending the runge of the operator's knowledge or his ac-
tual imagiuings. This, it is said, brings us at once into the
region of the incredible, as it invests the 8pirit with the po"--
er of emerging from the body, and in that state of possessing
a kind of uuiquitous presence "·hich can only be ascribed to
the Deity. All obje<..:tions, hm,·eyer, ofthis nature must gi,·e
way before the clear evidence offacts, and facts may be adduc-
ed in abundance to show that the range of clairvoyant vision
is not limited by the conceptions of the guicliug mind. \\Te do
not say that this power is capable of being elicited in c,·ery
instance in which the l'Ubject gives proof of being; cognziant of
the thoughts of another, and is able to describe the scenes and
object~ ou which his mental eye LS fucd. But that that'vhich i"
fretjuently termed the f'aculty of independent clai1·voyancc does
exist, and that incontestable proofs of it are often afforded, we
affinn \vithont hesitation. Both the private experience and
the public vouchers of those ·who are conversant with the
subject, are rich in testimonies on this head.
A remarkable form of this power is evinced in the knowl-
edge which magnetic subjects when in that state, however
locally and bodily remote, hnYe of each other. The fact is
beyond question, as will be attested by all those ·who are fa-
nliliar with the phenomena, and can only be accouuted for
on the ground of the truth of Swef;lenborg's assertion, that 1·eal
space is non-existent in the spiritual "·orld, and that nothing
more is needed to bring spirits into conjunction with each
was with me, whom I had not l,nown in the life of the body, and
when I asked him ·whether he knew whence he was, he did not
know, but by means of the interior sight he '\vns led by me tlaough
cities where I had been, and at length through the city whence he
came, nnd then through the streets and pnLlic squares, all which
he wa~ ncqnaintecl v..·ith, and ut )a:;t to the ::<treet where he himcelf
dwelt; and il' I had lmown the houses, how they were situated, 1
might also have known his house."-A. 0. 2485.
122 M£Sill£ll .AND SWJ.mENDOHG.
other than similarity of slates conpled with a desire to thn.t ef.
feet. " It has been given to see how similitude of state con.
joins and contracts the extension of space or distance, and
ho'v dissimilitude separates and prouuces extension of space
or distance. There they who to appearance are at the distance
of a thousand miles frotn each other, can be IJrescut in a mo-
ment when the love of one to the other is excited, and on the
other hand, they who are discoursing together, can be sep-
arated in like n1anner the moment any aversion is exciteu.u
-Ath. Creed, 106. If this is the law of conjunction bet"\\.,.ecn
spirits in the other life, it is not perhaps difficult to conceive
that it should be somewhat strikingly realized in the case of
two ~fcsmeric subjects coming as they do, in good tnen.sure,
into the spiritual sphere.
Yet it is to be remarked, that the ex.hiuition of the potver
is usually governed by some hiduen la,vs that have reference
to use. The phenomena are perhaps most frequently evinc-
ed in cases where the object is to indicate the nature or the
cure of d1sease. Nothing 1s more common than to submit to
a subject the case of one, removed it 1nay be to the distance
of hundreds of miles, ·who is laboring 1.u1der any particular
tnalady, which however is not known in any of its particu-
lars, to the consulter, but which he wishes to have investigat·
ed. A correct report is often made of such cases, and that with-
out the slightest previous knowledge of the person or his ail-
ment-a fact which cannot be accounted for but upon the
supposition of some kind of goiag forth of the spirit, ·which at
the same time is not incompatible with its still adhering to the
body to which it belongs. The mind of the clairvoyant does
undoubtedly in some way come in contact \vith the essential
'being of the person in question, and through that is made
acquainted 'vith the condition of the material organism,
'vhich stands in indissoluble relation to the soul that per-
vades and animates it. That there is au actual cognizance
of the individual thus spiritually visited is evident from
the fact that when such a person is subseque11tly brourrht
into the presence of the clairvoyant when in the Mesrne~ic
state, he will immediately recognise him as one wh01n he
CLAIRYOYANCJ!:. 123
has seen before, and will minutely describe all the par·
ticulars of the previous vision. V\re by no means affim1
that these phenomena occur ·with every clairvoyant, but they
nevertheless occur, as I have often witnessed, and more es.
pecially jf the 1\Iesmeric seer is furnished with a lock of hair,
or any article of dress or ornament worn upon the person of
the other party, which may serve as a mediutn for establish·
ing the mysterious conununication between them. The fact
is doubtless very astonishing, but is rendered much more
credible by Swedenborg's teachings respecting the nature of
spirits and the modes of their intercourse, a portion of which
1ve shall soon present to the reader.
But the first step is to adduce evidence ofthe fact.
"For sh years I have made repeated trials with numerous
patients of my own: but never have found one who I was
satisfied could even see the objects about them with the eyes
closed, or look into the interior of the bodies of ·others and
state their condition and prescribe for them. But among my
searches after clairvoyance I have at length found one exam.
ple of the highest kind, just mentioned in the last paragraph,
though she disclaims all clairvoyance of the inferior kind
mentioned in the present paragraph. This patientis the per·
fection of integrity and every other moral excellence. Her
word is a fact: and her truth is not less absolute than her
freedom from vanity. She dislikes to exert her clairvoyance,
and though, I have no doubt, long possessed ofit, never men-
tioned it till I tried and urged her to exert it : nor would she
ever exert it bnt from a desire to oblige me, nor does she if
aware of the presence of others.
" She will accurately describe ·who are in a particular room
at her father's house at a particular moment, and the arrange.
1nent of the furniture, &c.-a distance of above fifty miles :
or she ·will search for and see a member of her family, and
describe the place in which he or she is, and the others also
present. I at length succeeded in prevailing upon her to see
some others, not members of her family, or known to them
or to herself, and ·whose names even I did not mention, but
only a very few particulars about them. She has described
their persons most accurately, the places in which they were,
their occupations at the moment; and told what others ·were
in the same room with them : and all this when I knew no.
thu1g of the truth at the time, and had to verify it afterwards~
Far more than this she 'vould tell: and tell with perfect ac·
12:1 1\lESi\lEft AND S"•".ED};NDOfW.
curacy: and predict nnmerous tltiugs rehting: to others
which lun-e since exactly mken place. Ht_H I ·wtll not ,·et~­
tnrc to add more at present. [ n.m tmytlung _lmt ::::upcr::tJ-
tions i am indeed ,·ery ::;kcpticnl of hnmau t~stnnony on nll
lllatters ora womlerful uatnrc : bnt these poults 1 have labo-
rion~ly a.ntl ri!ricllv looked ittto, :llH.l can speak po'!it~vely. ln
cxcrrii1g thi~ -po,\·er, s!te knil:-? l1er_ brow::; aml \\rmkles her
forehead vcrli<.:nlly, evidently makJUg a great cucbml cx~r­
tion. 'l'hc part at ·whicl1 ~he say;:; she sees, ::-.~ to speak, clmr-
"t'oymuJy, is the cen~re of 1he Jorelwau, mulway Lc:twccu
the temples, bnt a little lowe!" thrtll half-\vay uct"'-eeu the
root of the nose and the top of the forehead,-exactly at the
spot calletl l.Jy some cerebral phy-:,iologists the organ of
E\·ent nalitv.
.. I neeti"ha.nlly say tltat in perceiving absent and (listunt
per;:,ous and things, it 1nakcs no cliilercnec 'vhat may be tlJe
direction of her face. Her gcat may he placecl agaiust any of
the walls of the roo1n ·without altermg her ability.
"\Vhethcr from her being in a very delicate smte of health
or not, she exerts the pO\Yer with great effort, and ofteu re-
q uirc~ repeated eifort~ in the same direction at successive
s1ttings l>efore ghc sees what I tlesire her to see. Any tem-
porary increase of debility, any headache, or other distress-
ing sensation, or the slighte::;L uucorn[ortaule emotion, prevents
its exertion to mllch pnrpose or altogether. Before she could
discern persons wh() are strangers to her, 1nany attempts for
very many days were requireLl. She then saw them uwre
clearly every day. Sometimes she cau see persons but for
an inc;tant at a time: and sometimes not 1nore than ouce in
thi::; mmnentary manner dnring my Yisit. She seldom saw
the whole of a room at ouce."-T/te Zoist, Vol. II. p.. 478--181.
":Mademoiselle W., ·whose disease and its treatment have.
been minutely reporteu by Dr. Klein, her physician, oppears
to have been one of the most extraordinary natural somnam-
bulists ~nd dairvoyf!-nts npo_p _record. . The follo,ving facts
con<?ernm~ her! whtch Dr. l\.lCln has shghtly alluded to from
motives of delicacy towards the family, are related in the
third volume of the Bibtiotheque dn AiarrnetlS1ne Animt.Ll, by an
eye-witness who is worthy of all credif.
"After :Mademoiselle vV. hau arrived at the house of ~1.
St. --, a respectable and opulent man, whose family is one
of the rn?st distingu.ish~u in the. country, this gentlemen, 1vho
had prevtously heard of the accidental s01nnarnbulism of this
yOtmg lady, looked upon her as a very extraordinary person
aud requested her to give hlm, as she llad alreauy done 01{
several forn1er occasions, some proofs of the accuracy and
....
CLAIRVOYAXC.E:. 125
extent of her magnetic telescopa, and to direct it towards his son,
an officer in the army, at that time sen·ing in Russia. From
that moment, l\iadcmoiselle V{. directed her thoug:hls to this ~
young man, and in all her paroxysm~, aldwug-h 8hc had
ne\•er seen him, she drew his portrait exactly as if she had
him before her eyes. f;he said the1t he ,,~as constantly pre-
sent to her mind-she accompanied him in all his military
movements, antl obserYed that, naturally brave, lle exposed
himself too inconsiderately to danger. She freqnemly asked
the sister of this young officer, whether she did not ~ee him
in a corner of the Toom; and, one day, upon receiving a
negative an<::\v"er, she said, '\Yell, then, ask him any ques-
tions yon please, and I shall return his answers.' The sis-
ter, having consented, asked all sorts of questions relative to
family matters, "·hich '\Yere m1known to the somnambulist,
who ans·wered thein all in a 1nanner so precise and so accu-
rate, that the interrogator aften,~ards de~ared that she felt
herself seized '\Vith a cold perspiration, and was 8evcrul times
on the point o[ fainting with fright, duxing what she called
the dialogue of the spirits.
"In another scene, tqe somnmnbulist declared to the fath-
er, that she s<nv his son at the hospital, ·with a piece of 'vhite
linen wrapt round his chin-that he was wounded in the
face-that he \vas unable to eat, but, at the same time, that
he was in no danger. Some days later, she said that he was
now able to eat, and that he was much better.
" The family soon ceased to pay much attention to these
visions, probably putting little faith in them., when, some
weeks afterwards, a courier arrived from the army. l\I. St.
immediately went to Count Th. to inquire \vhat ne\vs he had
receiYed. The latter, at once, set his mind completely at
ease, uy informing him that his son's name was not in the
list of the ·wounded, &c. Transported with joy, he returned
home, and said to .Th1ademoiselle W., who was, at that time,
in her somnamLulic sleep, that, for once, she had not divined
accurately, and that, fortunately for his son and himself, she
had been completely deceived. At these \vords-divined,
deceived-the young lady felt much offended, and, in an angry
and energetic tone, assured the father that she was quite cer-
tain of the trnth of what Rhe had said-that, at the very mo-
ment, she saw his son at the hospital with his C!hin \\Tapt in
white linen, and that, in the f:tate in which she then was, it
was quite impossible she could be deceived. Soon afLer-
\Vard~, there c~me a note from Count Th. ; which, after some
expressions of politeness and condolence, contained the fol-
lo·wing intelligence. That a second list of the 'vounded had
arrived, in which was the name of his son, \vho had been
126
struck by a musket-ball on the chin, and was unc.lcr mcc.lical
treatment in the hospital, &c. .
':According to my iufonuution, th~ verac1ty ~f the person~,
upon whose nuthorjty th~ .Precedm~ narrative has been
given, lies under no susplcLon."-l"Jts Revelata, Vol. II., p.
93-96.
"i\Iada1ne Bussiere, being magnetised at eleven o'clock in
the tnoruinrT told me that she 'vas better-but that she could
not think ab~ut herself-having somethin~ upon her mind,
which distracted her thoughts; aud not bemg a_ble to see tl~e
cause of this presentiment, she asked me to ass1st _her. I d1d
so by the means usually e1nployed Ullder such mrcmnstan-
ces. She retired ''"?
it.hil1 herself :-an instant aftenvards she
burst into tears, and said to me, 'l sec my brother-in law,
"\Vho is at Libourne: he has inflammation of the lungs; his
'vife ,~n·ote to me"csterday to infonn me of this event, and
the letter ·will arrive this evening :-she requests n1e to go to
Libourne.' After a 1ninute's silence; 'I run mnvell, uud I fear
that this letter, when it arrives, will make me 'vorse. I beg
of you, on my awaking, to infonn me of this, but \Vith cau-
tion; especially tell1ne, that I dare not be a.Lsent at the most
more than twelve days, because I shall require to be mag-
netised from that perioJ. until the next constitutional crisis,
which will be the last. I cannot tell you on \Vhat day it will
lmppen; I cannot see this till the evening before.'
"Having awakened her, I did. as she hau directed me, in-
sisting strongly on the necessity of her returning on the 26th,
on account of her health.
"In the evening her husband sent me the letter announced
during her sleep; its contents ·were precisely those which
Madame Bussiere had told me."-Newnham's An. JJJag. p. 277-
278.
Cases of a si1nilar character to the foregoing could be easi-
ly multiplied, but to the skeptic they wonld probably be un-
availing, and to the believer useless. Our object will have
been answered if we have succeed.eel in presenting the evi-
dence of a mental phen01nenon, w·hich finds its solution in
the parallel developments of S·wedenborg. Our drift is all
along to explain facts by laws. The facts may be doubted or
denied by those who have 'vitnesscd nothing like them, but
\ve have much less solicitude for those who deny the facts
than for those who, upon satisfactory proof, admit the facts,
but have hitherto been ignorant of the la\vs. It will be seen
CLURVOYAl\CE. 127
from ·what follo,vs that nothing more is developed in the facts
than the laws of spiritual existence give us reason to antici~
pate. Everything involved in the phenomena rests upon the
grand principle, that "man is a spirit as to his interiors," and
that his spiritual nature in the body often manifests itself ac
cording to the laws which govern it out of the body.
" The spirits who are thought of by others (as those who
have been in any degree acquainted together during the life
of the body) are present in a moment, when it is granted by
the Lord, and so very near that they can hear and touch each
other, or at any little distance, notwithstanding they might
have been thousands of rniles distant, yea, even at the stars ;
the reason is, because distance of place does not operate in
the other life."-A. C. 1274.
" All conjunction in the spiritual world is done by looking :
when any one there thinks concerning another from au affec-
tion of speaking 'vith him., the other becomes present on the
spot; and one sees the other face to face : the like is done
·when any one thinks concerning another from an affection of
love; by this affection conjunction takes place, but only
presence takes place by the other : this is peculiar to the
spiritual vv·orld: the reason is, because all there are spiritual ;
it is othenvise in the natural vvorld in which all are material :
in the natural world the like takes place with men in the af-
fections and thoughts of their spirit; but because in the na-
tural world there are spaces,but in the spiritual ·world spaces
are only appearances, therefore in the latter ·world that takes
place actuallywhich takes place in the thought of any spirit."
-D.P. 29.
" Since angels and spirits are affections which are of love,
and thoughts thence, therefore neither are they in space and
tune, but only in the appearance of them : the appearance of
space and time is to them according to the states of the af-
fections and thence of the thoughts= wherefore, when any
one thinks about another from affection, with the intention
that he wishes to see him, or to speak with him, he is set forth-
with present. Hence it is, that spjrits are present ·with every
man, who are in ]ike affection with him; evil spirits ·with hin1
who is in the affection of like evil, and good spirits with him
\Vho is in the affection of like good : and they are so present,
as when one is includetl in society : space and time make
nothing towards presence, for the reason that affection and
thence thought are not in space and tune; and spirits and
128 1\U:Sl\lf:Il A!\ D 8WEDE:-;DORl1.
angel"' arc affections anrl them~e thonzh~s. That it is so, has
been zivcn to kno,\· from a living cxper10nce of uwny years;
aucl ~~~0 fl"Ol'l'l tlti-., tlmt f }wve spok<:;u With l1_lally a!tPr de~tlh,
as well \dth th0::-1..! "·ho ~rc in Ettrope a11tl 1ts ntnou:::: kmg--
clom'. a::- \\.·ith thosl.! who were in Asin aud Africa n.tHl their
variou~ kin~tl01ns ~ and they were nll uuar me; wherefore, if
there had l~cen !'pace atH.l time to them, jourueying and the
time of journcyitlg' wot:ltl_ h:wc jnte~vet~ed. Yea_, ev~ry 1.n~n
know'- this from what I"llltplanted mlnm-:elf or nthts mmu;
wl!ich became eYitlenccd to we bv th1s, that no one thou~ht
of nny distrmce of spal'e, "~11~11 I r~latecl w,Imt I haYe spoken
,,·ith auy one deceased m ..\$Jn, Afncn, or Europ_e; as, for.cx-
ample, \\·itll Cal\'in, Luther, fiielaucthon. or \Vlth any J...mg,
officer, or priest, in a distant country; and it did nol at all
fall into their thonrrhts, how oue could speak \\rith those who
lived there, anc.l h~w· they could come to and be present \Vith
hin1, when yet lands and sea~ intervene : from this it has also
been manifest to me, that no one thinks from space and time,
\vhen he thinks concerning those who are in the spiritual
\Vorld."-D. P. 50.
"Although all things in heaven appear in place and in
F-pace just as in the \Vorld, still the angels have no notion and
idea of place and space. Because this cannot but appear as
a p;undox. I wish to present the subject in a clear ugbt, be-
cause it is of great importa.nce.
cc All lJrogressions in the spiritual \Vorlcl are made by
changes of the state of the interiors, so that progressions are
nothiug else tlu:m changes of state; thus also I have been
conducted by the Lord into the heavens, and likewise to the
earths in the universe, and this as to the spirit, while the
body remained in the same place. Thus all the angels move ;
hence to them there are no distances, and if there are not
distances, neither are there spaces, but instead of them states
and their changes.
"Because progressions are made thus, it is evident that
approximations are similitudes as to the 8tate of the interiors,
and that removals are dissimilitudes. Thence it is that those
are near to each other \.Vho are in a similar state, and those
~t a distance, ·who ~re in a dissi1nilar state ; and that spaces
1u ~leaven are ~otlnug else than external states corresponding
to mternal. It 1s from no other sonrce that the heavens are
distinct fi·om each other,and aLc;o the societies of each heaven
and CYery one in the society. Thence like\dse it is, that th~
hell~ are entirely separated from the heavens, becauE'e they
are m a contrary state.
" From this cause also it is, that in the spiritual world one
CLAIRVOYANCE. 129
is exhibited as present to another, if he only intensely desires
his presence, for thus he sees hin1 iu thought, and puts him-
self "in his state; and conversely, that one is removed from
another as far as he is averse to him. And because all aver-
sion is fro1n contrariety of the affections and from disagree-
ment of the thoughts, thence it comes to pass, that several
\Vho are in one place there appear to each other so long as
they agree, but as soon as they disagree they disappeal:."-
H. 9' If. 191-194.
" Interior sight in the spiritual world conjoins ; interior
sight is thought, and in a society there, when several act as
one, and also in choirs, \Vhat one thinl{s another also thinks,
thus thought conjoins ; and likewise \vhen any one thinks
of another, he is presented to view, thus also thought con-
joins."-.11. C. 5975.
"1\ian at this day, to whom the interiors are closed, kno\vs
nothing of those things \\ hich exist in the spiritual world or
heaven: he says indeed from the 'Vord and from doctrine,
that there is a heaven, and that the angels, who are there, are
in joy and in glory, and he knows nothing besides. He
vvishes indeed to know how the case is there, but when he is
told, he still believes nothing, by reason that in heart he de-
nies the existence of such things: when he \Yishcs to know,
jt is only because then he is in curiosi.ty from doctrine, not in
delight from faith; and they who are not in faith, deny also
in henrt. But they who believe, procure to themselves ideas
concerning heaven, its joy and glory, from various things,
every one from such things as are of his O'\Yn science and in-
telligence; and the simple from sensitive things which are of
the body.
" Nevertheless most persons do not apprehend that spirits
· and angels have sensations much more exqnisite than men
in the world ; namely, sight, hearing, sn1elling, somethjng
analogous to taste, aud tonch, and especially the delights of
the affections. If they had only believed that their interior
essence was a spirit, and that the body, together with its sen-
sations and members, js only adequate to nses in the \Yorld,
and that the spirit and its sensations and organs are adequate
to uses in the other life, then they would come of themselves
and almost spontaneously )nto ideas concernjng the state of
their spirits after death. For tl1en they would think with
the1nselvcs, that his spjrit is the very man him~elf vvho thinks,
antl \\·ho lusts, \vho desires and is affected, and further that
all the seusitive, which appears in the body, is properly of
its spirit, and of the body only by influx: and these things
130· MESMER AND SWEDENDORO.
they w-Jnld afterwards confirm \vith thc~sclves ~y many
thinrrs anu thus at )enoth \\~ould 1Je dc}tghtcd \Vlth those
b ' b ' l l }'}
things which are of their spirit, more .t.Lt~n wtt 1 t 1osc \V ~~c. 1
are of their body. In reality also tlus 1s the case? that ~t.ls
not the body which see.s,.hears, smells, feels, but 1~s .sp1nt;
wherefore when the sptnt 1~ fr~ed from the bot~y, 1t lS then
in its 0'\\:11 sensations in \vluch 1t had been whenm the body,
and indeed in thos~ n1uch more exquisite; for corporeal
things, because respectively gross, rcn~e1:eu the sensati01_
1s
obtuse, and still more obtuse, because 1t 1mmersed them 111
earthly and "·orlclly things. . . . .
"This I can assert, that a sp1nt has much more cxqmstte
sicrht than a man in the body, and also hearing, and what
wfu seem surprising, more exquisite sense of smell, and
especially sense of touch, for they see each other, llear
each other, antl touch each other. This also he ·who be-
lie\•es a life after death, n11ght conclude from this, that no
life can:.be given wHhout sense, and that the quality of the
life is accordiug to the quality of the sense; yea, that the
intellectual is nothing but an exquisite sen~e of iuterior
things, and the superior intellectual ofspiritual things; hence
also the things \Vhich are of the intellectual and of its per-
ceptions are called the internal senses. With the sensitive of
man immediately after death, the case is this. As soon ns
1nan dies, and the corporeal things with him gro·w cold, he
\
is raised up into life, and then into the ~tate of all sensations,
insomuch that at first he scarcely knows otherwise than that
he is still in the body ; for the sensations in which he is, lead
him so to believe. But ':vhen he perceives that he has more
exquisite sensations, and this espedally \Vhen he begins to
speak with other spirits, he then takes notice that Le is in
another life, and that the death of his body was the continua-
tion of the life of his spirit. I have spoken ·with two with
w·hom I .had heen ~cquail1ted, on the sarne uay that they
were bnned, and. wtth o~e who ~aw through my eyes his
ow:n co.ffin a~d b1er, and 1uas~1uch as he was in every sen-
sation m wluch he had been 111 the world, he talked with
me about the obsequies, \Vhen I was follo\VilJrr his funeral
and also about his budy, sayil1g, that they reje~t it beeaus~
he himself lives.
"But it is to be kno\vn, that they \Vho are in the other life
cannot sec anything which i~ in the world through the eye~
of any man ; the re~sou why.t~ey c.onld see thro11gh 1ny eyes
'yas, ~ecause I am ~n the sp1nt wlth them, auu at the. snme
trme 111 the body wlth those :vho are in the world. And it is
further to be kno'\vu, that I d1d not sec tho~e with \Vhom I dis-
coursed in the ot~eF life, wi~h the eyes of my body, but with
the eyes of my sp1nt, and still as clearly, and sometimes more
CLAIRVOYANCE. 131
clearly than with the eyes of my bocly, for, by the divine
mercy of the Lord, the things ·which are of my spirit have been
opencc.l.
" But I am aware trhat the things which have been hereto-
fore said, will not be believeu by those 'vho are immersed in
corporeal, terrestial, and 'vorldly things, that is, by such of
them as hol<l those things for an end, for these have no ap-
prehension of other things than those which are dissipated by
death. I am aware also, that neither will they believe, ·who
have thought and inquired much about the soul, and have
not at the same time comprehended that the soul is man's
spirit, and that his spirit is Iris very man 'vhich lives in the
body. For these cannot conceive any other notion about the
soul, than that it is something cogitative, or ftamy, or ethere-
al, which only nets into the organic forms of the l.Jody, and not
into the purer forms '~hich are ofits spirit in the body, and thus
such that it is dissipated 'vith the body; ancl this is especial-
ly the case with those, who have confirmed themselves in
such notions by views puffed up by the persuasion of their
own superior wisdom."-A. C. 4622.
"The divine omnipresence 1nay be illustrated by the won-
derful presence of angels and spirits in the spiritual \Vorld.
In this ·world, because there is no space, but only an appear-
ance of space, an angel or a spirit may, in a moment, become
present to another, provided he comes into a similar affection
of love, and thence thought, for these t,t·o make the appear-
ance of space. That such is the presence of all there, was
manifest to 1ne from this, that I could see Africans and Indians
there very near me, although they are so many miles dis-
tant upon earth; nay, that I could become present to those
who are in other planets of this system, and also to those
w·ho are in the planets in other systen1s, out of this solar sys-
tem. By virtue of this presence, not of place, but of the ap-
pearance of place, I have conversed with apostles, deceased
popes, emperors and kings; with the founclers of the present
church, Luther, Calvin, 11elancthon ; and with others from dis-
tant countries. Since such is the presence ofangels and spi-
rits, what limits can be set to the Divine presence in the uni-
verse, which is infinite! The reason that angels and spirits
have such presence, is, because every affection of love, and
thence every thought of the understanding, is in space with-
out space, and in time without time; for any one can think
of a brother, relation or friend in the Indies, and then have
him, as it were, present to him; in like manner, he may be
affectecl with their love by recollection. By these things, be-
cause they are familiar to every one, the divine omnipresence
I
132 liiES:\fER AND SWEDEXDORO.
1nay, in some degree. be illu~1 rated ~ nn,l also hy human
thonghts, as, when any one recalls to hi-. rememhrn n_cc wh~t
he has seen npon a jonrncr in various pla<·es, he ~~~ as lt
\vere. pr~ent at those places. Nay, ~tc sight of tlt~ boc!y
emulates tlmt same preseuce; the eye docs 1.tat pcrc~n·e dIS-
tauces, except by intermc~liat~ obJects, wluch, as 1t 'vcrc,
measum the111. The s1m 1tself w·ould be uear the eye, nay,
iu the eye, 11nlc-:;s intermediate ol.Jjects discoverccl that it is ~o
distant: that it 1s so, writers on optics have nl::;o observed lll
their books. ~uch presence ltas each sight of man, both in-
tellectual and corporeal, because his spirit sees through his
eyes."-T. C. R. 6-1.
"\Vith these citations before us, ·what doubt can pos~ibly re-
main, that Swetlenhorg has developeJ the rationale of the
manifestations of wllich we .arc now treating? Is not the
parallelism as obvious as the facts ? and are not the facta sus-
tained by co1npetcnt testimony ? Onr appeal, however, is to
those 'vho achnit the facts, and to all such we propose the
query, whether the evidence is not conclusive, that s,veden-
borg has penetrated the n1ystcry of these startling phenom-
ena ? Has he not lifted the curtain and exposed to vievv the
spirituallnachineTy, so to speak, upon ,~;hich these Inarve1-
lous res11lts depend ? Here are adequate causes assigned for
obvious elfectcs, and what is the ground, we aP-k, on which
Swedenborg is to be written a dreaming visiown·u, merely for
affirming a psychology which completely solves the problems
of experience? Surely, if we behold in l\iesmerism phenom-
ena which irresistibly refer them8elves to a spiritual 'vorld-
if we aumit that such a world exists-if the 111ind of man
'vere while sojourning in the body, is really a cJcnizen of that
\Vorld-thcn 've feel at liberty to clailn that Swedenborg has
been aunlitted into it, and has laid open its hidden laws.
How could such a claim be substantiated otherwise than by
the very evidence which is set before our eyes, to wit, the
accortlance of known facts ,\·ith the asserted law?
"\Ve may here utlvert to another phase of the Mesmeric
marvels of a similar character to the preceding. It is lu10wn
that clairvoyant subjects are sometin1es scut on an ideal ex-
cursion to the moon or to the various planets of the system.
As to the accuracy of their reports we have nothing to say,
CLAIRVOYANCE. 133
for we have no doubt that, owing to causes 'vhich Sweden-
,borg has also unfolded, there is frequently a large admixture
of the fanciful and the illusive in the impressions received by
Mesmeric subjects. This circumstance, however, does not
countervail the equally clear evidence of truth in regard to
many of their statements, and in the present case we have to
do with the simple possibility of the thing itself. Does the
clairvoyant state enable one to visit mentally the distant re-
gions of the universe ? It is not, perhaps, easy to limit the
capability disclosed in the foregoing extracts. If mind or
spirit really rises superior to all relation to space-if the sole
condition of being present to another person in any part of
the globe be the wzsh to that effect-then \Ve may doubtless
conceive that by the same la\v one may be transported, so
to speak, to the remotest botmds of creation. On this sub-
ject Swedenborg speaks as follows :
" They who are in heaven can discourse and converse
with angels and spirits~ who are not only from the earths in
this solar system, but also from other earths in the universe
out of this system; and not only with the spirits and angels
there, bnt also with the inhauitaut.s them~elve::;, o11ly, how-
ever, \Vith those whose interiors are open, so that they can
hear snell as speak from heaven: the same is the case with
1nan, during his abode in the \Vorld, to ·whom it has been
given of the Lord to discourse \Vith spirits and angels; for
man is a spirit as to his interiors, the body which he carries
about in the world only serving him for the performing func.
tions in this natural or terrestrial sphere, whieh is the ultimate
of all spl1eres. But it is given to no one to discourse as a spi-
rit \vith angels and spirits, unleas he be such thathe can con-
sociate \Vith angels as to faith and lm:e; nor can he so con·
sociate, unless he have faith. and love to the Lord, for man
is joineu to the Lord by faith and love to him, that is by
truths of doctrine and good priuciples of life derived from
him; and when he Ls joined to the Lord, he is secure from
the assaults of evil spirits from he11 : with others the interi-
ors cannot be so far opened, since they are not in the Lord.
This is the reason why there are few at this day, to whom
it is given to speak and converse with angels ; a manifest
proof whereof is, that the existence of spirits and angels is
scarce believed at this day, 1nuch le:=-s that they are attend-
ant on every man, and that by them man has co1mection
with heaven, and by heaven with the Lord; still less is it
1
134 MESMER AND S\\I:DENDORO.
believed, that mnn, when he dies as to the body, lives a spi-
rit, even jn a human form as before.
"Ina.;.:much a there are many at this day in the church
who have 110 faith conceruiug a life after death, and.c;.carce
any conceruing hem en, or concerning ~he J~ord as hem~ !he
God of heaven and earth, therefore the mtenors appertammg
to tny ~pirit arc open hy the Lord, so that 1 am en~~l>led, dnr-
ing- my abode in the Lody, to h~ve comm~rce w1th the an-
gels in heaven, nnd not only to discourse w1th them, lmt a.l:-o
to ~ee the a.-,touishing things of their kingelom, and to df'~~nbc
the ~ame, in order to check from henceforth the cavds of
those who urge, 'Did ever any one come f~·om hcayeu nnd
assure us that such a place exists, and acquamt us w1th wh~t
is doin" there?' Nevertheless I an1 aware, that they whom
hcnrt h~vc heretofore denied a heaven and a hell, and a life
afLer death, will even still continue in the obstiuaey of uuue-
lief and denial; for it is en:::;ier to 1nake a ravc11 white, than
to make tlw~e Lelicve, \Yho have once in heart rejected faith;
the rea~ou is. because such persons always thiuk nbout mat-
ters of faith from a negative principle, and not from an affir-
mative. ~lay the things, however, which have been hither-
to declared, and \Yhich we haye further to declare, conccrn-
in9 angels and spirits, be for the use of those few who are
pnnciplcd iu faith! whil~t it is permitted, in order to bring
others to somewhat of ackno~wledgment, tu n.:lal<! such par-
ticulars, as delight and engage the attention of per:::.ons desi-
rous of knowledge; for which purpose we shall now pro-
ceed to give an acc.:ount of the earths in the starry heaven.,
-Earths in. the Universe, p. 123-124.
"I was led by angqls from the Lord to a certain earth in
the starry heaven,'\ here it was given to tal\e a view of the ,
earth itself, yet not to speak with the inhabitants, but with
spirits who ramc from thence (for all the iuhabitants or men
of every earth, after.fini~hing their course of life in the world
become spidts, and remain near their own earth) : from thes~
howeve! 1 received informati?n co~1cerning the earth, and
concernmg the state of the inhabltams thereof; for men,
';·hen they lea~·e the body, carry \vith them n11 their former
hfe, and all then memory. To be led to eartlts in the uni-
ver;::e, b not to ?~ led and tra~~la~ed thither as to the body,
but as to .the ~putt! and t~e sp1nt IS led by Yariatious of the
state of mtenor hfe, whtch appear to it as progressions
tbrougl! spaces. A.pproaches, or near advauecntelltS, are
abo eiicctcd accorclwg to agreements or re~emblaut;cs of
~tate~ of life, for ag!cement or re~eml:lallce produce~ con-
JWlCtlon, ·whereas diSagreement and dJ.Ssimilitude produces
CLAIRVOYANCE. 13!5
disjunction. Hence it may appear ho'v translation is effect-
ed as to the spirit, and its approach or near advancement to
things remote, whilst the man still remains in his own place.
But to lead a spirit, by variations of the state of its interiors,
out of its own orb, and to canse the variations successively
to advance even to a state agreeing with or like to those to
whom it is led, is in the power of the Lord alone; for there
must be a continual direction and foresight from first to last,
both in advancingand returning back again; especially when
the translation is to be effected with a man, who is still, as to
the body, in the natural world, and thereby in space. That
such a translation has been effected, will appear incredible to
those who are immersed in the sensual corporeal life, and
whose thoughts originate in sensual corporeal things, nor
can they be induced to believe it; the reason is, because the
sensual corporeal life cannot conceive of progression "vith-
out space; but they who think from the sensual principle of
their spirit, some"·hat removed or withdra,vn from the sen-
sual principle of the body, consequently who think from an
interior principle in themselves, may be induced to believe
and to conceive it, since in the idea of interior thought there
is neither space nor time, but instead thereof the original
priuciples whence spaces and times had birth. For the use
of these latter the following account is written respecting the
earths in the stany heaven, and not for the former, (viz. such
as are immersed in the sensual corporeal life,) unless they
be in a state to suffer themselves to be instructed.''- E. U.
127.
"Those who are in heaven can discourse and converse
with angels and spirits, 'vho are not only from the earths in
this so]ar system, but also with those who are from earths in
the universe out of this system ; and not on1y with spjrits
and angels thence, but also with the inhabitants themselves
whose interiors have been opened, so as to be ab]e to hear
those who speak from heaven. A similar privilege is grant-
ed to tnan, during his life in the "vorld, to whom it has been
given by the Lord to discourse ·with .spirits and atJgels, for
man is a spirit and angel as to his interiors, the lJody wh1ch
he carries about with him in the world serving him only for
functions in this natural or terrestrial sphere, which is the ul-
timate. But it is given to no one as a spirit and ar1gel .to
.fpeak with angels and spirits, unless he be of such a quahty
that he can consociate with them as to faith and love ; nor
can he consociate unless the faith be directed to the fjord and
th~love to the Lord, inasmuch as man ?Y f~ith ~ ~i1n, thus
l>y truths of doctrine, and by,. love to Hun, 1s conJomed, and
136 MESMER AND SWEDEN:OORO.
when he is conjoined to Him, he is secure froiD: the .insult of
evil spirits who arc from hell. \Vith others the mtenors can-
1 ut be opened at all, for they are _not iu the Lord: .Th}s is
the reason why there are few at tlus day, to whmn 1t 1s grven
to discourse and converse '\vith angels; a 1nanifest lHOof of
which circumstance is, that it is scarcely believed at this day
that spirits and angels n.re, still less that they are a!teud~ut
upon every man, and that by them man hath connexwn Wlth
} 1eavcn and through heaven 'vith the Lord; and that it is
st1ll Jes; believed that man when he dies as to the body, lives
a spirit, also in a human form as before."-A. C. 9438.
"The reason 1nay indeed be declared why going,jom11ey-
inrr, and sojonrning have such significations, but that reason
is ~uch, that it can hardly be recejved by those 'vho do not
know bow the case is with motions in the other life. l\lo-
tions there and progressions, are nothing else, because from
no other source, than changes of state of the hfe, which
changes appear in externals altogether as progressions from
place to place: that this is so, 1nay be confirmed from much
experience in the other life; for l have walked there in spi-
rit with the inhabitants, and among them, through several of
their abodes, and tlns notwHhstanding I had remained in the
same place as to the body. I have also di~coursed with
them as to how this conlu be, and have been inbtrncted, that
there are changes of the state of the life, which canse pro-
gressions iu the spiritual world ; which was also confirmed
by this, that spirits, by changes induced in the state, can be
presenteu on high, and in a n1oment in the deep, also far
'vestt\·ard, and in a moment eastward, and so forth. But, as
·was said, this cannot fail to appear strange to him, who
knows nothing concerning life in the spiritual \vorld ; for in
that worlu there are not spaces, nor times, but instead of them
states of the life; these states in externals produce an appear-
ance altogether living of progressions and of motions ; tllis
appearance is as living and real as is the appearance of life
itself, ~amely, that life is in .us, and thus. ours, when yet it
flows 111 from the Lord, who 1s the fouutam whence comes
the all of life."-A. C. 5605.
" All progressions in th~ sp.iritual '\vorld are made by
ch..wges of the state of the mtenors, so that prorrrcssions are
nothing else than changes of state: thus also
0
l have heeh
conducted by the Lord into the heavens, and llke·wise to the
earths in the universe, and this as to the spirit while the
body remaineu in the same place. Thus all the an'rrels 1nove.
hence to them there are no distances, and if the~e are not
CLAIRVOYANCE. 137
distances, neither are there spaces, but instead of them states
and their changes."-H. fr H. 192.
The absolute truth of the revelations made in this depart..
ment cannot, of course, except in the case of Swedenborg,
be the ground of much confidence. As to him, we rest in
the assurance of his reliability, because he has clearly de-
veloped the law which ascertains the possibility of the fact,
and because he has given so much evidence of truthfulness
in other respects. As to others, we confide in their reports
only so far as they agree with his. As a general fact, how.
ever, 've deem their statements of little value, frmn the cir-
cumstance that we are convinced their state is one which
renders them liable to numberless involuntary delusions from
sources which Swedenborg has fully disclosed.
On the ·whole it must, we think, be admitted, that the
phenomena of l\1esmerism, taken in conjunction with the de-
velopments of Swedenborg, open a new chapter in the phi·
losophy of mind and in man's relation to a higher sphere.
It would seem that the veil was about being removed which
has hitherto shrouded in darkness the deep arcana of the
spirit-world. We awake with amazement to the conviction
that ·what have hitherto been regarded as the wildest vaga-
ries of a disordered fancy are in fact assuming the character
of the most profound psychological truths. .But what are
these disclosures, sublime as they are, compared with the an-
nouncements ofthis enlightened seerrelative to the greatmoral
doctrines which he has promulgated from the same sphere,
and which take hold at once of the psychological nature, the
most sacred duties, and the eternal destiny of man! Nothing
that we have thus far brought to view in the foregoing ex-
tracts can give the reader any adequate idea of the magnifi-
cent system of moral truth embodied in· his writings. We
can only say of it that it is quite as far in advance of the the-
ology, as it is of the philosophy, of the world, and n1ore it
would not be easy to say. Yet we say this 'veil a·ware that
the same causes which have hitherto prevented, and 'vill
probably still prevent, except to a limited extent, the admis-
sion of the truth of the philosophy, 'vill doubtless operate,
138 MESMER AND SWEDENDORO.
for some time to come, to preYent the reco~nition of the truth
of the theology. lt is not only in too oln ions antaq-onism
·with the favorite uoO'mas of the church, but it is too pure,
0
too holy, too heavenly-it makes too unco1npromising de-
demands upon life-it discovers heaven and hell .in too close
proximity \vith the human heart in its ruling loves-to allow
the hope of its general reception till the movements of the
Divine Providence have wrought stupendous changes in the
state of the general mind of Christenilom. The reign of an
overspreading sensualism must first be shaken to its centre,
before the plea of a spiritual philosophy can gain a hearing
But it '\Vould prove us recreant to the solemn interests of
Truth did 've permit ourselves to despair of its final triumphs.
It will eventually come with resistless rebuke to all the falsi-
ties ·which have opposed its progress and laden with abun-
dance of blessing to its humble and hearty recipients.
---------------------------
CHAPTER VII.
MAGNETIC HEARING.
T.uE condition ofall the senses is materially affected by the
J\Iagnetic process. The results connected with vision are
perhaps the most remarkable and astounding, but the })he-
nomena developed in regaril to the auditory functions in that
state are very striking. As a general fact, the subject be-
comes insensible to any sound except that of the voice of
the magnetizer or of the party in communication. Hzs slight-
est tones are audible, and even his ·whisper, and tlmt too
from a distance at which it could not be heard in his wak-
ing state. AIL attempts by others to awaken him-even
the loudest shoutings or the report of a pistol clo~e by the
ear-have for the 1nost part no effect. Yet a single word
from the operator will often suffice to break the spell of som-
MAGNETIC liEARJl(G. 189
nolence and restore the sleeper to his u~aking consciousness.
Ca~cs indeed occasionally occur in which the state of mag-
netic isolation is so complete, that even the word of the op-
erator himselffails to be heard, and when all intercourse is as
effectually precluded with him as with others. But as a gen-
eral fact, there is no impediment to the most free aud familiar
converse with the individual, whether the magnetizer or an-
other, \Vith whom the subject is in communication, ·while (o
others the organ of hearing seems to be hermetically sealed.
Yet it is obvious that the effect produced by the percussion
of the air on the tympanum of the ear is the same in the case
of those \vith whom he is not in communication as of those
with whom he is. Yet the one is heard while the other is not.
"Uponfirst passing into the mesmeric state,Theodore seem-
ed absolutely insensible t~ every other than the mesmerizer's
voice. Some ofour party \vent close to him and shouted his
name, but he gave no tokens of hearing us until J.\.1r. K--,
taking our hands, made us touch those of Theodore and his
own at the same time. This he called putting us 'en rapport'
with the patient. After this Theodore seemed to hear our
voices equally with that of the mesmerizer, but by no means
to pay an equal attention to them."-Townshend, p. 57.
"Even after having been placed 'en rapport' \vith all pre-
sent, the patient seemed incapable ofhearing any voice but
mine, unless the per.son who spoke were in actual contact
'vith me and with hen•elf at the same time. On one occa-
sion, 'vhen I was asking her if she knew what some obJect
\vas that I held before her, her father told her very loudly
that it was a \vine-glass (which it actually \Vas), but the pa- ·
tient did not profit by the intelligence; for, on being again
questioned, she said impatiently, 'I do not know; I cannot
tell.' Her name, shouted closed to her ear by different mem-
bers of her family, seemed to make no impression whatever
upon her organs £>f hearing; while, on the contrary, she at-
tended to the slightest \vord that I addressed to her."-Town-
shend, p. 77.
" In proportion as persons sink deeper into mesmeric sleep-
\Vaking, their external senses seem blunted, one by one, and
so far there is certainly a relation between the mesmeric and
the natural sleep. The eye, as we have seen, yields, first to
the slumbrous influence. Long after this organ has ceased to
act, the hearing retains all its acuteness, and the sleepwaker
140 1\II:S.MER AND S\VEDENBORG.
is able to indicate what sounds are going on around; but at
lenath the 'porches of the c:n' are closed ns ,1;·cl1 as the' cur-
!aiu of the eye,' anu the patient, though still ali\1
~ to, feeli_ng7
IS dead to every sound save that of the mcsmcnzer ~ vo1ce.
1 have pron:?d this times innmnerable; so frequently_, mdecd,
that is better to give the general I"esults of the expenments I
haYe witnessed than to stale one in particular. Often have
the n1embcrs of my family, or visiters, 'vho, perhaps, 'vere
but little inclined to believe in Mesmerism, tr1ed to awal~en
~la<lcmoiselle n.r--, or to startle her by sudden noises.
Logs of woou have been dashed agauJst the floor: plates
haYc been suddenly broken; her name has been shouted out
close to her ear, in vain. Other persons present have shown
that they were startled, but not the sleep,vaker. Once or
twice, imleed, on such occnsions, "\v~hen asked if she heard
anything, she has replied, 'No, I heard nothing; but I thought,
just now, something pushed against my chair;' a 1node of
expression which deserves to be remarked, as analogous to
that used by deaf persons to describe the sensations given
them by the concussion of the air producedby great sounds.'>
-TowHshend~P· 102.
"The scientific person to 'vhom I have once before alluded,
and whose testimony is valuable, inasmuch as his habits of
mind led him ever to separate illusion from truth, assured
me, when in the mesmeric state, that he could hearno sound
·whatever except my voice. I made another person speak
who \vas in the room on that occasion, and the sleepwaker
was una"·are that anything had been said.
"Another patient (E. A--, to \vhom I shall have occa-
sion to allnde hereafter) said, when I was singing, 'You
should a~k 1\Ir. V--' (a musician who was 1n the room) 'to
accmnpany you.' I did so; but, though :Mr. V-- made a
loud accompaniment to my voice, E. A. kept calling out,
'\Vhy does he not play?' "-Townslzend, p. 104.
The facts thus reported \ve venture to deem unquestiona-
ble, especially as they may easily be confirmed by scores of
similar cases, afforded by the experience of all who are fa-
miliar with the l\Iagnetic phenomena. Ho\V are they to be
accounted for? "\Ve submit that the effects refer us to the
laws of the spiritual sphere for a development of the cause,
and that no other solution than that ·which Swedenborg has
given is adequate.
" Ideas, inasmuch as they are expressions of speech, are
MAGNETIC HEARING. 141
sonorous among spirits and angels, hence the_tacit thought of
1nen is audible to spirits and angels, when 1t so pleases the
Lord."-A.. C. 6624.
" The speech of an angel or a spirit with man is heard as
sonorously as the speech of a man with a man; yet it is not
heard by others who stand near, but by hirnse_l~ alone ; the
reason is, because the speech of an angel or sp1nt flows first
into the man's thought, and by an internal way into his organ
of hearing, and thus moves that from within; but the speech
of man with man flows .first into the air, and by an external
·way into his organ of hearing, and moves it from without.
Hence it is evident that the speech of an angel and of a spirit
with man is heard in man, and, because it equally moves the
organs of hearing, that it is also equally sonorous. That the
speech of an angel and of a spilit flows down even into the
ear from within, was evident to me from this, that it also
flows into the tongue, and excites in it a slight vibration, but
not with any motion, as when the sound. of speech is articu-
lated by it into words by the man himself."-H. ~·H. 248.
The latter of the above extracts speaks indeed of the vocal
communication of angels and spirits with man while sojourn-
ing in the body, but it still illustrates the point before us, viz.
the moue of hearing in the Mesmeric state; for as a spiritual
sensation is developed in the subject, the utterance of the out-
er man, by means ofthe vocal organs, is us really heard as the
speech of the inner man, ·which is, in a great degree, inde-
pendent of audible sounds. vVe say-in a great degree-be-
cause it is unquestionable that the accompaniment of the
speaker's voice does in some way essentially aid the inner
hearing of the subject, although the idea is cornmmlicable
without it.
"\Vhat is the nature of the correspondence between the
sou] and the body, or between those things which are of the
spirit Vlhich is ·within man, and those which are of the body
which are out of him, may appear manifestly from the cor-
respondence, influx, and communication of the thought and
apperceptiou which are of the spirit, with the speech and
hearing which are of the body. The thought of a man speak-
ing is nothing but the speech of his spirit, and the appercep-
tion of speech is nothing but the hearing of his spirit;
thought, when man speaks, does not indeed appear to him
as speech, because it conjoins itself with the speech of the
7*
142 MJ:SMER AND S\VEDENBORO.
body, and is in it; and apperception, 'vhen man hears, do~s
not appear othen\·ise thau as heariug in the ear. Thence 1t
is, that most people, who have uot reflected, do ~ot ltnow
otherw·ise, than that all sense is in the organs '\ lnch are of
the body, and consequently that '"hen. those organs fall to
decay by Jeath, nothing of se~1se st~n·!Ye?, when y~t m~n,
that is, his spirit, then comes mto his venes~ sens1ttve hfe.
That it is the spirit which speaks. and "YhlCh. }~ears, w~s
made manifest to me from com·ersatwns wlth sptnts. The1r
speech, conununicated to 1ny spirit, fell into my interior
speech, and thence iuto the corresponding orga~1s, and t~ere
terminated in an effort closed into a conatus, wh1ch occas!Oll-
ally I have manifestly perceived. Hence their speech was
heard by me as souoronsly as the speech of man. At times,
'vheu spirits have spokeu w1th me in the midst of a compa-
ny of men, some of them have supposed, because their
speech 'vas heard so souorously, that they would be heard
also by those who 'vere there present; but reply was 1nade,
that it is not so, inasmuch as their speech flowed into my ear
by an internal way, and human speech by an external way.
Heuce it is evident, how the Spirit spake with the prophets,
not as man with man, but as a spirit 'vith a man, namely,
in him, Zechariah i. 9, 13; chap. ii. 2, 7; chap. iv. 1, 4, 5;
chap. v. 5, J0; chap. vi. 4; and in other places. But I lwow
that these things cannot be eomprehended hy those, "vho do
not believe that man is a spirit, and that the body serves him
for uses in the world; they who have confirmed themselves
in this, are not indeed 'villing to hear of any correspondence,
and if they hear, inasmuch as they are in the negative prin-
~iple, they reject ; yea, they are also made sad that anything
IS taken away from the l>ody."-A. C. 4652.
"It is kno'vn from the vVord of the Lord, that many per-
sons formerly conversed with angels and spirits, and that
t~1ey heard and saw many things which exist in the other
hfe; but that afterwards heaven was as it were shut up, in.
somuch that at this day it is scarcely believed that spirits and
angels e~ist, still less that any one can converse with them,
from an 1dea that it is iinpossible to converse with those who
are invisible, and whom in their heart they deny. But where.
. as, l>y the divine mercy of the Lord, it has been granted me
now for some years almost continually to hol<.l discourse
"'rith spirits and angels, and to be in their company as one of
them, it is permitted me to relate what it has been given me
to know concerning their speech among themselves.
~'The sp~ee:h of the spirits with me, was heanl and per.
c~1ved as dtstmctly as the speech of men; nay, when I have
d1scoursed with them whilst in company with men, it was
...
MAGNETIO HEARDlG. 143
observed, that as I heard the men sonorously, so I heard also
the spirits ; insomuch that the sptrits sometimes wondered
that the1r discourse with me \Vas not hcarJ. by others; for,
as to hearing, there was no difference at all. But as the in-
p.nx into the internal organs of hearing is different from the
Influx of speech with men, it could be heard by none but
myself, to whom these organs, by the divine mercy of the
Lord, were open. Human speech flows in through the ear, by
an external way, by the medium of the air; whereas the
speech of spirits does not enter through the ear, nor by the
meJ.ium of the air, but by an internal way, into the same or-
gans of the head or brain: hence the hearing is similar."-
A. C. 163-1-1635.
"The speaking of spirits with man, as has been stated
above, is effected by vocal expressions : but the speaking of
spirits with each other is by ideas, \Vherein vocal expres-
sions originate, such as are the ideas of thought: these, how-
ever, are not so obscure as are those of man during his life
in the body, but are clistinct, after the manner of speech. Hu-
man thought, after the decease of the body, becomes more
distinct and clear, and the ideas of thought become discrete,
so as to serve for distinct forms of speech: for the obscurity is
dissipated with the body, and thus the thought, being freed
as it were from the shackles with which it was encumbered,
consequently, from the shadows in which it was involved,
becomes more instantaneous; and hence the intuition, per-
ception, and utterance, of every particular is rendered more
immediate."-A. C. 1757.
Commentary is scarcely needed upon the above elucida-
tions. The evidence is decisive that Swedenborg has given
au expose of the law of spiritual acoustics which applies
directly and unequivocally to the corresponding peculiarities
of the magnetic condition. It is but another item in his ac-
cumulation of proofs that the all of sensation (excepting taste)
which man enjoys here he enjoys also in the other ·world,
only in a more exquisite degree, as pertaining to the more
interior principles of his nature. It adds also another link in
the chain of evidence which goes to establish the marked
affinity between the internal state of a mesmerized subject
aucl that of a spirit free fron1 the bondage of the body.
\Vhat can be more palpable than the points of resemblance
between the phenomena of hearing in the two cases ?
144 MESMER AND SWEDENBORGl.
CHAPTER VIII.
REPUGNANCE TO NillES.
TrrE peculiarity indicated by the title of the present chap-
ter is one which seldom fails to manifest itself more or less
to all those who are conYersnnt ·with the lVIesmeric pheno-
mena. It is often a perplexing problem why the subject,
when in that state, and attempting the description of the
commonest material objects, should not at ouce designate
them by their appropriate name, instead of describing them
by their qualities or uses, which he is almost invariably
prompted to do. If the operator holds in his hand a watch
and asks his subject ·what it is, be will be very a1)t to reply
that iL is somethiug by which to tell the time-of a staff, that
it is something to 'valk with-of a knife, that it is somethil1g
to cut with-of a garment, that it is something to 'vear, and
so of a tltousand other dungs. Those ·who have entered but
Little into the })hilosophy of the magnetic condition are fre-
quently stumbled by this circ1lmstance, being utterly at a loss
to comprchencl why it is not as easy to name as to perceive
the object in question. The consequence is, that many are
led to cJoubt of the fact of the perception at all, and resolve
the nmtter into a species of evasion on the part of the sub-
ject. But the truth is, the peculiarity rests on some of the
profoundest priuciples of psychology which receive an abun-
dant eclaircisement at the hands of 8\,~edenborg. 'Ve should
have much 1nore reason to doubt the reaHty and. lucidity of
their internal perception were the case otherwise than it is.
The state developed by :Mesmerism is one which brings the
subjeet into contact with the soul and essences of things, or in
other words into the sphere of unit.'ersal cames. As all sensible
objects are a mere body to the internal living prjnciple which
actuates and moulds tL.e1n, so the names by which they are
designated are mere outward co,·erings that fall off, as it
were, when their inner essence and constitution is revealed,
REPUGNANCE TO NAMES. 14!S
as it is to the faculty interiorly awakened in the spil·it of the
sleep-seer. It is then, as I have been itlformed by a very
intelligent subject of that state, positively painful to endeavor
to clothe the ideas in what, in the natural state, ·would be
their appropriate language. Not only have they an unac-
countable repugnance to employ the proper terms when they
occur to them, but often they do not occur-they cannotfind
thmn-they have strangely disappeared from the memory.
They have accordingly in many cases a strong disposition to
make use of gestures to convey their meaning, and in others
to resort to such round-about modes of phraseology as make
their answers appear like guessing, as if they were but half
certain of ·what they intended to express.
The rationale of all this is very luminously expounded by
Swedenborg in two grand features of his disclosures, the one
touching the principle of spirit·ual thought, the other that of
the external memory. He informs us that man is ordinarily,
in the present world, in natural thought, which is a thought
conversant with natural objects, and that the objects of this
thought are also the objects which form thP. materiel of the
external memory. But there is notwithstandil1g in every man
an innate potency of the waking up of a principle of spiritual
thought, which has respect to entirely another class of ob-
jects, and \vith which the internal memory is more especially
connected. This faculty is not normally developed in the
present life, but every one con1es into the exercise of it in
the other life, where the objects with '\Vhich he is conversant
are no longer natural but spiritual. In that state also the ex-
ternal memory, though not extinguished, is rendered dor-
mant; and though its contents may be occasionally repro-
duce~, and the soul let in to any former state of which it has
ever been conscious, yet this is not according to the estab-
lished order of that world.*
* The following is mentioned as an exception to a general rnle:
"That men after death, tltat is, spirit-., lo~e not the smallest portion
of the Lhings pertaining to their exterior or corporeal memory, but
have all the contents of it, or all the memory wtth them, allbough
it is not allowable to u.ting forth thence the particulars of their life,
146 MESMER A~D SWEDJ:NBORO.
The following pa~sages disclose the facts of the spiritual
condition of the other hfe ; their bearing upon the preseut
theme '\Vill shortly appear.
"J\.Ian, \Vhilc he lives in the body, can sca:cel~ know that
he has an interior memory, because then the mtenor memory
almost acts as one with the exterior memory for the ideas o(
thonll'ht, ,vhich are of the interior memory, fio,:v into the
thinll'
0
S which are of the exterior 1nemory, as into their ves-
sels,0and are there conjoined. This case is ~h~ same as \\·~en
angels and c;pirits speak with man; the.n the1r 1deas, by.wh1ch
thev converse with each other, flow mto the expressiOns of
man'c:. lan~uage, and SO conjoin themselves \Vith these, th.at
they know no otherwise than that they themselves speak m
man's mother tongue, whe11 yet the ideas alone are theirs,
and the expressions into which they flow, are 1nan's, con-
cernmg which circumstance I have frequently d1scoursed
with spirits.
"These two memories are altogether distinct from each
other; to the exterior memory, '\:Vhtch is proper to man ·when
he lives in the \vorld, pertain all expressions of languages,
also all objects of the external things of the senses, and like-
wise the scientifics 'Which are of the world. To the interior
memory pertain the ideas of the speech of spirits, \Vhich are
of the interior sight, and all rational things, from the ideas
whereof thought itself exists. That these things are distinct
from each other, man does not know, as well because he
does not reflect thereupon, as because he is in corporeals,
and cannot so easily withdraw his mind from them.
"lienee it is that men, '\vhile they live in tbe body, cannot
speak with each other, but by languages distinguished into
articulate sounds, or expressions, and cannot understand each
other, unless they are acquainted with those languagea; the
reason is, because this is done fro1n the exterior memory.
Whereas spirits converse with each other by au universal
langnage distinguished into ideas, such as are the i<leas of
thought itself, and thus can converse with every spirit, of
ha.s been given me to kn~w by m~ch experience; as may appear
ev1<.lcnt from the. fo~lo~ng relat10ns. Two spirits, whom I had
known dunng theu hfe m The body, ancl who were at enmity '\\ith
each other, met together, when I heard one describing the genius
and character of the othQr with many circtuustanccs, also what
opinion. he had ~ad conc~rning him, reciting an entire epistle
wh!ch he had wr~tten to han, and many more tbiugs in a series
wh.teh were partJcular, and were of. lhe exterior memory, and
whteh the other acknowledged, but WJthont making any reply."-
A,. c. 24-81.
REPUGNANCE TO NAMES. 147
whatever language or nation he had been in the \vorld; the
reason is, because this is done from the interior memory.
£\•cry man, immediately after death, comes into this uniYer-
sal language, becanse he comes into this interior memory,
which, as was said, is proper to his spirit."-A. C. 2470-
2·172.
" The external or natural memory, as to those things there-
in which are deri,·ed from what is matenal, and from time
and space, and from all other things wh1ch are proper to
nature, does not serve the spirit for that use in which it had
sen·ed it m the \t"orld; for man in the world, ,,-hen he thought
from the external sensual, and not at the same time from the
internal sensual, or the intellectual, thought naturally and not
spiritually; yet in the other life, when the spirit is in the spi-
ritual world, he does not think naturally, but spiritually ; to
~hink spiritually is to think intellectually or rationally. Hence
1t 1s, that the external or natural memory, as to those things
which are material, is then quiescent, and those things only
come into use \vhich man has in the world imbibed by means
of material things, and has made rational. The reason why
the external memory is quiescent as to those things which
are material, is, because they cannot be reproduced: for spi-
rits and angels speak from affections and thence thoughts."-
JL ~· II. 464.
"Inasmuch as men after death are in the interior memory,
'vhich was of their rational, hence it is, that they who have
been distinguished in the ''--orld for their skill in languages,
are not able to call forth into utterance a single expression of
those languages; and that they who have been distinguished
for skill in the sciences, are not able to recollect anything of
scientlfics, and that these are sometimes more stupid than
others.-A.. C. 2480.
\Vhat light, then, is reflected from these statements on the
circumstance to which we have alluded as usually connected
'vith the :\fes1neric manife,tations? The entire mass of evi-
dence accumulated in the preceding pages goes to shm.v,
that the subjects of that state are elevated in a very conside-
rable degree into a spiritual state, that is, into the state of ~pi­
rits. Consequently the fixed phenomena of the spiritual world
evince themselves more or less distinctly in the experience
to which the state gives rise. In respectto the peculiarity \Ve
are now considering, there can be no :doubt that the person
•
148 MESMER AND SWEDENBORO.
w1der the macrnetic influence is elev-ated so far into the sp i-
o
ritual region, that his thought uecomcs at least partial1y spi-
ritual, and the consequence is that his externaltnc1nory cea-
ses, in the same degree, to furnish the materials for express-
ing natural thought. How then can he but forego the use of
those terms with which he is familiar in a natural state ? It
is the prerogative of this spiritual state to deal with ~piritual
objects, and these objects are the inner essences of all mote-
rial embodiments.* Their perceptions fix upon the inherent
qualities, properties, amluses of the thousand-fold objects of
the material worl<l, for these are the causes of everything that
comes within the range of the senses in the natural sphere.
The philosophy of this-and a strange philosophy it will
be seen to be to have emanated from a 1nadman-will be
distinctly seen in what follows.
* "That nothing exists in nature but from a spiritual principle
is, because there cannot anything be given, unless it has a soul;
all that is called soul ,,,rhich is essence, for what has not in it~elf
an essence, this docs not exist, for it is a nonenity, because there is
no esse from which it is; thus it is with nature; its essence from
which it exists is the spiritual principle, because this hus in itself
the divine esse, and alw the divine power of acting, creating, and
forming, as will be seen from what follows: this essence may also
be called soul: because all that is spiritual lives, and what is alive,
when it acts into what is not altve, as into what is natural, causes
it either to have as 1t were life, or to derive somewhat of the ap-
pearance thereof from the living principle: the latter [is the case]
in vegetables, the former in animals. That nothing in nature ex·
i:.ts but from what is spintual, is because no etlect is given without
a cause, whatever exists in effect is from a cause; what is not
from a cause, is separated; thus it is with nature ; the singular
and most singular things thereof are au effect from a canse which
is prior to it, and which is interior to it, and which is superior to
it, and also is immediately from God; for a spiritual world is giv-
en, that world is pnor, interior, and superior to the natural world,
wherefore everything of the spidtual ,-.·orld is a cause and every-
thing of the namral ~orld is an _effect. Inueed one thing exists
from another prog~e~stvely even 1n tlle natural world, but this by
causes from the spHlllH.tl world, for where the cause of the effect is
there also is t~e cause of. the effect suHicient; for every effect be~
comes an effictent cause !n order even to the ultimate where the
effective power subsists; Lut this is effected continn~lly from a
!lpiritual principle, in which alone that force is ; and 50 it is tbat
notl.llng in nature exists except from somctltinn- spiritual a1;d by
it."- .dth. Creed. !>4.
0
REPUGNANCE TO NA?ti.ES. 149
cc If you will belie,·e it, the very interior thought of the
man who is in good, apprehends this. becam:e that thought
is in the internal sense ; although the mnn \\'heu in the
body is deeply ignorant of it, for the jnternal sense, or the
spiritual sense, whieh is of the interior thought, falls, with-
out his knowing it, into material and sensual ideas, which
partake of time and space, and of such things as exist in
the \Vorld, and thus it does not appear that his interior
thought is such; for his interior thought is of a quality like
that of the anO"els, ina~much as his spirit is with them in
society. That the thought of the man ,·dw is in good, is
according to the internal sense, may be manifest from this,
that after death, \vhen he comes into heaven, he is instant-
ly, without any information, in the internal sense; \Vhich
would in no wise be the case, unless he had been in that
sense as to interior thought, when in the world. The cause
of his being in that sense is, because there is a correspond-
ence bet\\·een spiritual things and natural, of such a na-
ture, that there is not the smallest thing but \Yhat has its cor-
respondence ; therefore, inasmuch asthe iHterior or rational
mind of the man \.vho is in good, is in the spiritual world, and
his exterior or natural mind in the natural world, it must
needs be that each mind thinks, but the interior mind spiritu-
ally, and the exterior naturally, and that the spiritual falls into
the uatural. and they act as one by correspondence. That
the interior mind of man, whereof the ideas of thought are
called intellectual, and are said to be immaterial, does not
thiuk from the expression of any language, consequently not
from natural forms, may be manifest to him who can reflect
concerning them; for be can think in a moment \.vhat he can
scarcely utter in au hour, thus hy universals, which compre-
hcud iu them very many singulars. Those ideas of thought
are spiritual; and no other, when the "\~lord is read, than as
is the internal sense ; although man is ignorant of this, by
reason, as was said, because tbo~e spiritual ideas, by influx
into the natural, present natural ideas, and thus the spiritual
ideas do not appear; insomuch that man believes, unless he
have been instructed, that there is no sl?iritual but what in
quality is like the natural, yea, that he thmks in the spirit no
otherwise than as he speaks iu the body; in such manner
does the natLual overshadow the spiritual."-A. C. 5614.
"The internal sense of the \Vord is principally for those
who nrc in the other life: they, ,,~hen they are \.Vith the man
who is reading the 'Vord, perceiye it according to the internal
sen~c, but not according to the external sense, for they un-
derstand no human expressious, but only the sense of the ex-
•
ISO • MES!\IER AND S\VEJ'>ENBORG.
pression~, and this not uccorlling to .the n~tn~a~ thm~ghts of
man, bur accordiug to his thou!!hts ":luc!l r~r~ ::-pmtua~; t.tJlO the
spirimnl sense the natural sen~e, wluch 1s wnh man, ll:> mstant-
ly transmuted, comparatiYcly as one turns. the _lan~uagc of
another into his O\nl, which is difTcrent, wluch 1s done sud-
denly ; thug the sense of human natural thonght i.s transmut-
ed into spiritnal, for Bpi.rituallanguage or speech lS proper to
the angels, but natural is proper to th.e man: that ~he trans-
mutation as it were of oue language mto another 1s so .sud-
den. is because there is a correspondence of all and smgle
things which are in the uatnral worlu with those which are
in the spiritual worl<.l."-A. C. 5648.
"The reason 'vhy these tillngs are s1gnified by Jehovah
speaking to l\rioses, is, becanse those 'vor<.ls are not perceiv-
ed in heaven as in earth; for in heaven the words are per-
ceived according to the internal sense, but in earth according
to the external sense, for in heaven all things are spiritually
understood, but in earth naturally; the former understanding
is momentaneons, without the kno,vledge of what is m1der-
stoo<.l in the external or literal sense by rnan. Such is the
consociation of the angels of heaven with man, by reason
that the all of man's thought flows-in from the spiritual
world, ancl thus that his thought in its first origin is spiritual,
and becomes natural in the external man by influx."-A. C.
10,215.
" In the internal sense the persons and 'vorus are not re-
flected on, but only their signification. In heaven they do
not know who Lot is, but the quality represented Ly him;
nor do they know what a son is, but the spiritual state, which
is respectively as a son; nor what a brother is, except from
the nature of that brotherhood which prevails in heaven. As
to what concerns truth sensual, it is the first truth ·which in-
sinuates itself into a child, for in childhood the judgmentdoes
not penetrate deeper. Truth sensual is, that all thinrrs of the
earth an<.l the \Vorld are seen as created by God, anlaU and
each for some en<.l, and that in all ao.d each is seen son~e re-
semblance of the kingdom ofGod.,--A. C. 1434.
"\Ve are now prepared to solve the problem respecting the
non-use of names in the .1\fesmeric state. The princ1ple to
which this is owing has already been developed. "\Vhat fol-
lo\\"'S naturally refers itself at once to this principle. It grows
out of the spiritual thought pertaining to the spiritual state-
a state which has to do with the qualities of things.
•
REPUGNANCE TO NAMES. 151
"Tnnsmnch as the name signifies the quality of any per-
son, it comprehends in one complex ·whate\·er is in him; for,
in heaven, no attention is paid to the name of any one, but
when any one is named, or when the term 'name' is men-
tioned, there is presented the idea of the person's quality, or
of all things ·which are his, are '\Vith him, and are in him;
hence a name, in the \Vord, signifies qnality/'-A. C. 2009.
"Tn the spiritual world, or in heaven, per~ons do not come
under the mind's view, but things, for persons limit the idea,
and concentre it to somethiu~ finite, whereas things do not
limit and concentre, but extend it to the infinite, thu! to the
Lord. Thence also it is,that not any persoll, which is named
in the \\"ord, is perceived in heaven, but instead thereof the
thing which is represented by that person, so neither any
people or nation, but the quality thereof. Yea, further, not
a single historical of the \Vord concerning person, nation,
and people, is at all known in heaven, consequently neither
is it knO\\~n who Abraham is, who Isaac, who Jacob, 'vho
the Israelitish people, and who the Jewish nation, but it is
there perceived what Abraham is, what Isaac, what Jacob,
what the lsraelitish people, what the Jewish nation, and so
in all other cases; hence the angelic-speech is respectively
unlimited and also universal."-A. C. 6225.
" The sense of the letter in most places has respect to per-
son~, and also 1nentions them, but the truly spiritual sense
is altogether without respect to persons ; for the angel~, ·who
are in the spiritual sense of the \Vord, in everything which
they think and speak, have not any..Jdea of person or of
place, inasmuch as the idea of person or of place limits and
confines the thoughts, and thereby renders them natural ; but
it is otherwise "vhen the idea is abstracted from persous and
places ; and hence it is that they haYe intelli~ent}e and wis-
dom, and that angelic intelligence anu wisdom are ineffable;
for man, so long ashe lives in the world, is in natural thought,
and natural thought derives its ideas from persons, places,
times, and things material, which, if they were taken away
from man, his thought \vhich comes to perception ·w·ould
perish, for he comprehends nothing without those things;
but angelic thought is without ideas derived from persons,
places, times, and things material; hence it is that angelic
thought and speech is ineffable, and also incomprehensible
to man. The man, however, \.Vho has livad in the world a
life of lo\·c to the Lord and of charity towards his neighbor,
after his <lepartnre out of the world comes into that ineffable
intelligence and wisdom, for his interior mind, which is the
152 1\IESr.rER AND SWEDENBORO.
mind itc;elfof his spirit, is then ope~1cd, and in such _case the
man \Vhen be bcl.!omes an au•,.cl, llunks und speaks lrom that
mind, aud consequently tbiuk~ ~wl speaks such thiugs as he
could not utter or comprehend m the world : ev~ry t_nan has
such a spiritual mind, which is like to the angelic uund: but
in tile world~ inasmnch as he there speaks, sees, hears, and
perceives by the material b~dy, it lies bid within th_e na~ural
mind, or liYes above that mmd, and what tnan tberem tlunks,
he is alwo-ether io-norant of; for the thought of that mind then
flows int~ the 1~atural mind, and there limits itself, closes,
and presents it~elf to be seen and perceived. ~Ian kno\VS
not, \vhilst he continues in the body in this world, that he
posses~es inwardly such a mind, in ·which are c~ntained_ an-
gelic wisdom and intelligence, because as was smd, a~ thmgs
which there engage attention How into the naturaltnmu, aud
thus become natural according to {'Orrespondences. These
things are said in order that it may be kno\vn \vhat is the
quality of the \Vord in the spiritual sense, when that sense is
aLtogether abstracted from persons and places, that is, from
such things as derive their quality from what is material per-
taining to the body and the world."-A. E. 625.
The foregoing extracts disclose, by the way, the funda-
mental principle on which is founded the internal s'cnse of
the \Vor<l, a feature of :Swedenborg's system that has laid it
open to the charge of fancifulness, extravagance, and whim-
sicality-\vhatever be the tern1 by ·which the character of vis-
ionary can be most emphatically affL~ed to it. But it is clear
that something more is requisite than the use of odious epi-
thets to do away the force of the evidence in its support. It is
a theory, so to term it, w hich rests upon a prjnciple, and the
principle must be confuted before the theory can be over~
thrown. The principle is, that the spiritual sense ofthe vVord
arises by necessary result from the spiritual nature of man.
The two facts inevitably stand or fall together. Let any one
peruse the following passage and then pronounce whether
the principle involved is to be set down among the vagaries
of a disjointed intellect.
"Inasmuch a~ at t~is day it is altogether unknown that in
the \Vord there 1s an mternal sense, yea, what the internal
sense of the Word is, it may be expedient to say a fe'v words
further concerning it. The ideas of the thought of angels are
REPUGNANCE TO NAl\tES. 153
not natural, such as are the ideas of the thought of men, but
they are spiritual; nevertheless the quality of their spiritual
ideas can hardly be comprehended by man, except by interi.
or thought and reflection on the first rudiments of their
thoughts, which, that they are without expression of speech,
is known from this circumstance, that they are such that man
can in a moment comprehend more things than he is able
to express by speech in any given time; these ideas of
thought appertain to his spirit; but the ideas of thonght
which man compreheuds, and which fall into expressions,
are natural: and by the learned are called material ; whereas
the former or interior ideas are called spiritual, and by the
learned immaterial; into these ideas man comes after death,
·when he becomes a spirit, and by these ideas he con-
sociates in discourse with other spirits. There is a cor-
respondence between these ideas and the former, and by
correspondence the former are tun1ed into these, or spir-
itual ideas into natural, \vhen man speaks. This is not
known to man, because he does not reflect upon it, and no
others are capable of reflecting upon it, but those who
thinl\ interiorly, that is, who think in their spirit abstractedly
from the body; sensual men are utterly unable to do this.
Now since there is correspondence between spiritual thought
and natural, and since the angels are in sp1ritual thought,
hence the angels perceive spiritually '~'hat man perceives
naturally, and this in an instant without any reflection
on the difference; this is effected principally when man reads
the \Vord, or 'vhen he thinks from the Word, for the \tVord is
so written, that there is correspondence in all and singular
things. As for example, when man reads these words ofthe
Lord in ~Iatthevv, 'After the affliction of those days the sun
shall be obscured, and the moon shall not give her light, and
the stars shall fall fr01n heaven, and the virtues of the hea-
vens shall be moved; then shall appear the sign of the Son
of Man, and then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn; and
they shall see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven
·with virtue and glory,' xxiv. 29, 30. These words the angels
apperceive altogether otherwise than man; by the sun which
shall be obscured they do not apperceive the sun, but love to
the Lord; by the moon they do not apperceive the moon,
but faith in the Lord ; nor by stars, stars, but the knowledges
of good and truth; by the Son of :Man, they apperceive the
Lord as to Divine Truth; by the tribes of the earth, all the
truths of the Church; by the clouds of heaven, they apper-
ceive the \Yord in the sense of the letter; and l>y virtue and
glory, the Word iu the mternal sense. Into this understand.
ing of those ·words the angels come in an instant from cor-
respondence, when man reads them; nor do they know that
154
man thinks of the sun, of the moon, of the ~tars, of the cl~uds
of heaven, &c., the reason 1s, because tlw angels arc ~n a
spiritual idea, and a. spiritnal ~c.lca is .such, that the th_mgs
'\\.'"hich are of nature arc tnrnellmto tlungs of heavenly ltght,
w·hich i::. the Divine Trnth from the Lord. Another rca~on
~d1y the ano-els so percci\·e the \Vord, when man rends it, is
because an~els are attendant on men, and <1well in their af.
fections. arul because man as to his ~pirit is in society wjth
spirits ~n<l as to interior thought, 'vhieh is spirilnal, with the
angels' ot heaven. Hence also man hasthe faculty oftl~iuking.
These observations arc intended to show what the mtemal
sense of the Word is, or what the interior things of the Wor<l,
of the Church, and of ·worship are, which are called celestial
and spiritual things."-A. C. 10,60-!.
Hundreds of passages might be easily adduced fr01n these
writings of parallel import, all going to prove that this pecu-
liarity of Swedenborg's interpretations rests upon the pro-
foundest principles of psychology, and although we may not
in all cases clearly perceive the intrinsic trlfth of his applica-
tions of the general la\v, yet the evidence which he has af-
forded ofbeing divinely empo\vered to develope the law it-
self, lays a foundation for entire confidence in all his specific
exemplifications of it. There is the same ground for believing
in the soundness of his exposition of every part of the 1.;Vord,
that there is for believing in it in regard to any part.*
"' vVe would here remark that, as a general fact, the spiritual
sense, as given by Sweuenborg, uoes not interfere Wlth the literal.
In the purely pr011hetic portions of the 'Vord, as for insta nee, in th.at
quoted above from the Evangelist, Mat. xxiv. 29, 30, he does in-
deed maintain that the spiritual is the primary ancl exclusive
sense, l>ut in the historical writing'> he expressly as~erts, that the
facts recorded were actual facts, although an interior purport
adapted to the faculties and exigencies of the spirituaJ man is
all along to be recognised in them. But no conceit is more ground-
less than that ~wcdenborg spiritualises away the literal truth of the
sacred narrattve. It was a historical fact, for instance, that the
angel found Hager by a ronntain in the w1lderness but Sweden·
borg, after giving the spiritual sense of the narra'rive Temarks
"That these things ~re signifietl _by the angel of Jeho•l~h fintlin~
Hagar at the 1ountam of ~Vaters m the wilderness at the fountain
in the way to Shur, cannot at all appear from the llteral sense and
still Jess as being an historical fact; ror the liter.al sense seem.'very
remote from conveying such signification. Nevertheless this is
the sense which enters into the ideas of angels, when this 'relation
TRUTliFULNESS. 158
But this by the way. Our main object in the present chapter
has been to afford a solution of the fact that JYiesmeric sub-
jects are so generally found averse to the use of the names
ofmaterial objects.
CHAPTER IX.
TRUTHFl:LNESS.
THE obsen;ation is often 1nade by those acquainted with
the peculiarities of the l\lesme1·ic state, that its subjects evince
a remarkable degree of sincerity ancl truthfulness in what-
ever falls from their lips during the trance. "Separated,"
says Mr. Townshend," from the usnal action of the senses,
the 1nind appears to gain jnster notions, to have quite a ne\V
sen.Je of spiritual things, and to be lifted nearer the fountain
of all good and all truth. The great indication of this eleva-
ted state of feeling is a horror of falsehood, which I have
found c01nmon to all sleep-wakers. Sincerity is their espe-
cial characteristic ; they cannot feign or flatter ; they seem to
be taken out of cormnoulife, with all its heartless forms and
plausible conventions." It is not implied by this that they
do uot utter auything that is en·oneOU$-Whi~h they undoubt-
edly often do, owing to delusive influences under whjch they
come, especially if their ordinary moral state is not good-
but that they do not practise wilful deception, Their words
do not l>elie their real sentiments as they are then impressed
is read by man; for the angels have no idea of Hagar, nor of a
fountain of waters, nor of a ..vilderness, nor of a way, nor of
Shur: none of these things reach to them, but they perish at the
first threshold of heaven: they understand, however, what is sig-
nifieu by Hagar, by a fountain, by a wtlderness, by a way, and Ly
Shur, and this from heavenly ideas; and thus they apprehend
the \Vord of the Loru; tor the internal senseis to them the Word.,
.A. c. 1929.
156 MESMER AND SWEDENBORG.
upon them. There is apparently an instinctive shrinking
from every forn1 of dissimulation, so tnuchso thatit,voulu he
extremely uifficult for them in that state to act a pari, as they
are often accused of doing; by those 'd1o refuse to yield their
credence to the facts of tl~e l\Iesmeric agency. Even if they
had, in the waking state, consented to become parties to a
collusion to deceive, the end \\Tould be very apt to be frus-
trated by the spontaneous honesty of their eArtatic prompt-
mgs.
Among the striking instances of the exhibition of this pe-
culiar feature of the l\Iesmeric state \Ve insert the following
from l\Ir. Townshend's work so often quoted above:
"I proceed, by one or two instances, to ~how how forci-
bly sleep-wakers are impelled to speak the thing that is,
anu to clear their consciences of that dissimulation which
clings so much to man in his natural state.
"During the Ant\\rerp carnival, a lady, who took a sincere
interest in Anna lVl--'s welfare, ad\·iseu her not to go to
the masked ball which is usually given at that season. The
night after the ball Anna came to be mesmerized, and, though
complaining of fatigne, would not own t.hnt ~he had acted in
opposition to the advice that she had received. \Vhen, how-
ever, in sleep-waking, she acknowledged of her own accord
that she had been at the masked ball, and said that she felt
she had done wrong iu practising concealment, though her
motive had been to avoid giving pain to her kind monitre~~.
" A similar instance of candid confession occurred in E. A.
I had givcu him a bottle of lotion for his eyes, ·which were
·weak at the time ; he took it home with him, and a Jay or
two afterwaru, in reply to my inquiries as to the benefit re-
ceived, answered in some prevaricating way, so as to make
me suppose that he had used the lotion to ad.vantage. Sub-
se9ncntly, however, bein.!5 in mesmeric sleep-wTtking, he
smd, qULtc volu~1tarily, 'There is something that I wish to
tell you. In gomg home the other nicrht I broke that bottle
which y~:m gave me. I feared you ,\:='ould be angry if you
knew tl11s, and I dared not own it \Vhen awake· but now I
feel that I did not act rightly.' '
"In the me~meric state, the character of thi~ sleep-waker
presented generally a strong contrast to its ·wakinrr exhibition.
Good talents and a good ~isposition had in him L~ecn ·warped
by au unfortunate education; and, youncr as he was he had
imbibed at Paris certain infidel opinions
0
of the ,vo;st kind,
•
TRUTHFUI.NESS. 157
which he scarcely studied to conceal. I asked him once, in
his waking state, what he thought became of us after death :
and his ans\ver was, ' Des qu'on est mort, on n·est plus rien
dn tont,'-aj~er death, one is no more any thing al all.
"This extreme ignorance on most subjects was accompa-
nied by a vain belief that he knew a good deal ; and if one
stated to him the commonest facts of philosophy (the dis-
tance of the sun from the earth, for example), he suspected
a design of playing upon his crednlity, and intrenched him-
self in absolute unbelief. In sleep-waking all this was
changetl. His ideas of the miud were correct, and singularly
opposed to the material views he took of all que...tions when
in the waking state. He once chided me for calling the soul
' nne clto.se ;' and said, ' Ce n·e~t pas nne chosP-c'est nne pen-
see.' ' Can the soul ever die ?' I asked. ' Certainly not. It
i:.;; the soul ld1ich is the only true existence, and which gives
existence to all we apprehend.' ''Vhence came the soul?'
'From God, who by his thou~ht:::. created the universe.' His
words were, 'L'Ame provient de Dieu, qui a cree l'tmivers
par sa pensee.' ' ls there a future pnnishment for evil-
doers?' 'Undoubtedly, a great one.' 'In what will it con-
sist?' 'Ia seeing themselves as they are, and God as he is.'
"On another occasion I me::;merizetl E. A. when a lady of
great taleuts and feeling, and an author well known to En-
glish literature, were present. Th~ laaer was suffering under
a severe uomec;tic affliction. He had recently lost a beloved
daughter, and the tone of mind indnce<.l by that bereavement
naturalIy inclined him to question the sleepwaker on subjects
relative to a fnture state. In order that Mr.-- might speak
with the greater freedom, I placed him <en rapport,'as it is call-
ed, with E. A., and wok but little part in the conversation that
ensued. The couver5ation itself I cannot accurately derail,
but the general impression that it lefl upon my mind can
never ue etlaced. Thesleepwaker rose intoeloqnence which
seemed unearthly. It was. simple, it was beaLltiful, it was
like an inspiration. He ~poke of the never-dying nature of
the soul; of its ransomed beatitude; of its progress through
various eras of existence, during which he asserted (for here
I remember his very words), 'Elle conserve la memoire
du pas~e. et des amities faites sur Ia terre; et elle a l'cnvie de
re~·oir ceux qu'elle a cheris autrefois. Tout 1e bien de l'ame
s'en ,.a avec elle, et dure apres la mort; et Jes Jnstes qui se
sont pleures ici bas seront reunis <.levant Dieu.' Every one
present was affected; some even to tears. It was inuccd
beautiful to see the young prophet, whose countenance had
retaken an expression of candor and of childish innocence,
speaking so calmly the words of holiness and of comfort, apd
8
158
the older listener humbly stoopiDg to drink of the '\Vaters of
refreE:lnnent from ~o lowly n ~ ource. . . .
" 'llte ~ante sleern\ a.ker, tlwrollghly ut1
1==Pn.tJmental Hl }u~
nntural state, t.eemed alvi ny::;, '\ lten mc~menzed, to take a
pleasure in losing himEelf iu imngiu? tions of another. world.
Beautiful are the thiug.s he has smd to me resp~ctmg .th_e
soul·s recognition of tho~e it loYed on earth, and of the ~HlVl·
lege of tlepartcc..l friends ro wateh oYer. dt~ obJeCts of.theJr so-
licitude "hile tollmg tln·ough the p1lgnmage of We; but,
were I 1articularly to record these spcwlot1c?:s, as tlJey wotllu
be ca!led, I 8boulcl probably !Je deemed a Vl&JOllary, or brand-
ed as au cmhusmst. lt is enough to say that, tmder mes-
meric sleepwakjug, all the hard iucredt~lity ~vhich character-
ized E. A. wheu awalie was gone. }hs W1lfuluess \\as be-
come submission; his pnde, lmmiliry; and, in precise pro-
portion as he seemed to k11ow more, he appeared _
to e~te~m
himself less. OfLen \YOnltl he regret Lhe errors of lus 'vakmg
hours, anc.l speak of his natural state as of an existence apart.
Often would he exclaim, in sleep,vukjng, 'How I \ri~h I
co~ld ahvay~ see things as l do uow!' There is not a per-
son \vho saw him in the mesmeric state but remarked the
change for the better that his physiognomy underwe11t. His
affections, abo, were enlarged. Egotistical in general, and
di::.playing but little seusibility, he in the mesmeric state
showed all the warmth of a kind-hearted nature. Shortly
before leaviug me I mesmerized him. Immediately on pass-
ing into sleepwaking his conntenance assumed an expression
of the deepest sorrow, and lle seemed scarcely able to speak.
\Vhen asked the cause of his saduess, he said, 'I am going
away: how deeply I feel it!' Restored to his waking state,
he laughed, and talked, and seemed as unconcerued as
usuaL
"A state of mind so simple, so religious, so tender, yet so
pure, is in itselfa refutation ofthe charge of immorality which
they '"ho lack the charity that hopes and believes the best
have attempted to bring against Mesmerism."-Townshend
p. 117-121.
As the the testimonies to the manifestation of the charac-
ter of tnttlifulness in J\lesmeric subjects are very ample, it
·would donbtless seem to be dependant on the operation of
some la,,. pertaining to spiritual existence, and one .with
which a fuller knowledge of the condition of spirits would
make us acquainted. But Swedenborg is our great oracle on
this head, and our resort must be to his writings to find a clue
THUT1H"U LNI::SS. 15!)
to the ~olntion of this })rol>lem of the JHesmeric experience.
From him, accor<lingly, ,~·e learn thatiu the other world the ex~
terior and interior man act in unity-that no spirit can ut1er
anything contrary to his con'i:ictions-awl that although he
1nay apprehend falsehoods for truths, yet he cannot put forth
known falsehoods in his speech. The following is to the
point:
" This especially manifests itself in the other life, for all in
that life act from the heart, that is, from the will or love, and
it is not allowed to act from gestures separate from thence,
nor to speak from the mouth according to pretence, that is,
separately from the thought of the heart."-A. C. 10,130.
" In the natnral ''"orld the speech of man is twofold, be~
cause his thought is twofold, exterior and interior; for a man
can speak from his interior thought, anu at the same time
from hi.s exterjor thought, anu he can speak from his exterior
thought, and not from his interior, yea, contrary to his inte-
rior thought, whence cometh dissimulation, assenting flatte-
ry, and hypocrisy ; but in the spiritual world speech is not
twofold, but single; a man speaks there as he thinks."-A.
R. 293.
\Ve recoguize in all this another confirmation of the truth
of Swedenborg's disclosures. The facts that are witnessed
are strong in support of the statements which he makes in
the character of a Seer divinely illuminateu. What other in-
ference can 've draw from the evidence afforded? And how
powerfully is his claim sustaii113d when we consider the re-
sult cumulative arising from all the coincidences above ad-
duced?
160 :MESMER AND 6Wr.Dr.NBORG.
CIIAPTER X.
co~cLrsroN.
TnE !ITonnd we have thtlS far traversed is prolmhly snffi-
b
cieut for the purpose for ,,~hich "\Ve entered upon it. The
object has been to evince the affinity, if not the positive
identity, of certain leading phenomena deYelopetl in the mes-
meric state with those \\"hich R\\-edenborg has affinned in
respect to the law:::; of being and acting in the spiritual world.
The force of the argument, it,,.illbe perceived, lies in this;-
that the psychological condition evolved by the magnetic
processes is so near an approximation to the state of s11irits
di-re6ted of the body, that one in that condition r-01nes under
the d01ninant law·s that govern a spirit~ and so far reveals the
state of a spirit. This fact accordingly is often recognised
by subjects themselves while under the mesmeric influence.
They scarcely seem to know otherwise than that they are
spirits. I haYe frequently been struck at hearing them say
'vhen aske<.l respecting their hea<.l, their hands, their feet,
that they had none ; that i.::;, that they had no such members
as \Ye usually understaml by the terms. They speak as if,
to their own consciousness, they ha<.l undergone an in\Yard
translation, by which they ha<.l passed out of a natural into a
spiritual body. Upon reference to the 1\Iemorabilia of Swc-
denborgwe find the statements precisely such as "\VC were au-
thorized to anticipate fro1n the previous developments before
us. The state into which a subject is brought by themes-
meric proce!;s is a state in which the sphit preponderates,
for the time being, over the body. Bodily sight, hearing,
touch, taste, and smell are suspended. Sbll the soul-the
inner man is awake and active, and in a state akin to that
upon ·which it enters when mortality is swallow·ed up of life.
Consequently new phenomena connected 'vith inner sensa-
tion and intelligence arc brought out. These phenomena.
are clearly such as in the nature of the case pertain to the
' ...
CONCLUSION. 161
conditions of being in the other life; and if Swedenborg had
never lived, we should still have had a strong ilnpression
that some additional light was reflected, fr01n this source,
upon the mysteries of our great future. But Swedenborg
has lived, lu:r.s seen, has revealed. lie hn.s taken up these phe-
nomena just at the point where we were compelled to leave
them, and carrying the1n forward to the world unseen has
shown, by astounding disclosures, that they are in perfect
acconlance with the laws and manifestations of that world.
He has put into our hands the key with which to unlock the
psychological secretsinvolved in a state which thousandshave
·witnessed, but which, apart from his teachings, not one can
explain. I again, then, repeat that if Mesmerism is true, Swe-
denb01·g is t'ru.e, and if Swedenborg is true, the spiritual w·orlcl
is laid open, and a new and a sublime era has da·wned upon
the earth. We are no longer estranged from the verities of
the future life. The ·world of spirits is no longer a land of
dim shadows peopled with the creatures of our dreams. In
entering that world we need no longer feel ourselves launch-
ing forth into a region of vague and doubtful conjecture, ofthe
realities of which we have no clear conception. The divine
band itselfhas~ in the teachings of this illuminated seer, lifted
the veil interposed for agesbet\veen the ·world of matter anu the
world of mind. The departure of friends and kindred is
scarcely any more even a" curtained exit'' from the busy
scenes ofearth and time. Heaven and Hell are butstates formed /
by the developed characters of the good and the evil, and the
retributions of eternity the normal issue of confirmed princi-
ples and rooteu loves. The forms of destiny, which result by
inevitable sequence fron1 the operation of the fixed la,vs
of our intellectual and moral nature, stanu forth before us as
the realization of the sternest reason, and not merely as the
fancy-work of fear or hope. The anticipation of the future
is rationally deduced from the constitution of the present,
and the sanctions ofthe Christian faith receive a tenfold greater
moral power from the removal of every element of the m·bi-
trary from the allotment which awaits us. Our state of weal
or \Voe in the 'vorld to come, resulting as it does from jmmu.
162 .rtlE:SCIIER Al\D SWEDENBORG.
table laws of being, cannot, by any possibility, be otherwise
than as \Ve render it by our liye:;; on earth.
Such are the disclosures unfolded. to us in the pages of
Swedenborg, and " ·e ·wonld with all deference submit the
question, whether the sublime reported truths, emboclied in
this system, are not u·orthy of a <.hstinct and special announce-
ment on the part of infinite \Visdom and infinite love? As it is
impossible to sllow that God has preclndcd himself from the
vouchsafement of new light upon the subject of human
destiny, why should w·e deem ourselves authorized to put a
virtnal limitation upon his prerogatives by a peremptory
refusal to weigh the eviden.ce of such unveilings as Sweden-
borg declares himself to have been called and empowered to
make? Iu view of the pre-eminently \Vonderful nature of
his disclosures and of their signal confirmations from other
sources, is it not at least possible that in rejecting them uncon-
sidered \Ve may be trifling w'ith a message from heaven?
Another point of great moment is involved in the results of
the present investigation. It is well kno·wn that with the
mass of the Christian world Swedenborg has the credit of
having been insane. His alleged revelations are regarded as
the outbirth of a deranged intellect. The solution usually
given of his peculiar mental state is, that he had pondered so
deeply and absorbingly on the then1es cotmected with the
other life, that his mind having eventually lost its balance,
all his abstract speculations embodied themselves in living
forms and came before him in a kind of phantasmagoria,
which he was unable to distinguish from a '\vorld of actual
entities. Thus the Rev. Dr. Pond, in his recent 'vork against
the doctrines of Swedenborg, delivers his judgment concern-
ing him in the follo\ving language :
"To my own mind the. case of Swedenborg is a clear one-
as clear ~s, unde1: the c1rcmnstances, and '\\rith our present
means of mformat10n, could be expected. He was as rational
as ever, on all subjects except one or two; and when the~e
were not introduced or touched upon, be ·wrote, he published,
he appeared in society, much as usual. But in reference to
these subjects-! mean those pertainiug to his revelations
his mind was disordered ; _
it had become unbalanced ; and'
CONCLUSION. 163
he was, to a degree, £rJSane. There can be no reasonable
doubt of it. Still, there was method, even in his insanity.
His spectres did not. run riot with him. T~~y folLowed chief-
ly in the train of hts natural thoughts, gtvrng a sort of per-
sonal existence and reality to what were before the theories,
the abstractions, the mere couceptions, of his own mind.
This theory harmonizes all the known facts in the case of
Swedenborg; and to my apprehension it is the only one that
does. I propose it therefore, and I accept it, as the truth." p. 282.
Now to say nothing of the compliment paid to the under-
standing of intelligent men in their cordial reception of his
disclosures as the very perfection of truth and '\Yisdom, it is
not to be forgotten, that it is upon precisely those features of
his revelations which are most strikingly confirmed by the
facts of l\1esmerism that the charge of insanity is founded.
Ho'\V then is this charge to be sustained, when the only
things which he has affirmed Tespecting the realities of the
spirit-world, and for affirming which he is ·written a nlad-
man, are demonstrated to be true by the realities witnessed in
the present world? For ourselves we see but one alterna-
tive. Either the mental facts of Mesmerism lllUSt be uen.ied
to be facts, and that in the face of an amount of testimony
absolutely overwhelming, or the d~arge must be retracted. It is
impossible to sustain it except upon grounds which go di-
rectly to disprove it; and it surely will not be rested upon
any other basis than that adverted to. \Vhat evidence hac;
Swedenborg given of mental aberration save in his asserted
converse with spints and his professed developments of
their various conditions, of their 1noties of intercourse, and
of .the somces anti forms of their happiness or misery ?
But the abstract possibility of the translation of a human spirit
into the 'vorld of spiri~s while sojourning in the body cannot
be denied except upon assumptions that would sweep away
all evidence of a revelation from heaven, for the disclosures
of that divine Book could not have been given to the world
had not some of its writers been intromitted into the spiritual
sphere. The fllndamental fact, therefore, of his claim will be
admitted to be a possible fact, and this admission once made,
by what species of evidence can it be proved to be a real
164 ttlESI'tlEll A.NlJ 1)\VEJ>ENDORG.
fact ? 1\lust it not hy such revelations re~pecting the state o
thi11gs in that world as shall approve themselves to the ra.·
tional mind as true? This truth, thongh intnasically capa.
ble of being apprehended and rested in from its own light,
may yet be confirmeu by testimony ura:wn frOln ateciliary
sources, aud especially from discoveries which f'hall more
fully lay open the inner constitution and la\\S of the human
spu1t. Such discoveries, we maintain, are actually n1ade in
the mental phenomena of .Mesmerism, and '\Ve claim to have
sho,v·u, in the precedi11g pages, that their coincidences with
,,·hat s,,?edenborg has declared on the subject of the condi·
tions and properties ofspirits, are so many and so palpable that
they cannot be viewed apart from each other. They are not
so much. analogous as identical facts. The proof of the one
is the proof of the other. \Vhere then is the evidence of
Swedenborg's insanity ? The imputation has been founded,
and foundeu solely, on the incrediLle chm·acter of his state.
ments. These statements, as far as the nature of the case
will permit, have been proved to be true. Again then we
ask \\·hat becomes of the charge?
But iu order to present the matter in a still1nore forcible
point of view, and to bring it to a summary test, I will ad-
dnce one of his so-called visions and submit to the reader how
far it is entitled to be considered as a mere vagary of a dis.
ordered imagination.
" Once, when I 'vas meditating about the dragon, the
beast and the false prophet, ·which are mentioned in the
Revelation, an angehc spirit appeared to Jne, and asked,
' 'Vhat are you meditating about? ' And r said, ' About
the false prophet.' Then he said, 'I will lead you to the
place \vhere th~y are, '\vho are meant by the false pro-
phet;' and he smd that_ they are the same that, in the 13th
chapter of the Revelatwn, are meant by the beast fr01n the
earth, which had tw? horus like a lamLJ, and spoke like a
dragon. I followed lum, and lo, I saw a cro\\?cl, in the midst
of '\vhich were the leaders of the church, who tauaht that
nothing sa,~es mall, but faith in the merit of Christ; ~ud that
work~ are .!500cl, hnt not f':!r F:ah·ation; a~Jd that still they
s!loLdd be tangltt from the,\ o_n1, tl~nt the lany. c.-:pedallv the
s1mple, may be kept more stn<;tly lll the bonus of obedience
CONCLUSION. 165
to the magistrates, and may be led, ~s from religion, thus
more interiorly, to exercise moral chanty. And then one of
them, seeing me, said, 'Do you \Visl~ to see Ot~r temple, in
·which there is an imaae representatlVe of our falth ? ' I went
and saw it; and lo, it~vas a magnificent edifice, and in the
1nidst of it there 'vas the image of a ''roman, clothetl in a
scarlet garment, holding in her right hand a g?lden coin, and
in her left a chain of pearls; but both the 1mage and the
temple were induced by phantasy ; for by phantasies infernal
spirits can represent magnificent things, by _closing the inte-
riors of the mind, and opening only its extenors. .But when
I perceived that it 'vas such a trick, I prayed to the Lord, and
suddenly the interiors of my mind \Vere opened; and then
I saw, insteatl of the magnificent temple, a house full of
chinks, from the top to the bottom, in "Which nothing co-
hered; and I saw in that house, instead of the woman, a
pendent image, the head of which was like a dragon, the
body like a leopard, the feet like those of a bear, and the
mouth like that of a lion; thus in every respect as the beast
from the sea is described, Rev. xiii. 2; and in place of a
floor, there '~ras a quagmire, in \Vhich was a multitude of
frogs; and it \Vas told. me that unuer the quagmire there was
a large hewn stone, under which lay the \Vord, entirely con-
cealed. On seeing these things, I said to the juggler, 'Is this
your temple ?' And he said that it was. Btu then suddenly
his intenor sight also wa:; openetl, from which he saw the
same things that [ did ; on seeing which, he exclaimed, with
a lond voiee, '\Vhat is this? and ·whence is this?' And I
said, 'It is from the light of heaYen, which discovers the
quality of e,·ery form, and thns tbe quality of your faith ~epa­
rate from spiritllal charity.' And immediately an east wind
blew, and carried away the temple, 'vith the image, and also
dried up the qnagmire, and thus exposed the stone under
which lay the \Vord. And after this, a warmth, like that of
spring, breathed from heaven; and lo, then in the same
place, there was seen a tabernacle, as to the external form
simple; and the angels who were 'vith me said, 'Behold the
tabernacle of AIJraham, such as it was when the three angels
came to him, .and. told concerniug lf'aac, who was about to
be born. Tb1s appears to the eyes simple, Lut still, accord-
ing to the influx of light from heaven, it becomes more and
more magnificent.' And it was given them to open the hea-
ven m which were the spiritual angels, who are in w-isdom;
and then, from the light thence flowing in, that tabernacle
appeared like a temple, similar to that at Jerusalem; and, on
looki ·g into it, I saw the stone of the foundation, lmder
which the Word was deposited, set around with precious
s•
166 .MESlllEit A!\D ::;WEDE!\ BORG.
stones, from "-'·hich bright ray~, like lightning, shone upon
the Wall~, upon which "'CTC the forms of cherubs, and U~~ll­
tifaily '"nriegatecl them with color~. \~1"hcn 1 wns n~lm1ru~g
these thing~, the angel::- saul, ' You will ~ec sometlu11g ~".ttll
more wonderful.' Then it was given them to open t~1e th1rd
heaven in "·hich "~ere the celestial angels, "·ho are Ill love ;
and rhe'n, from the ilammeou~ light thence flowing in, the
"·hole of that temple vanished, and iustea~l of it t!Je L~rd
alone ,,.a:" seen, stanuing npon the foundat1on stone, whtcb.
was the \Vonl, in the same form in which he appeared to
John, Rev. i. Bnt because a holy reverence then fille~ the
interiors of the angelR' minds, from which they ha~ nn lllch-
nation to fall prostrate on their faces, the way of l1ght f~·om
the third hea,·en "·as clo.:;ed by the Lord, and a \vay of hght
from the second hcnven was opened; whe11ce returneu the
former appC'ar::mce of the temple, anti also of the tabernacle,
but this in the mid~t of the temple. Hereby 'vas illustrated
what is meaut in the Revelation, xxi., by this pa;::..:':-age: The
tabernacle of God is 1.uith men, und He U'ilL dwell'll'ith them, ver.
3: and also by this: I saw no temple in the New lf'rttsalem, be-
cattse the Lord God OmnipoteHt is the temple of it, anll the Lamb,
ver. 22/'-T. C. R. 187.
\Vhat, I ask, is there in this that I shonlcl renucr it incredi-
ble as the relation of a bona fide occurrence in the spiritual
·"rorlcl ? \Ve have already seen that nothing is more frequent
than such pha.ntastic creations among sp1rits, and we can
easily conceive, I think, that the central truth intended to be
set forth should be repre~ented by the highly stgnificant
imagery here employed. It is certainly a Yery striking de-
scription of the effect produced by a gro,viug inflnx of hea-
venly light revealing the interior deformity of a church found-
eel upou a virtual rejection of the \Vortl, the ouly true basis of
such a superstructure. Equally impressive is the shiftiug
scenery of the picture developing tile Tabernacle and Tem-
ple, and the superseding of both by the Glory of the Lord,
as sy1nbolical of the gradual restoration of a pure system of
worship, of which the Divine \Vord should be pervading life
and soul, as well as the exclusive foundation. \Ve see no-
thing in this in the least inconsistent with \Vhat we have al-
ready gathered to be the Iaws of mental operation in the oth-
er life, and consequently nothing which can justly subject the
author to the charge of venting mere dreams and fancies for
CONCLUSION. 167
veritable occurrences in the spirit-world. The same remarks
apply to multitudes of other relations of similar character
abounding throughout his writings. Let them be viewed in
reference to the grand psychological principles involved in
them, and they imperceptibly become divested of the air of
extravagance which at first blush they seem to wear, and
commend themselves more and more to the soundest reason
of the reader. Yet, I repeat, it is wholly upon narratives of
this nature that the charge of insanity, so often brought
against Swedenborg, rests. But why should they give occa-
sion to it ? Is it not reasonable to suppose that the actual
facts of the other world \Vonld strike us with surprise could
·we witness them as they are ?-that they would be in a thou-
sand points different from our anticipations ? Yet to a calm
reflection I imagine itwill appear in the highest degree proba-
ble, that if the spirits and angels of heaven and hell are not
living, acting, communing, enjoying, and suffering in the pre-
cise modes which Swedenborg represent, still the real1nodes
are marvellously like them. If their very being is intellectu-
al and spiritual, why shoulU uot the scenes in ·which they
are engaged be such as are adapted to their nature, or in
other words, such as Swedenborg has depicted ? One asser-
tion at least may be confidently made ;-everything he has
related of that world is in such perfect keeping that, consider-
ing the grandeur and magnificence of the descriptions, and the
number, variety, and amplitude of the details, the idea of its
having emanated from the mind of a madman is the most pre-
posterous that can be entertained. And how is the wildness of
the supposition enhanced by the comparison instituted in the
preceding pages, between the leading features of his revela-
tions and the undeniable facts of the Mesmeric develop-
ments ? These developments disclose to the very senses of
men the fundamental truths of the psychology upon which his
averments rest. How can the admission of the one be con-
sistent with the rejection of the other ? And how can that
admission be refused in the face of all the testimony which
goes to enforce it? The affinity of the two classes of dis-
closures is too palpable to be denied, yet it could not possi-
168 NESl\tl!:R A!oo"D SWEDEI\BORG.
bly have been the result of auy collusion bet\\·een 1\'Icsrner
and Swedenborg. Swedenborg <lied ten years before l\1cs-
mer went to Paris to divulge his discovery, and even l\lesmer
himself kne"~ nothing of the higher mental pheuomena to
which his name has given the appellation. They 'vere dis-
covered subsequently by one of his disciples. I would ask
then whether it be possible to account for the coincidences
except upon the ground of the intrinsic truth of both; and I
would submit also whether there be not something more
than a merely plausible basis for the position, that the ultimate
design, in Providence, of the development of l\1esmerism at
the present era, is in fact nothing less than to pave the ·way
for the universal admission of Swedeuborg's claims. Ifthese
claims are well founded they are of an importance 'vhich no
language can describe, for they involve something vastly
more momentous than even the revelations of the future
world. They present a new view of the interior geuius of
the inspired \Vord, and of the whole body of Christian Doc-
trine-one which offers, we believe, the true and only ground
on which the jarring creeds of Christend01n may be brought
to a genuine symbolism by the consenting elevation of Chari-
ty and Life to the prominence !1itherto given to Doctrine and
Faith. Viewed in this light, is it not reasonable to anticipate
that some striking and palpable authentication should be giv-
en to the mission of this man of marvels, provided it be in-
deed of God? and how could this be more effectually ac-
complished than by an unexpected and providential discove-
ry, clearly ascertaining that the psychological structure of the
human mind and its interior manifestations in the present
world, are in strict accordance with what S\'\?edcnborg, from
supernatural insight, assures us are the laws of spiritual ex-
istence in the world to come ? On this basis then ,Ye build
.
our plea for the truth of a system \vhich we arc firmly per-
suaded embodies the sublime doctrines of the New Jerusa-
lem, the crown and glory of all the Divine dispensations on
earth.
APPENDIX A.
REVELATIONS OF A. J."DAVIS.
IN giving the following comnumication to the ·world I ~un
conscious of exposing myself, in the estimation of many
minds, to the charge of a ·weak and easy credulity, which
may possibly tend to impair the effect of whatever has been
advanced in the body of the 'vork. Yet the positive t1·uth
that may distinguish any portion of the previous discussion
'vill still remain truth, whatever may be the character of its
seqnel, and as I deem the matter which I am now about to
present as being as well authenticated as anything previous·
ly given, and perhaps as it1u·insieally credible, I do not scru.
ple to offer it to the reader to be received and interpreted as
he may see fit. It bears doubtless Yery much the air of the
marvellous, not to say of the miraculous, but after what we
have already seen of the developments of this mysterious
state, especially in connection with the parallel recitals of
Swedenborg, we shall perhaps find ourselves prepared to ad-
mit at least the possibility of just such an occurrenee as that
alleged in the letter to have taken place. It is probably no
more iucousistent with what we have ever understood to be
the established laws of the Creator in the government of the
intelligent universe than many of the facts and principles '~re
have already had occasion to consider. Of this, however,
the reader is left to judge for himself.
The writer, l\Ir. A. J. Davis, is a young man not far from
twenty years of age, who is \\·ell known to a wide circle as
a person of remarkable clairvoyant powers in the inve~tiga­
tion of tli~ease. He is now a resident of this city, and for the
la:""-t rwo or three years has de\·oted himself professionally
for the most part to this business. The exerejse, ho'\vever,
/
170 APPENDIX A.
of his distinguished faculty is not confined to this department.
In consequence of what he deems a direct communication
from the spirit of Swec.lcnlwrg a year or two since-of whose
name, by the \Yay, or of the faet of his eyer having lived, he
was then entirely ignorant-be was prompted to enter npon
a cour~e of Lectures in the JYiesmeric state on a large class of
scientific subjects, of '' hich he has thus far delivered about
eighty, embracing Cosmology, Ethnology, Astronomy, Geolo-
gy, Physiology, Language, and various others, upon all which
he is profoundly ignorautin his natural state. He is a young
1nan whose educational advantages have been of the most
limited character, havmg never enjoyed, frmn tlJe age of
childhood, but about five months schooling. Up to the period
when he entered ou his :Mesmeric career, he had served as a
shoemaker's apprentice, and the gentleman in whose employ
he was is ready at any time to testify to hisentire unacqnaint-
ance with lhe scientilic topics of which he has treated in his
Lectures, and that too on 1nany points, in a truly 1nasterly min.
ner. Since that date he has been so constantly occupied in
the examination of diseases and in the Lectures that no time
has been left him for anything hke the connected study
which would be requisite for sncb elaborate discussions as
he goes into on the entire philosophy of the universe, besides that
he considers himself prohibite<.l by an internal dictate from
reading a page or a line on any of the subjects of which he
treats. To these inward mouitions, or impressions, as he
~ terms them, he uniformly pays a religious deference, and
as he acts under the conviction that his only security for
his being made the medium of truth, is his own unimpeach-
able truthfulness and general moral integrity, I am for myself
perfectly satisfied that entire confidence is to l>e reposed in
his statements. Having had for many months a fair oppor-
tunity of acquaintance, aud having closely studied the lead-
ing traits of his character, I can freely say, that a more sim-
ple, guileless,unsophisticated spirit I have seldom met, or one
more utterly incapable of being a party to any scheme of im-
posture or delusion. He has been from his earliest years
religiously disposed, and his former employer has certified,
APPE::\DlX A. 171
in the fullest manner, to his uniformly upright and exemplary
conduct during the time that he was in his service and an in-
mate in his family. The same tes~imony is given by all who
have known hin1 from a child. Indeed, were his character
generally, other than it is, I doubt if he would ever have been
made the medium of such astounding developments as have
uttered themselves through him. He possesses, both physi-
cally and mentally, in an eminent degree, the requisites for a
clairvoyant of the highest order. But it is the less necessary
for me to dwell npon these traits of his character aud his
claims to credibility, as his Lectures are to be published in
connection With a voluminous mass of testimony, from the
most authentic sources, to his absolute incompetency to such
revelations, except upon the gronnd of supernatural agency.
Tl1is conclusion will probably be confirmed by the purport of
the ensuing communication.
I may here remark in regard to the series of Lectures above
mentioned, thatwhile I express no opinion as to the absolute
truth of the scientific principles and positions advanced in
them, I am fully prepared to bear witness to the fact of his
making correct use of a multitude of technical terms appro-
priate to the themes of science, which he is wholly unable to
define in his waking state, and 'vhich would naturally occur
only to one who had been long familiar with the subjects
and with their peculiar nomenclature. Indeed, I have been
sometimes amused at his bungling attempts, on casually read-
ing the manuscript, even to pronounce accurately the words
which he utters ·with entire freedom and correctness in the
1\-Iesmeric delivery, and which are taken down verbatim by a
scribe with a view to ultimate publication. I can also testify
that having been occasionally present at some of these Lec-
tures, I have heard him quote, with the utmost accuracy,
from the Hebrew, Greek, and Latin languages, of none of
'"...hich has he the least knowledge in his normal condition.
He has also quoted long extracts from the Sanscrlt, the sub-
stance of ·which I have been able to verify from a French
translation of the Vedas. \Vhether the same thing exists in an
English version I have not learned. But I a1n entirely confi-
1-'.')
I- APJ1 E~llL~ A.
dent he has never read jL in a11!/ translation. At the same
time, I have no reu~on to suppose that, c\·cn in his preternat-
ural st~te he can be fairly said to l>c acqnaintcd with these
tongues. He wonld prolmbly be nnable to give the meaning
of any sentence in a foreign language that 1nigl!tbe submitlec.l.
to him by '"·ay of experiment. llut \v·hatever \VOn.l or phrase
may be necessary to the more full elnciclatton of any point
which he is explaiuiJJ.g, seems to co1ne spontaneously to his
lips from the same source \Vith the l>otly of the discloF-urcs
themselves, and that these are snggestec.l or dictated by the
influx of some other rniml into his own is, I think, beyond
question. But that it is any mind inhabiting a material body,
which prompts his revelations, I am convinced is not the
case, for they are often in direct contrariety to all the opin-
ions ·which have ever been advanced U!lOll the same subjects,
and when not contrary they arc frequemly beyond all that has
been known to be propounded respecting them.
Not the least remarkable a1nong the phenomena of the case
is the fact, that hi::; enunciations from the outset, in this course
of Lectures, have coincided most astonishingly with those of
S\vedenborg, although he has to this hour never read a page
of his \vorl{s, and has never been intimately associated with
those who have, or who would be capable of determining
his thoughts iu that direction. The two gentlemen "·ho are
permanently connected "·ith him in his Mesmeric operations
are both of them nearly as ignorant as himself of the peculiar
doctrines, philosophical aud theological, of Swedenborg, and
since they have become aware of the fact of the coincitlence
mentioned, they have stifled their curiosity and rigidly ab-
stained from all recourse to those wri6ngs with the express
design of being able to say, in the issue, that fr01n whatever
source his information may have been derived, it bas not
come from their minds. As to myself, though I have had
occasional intercourse ·with nlr. D. aud his as~ociates, yet I
can in all serlouc::ness affirm, that as ::-oon as I became ac-
quainted with the fact of these ~inguh.1r coincidence;:-, I at
once refrained from anr hut the mol:)t remote and rrcneral
0
allusions to them, usually by \Yay of inquiry, and those gen-
APP!!:NDJX A. 173
tlemen \Vill bear me witness that I have not in theirpresence,
made Sweuenborg's views on these or a11y other subjects, a
topic of conYersation. ,,~ith 1\Ir. D. himself I have had but
fe"-r private intervie\VS, and I was theu equally guarded for
the same reason, and abo because he intimated that he \Vas
internally forhidden to make these matters a the1ne of con-
versation. I saw at once that if I became an expounder of
these doctrines, I should deprive his disclosures of the ach·an-
tages that would accrue to them in the public estimation
from the assurance that he had received them from no earth-
ly source. The follo,ving extract from one of his Lectures,
together \Vith the corresponding passage from Swedenborg,
will serve to afford the reader a specimen of these singular
coincidences, which for the most part are ual rather than
ve1·bal.
"The original form was angular. ThiF; contained the prin-
ciple and nature of all other forms: so that from the Io·west
to the highest could be constantly emanating forms accom-
panied with, and controlled and acted upon by, the Great
Pu:.:;llive Power. Progres:::.iou of the angular evolved the cir-
cular. This assmned, not a spherical constitution, but it '\Vas
a combination of angular and rectilinear plane. 'Therefore
the continuance of the angular to tlte circular, u;as only a
progressive perpetual form, ascendmg to the spiral. And
this developed diameters, axes and poles contaimng the per-
petual angular, and progresf'ed to that of a still higher and
more perfect form, that of the vortlcal, properly the celestial."
"l\Ieanwhile, for the better understanding of the subjects
mentioned in this chapter, 1 will here .::tate, that forms a£-cend
from the lowe~t to the highe~t. in ordN and by degrees, as
do also the essences and substances of all things. The lo\\~­
est form is the angu.lar .
.. which is abo called the terreslrtal
and the merely corporeal form, ~msmnch a':i it 1s peculiar to
bodies having angles and rectiliuear planes; the measure-
ment of which is the primary object of the present geometry.
The second and next-hiuher form is the ctrctdar, or spherical
form; which may also be called the pcrpctual-angvlar, since
the circumference of the circle involves neither allgle nor
rectilinear plane, becanEe it i~ a perpetual angle <HHl a per-
petnnl plane: this form is nt once the pare11t and the mea-
snre of angular forms; for ir i!' the mean.:: nf sllowitl!! the prr.
perties o1 augle~ awl ilgure:::., as trigouomctry teaches. 'l he
174 APP.E~DIX ..\..
form above this is the spiral, wh1~h is the pa_rent and the
measure of circular form", as the Circular form IS the )Wrent
and the mea.:;nre of angular forms. Its very radii or diame-
ters are nor rectilinear, nor do they converge to a fixed cen-
tre, like tho~e of the circle, but they are variously-circular,
anu have a spherical surface for a centre; wherefore the spi-
ral is al'3o calletl the perpetual-circu.la1'. Our science of geo-
metry ri~es almost to this form, but dare not enter it, or pe-
ruse i.ts spires; for at the fir~t glance it strikes us as inextri-
cable, and seems to soort "\\"ith our ideas. This form never
exists or snbsi!';ts ·without poles, an axis, foci, a greate~t circle,
and lesser circles which arc its diameters; and as it ag:-tin
assumes a perpetuity which is wanting in the circular form,
namely, in respect of diameters anu ceutres, therefore it emu-
lates and breathes a natural spontaneousness in its motion :
as also appears from the stomach aud its segments after
death, for when its nerves are only touched, it rolls and
·wreathes as in the living subject, and flows spontaneonsly
into its gyres, as though it were still hungering, an<llouging
to grind the food : there being nothi.ng thn.t can -prove an
oh::>tacle; inasmuch as there are no angles, and eonseqnently
no hindrances to motion. There are other still higher forms,
as the perpetual-spiral, properly the vo1·tical: the perpetual-vor-
tical, properly the celestial: and a highest, the perpetual-celes-
tial, which is spiritual, and has in 1t nothing but what is e\·er-
lasting ancl infinite."-Swed. Amm. Kingd. Vol. I. p. 125.
A multitnde of similar parallelisms will disclose themselves
in the course of his revelations to one who is familiar \Vith
Swedetlborg, bnt more especially in his account of the inhabi-
tants of the several planets.
The above statements will be seen to have been necessary
in order to prepare the reader for viewing in its just light the
revelation that follows.
Early in June last Mr. D. while in the midst of one of his
Lectlues came to a sudden p~use, and remarkecl that he re-
ceived no farther impressions-the usual language in which
he speaks of his internal communications-saying at the
same time, that he percejved that he must go immediately to
Poughkeepsie, and that something very extraordinary was
going to happen to him there. What it was, he was unable
to say, but observed that it ''·ould be kuowu in New York in
three or four days, and that his associates1night freely inform
others of the fact, but it mnst be kept from him while in the
APPENDIX A. 175
waking state, as it would produce an undue excitement in
his mind, \vhrch he must carefuU) avoid. His wishes in this
respect were strictly complied with, and accordingly, shortly
after, when in the natural state, he announced the purpose
of starting the next day (Saturday) for Poughkeepsie, though
he had previously formed an entirely different arrangement
in regard to an excursion into the country. On Saturday he
left the city in company with Dr. L. his constant companion,
and on the vVednesday following-the fourth day from the
announcement-1 received unexpectedly the ensuing letter,
'\Vhbh I give "with all its" grammatical ''imperfections on
its head."
PouGHKEEPHE, June 16t~ 1846.
"DEAR SIR :-Yesterday morning, after eating breakfast
at No. 49 '\Vashiugton St., \Vhere my friend Mrs. Lapham
lives, I '\vent down to the book store, to get some paper to
write a letter to ; after buying it, I visited several
persons about the street, staying only a few minutes at each
place. Soon I had a desire to go down to the river; what
caused it l don·t know. But \vent down, called on one or
two friends on ~he way.
" I soon lost all knowledge "·here I \Vas, recollect of being
about the river smnewherc, and also ascending a hill. I am
conscious of meeting the same person that I had seen in the
graveyard in Hyde Parle. I also remember conversing with
him, and taking out my pencil and writing all the thoughts
given me. I remember him leaving me suddenly, and I came
out the state. I was surprtsed to find myself wet with rain,
the paper on my lap, and dry-and being in the mountain
opposite Poughkeepsie, about 4 miles, \vhere I had been be-
fore, 2 years ago.
"I came dire~tly home, it was 6 o'clock in the evening, I was
wet and muddy, and very hungry. The paper had not been
wet. The very moment l came iuto the natural state, I felt you
should have the papeT immediately. I do not understand
the meaning, nor the letters A. C. and them jigw·es. It ap-
pears now that I knew it then, but can't recollect what it was.
As I felt impressed so strongly to send it to you, I do so, for
it must be right.
"The friends here can tell about it. I am at 1\Irs. Lapham's,
49 \Vashington St. If you can tell me about t~~ meaning,
please write me at the above No. I copy the wr1tmg exactly
from the paper, as written by me then.
· Yours, &c. A. J. DAVIS."
176 APPENDl.X A..
COPY.*
"fuasmuch as, by canses unrelated, things interior are
open to me, which appertain to n1y ~pirit, as .well as to _all
others, and thereby it has been gra11te~ me to dtRcour~e wnh
you. while near our earth; and to be 1nstrncted by you con-
cerning the opening hereafter,.which 'villlend me to ::m.eulnrg-
ed nnderstatuli11g (of) a plural1ty of 'vorlds, and to be mform-
ed, that the human race is not confined to one earth only, bnt
extends to earths innumeraule; and that by the things re-
lated, man may be instructed, if his (being or principle) mind
be so opened as to be enabled to associate_ with t~1em nnder-
standiugly. I observe yon are averse to dtsconrsmg vocally,
bnt instead thereof enter the cerebrum, near the right, " ·here
the thinking principle, which is above the imagination, is;
and farther, all that 1hear, see and perceive, arc Ruch as de-
light me, being good and of the Spirit. From your mind, I
perceive that whatever things canse delight, and nffect the
love, and flow as it were spontaneously, is a commnmca-
tion of all good things, inasmuch as it is the property of he~w­
enly love to communicate all its possessions vvith others;
ami I perceive that by research in your written thoughts,
the above can be found in A. C. 549, 550, 1390, 1391, 1399,
10, L30, 10,723. You represent to me three important truths;
that all spirits and angels are from the human race. A. C.
1880 ; and by them 1nan may be instructed ;-for iu his es-
sence he is a spirit, and that the sonl is the spirit, which is
the real man in him, and remains in another life in a perfect
human form-322, 1880, 1881, 3633, 4622, 4735, 6054, 660o,
6626, 7021, 10,59-!. Wherefore he whose interiors are open-
ed may discourse 'vith them, as man 'rith man; but not un-
less he be of true faith, and j~ led by the principle, A. C. 784,
9438, 10,751. Moreover, by the truthfulness of the above,
long made kno,vn to your owu spirit, a privilege has been
granted me, now for tbree years, never before made maui-
fe~t, in this mauner; ~111d to I< now that what has been related
is above the seusual things of the natural man. From the pnr-
port of your mind, t perceive the intended meauiiJg--that truth
is reftecrec.l through my miud i11to the external; but that by dif-
ferent terms (that have been imposed heretofore by specnla-
tive minds, on similar snbjects), so that they may form cor-
rect impressions from the terms used to descriue interior
things. And that all snch expressions aprearing as material,
entirely external and speaking of terrestrial laws, is meaning
only, and that deeply to impre~s on the logicians ant.! meta-
p~ly~icians the more jmportaut es.:Senccs of iuterior~-as thel'e
*The commun1
catiou, as written, i~ evidently addressed to wltat
he regarded as the spiiit of Swedenborg.
APPENDIX A. 177
~re expressions of the Divine Principle, which flows not only
Jnto heaven, bnt abo into the univers-e, and everything made
thereby the suuordmate receptacle of light and life, V\ hich is
love; and order and. form, which is '\visdom. Inasmuch as
thc~e all dwell jn the external '\Vorld, and i8 (are) constantly ex-
et~pl ifying the qnalities and atn·ibutes of the divine love and
'"·1sdom. Some men do not even proceed to thoughts, but
stay solely on terms, '\Yhich if they apply, it is to coufirm
whatever they desire, and to impose on false principles the
appearance or truth-according to their de8ire to create a dis
Lelicf in the future or il1terior condition. Hence philosophi-
cal investigations lc<1d men rather to folly than to wisdom, and
hence they have darkne~s in::.tead of light. How shall I,
'\Vhcn in the form, and m the world, ler these present say-
ings of thy spirit become known and l>e believed? It ap-
pears manifest; yon have said, that whatsoever spirits there
be "·ere once men~ that every one·s life remains with
him and goes after death, A . C. 4227, 74~0; and thnt the ex-
ternals of life arc kept closed arter death, and the internals
opened-4314, 5128, 6495. These things are not by me
kno'' n, when in the form, but are to others. I receiYe one
other .i.n1prcs~ion from yon; the form, the external, IS not of
itst!lf living, only as it is a11imated by the internal e~~ence;
and by it the form is determined, ond made alive. Thus thP.
body is in ronstaut subordination. On hearing this, from me
in spirit, the '\\ orld ·will be silent; l>ut will acknowledge,
(according to your former predictions) that thcEe truths are ~o.
The inhabitants of the earth iuqu1re into <llld imbibe the
kno"vledges of things, not elevated above the sensualities of
the body; this is made manifest by the influx of your spint.
Also that men immerse their thoughts in tl.le science of logic
and meraphysics, with no orher end than to acquire the char-
acter of being learned, and thus to be advanced to honor and
emolument.
"I perceive by your spirit, this, for me, is impossible, and
that I should retain my former and present adnee, acting to
my owr1 interior direction, as given me; the n~e in the ,~.,-orJd
is not known; but to me is now manifest; with promptitude
my spirit oucys; and the spirit now on your mind, shall read
this, judgingly, from your references, fron1 what sphere your
spirit is manifested.
" I observe the iilnminated expression of yonr eye, which
it is given to kno'\v corresponds to understanding, because
understanding is interior sight, and also to sight and knowl-
edge of things true and immaterial, 2701, 4410, 4526, 9051,
10,569:'
This will be perceiYed to be, npon it~ bare peru!=:al, ~ome-
178 AP.PENDlX J..
'vhat of a singular doc.nment. It etubodies n large moss of
references to tlLe Arca11a Celcstia of Swetlenborg, so oftcu
quoted in the preceding pages, as it usually is elsewhere, un-
der the initials A. C., and yet of these letters and of the num-
bers annexed he professes to be ignorant of the purport. I
have, moreover, received fro1n hun the positive and solemn
assurance that he had never read a syllable of the Arcana,
and hau never heard of its existence. l\Iy surprise on the
receipt of this letter may ,\·ell be imagined. :My knmvlcdge
of the young man's character forbade the it.lea of any inten-
tional imposture, and yet on the other hand, the contents of
the paper, un<.ler the circumstances in which they were said
to have originated, forced n1e to 'vithhold a ready credence
of the entire transaction. As was natural, I at first sup-
posed that the references to the Arcanawere direct-that they
'vere not qnoted from any other work-and I proceeded ac-
cordingly to verify them by an appeal to the sections cited. I
found upon examination that they "\vere all, with one excep-
tion correct, and in this case I discovered that the original Lat-
in of Swedenborg himselfcontained the same error, which ""~as
obviously typographical. On farther inYestigation I found that
not only the express quotations, but even the whole tenor of
the letter 'Yas contained in almost so many words in the trea-
tise entitled "The Earths in the Unjverse.'' On this <.liscovery
the inference was almost irresistible, that though he had uot
read the Arcana, yet he had read the other, and had copied
from it everything that he deemed suitable to his design, what-
ever that might have been. Still the coincidences, though
striking and obvious, were not so perfect, as migl1t have been
expected in an intended copy. There was a singular air per-
vadmg it. Portions of it were obscure and mystical, and it
was still a problem, why it should not have been marked eith-
er by a greater or less conformity to the original. The whole
matter was a puzzle which I had no clue for solving till I
should see 1Ir. D. himself-then absent- and learn ·whether
he had ever read or heard of" The Earths in the Universe." If
I could be satisfied that he had not, the '\VOlHler in the case
would not be at all diminished, for how could he even quote
f
J.PPE~ DIX A. 179
quotations of which he had never read either the one or the
other?
In this state affairs remained till l\Ir. D.'s return to the city
in September, when I brought the subject before him, and
interrogated him very closely as to whether he hac.l any
knowledge of the work in question. He assured me in reply
that he hac.l never read a pnge of it-that he kne·w nothing
of any snch sentim<.;nts having been expressed, or references
ma<le, in that or any other work-and that he was perfectly
'villing to be qualified by the most solemn oath to the eiTect
that he had neYer drawn himself, or been furnished 'vith by
others, a single sentence fr01n any book kno\vn by him to be
in existence-that what lte wrote \Vas written in an uncon-
scious or abnormal state, as it \Vas mysteriously suggested to
his mind-in a word, that everything occurred precisely as
it is related in the letter.
As I was anxious to rcnuer assurance doubly sure, I again
submitteu to him, u:hen 1
·n the 1lfesmenc state, the question of
the propriety of his being qualified before a magistrate as to
the tnuh of the above declarations. He said in reply that
although he would uot refuse to yield to a desire on my part
to that eflect, yet he was impressed that it would not add
anything to the \\~eight of the testimony growing out of the
document itself and all the attending circumstances. He
remarked that tbe conclusion wonld very naturally be, that
if he was unprincipled enough to fabricate such a document,
he \vas also unprincipleu enough to take a false oath, and
that the convic.tion of the genuineness of the article must be
produced by the evidence which the whole affair, vie\ved in
all its aspects, carried with it. This, he intimated, would be
sufficient for candid minds, ':dthout having recourse to a
kind of testimony that would be regarded by the more juui-
cions as superficial, and as having the air of an undue anxie-
ty as to the result. He clearly implied that there ·was no
need of resorting to anything that would look like an expe-
dient of policy, or which 'voulcl betray a distrust of the in-
trinsic efficacy of the evidence involved to weigh with those
who could, under i;'l-y circumstances, receive it; and as to
other3, it 'Yas unnecessary to cherish any particular solici-
180 APPENDIX A.
tude whether it shonlcl be believecl or not. There wets proof
enough, if their miuds were open to appreciate it. In the
meantime, he obsen·ed, that I need not scruple to adopt the
language of the tnost positive assurance as to his never hav-
ing read the work in question, for it \Yas sacredly true, and
the truth it3elf would justify any strength of assertion. He
said, moreover, that the peculiar work he \Vas called to per-
form \vas of such a nature as to l>c iuconsisteut with the least
desue for reauing, and conscqucnrly every such desi1·c had
been effectually wiped away from his mind. Throughout
the intenien: he spoke ·with a clearness, calmness, and dis-
cretion \Yhich '"'as trnly admiraole, and elicited expressions
oi \\'onder from all who were preseut, as they were perfectly
satisfied of his utter incapacity to talk in Stich a style in his
natural state. Aml what is remarlmLle, although llmd my
manuscripts with me, from which I wished to propo~e cer-
tain queries relative to the correctnes!; of my interpretation,
I found I had no need to refer to it, as he was evidently, from
his rephes, cognizant of its entire scope from begi11ning to
end, tho11gh all the time c]o~e]y bandHgecl ancl 11nable to read
a word by the outward eye. This will appear incredible,
but it zs strictly true. I had no occasion to refer to a single
sentence in my papers, for it was evident tlwt he was in pos-
session of the \vhole, though he had uot seen a line of what
I had written, nor had previously known of the fat:t of my
writing at all
I am well a\'\Tare that even this statement will avail bnt lit-
tle towards vanquishing the skepticism which such a mar-
vellous train of incidents 1nust necessarily encounter. I am
deeply sensible my~elf of the large draft which it makesupon
the faith of sober minds. But my owu convit·tion is unwa-
vering that he has 'Yiet·er 1·ead the book. Everything, it is
trne, depends upon the judgment formed of the young man~s
·veracity. I feel that, on this point, I have no right to claitn
the reader's assent to my conclusions, unless he recognizes a
satisfactory ground of reliance on the statements matle by
1\fr. D. in regard to the fact of his entire ignorance of the con-
tents of the work in question. Being ~sirens of securing
APPEXDIX A. 181
the most effectual guaranty to my O\V1l confidence in M~. D.'s
assertion on this and other suhjects, as \Veil as of justifying
that confidence to the minus of my readers, I wrote to his for-
nler employer, requesting fr01n him such a certificate as he
could freely gi,:e, and would be willing to have p·ublished,
respecting young D.'s character while an inmate in his fami-
ly. The following·is his reply:
Dli!AR SIR-Circumstances have prevented me from giving
an earlier answer to yours of the 9th inst. thau could have
been desired.
In regard to A. J. Davis, and your inquiries respecting him,
I am happy to give the information desireJ. He was an ap-
prentice to me, and boarded in my family for nearly two
years. I \vas daily and hourly in association with him, and
under circumstauces which enabled me to form a clear and
perfect estimate of his character, the leading trait of which
\\·as, integrity in its broadest and Lest sense. His education
·was very limited-that, I mean, which is acquired at school
-lmt I employed hi1n to l~eep my books, which improv-
ed him some\vhat in '\Vriting and casting accounts. In
his own statements you may place t.he most unbounded con-
fidence. I never knew him to deceive or equivocate in my
life. His character before I knew him cun be traced in this
neighborhood from his infancy up to the time he left me like
the lines on a map, and it is all of a piece. His reading was
also very limited, and mostly confined to books of a juYenile
or narrative description.
PouGHK:EEPSIE, Oct. 17, 1846. ffiA ARlVISTRONG.
In accordance 'vith what is here said of the limited range
of his reading, :Mr. D. has informed me that previous to the
date of his earliest magnetic experience, he did not kno\v
that he had ever read a dozen books in his life, and that
the only one 'vhich had left much impression upon his
memory was "a story of Three Spaniards!'' As to works of
science, he had never read a single volume; and when he
began to speak in his Mesmeric state of the different planets,
he knew nothing· at all of the structure of the solar system,
Subsequent to that period he has literally had no time for con•
nected reading or study on any subject whatever, and yet ir
his Lectures above-mentioned, he has discoursed onAstrono
my, Geology and General Physics in a style worthy the high
9
182 APP:ENDL't A.
est masters in those departments. These are the indubitnl>le
facts in the case, and it is left to the judgment of the world to
account for them, which, l'robal>ly, it will1iml it ~oJnewhat
difficult to do, excc11t upon grnumls that ~uppose the truth of
the main positions of this uook.
But, though \Yell.,.-l.s5nred myselfofthe claimg ofl\Ir. D.'s state-
ments to entire confidence, arising frmn the general conscien-
tious honesty which governs his deportment, yet I do not Ray
tl1atthis quality exists with him to snch a degree as absolutely
to secure him from the inroac.ls of false impre~sious. I would
not, therefore,be unc.lexstoou as expressing a willingness to en-
dorse the intrinsic tnlth of all that he utters ill his Lectures." I
a1n taught by S\\·edenbo'g that a large IJOrtion of the in11uences
from the spiritual wm:lu are clelusiYP, and that a truefaith as
to the grand doctrines of Christianity, together \\'lth n. right
moral posture of the inner n1an, tue iudis1)ensable to a safe
comnumiou with s11irits and to the trustworthiness of tlle re-
ports that may Lc 1nauc from their sphere. Now I anl not
sufficiently acquaiutcd with l\1r. D.'s character in this respect
to feel a full assurance of his iuannuity from error in this
species of c01rununication. 1 eannot penetrate to the real
state of his affection and thought and thus ascertain the na-
ture and <leg1tee of his moral aiflnities. I should not, how-
ever, be at all snrprised if it were such as to lay the fouiH.la-
tion for a mixture of truth and falsity in his utterances. Tbis
question remains to be decided by the i~sne. I am only sure
of one thing-that the young man is actually the medium of
communications made by prompting spirits of the other
• Of these Lectures I have beard tv.·o or three tleliYered, and
have heard read from the manuscript p::~rts of forty or fi1iy mort'.
They are certainly very extramdinary for the extent of ground
they occupy-touching upou nearly a!l the grcnt themes of human
knowledge--and for the soundness of the conclnsions on subjects
of"which he was previously utterly ignorant. In onlimny eircum-
stances it weuld be impossible for such topics to ue treated, eYen
as ably as he has treated thPm, without a wide range of reference
to books. In this case I am po::.itive he hns consulteu no books
whatever. I can scarcely expect this will be believed upon my
a.sscl'tion, neverthless it is unquestionably true.
A.PPE~DIX. 1S3
world. I am satisfied that nothing else will account for the
facts in his case. Still, for aught I know, the following re-
marks of Jung Stilling may be ap1Jlicable to him:-" The
t!lcvation, the exalted feeling, the new discoveries, the en-
lightened insight, convince the inuividuul that what is
pa~siug in him is a very pectlliar operation of the Holy Spi-
rit; but believe me, assuredly and col1fidently, that this is
not (necessarily) the case. Such an one may certainly say
cxcclleut and very useful things, and even be the means of
really doing good; but before the 1nan is aware, a false spi-
rit, iu the guise of ati angel of light, mi.xes itself in the mat-
ter, and the poor creature is deceived."-Pneumatclogy., p.
209.
This ho'\\~ever can only be hypothetically suggested in
the present case. I do not venture to say in regard to ~lr. D.
that he is deceived or deluded, but simply that if, after utter-
ing so much that is in accordance 'vith S\\-cdenborg's doc-
triues, he shonl<.l utter other things that are contrary to them,
Swedenborg himself has given us the key by which to solve
such an apparent paradox. S01ne se<.:ret atH.l lurhiu~ error
of life or faith gives advantage to spirits of delusion to flow
into his mind and falsify lJis impressions of truth. And let me
here sny that it is in the highest degree remarkable, that
while Swedenborg himself is generally reputed to have been
the victinl of the wildest hatlucination~, he ltas in fact uevel-
opc<.l n1ore clearly than any one has ever done before, the
sources and causes of all kinds of spiritual delusions, and thus
enal>led us to be on onr guard against the various forms offal-
lacy which are frequently evinced in the l\Iesmcric state. Let
the reader recur to the previous chapter on Phantasy and that
which treats of SwedeaLorg's &ate psychologically considered,
nnd he will find ample proof of the truth of this remark.
That l\Ir.D. has in some \vay come, in his disclosures, into
a singular relation to the philosophy and psychology of Swe·
denl.Jorg is, I think, beyond a question. Equally clear do I
consider it that this i~ 110t the result of design on his part
How could he haye designed it w·hen he hn.d previously not
the slightest knowledge of his system, cmd when, to this day,
184 .lPPENDIX A.
he has not read a page of his works? \Vhatever he has ad.
vanced in common with him has been the re.;nlt of some
mysterious influence upon lus spirit, over which he has had
no control. Ho'v this has happened I assume not to say.
Previous to the indications of the fact, there is not the slight-
est evidence that he had ever heard the name of Swedenborg,
and it was only from an internal suggestion or impression
that he was enabled to 1nention it. Yet it is certain that he
has accurately reproduced many of his leading ideas, and the
presumption would be that in all important points he would
agree with him. But I do not know that this is the case.
It is not unlikely that his Lectures, in several particulars, go
counter to the doctrines of Swedenborg, though I believe it
will be found that they n1ainly accord \Vith them in spirit
and scope. But if such a discrepancy should be found to
exist in regard to certain points, there can of course be no
hesitation with the receivers of Swedeuborg which to ar;cept
and which to refuse. The contrary reports of ten thousand
clairvoyants would not shake an iota of their confidence in
the paramount truth of ·what tLeir illnn1inated teacher has af:
firmed on the same subjects. •
Bnt I have thus far merely asserted without exhibiting the
remarkable correspoud.ence between the general scope of the
letter and that of certain portions of the" Earths in the Uni-
verse." This l no\V proceed to disptay at some length, re-
minding the reader that the core of the marvel is in the fact
that he is quoting, in a great degree verbatim, from a work
not one page of which had ever come under his eye.
"Inasmuch as, by causes unrelated, things interior are
open to me which appertain to my spirit, as well as to all
others, and thereby it has been granted me to discouJse with
you while near our earth, and to be instructed by yon con-
cerning the opening hereafter \Yhich '\Viil lead me to an en-
larged understanding (of) a plurality of worlds, and to be
informed that the human race is not confined to one earth
only, but extends to earths innumerable-
In like manner the" Earths in the Universe" commences
thus:-" In~much as, by the divine mercy of the Lord, things
,
A.PrENDU: A. 185
interior are open to me, which appe·rtain to my spirit, and thereby it
ltas been granted me to discourse not only with spirits and angels
who are near our earth, but also with those who are near
other earths ; and whereas I had a desire to know whether
other earths exist, and of ·what sort they are, and what is the
nature and quality ot their inhabitants, therefore it has been
granted me of the Lord to discourse and.converse with spirits
and angels who arc from other earths, with some for a day,
with s01ne for a week, and 'vith some for months; and to be
instructed by them concerning the earths, from which, and
near 'vhich, they were; and concerning the lives, and cus-
toms, and 'vorship, of the inhabitants thereof, with various
other things \vorthy to be noted: and whereas in this manner
it has been granted me to become acquainted with such
things, it is permitted to describe them according to what has
been heard and seen."-E. U. 1. So again in another passage. ..
"That there are several earths, and men upon them, and
thence spirits and angels, is a thing most perfectly well known
in another life, for it is there granted to every one who desires
it from a love of truth and consequent use, to discourse with
the spirits of other earths, and thereby to be confirmed conc~rn-
ing a plurality of worlcls, and to be i11jo·rmed, that the human race
is not confinecl to one eaTth only, but extends to earths innumerable;
and moreover to know, what is the particular genius, man-
ner of life, and also divine worship, prevailing amongst the
inhabitants of each particular earth."-E. U. 2.
-and that by the things related man may be instructed if
his (being or principle) mind be so opened as to associate
with them understandingly.
This is evidently responsive to the last paragraph of No.1 of
the E. U. : " It is to be observed, that all spirits and angels are
from the human race; and that they are near their respective
earths ; and that they are acquainted with things on those
earths ; and that by tltem man may be instructed, 1jhis interiors be
so open as to be enabled to spealc and converse with them; for man
in his essence is a spirit and together ·with spirits as to his
interiors; 'vherefore he whoie interio1·s are opened by the
18G .APPENDU A..
Lord, may discourse with them, as man with man; which
privilege has Lcen granted me now for twelYc years daily."
A singular u~age '"ill be nolicet.1 in the above, of the inter-
jected clause, "being or principle;· as if synonymous with
"mind.'' No'\Y it is remarkable that this very phrase, enc.losed
in brackets, is of repeated occurrence in the E. U. as a sup-
plied trauslation of tl1e original 'Yord. "Diviuum," which is
applied to the Deity without a substantive. Thus, "\Vhat
would this ue to the Divine (being or principle) which it> in-
finite?" "They adore the Diviue (being or principle) not as
invisiule, but as visible, for this reason ::unongst others, thatbe-
cause when the Divine (being or principle) appears to them,
&c." It is eviclently in the document applied to the hmnan
essence, as it is by Sweclenborg to the divine.
I obse1Te you are avcr8e to discoursing vocally, but instead
thereof, enter the cerebrum near the right, where the think·
ing principle, "'rhich is above the imagination, is ;-
Here the parallelism is obvi.ous. " They aTe averse to dis-
course consisting of vocal expressions, because it is material~
"\vherefore when I conversed with thetn without interme-
diate spirits, I could only do it by a species of active thought.
Their memory as consisting of things, not of images purely
material, affords a nearer supply of its objects to the thinking
principle ; for the thinl~mg principle, 1..1.:hich is above the imagiHa-
tion, requires for its object, things abstracted from material."-
E. U. 17.
-and farther, all that I hear, sec, and perceive are such as
delight 1ne, being good and of the Spirit. From your mind I
perceive that \Vhatevcr things cause delight, and affect the
love, and flo\\' as it were spontaneously, is a communication
of al1 good things-
" Heuce also it may appear manifest, that spirits haYe
memory, and that it ]s mnch more perfect than the mem-
ory of meu; ana farther, that tcltat they !tear, see, atHl per-
ceive, they retain, and especially such things as deligiLt them, as
these spirits are delighted with kno\vledges; for 1.1}/wtevcr
things cause delight, and a_ffcct the love, these flow in Js it u:erc spOil-
APPEND!X ll.• 187
tn.n~ously, and remain; other things do not enter, but only
touch the snrface and puss hy."-E. U. 14.
-in::t:mwch as it i" the property of hea,·enly love to com-
mnnicnte all it~ po.ssessions with others-
The coinciueuce here is verbal; tlle parallel passage in
S\\'edenborg is contained in a note to No. 15, ·which reads
thus:-" That in the heaven there is givut a communication of
all good thi,zgs, i,za ·,mcclt as it is tlupropertyofheat·en!yloveto com-
municate all its pos~essions 1c.ith others; «nd that hence the au-
gels derive wisdom and happiness, n. 549, 550, 1390, 13!Jl,
1399~ 10,130, 10~723."-E. U. 15 n. k.
-and I percci,~e that. by research in your written thonghts
the above can L
..e foun<l in A. C. 549, ~50, 1390, 1391, 1399,
10,130, 10,723.
These, it ·will be observed, are the Yery references citcJ in
the note gi,-en above, so that it is impossible to resist the in-
ference, that they \vere either copied. directly from the \vork
in question, Ly means of material hands and eyes, or the pas-
sage \vas tran~;,fcrred froru some Iniml u puu whose 1nemory it
\Vas impressed, as upon a tablet, to that of Davis, accordiug to
the la\v of communication bet"·ccn the memoric!=; of 8pidts
as laid do"\\-rn in our l>revious chapter on that snl,jcct. \Ve
have already adverted to the considerations which \veigh
against: the fonner theory, and 'vhat s,ret1cnborg teaches on
the subject decidedly favors the idea. of a mysterious meatal
transcnj1tion. Ile thn~ speaks of l\:Iemory iu the other life.
" lucas, which are of the memory, are Yarious ; as the idea
of a pcr~on, 1mmely: \vhatever has been heard concerning
him, or whate,·cr was seen about him, which "·as observed
whilst speaking with him, abo what then was thought about
him, as ·welt goo<l thoughts as bad thoughts,-all ideas re-
main, ancl1nore than the man himself \Vas e,·er conscious of
which appeared to him as though he had not observed the1n.
All those idea.., remain, aucl are pre-..ented in the other life to-
gether, or in a moment, when nny one is thought of.
"Ideas also of places are presented together, and \Yith
them all things which happened there; these things adhere
183 AI'PENDIX A.
to the memory of the place, and are presented at the ~;ame
time, together \\•ith n. thonsand particulars. Ideas of things,
in like manner, as of sc.ientific things, anc.l such like, remain:
'vhatever a man has learnt and thought concerning any sub-
ject, is pre5ented at the s:une time, thus tnore fully, wheu he
has thonght more concerning the subject.
"That 1nore things enter into a man's ideas than the man
himself is a\\•are of, \vas sho\\'11 from this circumstance,-
that when 1 was wall~ing in the street of a city, or i.n a grove,
it was said, that the things \vhich I merely glanced at, and
scarcely ob~erved, nevertheless adhered to me, and could be
recalled; iu like manner concerning persons and things."-S.
D. 4553-4556. These impressions, thus remaining, are instan-
taneously transferred from one spirit's mind to that of another.
You represent to me three important tmths ;-that all spir-
its ami angels are from the human race, A. C. 1880,-
This is but another form of the first note in the E. U.-
" That there arc no spirits and angels, but what were of the hu-
man race, n. 1880."
-and by them man may ue instructed; for in his essence
he is a spirit, and that the soul is the spirit, which is the real
man in him, and remains in another life, in a perfect human
fornn--322, 1880, 1881, 3633, 4622, 4735, 6054, 6605, 6626,
7021, 10,594.
Here again we have the words of the third note to No. 1, n. c.
of the E. U. ;-" That the soul,.v:h1ch lives afte·r death, is the spirit
ofman, 'U.tltich is the 'real man 'in him, and also appears in anothe>·
life in a petfect human form," n. 322, 1880, 1881, 3633, 4622,
4735, 6054, 6605, 6626, 7021, 10,594. It \Vill be noticed that
Davis uses the word" remains" instead of" appears,'' which
is the term found in the common translation. Why this va-
riation if one \vas copied 1nanually from the other? ""~"hen
the \Vhole passage, except this \Vorc.l, is given ve1·batim, what
object was to be gained hy altering this? The same remark
is applicable to several other similar cases that will be Ho-
ticed in the Eequel.
APPENDIX A. 189
.--wherefore he whose interiors are opened may discourse
Wlth them as man wtth man, but not unless he be of true
faith and is led by the principle, A. C. 784, 9438, 10,751.
This is at once referred to the following: " That man is
capable of discoursing wzth spir£ts and angels, and that the
ancients on our earth did frequently discourse \vith them, n.
67, 68, 69, 784, 1634, 1636, 7802. But that at this day it is
dangerous to discourse with them, ttnless man be in a true faith,
and be led of the Lord," n. 784, 9438, 10,751.-E. U. 1, n. e.
The reason of the use of the word " principle" for " Lord"
has already been explained.
lHoreover, by the truthfulness of the above, long made
known to your own 5,pirit, a privilege has been granted me
now for three years, never before made manifest in this man-
ner ; and to know (that) v•hat has been related is above the
sensual thiugs of the natural man.
The jdea, though obscurely expressed, undoubtedly is,
that in accordance with the truth of what Swedenborg says
respecting the possibility ofspirits communicating with men
on P-arth. he had himself been privileged, for three years past,
to enjoy this intercourse, and 'vas thereby 1nade cognizant of
truths which transcend the grasp of the merely sensual or
natural man-an intimation perfectly in the style of Sweden-
borg ''·hen speaking of the principles and properties of our
nature.
From the purport of your mind I perceive the intended
n1eaning; that truth is reflected through my mind into the
external-
That is, that the influx of spiritual light and tntth w·hich
flo,vs into my mind is reflected or made manifest by coming
into expression through the external organs of speech.
-but that uy different terms (that have been imposed here-
tofore by speculative minds on similar subjects), so that they
(i. e. men in general) may form correct impressions from the
terms used to describe interior things-
Here, again, the true sense is somewhat enigmatical; but
as far as I can gather its scope, it is, that the peculiarlanguage
or dictionwhich he employs, though differing from that which
g•
190
has beeii for the 1nost part adopted by the learned, is yet not
'"·ithout a preccuent, inasmuch as certain writers of'' speeu-
lativc minds'' ha,·e, iu treating of "similar subjects," sougltt
to adapt weir terminology to the intrinsic nature of the themes
of their discnssion, aml that for the purpo~c of cotnreying
more correct i(lcas of the interior essences of things. I infc1
this from the evident allusion in-the passage to what Sweden-
borg says of Aristotle in the other life:-" From the purport
of his discourse, I pcrcei,·eu that ltc "·as altogether of a dif-
ferent genius and temper from thos'3 schoolmen who fir~t as:
cendetl, in that he "rotc from a grotmd of thonght a11tl dis:
cefnmcnt in himself~ and thence produced his philosophical
discoverie~; 30 that the tums which he invented and U'lLich lte 1·m-
posed on spcculati-,;e wl~ject~, 'lce1·c forms of expTc~szon by 'which he
dcscribtd tnlerior things.''-E. U. 38. That the allusioni::- to the
passage now quoted, I ~hink there can be no daub+, and
the drift of the writing seems to be, that ''Te are wan8ntecl
by this exa1nple to encleavor, if possible, to adopt a phrase·
ology in speaking ofthese spiritual and transcendental themes
\vl,ich ~hall be n1oro ncconlnnt with their real nature than
that usually employed. Indeed, the general scope of this
part of the clocnment seems to be to viudicate the propriety
of the peculiar diction of which he, from the influx of Swe-
c1enborg's mind, n1akes use in this, aud perhaps also in his
other communications. It is consequemly a justific.ation, at the
same time, of Swedenborg·s peculiar style, of which com..
plaints are frequently made by those who do not fully appre.r
ciate the genius of his revelations. Those who clo, are per
fsct.ly satisfied with it.
-and that aU such expressions appearing as material, eli-
tirely external, and speaking of terrestrial laws, is (are) mean-
ing only, and that deeply to impxcss on the logicians aud
metaphysicians the more important essences of interiors-
Before attempting to determine the precise import of this
sentence, I will refer to what Swedenborg says of certn.in
spirits who -vvere present with him while writing anu explain-
ing the Word as to its mternal sense. ." These," he says;
I•
APPENDIX A. 191
n perceived \vhat I wrote, and said that the things 'vhich I
wrote were ver~gross, and that almost all the expressions ap-
peared as mate1·ial."-E. U. 27. And as these spirits had re-
lation to the n1emory of things abstracted from what is ma-
terial, therefore, ""'"hen tl.uy one disctmtses with them con-
cerning tltings terre ·trial, corporeal, and merely u·orldly, they are
unwilling to hcar."-E. U. 31. Otl the whole, I infer this as
the tenor of the paragraph-that all these apparently gross and
material expressions, founded upon the out\\:ard aspects of
things, are, in the true and spiritual use of them," meaning
only,'' that is, possessed of a soul, as it were, au internallifn
and efficacy of import, comparetl with which the more obvi-
ous or outward meaning can scarcely be termed a meaning
at all. On the contrary, such terms drawn from material ob-
jects, when secu in their just relation to internal essences, are
nothing but meaning. The idea which is doubtless intended
to be conveyed in this paragraph may be illustrated by the
following extract from the E. U. which occurs in the same
connection with the passages w·e hav~ already quoted:-
" Afterwarus I represented to them birds of ditlerent sizes.
both large and small, such as exist on our earth ; for in an-
other life such things 1nay be represented to the life; when
they saw the birds represented they were disposed at first
to change them, b1tt afterwards they were delighted 'vith
them and seemed satisfied ; the reason was, because birds
signify the knowledges of things, anc.l the perception of this
t5ignification flowed in also at that instant; thus they desisted
from transmuting them, and thereby from averting the ideas
of their memory. Afterwards it was allowed to represent be-
fore them a most pleasant garden full of lamps and lights;
instantly they paused, and theirattention was fixed, by reason
that lampswithlights sihrnifytruths which are lucid by virtueof
good. Hence it was made manifest that their attention might
be fixed in viewing things material, if the signification of
those things in a spiritual sense 'vas but insinuated at the
same time; for the things appertaining to such spiritual
sense are not so abstracted from things material, being repre-
sentative thereof.'~ Here it is 5een ho~ things external, cor·
192 APPENDlX A.
poreal, and terrestrial are resolved into interior essences, and
consequently the terms by ,vhich they are ordinarily ex-
pressed acquire a nc\v fnlness of import, which renders them,
as it \Vere, "meaning only;.. the common terms seem to dis-
appear, and tho interior sense only remains. 1\:Ir. D. further
adds, that theconviction ofthis truth will not fail to produce its
due impres~ion upon logicians and metaphysicians in their
researches into the deeper departments of our nature, and es-
pecially as to the 1nost appropriate language with which to
clothe their ideas.
-as these are the expres~ions of the Divine principle which
flows not only into he;wen, but also into the univer.::e, and
everything (is) maue thereby the snhorclinatc receptacle of
light and life which is love, anti order and form which js
'\Visdom ·-
,
The parallelism here, though not so obvious as in some
other cases, is still to be detected, as the reader will sec from
the following passage, in which Sl\·edenborg is still speaking
of Aristotle. " He next showed me '\vhat idea he had con-
ceived of the Supreme Deity, viz. that he hnd represented
Him to his 1nind as having a human face, and encompassed
about the head 'vith a radiant circle; and that now he kne\v
that the Lord himself is that ~1an, and that the radiant circle
is the Divine principle j)roceeding from 1/inz, u·ltidt not only jlou·s
into Heaven, but also into the tmiverse, disposing and ruling all
things the·rcin." The coincidences and the discrepaneies in
the t"\\·o paragraphs are obvious. The latter are mainly Yer-
bal. The purport is not difficult of apprehension after ·what
we have already said by way ofexplanation of that which has
preceded; and to the reader familiar 'vith Swedenborg's the-
osophy, it becomes at once not only intelligible but luminous.
According to his sublime discoveries, the '\\hole universe is
an outbirth of the Divine Love and \Visd01n. All material
forms are n1ere receptacles of the influx of these Divine prin-
ciples, and thus constitute their expression, according to the
law of Correspondences which Swedenborg has so strikingly
developed. This is still more evident from what follo\vs :-
APPENDIX A. 193
-inasmuch as these all dwell in the external worl<.l, and
is (are) constantly exemplifying the qualitics and attributes
of the Divine Lm~e and \Visdom.
That is, these principles of light and life, order and form,
dwell or inhere in the external world, '"·ith all1ts varied con-
tents, and continually "exemplify" or illustrate and set forth
the all-pervading, all-animating, all-sustaining attributes of
the Divine Love and \Yisdom. That this is the universal
teaching of Swedenborg throughout his works no one needs
to Lc inforn1ed who is at all acquainted 'vith them.
~orne men do not even proceed to thoughts, but stay so1e-
ly on terms, which, if they apply, it is to confirm \.Vhatever
they uesire, and to impose upon false principles an appear-
ance of truth, accordi11g to their desire to create a di.c:belief in
the future or interior condition. Hence philosophical investi-
gations lead men to folly rather than to wisdom, and hence
they have darkness instead of light.
The coincidence in this case is all but absolutely verbal.
Swedenborg is still speaking of Aristotle, of whom, by the
way, he remarks, that he" is amongst:sourHl awl sober 5pirits
in the other h.fe, while several of his followers are amongst
the infatuated." Of him· he says, that " he was excited to
such pursuits Ly a delight of affection, and by a desire of
kno".-ing the things appertaining to the thinking and intellec-
tual faculties, and that he follo\ved obediently whatever his
spirit had dictated ; wherefore he applied himself to the
right ear, contrary to the custom of his follo\\'ers, \vho are
called the schoolmen, and who do not go from thoughts to
terms, but from terms to thoughts, thus in a contrary way ;
and seve·ral of them do not even proceed to thoughts, bttt stick solely
-in terms, u•hiclt, if they apply, it i$ to confirm whatever they desire,
and to impose on false pr-inciples an appearance of truth, acc01·ding
to their eagerness to penuade others. Hence philosophical investiga-
tions lead them rather to folly than to wisdom, and hence they have
darkness instead of light."-E. U. 38. This must certainly be
pronounced very remarkable, in case it is not an actual tran-
script on the part of Davis from the words of Swedenborg.
But if it be, why did he vary from the original in writing
,
"&taysolely on terms" instead of "stick solely in tettns ;h and.
why did he substitute " according to their desire to create a
disbelief in the future or interior condition," instead of cc ac-
cording to their eagerness to persuade others ?" These are
indeed points of little intrin~ic importance, but in a case of
this kind, it is by ~uch minor items that our jmlgment is often
determined. If the whole was copied, why this strange va-
tiation iu particulars? 'Vlmt object was to be gained by it?
It obviously could not be to disguise a J>lagiarism, for this
would be detected by the \'crbal conformity of the othet
par~. It is clear that, on any hand, there is no escape from
an astounding puzzle.
How shall I, when in the form, anu in the "·orlll, I~t thest!
present sayings of thy spirit b~come known and Le believed l
The phtase "in the form" is one that ~fr. D. frequently
uses in his clairvoyant state to denote the normal or waking
conuition in contradistinction from the abnormal or sleeping.
if the term sleep can with any propriety be applied to a state
t>f such intellectual elevation and activity. The usage seems
to go on the tacit implication, that in that state the substance,
or the soul, can scarcely be said to be in theform, or the body.
The governing idea is clearly Sweuenborgian.
It appears manifest; you have said that WQatevcr spirits
there bewere once men ; thatevery one's life remains with him
and goes after death, A. C. 4227, 7440 ;• and that the externals
of life arc kept closed after ueath, and the internals opened,
4314, 5128, 6495.
The identity of this with the following extracts is apparent
at once:-" It is to be observed that all ang1ls and l;pi'rits what-
!Dntr tJJere once men; for the human race is the seminary of
Heaven; a.l!o, that the spirits are altogether such, as to affecio
tionsand inclinations, astheywere during theirlife in the world
whilst men; jOf' every one's life follows him into a1wther world."
• This is the only erroneous reference in the whole. The num•
ber containing the proof in question is 7439; but the error, which
is doubtless a typographical eAe, oceva in lbe Latm, and IUill
throush all lhe U&D:tlaciolll\
.APP~Nini A.. i95
Appended to the above is the following marginal note:-
"That every man's life Temains with him a1id follows him after death;
n. 4227, 7440. That the external:; of life are kept closed (ljte1· death,
and tlte inte·rnals opened, n. 4314, 5128, 6495.-E. U. 30. Here
again is a slight bnt, as usna1, confounding verbal variation
of" goes., fer" follows." The coincidence othenYise is exact.
These things are not by me known when in the form, but
are to oth::rs.
The inquiry, it ·will be recollected, was 1nade just above,
ho\v the requisite faith might be produced in these revela-
tiorlS. The question is here answered. He is enabled tel
state important fucts in regard to man's future condition
which are entirely unknown to him ·when in the natural
state, but which are known to othets, that 1s, to those whCI
teccive Swcdenborg's declarations on the subject. If they are
satisfied that he has acquired this intelligence without a pre·
vious acquaiutauce with his v.rritings, they at least will have
a full assurance that he is entitled to credit, for in what way
can it be supposed that he has be~n enabled to 1nakc these
statements, if he has not deriYed them from supernatural sug-
gestion? His truth here is a pledge for his truth in other
respects.
I receive one oth~r impression from yon; the form, the ex-"
ternal, is not of itself living only as it is animated by the in-
tenlal essence ; and by it the fonn is detei'mined aud made
alive.
How perfectly accordant this is with the general teaching of
Sweclenborg the following extracts evince:-" I added that
several in this earth do not know that it is the internal man
which acts on the external, and ca'l.l.ses the cxteT?lal to lit•e; and that
·they persuade the1nselves from the fallacies of the senses,
that the body has life, and that in consequence thereof, such as
are wicked and unbelieving entertain doubts respecting a life
after death."-E. U. 27. "It is a fallacy of sense, that the
body alone lives, and that its life perishes when it dies; the
sensnal does not at all apprehend that tlte mternal man is in
each single thing of the external; and that the internal man iB
196 APPENDl~ J..
within nature in the spiritual world, (i. e. in a sphere interior
to outward nature)." "!\Ian leaves nothing at all behind him
at ueath but only bones and ilesh, which, while he lived in
the ''"·odd, were not anim11tcd by themselz:es, bttt by the life of ltis
spirit."-A. C. 2475. The same trnth is taught in hundreds of
other passages. How came an unlettered youth, recently
from a shoemaker's bench, to utter this profound philosophy?
Thus the body is in constant subordination.
The parallel to this is to be found in the following passage
of another work :-" The mind, that is, the wlll and the un-
derstanding, actuates the bo<ly and all things of it at pleasure.
Does not the body do whatever the mind thinks and ·wills?
The mind erects the ears for hearing, directs the eye for see·
ing; the mind 1noves the tongue and lips to speaking; it ac·
tuates the hands and fingers to doing 'vhatever it pleases, and
the feet to walk 'vhither it will. Is the body tkus anything but
obedience to the mind 7"-D. L. ~· W. 387.
On hearing this from me in spirit (i. e. while in a spiritual
state), the world will be silent; but will acknowledge (ac-
cording to your former predictions) that these truths are so.
A corresponding passage to this is the following:-" On
hea't·ing this they were silent, inas1nuch as by a perception then
given them, they acknowledged itwasso."-U. E. 39. It ofcourse
remains to be seen how far this emphatic intimation of the
el'fect of his disclosures upon the ·world will be verified by
the result. That the specific truths to which he here partic-
ularly alludes ~will be ere long much more universally ac·
knowledged, I have for myself not the least doubt. The in-
terjected clause-" according to your former predictions''-al-
ludes to what Mr. D. affirms to have been said by Sweden- .
borg to him in a former interview, of which he has written
out a minute account that will probably be one day given to
the ·world. It is a narrative of facts, or of what he alleges to
be facts, no less remarkable than anything which we are
now detailing to the reader. Time alone, however, can
determine how far the evidence of the truth of the revela·
tions shall silence the voice of incredulous reproach
APPE~DIX A. 197
The inhabitants or the earth inquire into nnd imbibe the
knowledges of things not elevated above the sensualities
of the body; this is muue manifest by the influx of your
SJliriL.
The source of this is obvious from w·hat is said in the fol-
lowing passage respecting spirits of an opposite character to
that of the n1ass of men on earth :-" '\Vith what eagerness
tht!y inqui·rc into and imbibe the knowledges of things, such as
appertain to the memory elevated above tlze sen'>ualillcs of the
body, was made manifest to me from this circumstance,
&c."-E. U. 13. As to the reme~ining clause-" this is made
1nanifcst by the influx of your spjrit"-tbe import doubt-
less is, that the inllo·wing of Swcdenborg's spirit into his, and
bringing to view the essential nature of spiritual and heaven-
ly things, revealeu an immense eontrast between these sub-
jects and those 'vhich constitute the leading themes of hu-
man mqlll!Y.
Also, that men immerse their thoughts in the science of
logic and metaphysics with no other eud, than to acquire the
character of being learned, and thus to be advanced to honor
and emolument.
Every one must be struck with the Yerbal correspondence
of this ·with what Swedenborg says of a class of spirits \vhich
he encountered in the other 'vorld :-"They spake with me,
sayiug, that they were logicians and metaphysicians, and
that they had immersed their thoughts in the sciences of logic and
metaphyslcs u·zth no other end, than to acquire the character ofbeing
learned, and thttsto be advanced to honor and emolumcnt."-E. U. 38.
I perceive by your spirit thi~, for me, is impo~sible; 3;11d
that f should retain my former and present advice, actmg
(according) to my own interior directiotl as given me.
The idea I take to be, that he is a~sured by a certain in-
describable impression upon his mind, that this whole train
of di5closnrc is in itself something that entirely transcends
his own uuassisted powers, and that he can only occomplish
it by yielding an implicit obedience to the internal promptings
by which he has been g?verned from the outset, as I have
198
already rema.rkca that it \va~ in consequence of em expres~
direction which h~ aflirm-; that he received from S\vedcn-
borg that. he enterell npou hi:-; present course of revclatious.
The usc in the world is not known, bnt to me is now za<m-
ifest; with promptitude 1ny spirit obeys; and tho spirit now
on yonr miu<.l shall read thiP., itHl~ingly, from your referen-
ces, from what sphere your spirit is manifested.
The grand providential design of these singular devclop4
ments is not, at present, seen or appreciated by the \\'orld at
large; nor hnxe I been myself hitherto competent to appre-
hend it. Bnl in conseqaence of the Jjght now let in npon my
mind, that design is fully 1nn.nifcsted, and I cheerfully yield
myself as an instrument by whom it is to be accomplished.
The latter clause of the above 'vas a complete riJdle till I
recently snbmitteJ it to 1\Ir. D. him::;elf for a solution. He re-
plied that for a particular reason the impression upon his
mind, as to the scope of this sentence, was made to remain
after he came into his natural state, and that it had special
relation to n1yself. I give the explanation as he gave it to
me, simply with the vie\v of making his langu3ge intelligible,
and not from self-complacency at being unconsciously mixed
up in such a n1ysterious train of inc.;idents. He said he clear-
ly perceiveJ that I \vas on the mind of Sn-edenborg at the
ti1ne, and that it was in consequence of this that he felt the
strong and irresistible impulse to send the paper immelliate-
ly to me, which he did as soon as he had copied it.* By "the
spirit now upon your mind" therefore is meant "the spirit
now in your thoughts,'' and this he says, \Vas no other than
myself. I, it seems, 'vas to read the communication, and Ly
"' :Mr. D. still retains the original, \Vhich I have seen, and which
is beautifully written, thour.;h in pen(' it. It is in a style of calligra-
phy far superior to that wllich nutrks his ordinary manuscript. This
is remarkable as it was written iu the wooth, where he had no
convenience of table or !'~eat. I-low he was enabled to execute it
in such a. .::tylc he does not know; all he knows i~, that wlten he
came to ltim:>elr he fotmu it on his !np. As to its not having been
wet, this he afterwards explained when in the M~.;5meric state, hy
saying it was written in a kind of ca.veJ which however did not af-
ford sufficient shelter Lo protect his person from the rain.
ArPENDD: A. 199
an investigation ofthe references was to form a judgment ofthe
source from which it emanated. This I lwve certainly under-
taken in this portion of the worlt, aud that too in a manner
very aucordant ·with the tenor of the 'vorus; y~t I entered
upon the ta~k l>efore heing at nil aware of the import which
he ~ays belongs to the expressions. It must be confessed
that the interpretation makes a very consistent sense when
compared 'vith the result, and I know no reason to reject it,
though far fro1n aspiring to, or previously dreaming of, the
honor of beiug in any way a party to such a marvellous
transaction. The exact scope of the final clause-" fr01n
what sphere your spirit is manifested "-I was not certain of
having grasped till I sul>mitted it to JUr. D. in the transic state,
w ho remarked that the import was, that I should be cnal>led to
judge,all things considered, and especially from the references,
whether the contents of the communication emanated from a
spirit in a material body, or whether it was to be referred to
one in a higher sphere, or state, for by " sphere" in tlus con-
nection, he observed, is to be understood v state, and a state
implying a certain degree of spiritual exaltation. As to the
general question, whether the origin of tlw document was nat-
ural or supernatural, my concln;;;ion, a' the render ,,.-ill haYe
seen, is unequivocally in favor of the latter hypothesis. But
as to the particular, or what I may term the petsonal, source,
I am far from being decided.
1\Ir. Davis himself is very confident, from the impression
made on his 1niud, that the spirit with whom he conversed
'"?as the veritable S\\-edcnborg hiinself, and I have all along
spoken as adopting his vie,v. l\!t from what Swedenborg
says of the order of the 5piritual v.~orld, and especially ofthere
being a" 'vorld of spirits'' intermediate between our world
and heaven or hell, who are in more immediate proximity
to the Inass of n1en, I am unnble to rest in it as an ausolnte
certn inty that ~Ir. D:s impressions on this score are correct.
\ Vh at "·e are taught rc~pceting the inflnx of one spirirs mind
into tlmt of another, aud of one's freq11e11tly 11ersouatiug an-
other, leaves it ~till subje~,;t to douht, whether the other party
to this strange interview \Verc really s·wedenborg himself. It
200 APrENDIX A.
may possibly have been a "subject" of Swedenborg41--
some one \vho was in close conjunction with him-who
'vas thoroughly imbued with his truths-,vho was intent up-
on the propagation of his system in the world-and yet he
may have been 1nerely an intermediate spirit, of the " 'World
of spirits," through whom Swedenborg's influx may have
come to Davis' mind. This is perhaps rendered more proba-
ble by the fact that all the quotations from the E. U. which
occur in the letter, are made from the English version. The
inference would seem to be that they n1ust have ucen trans-
ferred, so to speak, from an Engl-ish memory, for they \Vould
scarcely have that dress in Sweclenborg's mind, and I know
not that he developes any law by which the process could
have occurred on any other supposition, than that the dicta-
tion should have come from some one who had read the
work in the English translation. It may therefore have been
a different being from that which Mr. D. supposed.
From what Swedenborg has developed of the state ofthings
in the other life, \Ve learn that another spirit may have actu-
tually assumed his form and appearance, and that too ·with-
out a necessary evil intent, but simply from the plenary in-
flu.."i:. of his 1nind. I am therefore at a great re1nove from as-
surance as to the identity of the spiritual personage who
formed a party to this asserted conference. The whole matter,
however, is, from the nature of the case, involved in so much
obscurity that nothing positive can be affirmed respecting it.
I am only assured of the fact, that most extraordinary dis-
closures have been made from the spiritual world through
this gifted young man, and that things more and more ·won-
derful are constantly being exhibited by him, of \vhich the
\vorld will by and by have an opportunity to judge.
I observe the illuminated expression of your eye, which it
is given to kno\v, corresponds to understanding, because un-
derstanding is interior sight, and also to sight and knowledrre
of things true and immaterial, 2701, 4410, -1526, 9051, 10,569.
"' Upon the nature and character of "subjects, in the other
world, I ~halt have occasion to remark on a t5ubsequent page.
APPENDIX A. 201
This uoubtless favors, at.first blush, the idea that the spirit
'\\rho appeared to Mr. D. 'vas no other than Sv:edenborg him-
self. But we still do not consider it decisive, as the same
cause which produced this effect upon Swedenborg's eye
may have produced it upon that of another being. The same
ocular phenomenon occurred in the case of the Seere~s of
Prevorst, hereafter~ be mentioned, and from her account is
common to all spiritual vision. But the fact in regard to Swe-
denborg, reminds us of the following item in his biography.
"~Ir. Robsham having asked of the wife of Swedenborg's
gardener, if she had ever observed any chauge in the coun-
tenance of her master, soon after he had conversed with
spirits; to this she replied: 'Entering one day, after dinner,
into his chamber, I saw his eyes like a most brightflume; I dre\V
back, saying, In the name of God, Sir, what has happened
extraordinary to you, for you have a very particular kind of
appearance?' ''Vbat kind of look have I,' answered he.
I then told him what had struck 1ne, 'Well, well,' exclaimed
he (which was his favorite expression),' don't be frightened;
the Lord has so d1sposed my eyes, that by them spirits may
see what is in our world.' In a short time this appearance
passed away, as he said it would. 'I know,' said she, 'when
be has cotn•ersed with heavenly sphits, for there is a pleas-
ure and calm satisfaction in his countenance, \Vhich charms
those \vho see it; but after he has conversed with evil spirits,
he has a sorrowful look.' "-Doc.u. Conce1·n. Swedcnbo-,-g, p. 76.
There is not the slightest ground for believing that ~Jr. D.
had ever became acquainted withthe fact of this personal pe-
culiarity in regard to Swedenborg.-As to the remainder of
the sentence, and the references, we perceive their source in
what follo,vs :-" That tlte eye corresponds to the tmdentanding,
because tile understanding is internal sight, and tlte sight of thitlgs
immaterial, n. 2071, 4410, 4526, 9051, 10,569.''-E. U. 22, 'note.
.
w·e have now submitted, with our comments, this remark4
able production to the rea<.ler. It will appear remarkable
just in proportion as the evidence is strong, that the w?rk ·we
2.02 .i.Pr.ENDLX A.
have incessantly quotetl throughout"'as ne,·er read by :Mr. D
and that the paper was not prepared to his hanu by one who
had. The latter supposition is entirely incretlil>le, for l1 is as-
sociations have not been such as to bring him into t'Olltact
with any one who is snfficicntly familiar \dth tlw~e writings
to prepare such an article, aml one ·who could tlo it u·otdclnot.
He could have no object that he \Voula_not feel to be con-
demned by the spirit of every page of these hallov;ecl revela-
tions.. Besides, as to 1Ir. D., nearly every hourof hi:-; time for the
last two years can be distinctly accounteu for, as he is scarce
ever for five minutes out of the presence of one or the other
of his companions, and they know that he has hac.lno op-
portunity for the private getting up of such a c.locument.
Anu who will rationally believe that any object to he gnined
by a bare-faceu fabrication could be sufficient to inuuce him
to endeavor to palm such an egregious lie upon the ,,.,.orld?
Still I cannotbe ignorant that it willbe regarded by multitudes
as far more probable that a scheme of imposture lms been
concocted by somebody, and the present paper got ttp as a part
of it, th~n that a mimwlous corrununication has been maue,
at this age of the world, through this young man as a medi-
um. This conclusion "·ill donbtless be favored by all those
'vho sturdily refuse admission to the clailn mad~ for Swe-
deulJorg of having spoken, by divine suggestion, from the
spiritual world. To those who are ready to recognize the
soundness of this claim the difficulty on this score wm have
but little weight, for they have learnt the presnmption of
"limiting the Holy One of Israel," and of prescribing to him
when and where and how he shall put forth his mighty
po·wcr in bestowing new measures of truth upon his crea·
tures. They will be at no loss to admit the possibility of just
such a demonstration as that which we affirm in the present
case, and they, we think, in view of all the circumsLances,
will be inclined to share with us in the conviction, tlmt in re-
gard to ~Mr. D. the evidence decidedly preponderates, that he
has told the simple truth-titat he never rear! tlte book.
Here then stands the astounding fact, that a young man of
the utmost simplicity and truthfulness of character-of fair
ArPENl:HX A.
natural parts, but of exceedingly limited intellectual culture
-who had never read a page of S·wedenborg's 'vritings-is
prompted, while in :1 preternatural state, to indite a loug
communication made np frmn beginuiug to end of a series of
quotations from one of thc~c \\·arks, emlJodying a train of
profound philosophical thought, such ns he is utterly inca.
pable of entertaining or expressing in his normal condition !
Indeed I am myself satisficcl that evei1 if he had had the
book before him, he would be utterly incapallle of framing
from it such an article as we have here presented to ns. The
character of his mincl, and his entire intellectual habits, are
of an order altogether foreign to the production of a docu-
ment of this kind, no n1atter whnt might be the materials be-
fore him. This 'vill perhaps be doubted, but not by those
who kno'v him.
Such then are the circumstances atteniling this remarkable
case, and the '"hole affair is propounded to the world for so-
lution. Such a solution too is demanded as, snppo~ing su-
pernatural agency invoh;ed, shall explain why the recon1ed
sentiments of Emanuel Swedenborg shall thnR he echoed
from the spiritual ·world rather than those of any other man.
This is the grand problcrn in the case, ancl it is felt to press
just in proportion to the difficulty of accounting for the facts
on the ground of fabrication or fraud. The difliculty on this
score 've think to be insuperable, and the conclusion not to
uc avoided, that the commnnication is the result of the action
of a disembodied mind on the mind of the writer. To "·hom-
soever that mind pertained, it was certainly one which \Vas
deeply imbued with s,,·edenborg's doctrines, and which was
intent on having them imparted, through thi~ medium, to
the world. Yct why such a distinction conferred on these
doctrines especially? '\Yhy are the spirits holding the~e doc-
trines permitted or prompted, rather than any others, to be
brought into connection with youngDavis' mind and to act, by
their influx, upon it? Some reason must be assigned for this,
and again we ask what it is? lias it not the air at least of a
providential attestation of the truth of these doctrines? Does
it not seem to be a designed confirmation of the claim of a
204 APPENDIX A.
messenger from heaven? One of the main fe~tnres of this
claim is the asserted fact of S\'\·cdcnborg·~ hn\·ing heen com-
missioned to reveal the conditions of the other life, and the
truth of the fixed and indissoluble connection between the
spiritual and the natural world. But all this is sub~ervient
to the still higher function of unfolding the true genius of the
Christian Religion. If t~ aisclosu:res are true, \Ve do not see
but the aoctrines lllUSt be. Consequently whatever goes to
confirm the verity of the one bears also upon that of the
other. But if both are incleed true, it does not seem unrea-
sonable that some such providential testimony to this truth
shouhl be afforded as we read ir1 the case before us.
I am aware that the reply to this will be, that the very
point I am laboring to establish, viz. the relation of the
phenomena o( 1\lesmerism to those that mark the case of
Swedenborg, disproves the idea of anything miraculous or
divine in his revelations-that if common clairvoyants are
gifted with the opening of a spiritual sense ·which brings
them into peculiar relation and intercourse with the spiritual
\vorld, there is no need to consider Swedenborg's prerogative
in any other light, except perhaps as his superior native and
acquired endowments may have rendered him a vessel of
larger reception than his fellow-seers? How, it may be ask-
ed, did he differ from thmn but in the clegree of his influx and
illumination? In reply to this I cau only say, that I should
be sorry to think that I had toiled so much in vain in the
preceding pages as not to have impressed upon the reader a
conviction of the immeasurable interval, in point of absolute
reliability, which separates the apocalypse of Swedenborg from
the apocrypha of the Mesmeric seeings. I woulJ ask of any
one who has attentively read the foregoing extracts front
his works, in connection \Vith those cited from the Magnetic
writings, whe~her he is not conscious of an imtnense dispari-
ty in the two on the score of solidity, gravity, reality, and a
certain indescribable air of truth? Does not Swedenborg speak
comparatively in a tone of self-conscious authority, which is
clearly entitled to render his revelations a standard by which
the trnth of all others is to be tried and decided ? Does he
APPENDIX A. 205
not disclose the amazing fallacies and delusions to which
those fire exposed who come into this state unprotected by
the panoply of a sound and upright moral condition? Can
·we resist the impression that he would himself have been
liable to bec01ne the victim of the thousand fold subtle phan-
tasies that prevail in that world, if he had not been speuially
called and qualified to be the subject of this hazardous expe-
rience?
" Swedenborg's illumination differed only in degree from
ordinary dairvoyance." But what is in this degree? The in-
spired prophets themselves could never have been admitted
into the spiritual sphere, aud enabled to describe its sublime
spectacles, except upon the ground of au innate potcntiulity,
in the very structure of their being, for such an intromission.
The same capability belongs to all other men, and it has
doubtless been more or less developed in thousands of in-
stances both in earlier and in later days. The souls of pious
men have often been visited, especially upon their death-
beds, with the sights and sounds of heaven. But would
any one rightly infer from this, that the utterances of the
prophetic ecstasy were clothed with no more authority than
the sayings emanating from the devout raptures of the saints,
albeit, they may have proceeded from the same psychologi-
cal grounds laiu in the elements of their being ? Is not the
degree of difference everything? 'Ve have admitted that
there is a common basis in the principles of our nature for
the revelations of clairvoyants and the revelations of s-
weden-
borg, but, 'vithout retracting this admission, we hold that
there is a heaven-wide dilference between them growing out
of the circumstances of their utterance. Still I see not but
that the one 1nay justly be made use of to illustrate the
other, and that the process is perfectly legitimate by which
I have endeavored to confirm the truth of Swedenborg's
statements, not so much by the actual1·cvelations of 1r!esmeric
subjects, as by the phenomena of the Mesmeric state.
The above remarks are made in view of the possibility
that Mr. D.'s other revelations may contain 1nany things that
are intrinsically erroneous and at variance with Swcdeu-
10
:!06 Al'PENDJX :\.
borg's teachings. I do not know that they do, but it is 8till
possible, nnd should the fact he so, I can yet sec that a very
important end may be accomplished in the '\'::tY of confinna-
tion, by showing that Swedenborg has disclosed the truth in
regard to the delusions that emanate from the spiritual
world. It is something for an assurance to be given of his
own truth, even in ·what he says of the untruth of evil
spirits, and the force of the evidence is not lessened by
the proofs of both coming through the same medium, when
brought into a state like that of Mr. D.
And here, with the hope of reflecting still farther light
upon the psychological phenomena involved in the present
case, I shall advert to one re1narkable feattue of Sweden-
borg's disclosures-! mean that which relates to subject-spirits
in the other world. A subject, in his phraseology, is one who
serves as a medium of communication, for the most part
between societies of spirits, whether good or evil, though
capable of performing the same functions in relation to indi-
vidual spirits. "The spirits who were seen near to me,
,vere for the most part subjects of entire societies; for socie-
ties send from themselves spirits to others, and through them
perceive the things thought and the affections, and thus
communicate." "In the other llfe one society cannot have
communication with another, or with an individual, except
by the spirits who are sent forth by them; these errussary-
spirits are called subjects, for by them as by subjects they
discourse. To send forth subjects to other societies, and
thereby to procure to themselves communication, is among
the familiar things in the other life ; and it is very well known
to me by this, that they have been sent to me a thousand
times."
Inthe following extract a much fuller account is given of
the peculiar genius of these emissary-spirits and of the part
they perform in the matter of mental commtmication. "The
subject is he, in whom are concentrated the thot1ghts and
discourses of several, and thus several are presented as one:
and because a subject thinks and speaks nothing at all from
himself, but from others, and the thoughts and discourses of
APr•ENDIX A. 207
others are therein presente<l to the life, therefore they who
flow in suppose, that the subject is as nothing, and scarcely
animate<.l, being merely receptiYe of their thought and dis-
conr::-e ; but the subject on the other hand supposes, th~it ~- •
does not think and spenk from others, but frcm himself
alone ; thus fallacies delude both. It has been frequent!~
given me to say to a subject, that he thinh:s and speak~
nothing from himself, but from others ; and also that those
others suppose that a subject is not able to think and speak
anything fr01n himself, thus that he appears to them as a
person in \VhOln there is nothing of life from himself; on
hearing this, he who '\.Vas the subject \\as filled with indigna-
tion; but that he might be convi11ced of the truth, it was
given to speak ''riLh the spirit~ who flo\Yed in, and they then
confessed, that a subject does not tl~ink and speak anything
fr01n himself, nnd thns that he appears to them to be some-
thing scarcely animate. It happened also on a. time, that he,
who said that a subject was nothing, became him~elf a sub-
ject, ant1 then the rest said of him that he was nothing, at
which be was greatly enraged; but yet he 'vas instructed by
tlus ho'"' the case is.
c: It is worthy of being mentioned, that it has frequently
been shown by experiment, that uo one, either in heaven or
in hell, thinks, ~reaks, wills, and acts, from himself, but. from
others, an<.l thns :finally all and each from the common influx
of life, which is fr01n the Lord. \Vhcn I have heard them
say, that a subject did not think and speak anything from
him~elf, and that still the ~ubject thought that it was solely 11
from himself, it has then been frequently ·given them to speak
with tho:::e, who flowed in into the subject; and when they
persisted in the as~ertion ·that they thought and spoke for
the1nselves, bnt not the subject, it was al~o given to tell them
that this was a fallacy, and that they, as we11 as the suhject,
thought and spake from others; to confirm this point, it ·was
also given to speak with those who flo"·etl in into these
latter; and when they also confesse<.l a like persuasion, it
'vas also gi.veu to 1:.peak with those who flowed in into tl1ese,
and so on in a continued series; hence it \Vas made manifest,
~OS .
that every one thought and spake fr01n others. This experi-
ence excited in the spirits the utmost indignation, for every
one of them wills t() think anu speak from himself; but be-
cause they were thence instructed ho"\v the case is, it was
said to them, that the all of thought and also of will ilo\\1
5
in, because there is but one only life, from which those facul-
ties of life are, and that that life flows in from the Lord
through a~ onderful fonn, which is the heavenly form, not
only generally into aJI, but also particularly into each; and that
it is variecl everywhere according to the fonn of eachsubject,
according as this agrees or disagrees with the heavenly form.
From these things it may also appear evident how the case
is with man, of whom more will be said in what follow·s,
'vheu treating of influx.
"The more there are who concentre their view jnto one
subject, the stronger is the subject's po-wer of thinking allCl of
speaking ; the power is increased according to the plurality
of concoruant vie·ws; this vvas also sho,vn me by the with-
drawing of some who flowed in, in that the subject's power
of thinking aud of speaking \\·as then diminished.
"There were subjects with 1ne near the head, ·who dis-
coursed as if they were in sleep, but still they discoursed
well, as they who are not in a state of sleep. It was observed
that evjl spirits flO\\Ted in into those subjects \Vith malignant
deceits, bnt tllat the influx in them \Vas instantly dissij!ated;
and whereas they knew that those same had uefore been
their subjects, therefore they complained that they \vere no
longer so: the reason ·was, because goou spirits could now
act into them, \\·hen they \Vere in sleep, and thus that by their
influx the malignant influences of the evil spirits were dis-
persecl."-.A. C. 5985, 5988.
This latter paragraph is quite remarkable from the intima-
tion conveyed of a state among spirits analogous to the mag-
netic sleep among n1en, a state, too, which gives decide<.l ad-
vantage to the influx of good spirits, as "\vould appear to be
the case also in regard to human sleep-"\vakers. The in-
stances quoted from .
1\lr. Townshend in the previous chapter
on 'Frutlifulness are strikingly in point.
Howfar a parallelism is to be detected between the case of
A.PPENDL~ .l. 209
~fr. D. and that of the spirits here described, I am not prepar-
ed to say, Lnt that they are somewhat analogous appears evi-
dent, and the following extract seems to disclose a coincidence
still more 1narked :-" There was a CCltain one above n1y
head, that spake with me. From the sound I perceived that
he ·who spake \Vith me ·was in a state of sleep, and yet as if
not in sleep. He spake respecting this and that altogether
like those ·who are broad a\vake, and with such prudence
that one awake could not have discovered more, so that there
'\Vas nothing indicating sleep except the sound alone. I per-
ceived that good interior angels spake through him, and he in
that state perceived and produced (what they suggested). I
asked him concerning the state, telling him what kind of state
he appeared to be in, and that he spake nothing else but what
was good and true, and that he perceived whether there was
anything different (from the good and true), \Vhich he would
not admit or utter; thus that he was in the state of one who
'vas awake; but because in a state of sleep he said that that
was a state of peace. His delight thence arising I perceived
from the fact of being myself in a similar state of love, for I
atn free from all solicitude and care respecting the future.
Thus they are enabled to render (important) uses.''-S. D.
3S78.
I do not kno\v that the supposition is incredible that this
isin effect 1Ir. D.'s state, and that from a very peculiar mental
organization-a somnambulic idiosyncrasy-he is adapted to
become a subject-medium or a fit recipient for the influx of an-
gelic ideas, and in this character may, as Swedenborg says,
be enabled to " render important uses " by communications
of knowledge from a higher sphere, while, at the same time,
to all appearance, as in the case of subjects generally, he
merely brings forth tb.e product of his own mind. In this
state I do not perceive that there is any definable limitatio11
to his power of imparting light on any theme of human in-
quiry. He apparently discourses on all subjects with equal
facility and correctness.* The range of his intuitions appears
• The manner in which Mr. D.':; remarkable gift is, so to speak.
210 AFl'ENDIX A.
to be well nigh botmdless. Yet, \vith the solution before us,
w·e reco"'nize the intelli"'cnce not as his, but as that of the
0 :;,
spirits '"~ho speak throngh him. The extent of their know-
ledge of the truths of the nruverse we, of course, cannot
measure. Yet in receiving their utterances through such a.
medium, we can never be released fr01n the duty of subject·
ing them to the ordeal of reason and revelation, whose lights
are never superscuell by miraculous oracles. \Ve may, in-
deed, find occasion, from such communicationF>, to reconsiLler
the prior verdicts of our reason, and the cstabhshed interpre-
tations put upon the \Vord, but we can never properly forego
our legitimate guides and yield to a <lcma.nc.l for vnplzcit faith
even in angelic revelations.
From the point of view· in ·which \Ve have exhibited the
particulars of this remarkable case, it cannot fail to be seen
that a new phasis is given to the evidence before adduced of
the relations of Mesmerism to the spiritualism of Sweden-
borg. I no\V propose to adduce a 1nore direct testimony to
the same effect. This is a remarkable paragraph in one of
Swedenborg's letters to a correspondent, which, \Ve think,
receives its true interpretation from its bearings on the sub-
ject before us.
managed and ove1·nded, is no less extraordinary than the gift itself.
It is uniformly held in entire subordination to some important 1tsc.
He submits to no experiments prompted by mere curiosny. · Ho
makes no revelation~, offers no advice, expresses no opinion, which
would in any way give one person an undue advantage over an-
other. Though evidently possessing in his abnormal state a super-
natural knowledge, no worldly inducement has the least e1fect to-
wards persuading him to exercise it for any purpose which would
not conduce to the good of the whole. The most urgent solicitations
have been made to him to aid individuals in the accom.pli~Lment
of schemes of private interest, but all in vain. He invariably turns
a deaf ear to all such propositions. He refuses because, he says,
it would "'ot be right, and because it would endanger the continu-
ance of his clairvoyant power for higher and holier purposes.
As to the Lectures in which he is engaged, i1c maintains that in
their grand scope they aim tltrectly at the regeneration of society ·
that a. great moral crisi11 is impending in this world's history; nncl
that he is selected as a humble instrument to aid, in a particular
sphere, in its accomplishment.
-
APPENDIX A. 211
si<r' To your interrogation, JVItether there is occasion for any
~n that I am sent by the Lora to ao 'u;hat I do 1 I answer, that at
th1s <lay no signs or miracles will be given, because they
compel only an external lJelief, but do not convince the itl-
tern~l. What did tl1e miracles avail in Egypt, or mnong the
Jew1sh nation,who nevertheless crucified the Lord? So, if the
Lord ·was to appear now iu the sky, attended with angels and
trumpets, it would have no other effect than it had then. See
Luke xv1. 29, 30, 31. The sign given at this day, will be an
illw;tration, and thence a knotdedge and reception (If the truths
of tlte New Church: spme speaking illttStration of certain persons
may likewise take place; this '"'"orks more effectually than
miracles."-Letler to Uelingcr, lfobart's Life of Sweclenborg,p. 43.
Now it is a fair question, 'vhat is meant by the" speaking
illustration" here mentioned. It seems that the truth of his
mission might eventually be confirmed by something that
should take place in regard to other pe,.sons. \Ve should natu-
rally suppose, a priori, that all the evidence appropriate to
the occasion would be confined to himself, as in the case of
the first promulgators of the Gospel. But it seems that in
this instance a new ord~r of testimony, from another source,
was perhaps to be made auxiliary to the establishment of the
claims of a professed messenger from God. \Vhether Swe-
denborg's foresight of the exact nature of this testimony was
clear and accurate, it is no\v probably impossible to deter-
mine, but it may be questioned ·whether anyth~g can be
conceived that answers more suitably to its predicted charac-
ter than the phenomena we have no'v been considering. It
is certainly something which" speaks;" and that it truly in-
volves an" illustration," I trust has been shown by the whole
tenor of the foregoing argument. At any rate, if it be not this,
it rnay be said to be a problem ·which well nigh defies con-
jecture. We are 'villing, ho\vever, to leave it to the reader
to put his own construction on the remark, and imagine what
he pleases as to the precise anticipation that prompted it. It
will not be easy, I think, to re:,ist the impression that Mes-
Inerism, viewed in its most striking effects, 1s a " speaking il-
lustration," and one that speaks somewhat loudly, too, of the
truth of Swedenborg's spiritual developments, and conse·
212 APPENDIX A..
quently ofthe truth of his mission~ for this can only be mad_
out by the intrinsic character of the information he has iln-
parted to the 'vorld. A true messenger can only be proved
such by his delivering a true message.
In conclusion, from a full view of the case given above,
especially ,,·hen considered in connection 'vith all the facts
and deductions presented in the body of the preceding work,
we see no sufficient grounds for refusing assent to it as a
veritable nanative. It cannot well be rejected on the simple
score of stmngeness, after the astounding "
things which have
already come before the reader. We do not perceive that it
is intrinsically incredible that a man's spirit, 'vhile on earth,
should come into communion with spirits translated to a
higher sphere. It is clear, we think, from the evidence af-
forded, that the Mesmeric state, in its more sublimated mani-
festations, does enable one hunmn spirit, while sojoun1ing in
the body, to come into actual converse with another human
spirit similarly conditioned. If so, 'vhy may not a like inter-
course occur between an embodied and a disembodied
spirit? The only question, in the present instance, which
particularly calls for solution, is that which concerns the rea-
sons why the spirit of Mr. D. should be brought into contact
with that of Swedenborg-provided it was his-and made the
mediutn of his influx, rather than with that of any other man
who has formerly lived, and promulgated what he deemed
important truths to the world? The reply to this, we think,
can scarcely fail to suggest itself from the ·whole tenor of the
previous discussion. 'Ve have accumulated a mass of testi-
mony in proof of our position, that Swedenborg has laid open
the interior laws and principles which govern these marvel-
lous de\·elopments of the spiritual element in men. If he
has done this, it was because he was enabled to do it in virtue
of a special designation to that end by the Divine Providence
itself. This we infer from the intrinsic character of his reve-
lations, which so im1neasurably transcends that of all ordi-
nary clairvoyants, 'vhile at the same tin1c it ascertains the
truth of the psychological basis on which theirs rest. But if
this is admitted-if a divine ordination be recognised in his
•
APP£~DlX: A. 213
disclosures--then 've are brought at once to the conclusion,
that they are in themselves of an importance which renders
them worthy of precisely such an attestation as we read in
the related and parallel phenomena of the case before us.
There is nothing 1nore wonderful in the fact of 1\Ir. D.'s con-
versing with s,vedcnborg than of s,,·edenborg's conversing
with the departed spirits of other men. But the other and
lower phenomena of 1\Ir. D.'s transic ~tate, go directJy to
prove, as ,,-e have shown, the truth of Swedenborg's inter-
course ·with the spiritual world. This again, when estab-
lished, reflects back a po,verful evidence of the truth of 1\Ir.
D.'s intercour~e with himself or some adequate representa-
tive. Such is the posture of the aiTair as it is presented to the
judgment of the '"·orld. Its calm and enlightened verdict is
very anxiously a\vaited.
In view of the foregoing narrative, presented as it has
been, in its various bearings, the reader, I trnst, will allow
the suggestion that the case is one which imperion~ly de-
mands onhis part a clejinilwejurlgment. It is notof a nature to be
summarily disrnissed as merely something that astounds and
confounds all belief, and about which, as one kno'\'\·s not
·what to thi.nk, it were therefore better not to think at all. This
surely is an unfair and unphi.losophical mode of dealing with
evidence such as that \vhich we have exhibited in relation to
the alleged facts. It is by no means a fit entertainment of a
narrative like the present to reply, that it sets at defiance all
known laws of mind-all settled prineipleB of belief-and
therefore is unworthy of seriou~ consideration. Is nothing to
be admitted as worthy of attention and examination ·which
disturbs, in any degreec, our pre-established sentiments ou
any point of science or religion ? 1Yhen an as~erted fact of
the n1o~t momentous character is set before us, sustained by
irrefragable proof, is it the part of cool-judging reason to turn
away with blank indifference from the subject, or to say \vith
Baron de Grimtn in regard to the nanative of Swedenborg·s
supernatural insight, " The fact is confirmed by authorities
so respectable, that it is £mpossib1e to cfcny it; but the question
is, how to believe it?" Thh:; may perhaps he n mode of rea-
10..
•
APPENDIX A.
~oning becoming a Fre1wh philosopher of the last ccutury, bnt
I t: ubt if it \Vill find a response in uuy fah· mind at the preseut
day. Sup})OSe the Baron or any of his associates were to be
suddenly restored to life and infonned by Arago, Gnizot, and
others, that intelligence \'\~as now instantaneously transmit-
ted from one end of France to another, what should we think
if he were to reply, "The fact is confu·med by authorities 80
respectable that it is impossible to deny it; but the question
is, how to believe it.'' Should we not say at once, "lf you do
not believe the fact upon the testimony adduced, arc you not
bound to make known the 1·easons on which you refuse to be-
lieve it? \Ve ask simply for the 1·easons that jllstify you in with-
holding your faith." So in the present case. We do not un-
dm·stand the philosophy of that state of mind which can suf-
fer one to relapse from a perusal of the preceding pages into
a dead indifference-a sort of moral inertia-in regard to the
·whole 1natter. The facts asserted are either true or false.
The evidence adduced is either satisfactory or unsatisfac1ory.
If the latter, ,,-herein? In what 11oint is the soundness of
my conclusions to be impeached? That the above commu-
nication was actually written and sent to me by yom1g Davis,
is beyond que~tion. That it is 1nade up of quotations from
S\vedeul>org's "Earths in the Uni-rerse" is equally incapal>Ie
of a doubt. The only question is, ,,·hethcr it ,,~as copied by
his own or some other hand, or Y\chether, as he affirms, it \Vas
supernaturally dictated to his mind. The latter hypoth-
esis no one can be expected to adopt unless the force of the
evidence of the young 1nan's veracity be such as to counter-
vail the a pri01·i incredilJility of the fact. Now without as-
erting this to be the case, I still1naintain that there is so much
evidence to that effect as justly to forbid the apathy which I
deprecate. The testimony is clear and unequivocal as to
the general truthfulness and integrity of the young man's
character. It is also undeniable that be is constantly giving
forth utterances in the :Mesmeric state which are as intrinsic-
ally marvellous as that which we have considered, and
which therefore reflect the character of credibility upon
this. I. can most !3olemnly affinn that I have heard him
A..PPXNDIX A. 2US
,
correctly quote the Hebrew language in his Lectures, and dis-
play a knowledge of Geology which would have been aston.
ishing in a person ofhis age, even if he had devoted years to
the study. Yet to neither of these departments has he ever
devoted a day's application in his life. I can moreover testi-
fy that in these Lectures he has discussed, with the most sig-
nal ability, the profoundest questions of Historical and Bibli-
cal Archmology, of 11ythology, of the Origin and Affinities of
Language, of the Progress of Civilization among the different
nations of the globe, besides an immense variety of related
topics, on all which, though the style is somewhat faulty, the
results announced would do honor to any scholar ofthe age,
even if in reaching them he had had the advantage of access
to all the libraries in Christendom. Indeed, if he has acquir-
ed all the information he gives forth in these Lectures, not in
the two years since he left the shoemaker's bench, but in his
'vhole life, ·with the most assiduous study, no prodigy of in-
tellect of which the 'vorld has ever heard ·would be for a mo-
ment to be compared with him. Yet not a single volume on
any of these subjects, if a page of a volume, ha:i he ever
read, nor, however intimate his friends may be with him,
will one of them testify that during the last two years he has ·
ever seen a book of science or history or literature in his
hand. His daily life and habits are open to inspection, and
if any one is prepared to gainsay in any point the statement
now 1nade, I will pledge myself to make a recantation as
public as I now make the statement.
I 'vould ask then if this array of facts do not prefer an im-
perative clai.m to consideration? If the facts are such as I
affirm, it is indeed impossible to vie\v them apart from the
revelations of Swedenborg. They conduct us at once to that
sphere of phenemena which he, and he alone, has developed.
But is this a sufficientground for refusing them a hearing l Is
the name of Swedenborg but another term for delusion, and
vagary, and drea1n ? Is it a matter of course that nothing
can be true \Vhich connects itself with his disclosures ? Shall
the imputation of fiction be allo,ved to neutralizethe evidence
of fact? It is the facts in the case which I plead, and I can.
-
216 Al'r.ENDIX A.
not but protest, with uplifted hanil, ngninst the injustice of
permitting an nnweloome inference to "·cigh down and
stifle the testimony sustaining ~the principle from which it
flows. It is indeed an inevitable inference, that if the facts
affirmed in the case of Davis are such as I haYe claimed, the
revelations of Swedenborg uear the stamp of heaven, and the
reproach must be rolled ::n,ray from those who have given
them their credence. On this head they do undoubtedly feel
solicitude, and ·why shonlcl they not ? It cannot be other than
a grief to sensible 1ninds to be aware, that they are look-
ed upon by the majority of their fellow-men us the dupes of
a gross delusion in. yielding their assent to the dogmas and
disclosures of one who can only be regarded as a devout lu-
natic. As they are inwardly assured, beyond the possibility
of a doubt, that their faith rests upon the soundest foundation,
they natnrally feel desirous that others should give then1 the
credit, which they are conscious of deserving, of having
yielded to evidence of the most legiti1nate aud unimpeacha-
ble character. In a case therefore like the present, ·where the
admission of the alleged facts is a clear certificate to the jns-
.tice of their views, they may well be expected to be urgent
in their appeal to the 'world on the ground of these facts.
They can by no meaus consent that a slighting go-by shall be
given to such a testimony to the truth of their faith as they
read in these lucid developments.
Still from theh· knowledge of the obliquilies of the human
mind, they cannot suppress the fear, that the evidence in this
matter will not be fairly dealt with-that those who cannot
deny will yet demur-that they will content themselves with
some ftilnsy apology for not forming an opinion-that they
will settle down in the belief that there is some solution,
could they but discover it, which shall preclude the necessity
of resorting to the supernatural. This very }Jropensity to
stave off the unwelcome conviction that Swedenborg is, after
all, true, and that God designs to certify hts truth to the world
because it comes from Himself, is one among the items that
go to confine that truth, because he has so luminously un-
folded its source and the subtle 1nodes of its operation. No
Al1
l'£~DIX A. 217
one has ever so fully developetl, as he has done, the infht-
ence of aflectiou, passion, self-interest, in moulding belief or
in urging unbelief. lie has completely anatomized the pro-
cess by which his own claims are nullified. He has illus-
trated it too in his graphic delineations of the facts of the
other life. \Ve find in one of his relations the narrative of a
conversation with certam spirits, who have left a large class
of representatives on earth. "Continuing to converse with
them respecting the operation of their sphere, some of them
said they would believe if they should see me resuscitate a
dead person who was lying on a bier. But it 'vas given to
reply, that even if they should see a dead person revived,
they would not believe unless they should see me resuscitate
a number, and even then they 'vonld ascribe it to natural
causes, and so would believe less than before ; for so it hap-
pens with anything which becomes familiar, that it makes
no more impression than the sight of green meadows, which
excite as little wonder, when the causes are not considered,
as did the manna with the Jews, though they saw it every
day. Therefore faith cannot be rooted in a mau's miuu by
means ofmiracles, nor even persuasion; ifthey are persuaded,
it 'vill be \vithout miracles. They afterwards said, when left
to their own thoughts, that if they should see a priest raise
(and reanimate) a dead body that '\Vas beiog borne to the
burial, they should ascribe it to fraud; and when they were
convinced thn.t it was no fraud, they would say that the soul
of the dead man had some secret cotmnunication with the
priest, by means of which the resuscitation took place ; ancl
if they sa'v this happen in repeated instances, they would
be confi.rrned in the idea that there was some secret in the
case which they did not comprehend, as many things occur
in the course of nature which are not well understood; but
they would never believe the priest's assertion that the effect
was '\\J:ought by a celestial pow·er, and so 'vould ascribe it
to nn.tu.re. The quality of their faith, even thongh miracles
shonld be wrougl1t, may hcnr.e nppc~1r. It is such that they
neither belie\ e in spirit, nor heaveu, nor hell."-S. D. 3521.
218 .lPPENDL~ B.
Truth, however, as well as 1Visdom, is justifie<l of her chil-
dren. There are thoc:e whom in,·ctcratc prepossession lla~
not steeled against the po,ver of constraining evideucc, how
much soe\rer it may go counter to prior belief. From all
such we anticipate a yerdict according to tn1th, and such a
verdict cannot fail to confirm the grand conclusion which we
have labored throughout this volnme to establish, to wit, that
the spiritual world has been latd open to mortal view through
the instrumentality of Emanuel Swedenborg. It is upon
those therefore \vho deny, a.nclnot upon those who admit,
this fact that the imputation of madness redounds.
APPENDIX B.
TilE SEERESS OF PREVOltST·
Tm: title of this section of our AJ)penclix is the titlP. of a
work, translated from the German, containing the narrative
of a prolonged magnetic experience in the case of a Madam
Hauffe, whose native place was Prevorst in '\Virtemberg. It
is a volume replete with interest to those who can appreci-
ate the truth, impliedly conveyed on its title-page, of ~,the
inter-diffusion of a \Vorld of spirits in the one 'vc inhahit."
:Pviy object in adducing it in this connection is to add another
to the list of confirmations drawn from the magnetic pheno-
mena of the tn1th of Swcdenl>org's disclosures. The paral-
lelisms are very striking, and they derive weight from the
fact, that they come from an independent source. Though
Swedenborg is occasionally alluded to in the \vork, yet it is
in such terms as to preclude the supposition that either the
subject herself, or the author, regarded him as an authoritatn•e
eXpOtmdcr of the mysteries of the inner world of spirits
which are so fully dwelt upon in the pages of the work:•
"' Indeed, as to Mrs. H., Kerner remark~, p. 121, that of Sweden-
borg s!rr k?teu• 11othing 1(..•ltate1'er.
•
APPE~VlX B. 219
The case of this lady is peculiar. Her condition wns pre-
eminently a 1norbid one, and in the outset "·as evidently not
understood Ly her attendants, in consequence of which a
course of treatment was entered upon in the highest degree
ill-judged and injurious. Its effects were some\vhat retrieved
by the system of measures afterwards adopted by Kerner,
\\""ho has given her case to the 'vorld; but they were never
fully countervailed by any subsequent process. The writer
observes respecting her at the time she came under his
care :-" l\1any years before Mrs. II. 'vas brought to me,
the earth, with its atmosphere, and everything connected
with it-mankind not excepted-had ceased to be anything
for her. She had long needed more than mortal aid could
yield her: she needed other skies, other nourishment, other
air5, than this planet could afford her. She was 1nore than
half a spirit, and belonged to a world of spirits; she belong-
eO. to a ·world after death, an<.l 'vas herself more than half
dead That .in the early years of her illness 1\-frs. H. might,
by judicious treatment, have been restored to a condition
more fit for this world, is exceedingly pro1Jaule; but, at a
later period, this was impossible. However, by much care,
've did so far improve her condition, that, in spite of 1nany
e11orts to poison her peace, she looked upon the years she ·
spent at \Veinsberg as the leac:;t painful of her magnetic life.
As ,,~e have said, her fragile body enveloped her spirit, but
as a gauzy veil. She was·small; her features 'vere oriental;
her eyes piercing and prophetic; and their expression \.Vas
heightened by her long, dark eye-lashes. She was a delicate
flower, and lived upon sunbeams.,-Seeress of Prevorst, p. 59.
Her very life, it 'vould seem, had become dependent on the
vital energies and nelTous emanations of those around her,
and she was for the greaterpart of the time in a state so high-
ly sublitnated-so aloof from the grossness of the material
'vorld-as to be more properly termed a spirit than a b~ing of
mortal mould. "Should've compare her,, says Kerner," to
a human being, we should rather say that she was in the
8l1\te of one who, hovering between life and death, belonged
220
.
..lPPENDU: ll.
rather to the world he \vas about to visit, thau the one:::. he
was going to leave."
She was, as Kerner expressed it." a being in the gripe of
death, but chained to the body by magnetic power. Soul
and spirit see1ned to me often divided, and \\·bile the first
'"·as entangled \vith the body, the latter spread its '\vi.ngs ::md
fluttered into other regions." She lived an inner life; she was
au inmate of the spint-world; and her revelations ofthat·world
\vere voluminous. Hence it \Vould be strange if her reports
did not .frequently coincide \vith those of Swedcuborg, al-
though, as her moral state \\'as incomparably below his, it
would be natural that innumerable phantasies should mingle
\Vith the realities \vhich she disclo:-;ed. Snell was lliJdonbt-
edly the fact; and in what follows, I propose to give n1erely
such features of her devetopments as find a parallel in those
of Swedenborg, in which alone we recognize the standard of
truth whereby to try all revelations from the spiritual world.
DISTINCTION OF SOUL, SPIRIT, AND BODY.
Among the striking things of her disclosures is a 1narked
threefold distinction of the elements of our being into spirit,
soul, and body. Although she nowhere discloses, in pure
philosophical fashion, the precise nature of the difference,
psychologically considered, between the soul and the spirit,
yet she plainly ascribes thought to• both, though she regards
the soul as the mere gross and exterior of the two. The
distinction is undoubtedly a sound one, as it is not only
clearly recognized by the apostle, 1 Thes. v. 23., Heb. iv. 12.,
but was also inculcated by most of the ancient philosophers,
especially the Platonic, Pythagorean, and Stoic.•
* "To comprehend the distinction between soul and t'pirit, which
the Sacred Writers have insinuated, the soul must be considered
as connected both with the body and the spirit. By its connection
with the body, the soul receives impressions from the sen~es; aud
by its connection with the spirit, it conveys Lhcse impre~siow~, Ly
means of the imagination and memory, to the spirit, ns nwteri-
n.ls for its operations. The powers last mentioned, through their
connection with the body, are liahle indeed to he so niRturlJed Ly
APPENDIX B. 221
With this accords entirely the doctrine of the German
Supernaturalists. " The spirit," says Von :Meyer's lucid
visio11ist, speaking in the 113.oonetic crisis, " is not (in this
life) subject to suffering as the soul is." She adds, "The
soul seeks after, and is attracted by, the natural in all
things; the spirit is absorbed in its O\Vn contemplations;
ever tending towards the Infinite, it has properly no sym-
pathy with aught in the human ·world." . And according
as soul or spirit characterises an individual-in other ,,·ords,
according as the psychical (i. e., the natural) or the pneumatical
(i. e., the religio-spiritual) man predominates in him, will he
be disposed to reject or reverence the la\v of life laid down in
the oracles of Holy "\Vrit.
((Both soul and spirit," says the writer of a notice of the
Seeress in the Dub. Univ. 1\Iag. (Jan., 1842)," ''?ere in perfect
harmony ·with each other before the Fall of man; but since the
occurrence of that tremendous calamity they have ever stood
in a relation of mutual hostility; the soul, through the blindness
entailed on her by Original Sin, foolishlyfancyingthat her in-
terests are boundup altogether withtheNaturaland the Present,
\Vhile the spirit, though possessing an unclouded perception
of the tnle state of the case, is yet, from the want of some
common sympathetic channel ofcommunication with its com-
panion, unable to do more than loathe and lament her aberra-
tions in secret, and note them down as they occur, in the hope
that they may thus, ho,:vever obscurely, be (as indeed they
sometimes are) brought under her eye in their genuine colors.
Occasionally, ho,\~ever, it does happen that the soulish prin-
ciple quite absorbs, and, so to write, psychises the spiritual;
in the ·which event the man is in danger of becoming a verita-
ble devil. Nay, more: there is actually a perpetual tendency
in nature towards this psychising and ultimate diabolising of
the whole human being."
The theology involved in this \Ve have no doubt is correct,
injuries befalling the body a! to convey false perceptions ~o t.he
!pirit. But the powers of the spirit ~re not affected bY: bodtly m-
jnries · and it judges of the impressiOns conveyed to 1t as accu-
rately ~s if they were true representations.''-JI.Iacknight.
A.PP£NDIX B.
and theology comes home to the min<l with tnore power,
j nst in proportion as it is seen to rc~t on a sonud psychology.
How far it accords with Swedenborg we shall sec shortly.
In speaking farther on the subject of this disliuction, ~~Irs.
H. remarked, cc that the sleep-waking state is the life aud
act of the inner n1an, nnd contains in itself a proof of n
future existence, and of reunion after death. It is the in-
ternal activity o( man which is unawakened in persons in
their normal condition, and which is \vholly asleep in those
whose life is centered altogether in the brain, who, being un-
conscious of their sympathetic life, never listen to its voice;
though, if man considered rightly, he v\Tould find this his true
guide. The sleep-waking produced by nu:tgnetic passes is a
sure remedy: for, in clairvoyance, the inner-xnan steps for-
·ward and inspects the outer, which is not the case either in
sleep or dreaming. ClairYoyance is a state of the 1nost per-
fect vigilance, because then the inner spiritual man is disen-
tangled and set free from the body. I ·would rather, there-
fore, denmninate sleep-'vaki~g the coming forward of the
inner-1nan, or the spiritual growth of man. At these moments
the spirit is quite free and able to separate itself from the soul
and lJody, and go where it vvill, like a flash of lightning. The
sleep-waker is then incapable of any ungodly act; though
his soul be impure, he can neither lie nor deceive. I should
call this the third stage of clear-seeing. In the second stage,
'vhich is inferior, the soul and spirit come forth together-
not the spirit alone, as in the former. There is a still inferior
state, in which the soul unites itself with the spirit; and, as
no soul is quite pure, the seeing is here imperfect. The low-
est stage of all may be considered as an excited condition of
the nervous system, and is a state which appears more or
less in ordinary life. It resembles that prophetic power that
some men, doubtless, are endo·wed 'vith; but, in the case of
a sleep-waker, the faculty is stronger and more regular. In
the norm~l condition, the soul dwells cltiefly in the brain, and
the spirit in the epigastric re.ion. In the magnetic state, the
soul approaches, more or less, the seat of the spirit. In those
who only live their external life, the soul has the supre1nacy;
APP.ENDI.'t B. 223
and the highest state of spiritual perfection is, when the spirit
can free itself wholly from the soul.''-Seere<;s, p. 109-110.
It will be observed that in what she ~ays re~pecting the
spirit's inability to lie or deceive when thus temporarily set
free from the clogs of the bouy, she still admits that the state
of the soul may be, at the same time, prevailingly impure. It
is, therefore, nothing 1nore than a compelled truthfulness,
and therefore agrees with what Swedenl>org says of disem-
bodied spirits.
By the spirit the Seeress unuerslands the most interior es~
sencc of our being; and this, she says, is intrinsically capa-
ble of some kind of separation both from the soul anu the
body, and one which actually occurs to a greater or less de-
gree in the magnetic trance. Her ideas on this subject '\Vill
appear more clearly in what follows.
THE NERYE-SPIRIT.
But the psychology of the Seeress involves another ele-
ment which she calls the ne-,·ve-spin·t, of the nature aud func-
tions of which she thus speaks : -" With respect to the nerve-
spirit, or nervous principle of vitality, she said, that through
it the soul was united to the body, and the body with the
world. The facility with which. the spirit freed itself iu her
case, was the cause of her abnormal condition. The nerYe-
spirit is immortal, and accompanies the soul after death, un-
less ·where the soul is perfectly pure, and enters at once
amongst the blessed. By its 1neans the soul constructs au
airy form around the spirit. It is capable of increase or growth,
after death; and by its means the spirits, 'vho are yet in the
mid-region, arc brought into cmmection 'vith a material in
the atn1osphere, which enables them to make theinselves felt
and heard by man, and also to suspend the property of grav-
ity, and more heavy articles."-Seeress, p. 119-120.
"Once she said, 'I feel the soul in the nerves, which I now
see quite clearly. But I must know, with certainty, whether
the soul only hovers over the nerves, and '\Vhat happen! to
the nerves after death.' After looking more deeply into her-
224 A.FPENDIX B.
self, she said,' The soul continues to live with the spirit) and
creates around it an ethereal form.' "-Seeres$, p. 108.
The subject is still more fully deYeloped in a subsequent
passage:-" According to her, the nerve-spirit is the rcmnnn
of the body, and, after death, surrounds the soul \Vith an
aerial form. Being the highest organic power, it cannot by
any other, physical or chemical, be destroyed ; and, when the
body is cast off, it follows the soul; and as, during life, it
forms the only bond that unites the soul with the body and
the \vorld, so is it also the means whereby the sonl, whilst in
the mid-region, can make itself manifest to man; of which
. power the atmosphere is the instrument. In our ordinary
condition, our senses are incapable of discerning these phe-
nomena, just as \ve are incapable of perceiving the principle
which produces seeing and hearing; because the subject
cannot, at the saine time, be the object.
" But in the abnormal magnetic state, such conditions are
possible. The nerve-spirit-which, in our waking life, acts
through the senses on the objective world-in the magnetic
life is more concentrated and self-reflecting, whereby the
sensorium attains an unwonted energy. It creates internal
senses for itself out of the nervous plexuses, ·whilst the ex-
ternal senses are more and more shut up. And thus, the
sensitive life of the soul is augmented and strengthened, by
the reinforcements of the knowing and willing powers, which
unite with it."-See?·ess, p. 153.
Although the language is diverse, yet the leading idea falls
into evident coincidence with what Swedenborg teaches in
the following extract.
"The natural mind of man consists of spiritual substances,
and at the same time of natural substances; from its spiritual
eubstances becomes thought, but not from the natural sub-
stances; these substances recede ·when a man dies, but uot
the spiritual substances: ·wherefore that same mimi after
death, \vhen a man becomes a spirit or an angel, remains in
a form similar to that in which it was in the world. The
natural substances of that mind, ·which, as was said, recede
~y de~th, m~l~e the cutaneous envelope of the spiritual ~ouy,
m wluch sprr1ts and angels are. By such envelope, 'vh1ch is
taken from the natural world, their spiritual bodies subsist·
for the natural is the containing ultimate."-D. L. F{ ~V. 257:
APPENDlX B. 225
THE SUN-CIRCLE AND THE LIFE-CIRCU:.
~lad. H. represcntcdherselfas sonletimesentering,spiritunlly,
within the limits of a peculiar kind of interior circle or sphere,
which she calls the "Sun-circle," made up of several succes-
sh·e concentric circles, iuto some of which, though usually
the outermost, magnetic subjects frequently pass, and within
which the spirit experiences a kind of liberation from the
fetters both of the soul and body, and comes into a percep-
tion or cognizance of the realities of the spirit-world, so far
as they can be apprehended l>y the mere intelligential princi-
ple of the 1nind. This principle can bring within its scope
the inner, actnatil1g and spiritual essences which pervade the
frame-work of the exterior creation, though it does not per-
ceiYe, by the normal process of vision, their material embodi-
ments. This is all that is tneant by the sun, moon and planets
being comprehended within the periphery of the sun-circle.
These objects are not seen except as to "·hat may be termed
their interior soul or es:sence, and this is rather known than
seen. So also the forms ·which exist in the spiritual \vorld,
and u.·hich are the living representatives that mirror the inner
affections, become visible to the eliminated spirit.
In close relation to the sun-sphere and underlying it, as it
were, is another sphere which she calls the "Life-sphere" or
"Life-circle." This is at once more il1terior and fundamental
than the other. " In clear-seeing (dain·oyance);' says she,
"the spirit quits the life-circle and enters the centre of the
sun-circle; and then all things become visible, freed from the
veil or screen which otherwise conceals them." In the cen-
tre of this life-circle is a glorious sun, infinitely brighter than the
natural snn, to which she gave the nmne of Gnadcnson11e or
Sun of Grace, and in respect to which Eschenmayer, one of
her expounders, says, " There are t\vo kinds of sw1s: one
which we see, and which gives us light; and which is con-
fined to our planet-system-a 1nere drop in the ocean. But
there is another-a central sun-which we do not see, but
from \Vhich all the stars receive thejr light.', This is douLt-
226 .APPENDIX D,
less the same with the "Spiritual Sutl"' of Swedeuborg, which
is jncapnule of being seer1 but" ilb the eye of the spirit, nor
even '\Vith that unless the soul i~ in cchjfial good, or is opened
to the celestial clerrret "'·hich rcatlv corrcFrwml::; with the Life-
·'=> > I
orbit of the Seeress. The mcrel!J spiritual do not sec the Sun
of hooven as a sun. This is clearly implied in the paragraph
that follows, in its being said that this sun is above the angelic
heaven. cc Above the angelic heaven there is a Sun, which
is pure love, to appearance fiery, as the sun of the world ;
and from the heat which proceeds from that Sun, angels and
men have will and love, and from the light thence they have
understanding and wisdom; and those things which are
thence are called spiritual; and those things \Yhich proceed
from the sun of the world are containers or rece})tacles of
life, and are called natural; thus the expanse of the centre of
life is called the 8PIRITU.1L vVoRJ,D, \-x;hich subsists fr0111 its
Sun ; and the expanse of the centre of nature is called the
NATURAL vVoRLD, which subsists from its sun."-T. C. R. 35.
She adds," A somnambule can only describe what belongs
to our sun's orbit, as the sun, moon, earth, and other planets,
and the mid-region, which is the ethereal space around us.''
Not that even these are thus discerned from without, but from
within, as the spirit of the sleep-seer deals not ·with the ex-
ternal, but with the internal. "No somna,mb1de has described 'what
belongs to the deeper sphere of the lije-o1·bit." This, however, in-
dicates the loftier prerogative of Swedenl.Jorg. Leaving all
ordinary clairvoyants at a measureless remove behind him,
he was enabled to penetrate to the deepest arcana of every
sphere, and lay open the mysteries of the domain of Life as
"veil as that of Light. His doctrine of "Degrees," as ex-
pounded in the " Divine Love and '\Visdom," contai.z1s, in fact,
though set forth in more scientific and luminous method, the
substantial truth of the Seeress·s theory of circles. \Vhen
thoroughly analysed this will be found, we believe, to be no-
thing more nor less than a kind of pietorial presentment of
Swedenborg's sublime view of the spirttual and the cele~tial
degree of the mind of man, the former of which may be de-
veloped while the other is comparatively donnant. The one
.APP.!:NDl.X D. 227
has relation to the Love or the principle of Life, while the
other regards the Un<.len;tanding or the principle of Intelli-
gence.
The Seeress's developments have a mystical, not to say a
cabalistical air, and by being mapped out in a diagram una-
voidably convey an idea of locality ·which by no means suits •
the subject. Nevertheless we gather from them a very im-
portant item of instruction. From all !he says on the sub-
ject \Ve are led to infer, that the inner magnetic life is a state ·
essentially distinct from the inner spiritual life. From the
disclosures made by the Seeress, it appears that while the
lucid vision of magnetizees is a phenomenon affording no in-
dication of the moral state of the subject, the beatific vision
of the saints is to be regarded as the prerogative only of those
who by true faith, by piety and prayer, and severe crucifix-
ion of the psychical man, have attained a moral condition
which renders them fit recipients of it. This is a very impor-
tant consideration, inasmuch as it has been claimed by irre-
ligious and anti-religious men, that the fact of the rapt ex-
altation of all sorts of sleep-\vakers is au wlequate ground of
belief, in the beatitude of all sorts of men hereafter, and, of
cour5e, of a disbelief in a future state punishment. Thus,
for example, a German revie\"\Ter of Kerner's work dogmatizes
on this subject. "'\Ve sec that a morally-corru1)ted individual
enters, in the luci<l slcep-..waking crisis, upon a state of
freedom, appears calm, lofty-souled, pure-minded, exhibits
elevated insights and powers, becomes in fine, a glorified Le-
ing. Here then, surely, is the test: here 1.vehave the true in-
ner man; thus will the individual exist and manifest himself
hereafter ; his spirit, having shuffled off its mortal coil, will
at the satne time find itself independent of all earthly preju-
dices and trammels, and rejoice in a deathless liberty." Thus,
too, observes the Baron Dnpotet :-"All the lucid sleep-
wakers hold a language nearly alike, and suggesting the
idea of a partial disencnmLerment of the $Otd from its burden
of mortality: all seem to see, hear, feel, and take cognizance
of everything past, present and future, through some other
channels than those physical organs 'vhich serve on ordina-
228 APPENDIX B.
ry occasions to make known the volitions of the mind. All,
too, agree iu declaring that they enjoy in this state nn exqui-
site elysium of repose from which they dread to be disturb-
ed; their souls, apparently half liberated, ~brink fron1 being
again botmd by the chains which fetter men down within the
narro·w sphere of suffering humanity. It is impossible to
contemplate a lucid sleep-\.vakcr \Yithout a feeling of mingled
\Vander and nwe: he is a being who appears to belong more
to that world which is to come than to that in which .1\lan, as
a finite being, exists; he already seems half disrobed of his
carnal nature, and almost participating in the enjoyment of
his immortality : none of us can divine what views of infini-
ty may now open before him: all that we observe, i~ a being
lili.:e ourselves, elevated into a state of temporary henlific~­
tion, far above our sympathy and our comprehension.''-Dub-
lin Unwtrs. JJiog. p. 11, Jan. 1842.
Let us hope then that every honest mind may be hence-
forth disabused of the impressions growiug out ofthe gratu-
itous assumption that the magnetic state and the state after
death, are alike states of one and the same being, U1e so-called
soul. The assumption is undoubtedly fallacious and false.
The lueid sleep-waking state is a mere psychological phe-
nomenon, independent of tho moral condition of the suujccr,
although in certain stages it does iudeed inuicate a ten-
dency to ttutlifulaess; whereas the state of the soul after
death is a purely moral state of the inner man in which his
destiny, as miserable or happy, is determined by his char-
acter. This is unquestionably the simple truth, and any other
inference, we do not scruple to say, is not only entirely un-
warranted by the phenomena de\·eloped, but is a gross per-
version of the whole suuject.
SEPARATE FU.SCTJONS OF THE Sot•L AND SPfRJT.
I!V farther unfolding the threefold distinction above men-
tioned, she remarked, that "in her half-waking state she
thought only with the cerebellum; of the cerebrum she felt
APPENDIX B. 229
nothing-it ·was asleep.* In this state she thought more with
her soul; her thoughts ·were clearer, and her spirit had more
power over her than in her waking state. In the perfect
sleep-waking state, the spirit had the supremacy; and when
she was perfectly clairvoyant,she said her thoughts proceeded
wholly from her spirit, and the epigastric region. "In our
natural state of wakefulness," said she, "we feel little or no-
thing of the spirit. But man, as he is situated in this \VOrld,
must be governed by the soul. If the spirit had free play,
what would this world be? It can penetrate into things
above ; and in his present life man must not kno\v the fu-
ture."
It is undoubtedly true that we do not find in Swedenborg
this distinction set forth in the peculiar nomenclature em-
ployed by the Seeress. Yet the substance of it he clearly re-
cognises under other terms, particularly those of &ensual and
spiritual. The sensual principle with him is evidently the
same ·with the psychical or that of which the tJtux11, psyche, is the
proper seat and subject. This term in the Scriptures is usu-
ally translated soul, and the epithet tf-uxc/{o•, psukikoi, Jude 19,
though rendered in our version sensual, is literally soulisk.
This is virtually the same as the sensual man of Swedenborg,
of whom he thus speaks :
" It may easily be apperceived by man, if he attends,
whether sensuals be in the first place or in the last; if he af.
firms everything 'vhich the sensual persuades or appetites,
and endeavors to invalidate everything w·hich the intellectu-
al dictates, then sensuals are in the first place, and then man
is carried a"\vay by appetites, and is altogether sensual; but
* From Swedenborg, we learn that the cerebrum, in the normal
state, is the more appropriate seat and province of thought, and the
cerebellum of feeling. "Since all things of the mind have rela-
tion to will and understandinO', therefore in the head there are two
brains and these distinct fro~ each other, as are t1te will and un-
dersta~ding from each other: the cerebellum is par~cul~rly for the will
and the cerebrum is particularly for the understandtng. -
. D.~·~ 1V.
354. By the will he always means the l?ve er a1!ectton-prmClple.
He intimates, however, that the respect1ve funct10n~ of the cere-
brum and cerebellum become sometimes confused Wtth each other.
11
230 APPENDIX B.
such a man is little removed from the lot of the irrational ani-
mals, for t11ese are carried a\\·ay in the same manner ; yea,
he is in a worse condition, if he abu~es the intellectual facnl-
ty or the rational to confirm the evils and fal~es, '"~hich scn-
suals persuade aud appetite ; ~t-:~ if he does not affirm, .but
from the interior sees the dev1ations of those sensuals mto
ialses, and their excitations to evils, and strives to chasten
them and so to reduce them to compliance, that is, to subject.
them to the intellectual and voluntary part which are of the
interior man, then sensuals are reduced into order, that they
may be in the last place. \Vheu sensnals are in the last
place, then there flo,vs in a happy and blessed principle from
the interiol' man into the delights of the sensuals, and causes
the delights thereof a thousand times to exceed the former
delights : that this is the case, the sensual n1an does not be-
lieve, because he does not comprehend, and inasmuch as he
is sensible of no other delight than the sensual, and thinks
that no higher delight is given, he regards as of no account
the happy and blessed principle which is \Vithin in the de-
lights of scnsuals, for what is unknown to any one, this is be-
lieved not to be.''-.A. C. 5125.
"They who think in the sensual are called sensual, and
like spirits are adjoined to them; these spirits scarcely appre-
hend more things appertaining to man, than what also come
to man's sensation ; for they are more gross than other spirits.
It has been observed, that when man is in the sensual, and
not elevated thence, he thinks of nothing else than what is of
the body and the \vorld; and in this case he is not \villing to
know anything concerning those things which are of eternal
life, yea he is averse from hearing anything of that life. To
the intent that I might know that this is the case, I have occa-
sionally been let down into the sensual, and instantly such
things presented themselves, and then the spirits also, who
\Vere in that grosser sphere, infused base and scandalous
things; but as soon as I \vas '"~thdrawn from the sensual,
such things were dissipated. In the sensual life there are
several who indulge in pleasures of the body, also who have
altogether rejected all thought beyond what they see and hear;
and especially ·who heJ.Ve rejected thought concerning eter-
nal life. \Vherefore all such make light of both the latter and
the former things, and when they hear, they loathe them.
Such spirits abound in the other life at this day, for troops of
them co.me from ~e worl.d : ~nd.the_infiux from ~1em prompts
man to mdulge h1s favonte mclinatwn, and to hve to himself
and the \vorld, but not to others, only so far as they favor
ArPENDIX B. 231
him and his owu pleasures. That man may be elevated from
these spirits, he must think about eternallife."-A. C. 6201.
".The interiors of man are distinct according to degrees by
?envations; lights also are according to those degrees. The
mternal sensual, "~hich is nearest to the sensuals of the body,
h~s a most gross lumen; this lumen ithas been given me to
d1scern by Inuch experience; and. it '\Vas ob::;erved, that as
often as I sunk down into this lumen, so often falses and
evils of several kinds presented. themselves, yea also scan-
dals against celestial and Divine things, and moreover what
was filthy and defiled: the reason is, because this lumen
prevails in the hells, and the hells thereby principally flow
in with man. \Vhen man is in this lumen, his thought is al-
most in a like lumen with his external sight, and is then al-
most in the body. J\.Ien, '\vho are in this lumen, are to be
called SENSUAL, for they do not think beyond the sensual
things of the body; the things beyond those, they neither
perceive nor believe, they only believe what they see and
touch. In this lumen are they, wbo have not at all cultivated
things interior, living in the neglect and contempt of all things
which are rational and spiritual; and in that lumen are es-
pecially the covetous, and adulterers, also they who have liv-
ed in mere pleasures and in dishonorable ease. Hence these
latter think what is filthy and. often what is F-!Candalous con-
cerning the holy things of the church."-A. C. 6310.
The spirits here described answer with great exactness to
the idea conveyed by the term tJ;vxLKot, or soulish, indicating the
predominance of that principle which the Seeress calls the
soul in contra-distinction from the spirit. Spirits of this char-
acter were those which Mad. H. most frequently encounter-
ed-spirits weighed down by the grossness of the psychical
nature which still adhered to them, and though liberated by
death from the corporeal tenement, yet still gravitating to-
wards a oorporeal sphere, and separated, as it were, only by
a filmy partition from the inhabitants of earth. By reason of
this cleaving carnality of nature they appeared to her as ab-
solutely heavy when compared with the light and aerial be-
ings 'vho were more fully defecated and purified fro1n the
eom1ptlon of sin, and with whom, in consequence, she was
less able to hold intercourse.* " The spirits who come to me
,. "A beliefin the proximity of spirits, and of the souls of the de-
232 Al"PENDU B.
are 1nostly on the inferior steps of the mid-region, which is in
our atmosphere; but mid-region is a misnomer, and I call it
so unwillingly. They are chiefly spirits of those who, from
the attraction of, and attachment to, the external ·world, have
remained below-or of those who have not believed in their
redemption through Christ-or who, in the moment of dying,
have been troubled with an earthly thought which has clung
to them, and impeded their upward flight. :Many, who are
neither coude1nned nor placed amongst the blessed immedi-
ately after death, are on different stages of tlus mid-region;
some, whose spirits have been purified, are very high. On
the lowest degree, these spirits arc still exposed to the temp-
tations of the wicked ; but not in the higher, where they al-
ready enjoy heavenly happiness, and the purity of the bless-
ed."-Seeress, p .159.
The remarks of Eschenmayer upon these relations are
well deserving attention :-" How the soul is to exist after
death, is asstuedly a question ·worth asking. A soul given
wholly to the world retains this direction after death; for it
would be strange if such an one could be suddenly purified
from his vices and sins. The existence of the soul after death
is a universal belief; but the conditions of this existence few
trouble themselves to inquire. This indifference is painfully
disturbed by the Seherin, who exhibits to the ·worldly-minded
the picture of their own future state, and sho,vs us, misera·
parted, is common to all people; it is innate in the human breast,
and only suppressed by education and culture. The sages of old
speak confidently of a spiritual region, of the middle state after
death, and of a moral weight or heaviness which, after death,
drags the impure soul back to the earth. Plato tells us, that when
a pure soul leaves the body, it goes at once to God and immortali-
ty; but that the impure, who loved only their body, and studied
only to satisfy its desires, and indulge its passions-who loved not
wisdom, and whose eyes were blinded-cannot shake off the flesh.
It accompanies them, and drags them down to the earth ; and the
spectres that hover round their own graves and appear to mor-
tals, are of those who could. not separate themselves from their
bodies, and who have preserved some means of ren<lering them-
selves visibl~. (According to the Seherin, this is the nerTo-spirit.)
' It is not~' says Plato,' the pious souls. but those of the ungodly,
who revisit the enrth.' "- Sttrtu, p. 183.
APPENDIX. B. 233
ble, God-forsaken souls, who once enjoyed all the pleasures
of this life, bearing about the bnrthen of their sins upon
them:'-Seercss, p. 1G7.
"Mrs. H. says that 'A sinful, wordly-mi.nded man may
shine in this life by the force of his intellect; but his spirit is
but the ·weaT\.er and darker, and incapable of 1ooking within.
\Vhen he dies, the soul that sustained him here becomes only
the husk of his spirit-the 'veak, dark spirit which is no\v the
ruler. Alas ! what then? A profound truth this ! The high-
est intellectual \vealth may be the accompaniment of the
most lamentable moral poverty. But it is only our moral
gains that will be carried to our account in the next world;
our kno\vledge will not be reckoned, for it has there no value
unless it has been devoted to purposes of religion and vir-
tue."-Seeress, p. 168-169.
How strikingly all this corresponds with Swedenborg's
disclosures of the " ·world of spirits," or of that intermediate
state called by the Seeress "the mid-region," (Hades,) into
which the soul enters at death as a sphere of preparation
(not of probation) for heaven or hell, must be obvious to
every one acquainted with his system. He informs us that
by far the greater portion of the spirits of that sphere are yet
in their sins, and preparing, by the development of their in-
teriors, for hell ; that they are gross and corporeal in their
nature ; that they are dark in their aspect; that instead of the
pure light of truth, they are encompassed by an obscure
lumen of infatuation and phantasy; and that they have a rest-
less prompting to put forth their delusive influx into the minds
of sensual men on earth.
"There were spirits seen by me, whom it may be expedient
to call corporeal spirits; they arose from a depth at the side
of the sole of the right foot, and appeared to the sight of my
spirit as in a gross body. When I asked who they were th~t
are of such a quality, it was said, that they are those ·who 1n
the world have been distinguished by their talents, and also
by their proficiency in the sciences, and ~~ve thereby c.on-
firmed themselves entirely against the D1vme, thus agamst
those thinas '\vhich are of the church ; and because they have
absolutely
0
persuaded themselves that all things were to be
234 AI»PENDIX B.
attributed to nature, they have closed interior things to them-
selves, thus the things which appertain to the spirit, more
than others; hence they appear grossly corporeal. Among
them was one who, during his life in the world, had l.Jcen
known to me, and who at that time was eminent for his gifts
of genius and his erudition; but these things, which arc the
means of thinking well concertling things Divine, were to him
the means of thinking against them, and of pcrsuadiug him-
self that they are nothing; for he who excels in genius and
learning, has more things than others by which he may con-
firm: hence he was interiorly obsessed, but in the external
form he appeared as a 1nan of civility and good morals.,,_
A. C. 5991.
"There are also men who are more than sensual, namely,
who are corporeal, aud they are such as have altogether con-
firmed themselves against the Divine, and have ascribed all
things to nature, and thereby have lived without any regard
to what is just and equitable, except only in the external
form. These, because inwardly they are like brute animals,
although they appear outwardly as men, are more sensual,
and appear to themselves and others in the other life as cor-
poreal."-ld. 6318.
•
The parallelisms are very obvious in the reports of the
the two seers, and though \Ve do not conceive that Sweden-
borg's statements stand in need of any such confirmations as
we have cited, nor do we by any means put them upon a
par with his, yet, if the Divine providence is pleased to af-
ford an attestation from any source of the truth of his own
message, \ve do not feel at liberty to reject it.
THE LANGUAGE OF SPIRITS.
One of the most remarkable of the Seeress' revelations is
that respecting the inner language, or the language of spirits :-
"In her sleep- waking state, Mrs. H. frequently spoke in a
language unknown to us, which seemed to bear some resem-
blance to the Eastern tongues. She said that this language
was the one which Jacob spoke, and that it '"·as natural to
her and to all men. It was very sonorous; and, as she was
perfectly consistent in her use of it, those who were much
about her gradually grew to understand it. She said, by it
..
APPENDIX B. 235
only could she fully express her innermost feelings; and that,
when she had to express these in German, she was obliaed
b
first to translate them from this language. It was not from her
head, but from the epigastric region, that it proceeded. She
knew nothing of it when she was awake. The na1nes of
things in tlus language, she told us, expressed their proper-
ties and quality. Philologists discovered in it a resemblance
to the Coptic, Arabic, and Hebrew: for example, the ·word
\ Elschaddaz, which she often used for God, signifies, in Hebrew,
the self-sufficient, or all-powerful. The word dalmachan ap-
pears to be Arabic; and bianachli signifies, in Hebrew, I am
szghing, or in sighs.
"Here follow a fe'v of the ·words of this inner-language,
and their interpretations ;-Handacadi, physician ; alentana,
lady; chlann, glass; schmado, moon; nolnn, no; nochiane,
nightingale ; bianna fina, many-colored flowers ; moy, ho'v;
tol., what; optini poga, thou must sleep ; mo li arato, I rest,
&c. &c.
"The written character of this language w·as always con-
nected 'vith numbers. She said that words with numbers
had a much deeper and more comprehensive signification
than \Vithout. She often said, in her sleep-waking state, that
the ghosts spoke this language ; for although spirits could
read the thoughts, the soul, to which this language belonged,
took it \Vith it when it \.Vent above; because the soul formed
an ethereal body for the spirit."-Seeress, p. 116, 117.
A complete alphabet of this language she professed herself
unable to give, remarking that a single letter had often anim-
port equivalent to a whole \Vord. To what degree this coin-
cides with Swedenborgts relations on the same subject will
appear from what follows :-
"All in the universal heaven have one language, and they
all understand each other, from whatever society they are,
whether near or distant. Language is not learned there, but
it is implanted in every one ; for it flows from their very af-
fection and thouaht. The souLld of speech correspOL1ds to
their affection, a~d the articulations of soun~, which are
words, corresponds to the ideas of thought whtch are from
236 APPENDIX ll.
affection; and because language corresponds to tl1ern, that
also is spiritual, for it is affection sounding and thought
speaking.''-H. ~ H. n. 236. .
"Angelic lanauau·e has uothing in commou wtth human lan-
guages, except\.vjtll some words, which souud from a c~r­
tain affection; yet not \vit.h the word.s the~?selves,. h~t w1th
their sound, on which sUbJect somethmgw1ll be sa1d 1nwhat
follows. That anael.ic language has not anything in common
with human lang~1ages, is evident from this, that it is impos-
sible for the angels to utter one word of human laugnage ;
this has been tried, but they could not: for they cannot utter
anything but what is altogether in agreement 'vith their af-
fection; that which is not in agree1nent is repugnant to their
very life, for life is of affection, and their speech is from it.
I have been told that the first language of men on our earth
agreed with the angelic language, because tl1ey had it from
heaven; and that the Hebrew language agrees with it in some
things."-ld. n. 237.
"The speech of the angels is also full ofwisdom, because it
proceeds from their interiorthought, and their interior thought
is ·wisdom, as their interior affection is love; love and wisdom
thus conjoin themselves in their speech : thence it is so full
of wisdom, that they can express by one word what man
cannot express by a thousand words, and also the ideas of
their thought comprehend such things as man cannot con-
ceive, still less utter. Hence it is that the things which have
been heard and seen in heaven are said to be ineffable, and
such as ear has never heard nor eye seen. That it is so, it
has also been given me to know by experience. I have
sometimes been let into the state in which angels are, and in
that state have spoken with them, and then I understood all;
but when I was let back into my former state, and thus into
the natural thought proper to man, and wished to recollect
what I had heard, I could not; for there were thousands of
things which were not adequate to the ideas of natural
thought, thus not expressible, except only by variegations of
heavenly light, and thus not at all by human words."-ld.
n. 239.
Speech similar to that which is in the spiritual world is
implanted in every man, but in his interior intellectual part ;
but because this with man does not fall into words analogous
to affection, as with the angels, man does not know that he
is in it ; yet it is thence that man, when he comes into the
other life, is in the same speech with the spirits and angels
there, and thus knows how to speak without instruction."-
Id. n. 243.
APPENDIX B. 237
The Seeress says, moreover, with respect to the inner lan-
guage, that-" One word of it frequently expressed more than
whole liues of ordinary lauguage; aud that, after death, in
one single symbol or character of it, man would read his
whole life. It is constantly observed, that persons in a sleep-
waking state, and. those who are deep in the inner-life, find
it impossible to express ·what they feel in ordinary language.
Another somnambule used often to say to me, when she
could. not express herself, ' Can no one speak to me in the
language of nature?' The Seherin observed by 1\1ayers said,
that to man, in the magnetic state, all nature was disclosed,
spiritual and material ; but that there ·were certain things
which could not be well expressed in words, and thus arose
apparent inconsistencies and errors. In the archives of ani-
mal magnetism, an example is given of this peculiar speech ;
the resemblance of ·which to the eastern languages, doubt-
less, arises from its being a remnant of the early language of
mankind. Thus, sleep-wakers cannot easily recall the names
of persons and things, and they cast away all conventionali-
ties of speech. .1\Iayer's Scheriu says, that as the eyes and
ears of man are deteriorated by the fall, so he has lost, in a
great degree, the language of his sensations; but it still ex-
ists in us, and would be found, more or less, if sought for.
Every sensation or perception has its proper figure or sign,
and this 've can no longer express."-Sceress, p. 124.
The work in question contains a tentmive specimen of the
angelic written character, which, of cour~e, is to be regarded
as a mere approximation to the truth. \Ve have had trans-
cribed, and present herewith, a portion of it, mainly for the
purpose of comparing it with what Swcdenborg says of the
style in ·which the "'ord is written in Heaven. The resem-
blance to the Arabic is very striking.
"As to what re~pects the Word in heaven, it is "·rittenin a
spiritual f'tyle, which ?iffers entirely from a natural. strle.
The spiritual style cons1sts of mere letters, e~ch o_f wh1ch m-
volves some particular sense; and there are little hne~, curva-
tures and dots above and between the letters and m them,
which exalt the sense. The letters with the angels of the
u•
238 APP};NDIX D.
ARABIC CHARACTER.
• • • / v ' e./ r t. ' CJ/
~~~~ U_Y.~z/ U_d..~
rL ~j ~ U\.S\.o:.F~
SPECUtiEN OF THE SPIRITUAL CHARACTER COMPARED WITH THE
ARABIC.
APPENDIX B. 239
spiritual kingdom are like the letters used in printing in our
world, and the letters with the angels of the celestial king-
dom, are, with some, like Arabic letters, and with some like
the old Hebrew letters, but inflected above and below, with
marks above, between and within : each of these also in-
volves an entire sense." "It is wonderful, that the Word in the
heavens is so written that the simple understand it in sim-
plicity, and the wise in wisdom; for there are many curva-
tures and marks above the letters, which, as was said, exalt
the sense ; the simple do not attead to them, nor do they
k~ow them; but the wise attend, each one according to his
WISdom, even the highest."-T. C. R.n. 241.
I present this to the reader without, of course, the implica-
tion that he is expected to receive it as expressing my belief,
or demanding his as to the absolute troth of the alleged fact.
I give it simply as exhibiting a remarkable coincidence in the
professed revelations of two independent witnesses to the
phenomena of the spiritual world. The reader will pronounce
.... upon it such a verdict as his judgment may dictate.
ON SPilliT·SEEING.
On the general subject of spirit.seeing, she was asked by
Eschenmayer whether all men see spirits, or only those in
whom a spiritual eye shines through the fleshly one. She
answered :-"The power of ghost-seeing resides in all men,
but is seldom active, and only momentary, since it must be
excited by something that calls forth the inner-man; and this
is generally dispersed and suppressed by reason."
Of her own experience, in this respect, she observes as
follows :-" Personswhose life is in the brain-but especially
those in whom it is more in the epigastric region-are occa-
sionally capable of ghost-seeing; but the apparition is always
seen by the spiritual eye through the fleshly. Through the
soul may come presentiments, and the sensibility to spiritual
things; but clear-seeing never. When, however, the spirit
is excited by the soul, presentiment and ghost-seeing may
occur; but, with those whose life is chiefly intellectual, this
can only be momentary. The brain can contend and resist;
but it is only those whose life is in the epigastric region, who
•
240 APPENDIX B.
see them as I do ; and, in such cases, there is no power of
resistance. Certainly, these forms are not the offspring of my
imagination, for I have no pleasure in them; ou. the contrary,
they give 1ne pain, and I never think of them but whcu I see
them, or am questioned about them. Unfortunately, my life
is no\v so constituted that my soul, as well as my spirit, sees
into the spiritual world-wl1ich is, however, indeed upon the
earth; and I see them not only singly, but frequently in mul-
titudes~ and of different kinds ; anu many departed souls.
"I see many with whom I come into no approximation,
and others who come to me,with whom I converse, and ·who
remain near me for months ; I see the1n at various times by
day and night, whether I am alone or in company. I am
perfectly awake at the time, and am not sensible of any cir-
cumstance or sensation that calls them up. I see them alike
whether I am strong or weak, plethoric or in a state of inan-
]tion, glad or sorro,vful, amused or otherwise ; and I cannot
dismiss them. Not that they are always with me, but they
come at their own pleasure, like mortal visiters, and equally
whether I am in a spiritual or corporeal state at the time.
When I am in my calmest and most healthy sleep, they
awaken me; I know not how, but I feel that I am awakened
by them, and that I should have slept on bad they not come
to my bedside. I observe frequently that, ,,.T
hen a ghost visits
me by night, those who sleep in the same room \Vith me are,
by their dream!, made aware of its presence; they speak
afterwards of the apparition they saw in their dream, al-
though I have not breathed a syllable on the subject to them.
Whilst the ghosts are with me, I see and hear everything
around me as usual, and can think of other subjects; and
though I can avert my eyes from them, it is difficult for me
to do it; I feel in a sort of magnetic 'rapport with them. They
appear to me like a thin cloud, that one could see tllrough,
which, ho·wever, I cannot do. I never observed that they
threw any shadow. I see them more clearly by sun or moon.
light than in the dark; but whether I could see them in abso-
lute darkness, I do not know. If any object comes between
me and them, they are hidden from me. I cannot see tl1em
APPENDIX .B. 241
'vith closed eyes, nor when I turn my face from them; but I
am so sensible of their presence, thnt I could designate the
exact spot they arc standing upon ; and I can hear them •
speak although I stop my ears. I cannot endure that they
should approach me very near; they give me a feeling of
debility. Other persons who do not see them are frequently
sensible of the effects of their proximity when they are with
me; they have a dis-position to faintness, and feel a constric-
tion and oppre~sion of the nen·es; even animals are not ex-
empt from this effect. The appearnnce of the ghosts is the
same as when they were alive, but colorless-rather greyish ;
so is their attire-like a cloud. The brighter and happier
spirits are differently clothed; they have a long loose shining
robe, ·with a girdle rotmd the waist. The features of spectres
are as when alive, unt mostly sad and gloomy. Their eyes
are bright-often like a flame. I have never seen any "\Vith
hair. All the female ghosts have the same heau-covcring-
eveu when over it, as is sometimes the case, they have that
they wore when alive. This consists in a sort of veil, "\vhich
comes over the forehead and covers the hair. The forms of
the good spirits appear bright; tho~e of the evil dusl\y.
" \Vhether it is ouly under this form that my senses can per-
ceive them, and whether, to a more spiritualized being, they
·would not appear as spirits, I cannot say; but I suspect it.
Their gait is like the gait of the living, only that the better
spirits seem to float, and the evil ones tread heavier; so that
their footsteps may sometimes be heard, not by me alone, but
by those who are with me. They have Yarious ways of at-
tracting attention by other sounds besides SJ1ecch; and this
faculty they exercise frequently on those ·who can neither see
them nor bear their voices. The::::e sounds consist in sighing,
knocking, noises as of the throwing of sand or graYel, rust-
ling of paper, rolling of a ball, shuflling as in slippers, &c. &c.
They are also able to move heavy nrticles, and to open and
shut doors, although they can pass through them unopened,
or through the walls. I observe that the darker a spectre js,
the stronger is his voice, and the more ghostly po"·ers of
making noises, and so forth, he seems to have. The sounds
•
APPENDIX B.
they produce are by means of the air, and the nerve-spirit,
·which is still with them. I never sa'v a ghost when he was
in the act of producing any sound except speech, so that I
conclude they cannot do it visibly; neither have I ever seen
tq.em in the act of opening or shutting a door, only directly
afterwards. They move their mouths in speaking, and their
voices are various, as those of the living. They cannot an-
s,ver me all that I desire; ·wicked spirits are more 'villing or
able to do this, but I avoid conversing with them. These I
can dismiss by a written word, used as an amulet, and free
others from them as well as myself.
"When Italk to them piously, I have seen the spirjts, especi-
aUythedarkeroncs,drawinmywords,as it were,'vhcrebythey
become brighter; but I feel much weaker. The spirits of the
happy invigorate 1ne,and give me a very different feeling to the
others I observe that the happy spirits have the same difficulty
in answering questions regarding earthly matters, as the evil
ones have in doing it with respect to heavenly ones; the first
belong not to earth, nor the last to heaven. \Vith the high
and blessed spirits I am not in a conditionto converse ; I can
only venture on a short interrogation. I am told that, ·when
asleep, I often spoke withmy protecting spirit, who is amongst
the blessed. I know not if this be so; if it were, it must have
been in moments when my spirit was disjoined from the soul.
When soul and spirit are united, I catmot converse with the
blessed."-See1·ess, p. 155-159.
Let this be compared with the ensuing relations of Sweden-
borg.
"I am aware that many will say, that no one can ever
speak with spirits and angels while he lives in the body; aud
many, that it is a phantasy ; others that I relate such things,
that I may gain credit; others otherwise ; but I do not regard
these things, for I have seen, have heard, have felt. IYian
was so created by the Lord, that during his life in the body,
he might have a capacity of conversing with spirits and an-
gels, as also \VaEP done in the most ancient times ; for he is
one with them, being a spirit clothed with a body; but be-
cause in process of time mankind so immersed themselves
in bodily and worldly things that they paid little regard to
anything else, therefore the way 'vas closed ; yet as soon as
APPENDL"{ D. 2!3
!he bodily things, ~l 'vhich h~ .is immersed, recede, the ,vay
1s opened, and he 1s among sp1nts, and associates his life with
them."-.A. C. 68, 69.
"I have conversed with many after their decease, with
whom I vvas acquainted during their life in the l>ody; and
such conversation has been of long continuance, sometimes
for months, sometimes for a whole year; and with as clear
and distinct a voice, but internal, as with friends in the
world. The subject of our discourse has sometimes turned
on the state of man after death; and they have greatly won-
dered that no one in the life of the body, lu1ows, or believes,
that he is to live in such a manner after the life of the body;
when nevertheleas it is a continuation of life, and that of such
a nature, that the deceased IJasses from an obscure life into
a clear and distinct one; and they who are in faith towards
the Lord, into a life more and more clear and distinct. They
have desired me to acquaint their friends Ofl earth that they
\Vere alive, and to write to them an account of their states
as I have often told them many things respecting their friends :
but my reply was, that if I should speak to them or write to
them, they 'vould not believe, but vvould call 1ny informa-
tion mere fancy, and would ridicule it, asking for signs or
miracles before they should believe ; and thus I should be
exposed to their derision : and that the things here declared
are true, few perhaps will believe, for men deny in their hearts
the existence of spirits; and they vvho do not deny such ex-
istence, are yet very unwilling to hear that any one can con-
verse with spirits. Such a faith respecting spirits did not at
all pl'evail in ancient times, but (does) at this day, when men
wish by reasonings of the brain io explore what spirits are,
whom, by definitions and suppositions, they deprive of every
sense ; and the more learned they wish to be, the more they
do this."-A. C. 448.
GROWTH OF INFANTS IN THE OTHER LIFE.
Another interesting item of her disclosures is that relative
to the state of infants in the future world. "On the subject
of the gro\vth of children in the other world, Mrs. H. said
--'I once asked a spectre whether human beings gre\V after
death, because I had seen some who had died in early youth
that seemed to have become much larger? and he answered
-Yes; when they are taken from earth before they are full
grown. The soul constructs itself a larger shell till it is as
244 APPENDIX B.
large ns required. \Vith chilc.lren this is as bright as with the
blessed.'
"On being asked whether the unclcvelopctl faculties of
children were developed after death? she answered, that
they were developed through the nerve-spirit, \vhich remain-
ed with the soul; but that \Ve \Vere unable to conceive the
power and purity of children, \Vho have all that their hea-
venly Father gave them, not having deteriorated their soul
and nen'e-spirit by 'vords or \\·orks. But men must not,
therefore, desire to die in their childhood, for a life spent after
God's will ensures a still more blessed state. But what puri-
ty and elevation might we attain eyen on earth, if we did not
so weaken the powers of our soul by our \Vvrds, \Vorks, and
thoughts. Our flesh would be purified, and all our faculties
exalted."-Seeress, p. 162.
Swedenborg's informations on this head may be gathered
from what follows:
"Many may suppose that infants remain infants in heaven,
and that they are as infants among the augels. Those who
do not know what an angel is, may have been confirmed in
that opinion, from the images here and there in temples,
\Vhere angels are exhibited as infants. But the case is alto-
gether otherwise: intelligence and wisdom make an angel,
and so long as infants have not intelligence and wisdom,
they are indeed with angels, yet they are not angels; bnt
\vhen they are intelligent and wise, then first they become
angels; yea, ·what I have ·wondered at, then they do not ap-
pear as infants, but as adults, for then they are no louger of
an infantile genius, but of a more adult angelic genius; intel-
ligence and wisdom produce this effect. The reason that in-
fants, as they are perfected in intelligence and wisdom, ap-
pear more adult, thus as youths and yonug men, is, because
intelligence and w·isdom arc essential spiritual nourishment;
therefore the things which nourish their minds also nourish
their bodies, and this from correspondence ; for the form of
the body is but the external form of the interiors. It is to be
known that infants in heaven do not advance in ::tge beyond
early youth, but stop there to eternity. That I might kno\v
for certain that it is so, it has been given me to speak with
some who were educated as iufants in heaven, au<l who had
grown np there; with ~orne also when they were infants,
and afterwards with the same when they uecome youths ;
APPENDIX B. 245
and from them I have heard the course of their life from one
age to another.''-11. 4" II. 340.
" Ina:-much as food and nourishment corresrond to spir-
itual food and nourishment, thence the taste corresponds to
the perception and the affection thereof. Spiritual food is
science, intelligence, and \Visdom, for from these spirits and
angels live and from these are also uourishcd, and they de-
sire and have appetite for them, as men who are hungry de-
sire and have appetite for food ; hence the appetite corres-
ponds to that desire. And what is surprising, from that food
they also grow up to maturity: for infants who decease,
in the other life appear not otherwise than as infants,
and also are infants as to understandiug ; but in propor-
tion as they grow in intelligence and wisdom, they ap-
pear not as infants, but as advanced in age, and at leugth as
adults: I have conversed with some who died infants, and
they appeared to me as youths, because they were then in-
telligent. Hence it is manifest what spiritual food and nour-
ishmentis."-A. C. 4792.
STATE OF THE HEATHEN IN THE OTHER LIFE.
On the state of the heathen in the other life she thus re-
marks ~ " With respect to the condition of the heathen after
death, the Seherin said, ' Some days since I asked a ghost,
who had some degree of brightness, where he \Vas, and with
what he, and the spirits that ·were ·with him, engaged them-
selves.' He ans\vered, 'I am not in the mid-region; I am in
a certain degree of happiness ; in that wherein are placed the
heathens, and all those who, by no fault of their own, re-
mained ignorant of their Lord and Saviour. We are there in-
structed by angels until we are ripe for greater bliss.'
""\Ve thus learn by these revelations of the Sehcrin, that
virtuous heathens, and all upright men, are destined to hap-
piness hereafter; but that a belief in the Christian religion be·
ing absolutely necessary to perfect salvation, they must be
instructed in it by angels, even after death, before they can
enter into the kingdom of God ; and when Christ says that he
will draw all to him, and that there shall be but one flock and
one shephenl, he iucludes heathens, and alludes not only
to the earth, but to the kingdom of heaven also ; and when
he has sent the Gospel to the heathens, and has drawn them
246 A.PPENDIX D.
into his fold, we may be certain that a state of bliss will be
prepared for them very differcllt to that they af"J'Iire to.,-
Seere~s, p. 163, 164.
Not unlike this is the account w·hich Swedeuborg gives in
speaking of the same subject.
"It is a common opinion, that they '\vho are born out of
the Church, and who are called Pagans and Gentiles, cannot
be saved~ by reason that they have not the Word, and thus
are iguor~nt of the Lord, ·without whom there is no salvation.
But still, that these also are saved, may be known from this
alone, that the mercy of the Lord is universal, that is, extends
to every individual rnan; that they are equally born men, as
those who are within the Church, who are comparatively
few, and that it is no fault of theirs that they are ignorant of
the Lord. What, therefore, their state and lot is in the other
life, by the Divine mercy of the Lord, was made known to
me.
"I have been instructeu by many things, that the Gentiles
who have led a moral life, and have been obedient, and have
lived in mutual charity, and have received according to their
religious (belief) somewhat like conscience, are accepteu in
another life, and are there instructed by the angels with the
utmost care in the goods and truths of faith. vVhen they are
instructed, they behave themselves 1nodestly, mtelligently,
and wisely, and easily receive and imbibe, for they have
formed to themselves no principles contrary to the truths of
faith, ·which are to be dispersed, still less scandals against the
Lord, as is the case with many Christians who have led a
life of evil; 1noreover, such Gentiles hold no hatred towards
others, do not revenge injuries, nor weave cunning stratagems
and artifices, yea, they '\vish well to Christians, although
Christians on their part despise them, and even do them in-
jury to the utmost o( their power; but these are delivered by
the Lord frozn their unmercifulne~s, and are protected. For
'\vith respect to Christians and Gentiles in another life, the
case is this: Christians '\:vho have acknowledged the truths
of faith, and at the same time have led a life of good, are ac-
cepted before Gentiles, but such Christians at this day are few
in number; whereas Gentiles, who have lived in obedience
and mutual charity, are accepted before Christians 'vho have
not led a good life. For all persons, throughout the universe
are, of the mercy of tb.e Lord, accepted and saved, who have
lived in good, good itself being that ·which receives truth, and
the good of life being the very ground of the seed, that is, of
truth; evil oflife neverreceives it; although they who are inevil
APPENDIX B. 247
s)lould be instructed a thousand ways, yea, though the instruc-
tion should be tnost perfect, still the truths of faith with them
\Vould euterno further than into the memory, and would not
penetrate into the. affection, ·which is of the heart ; wherefore
also the truths of their memory are dissipated, and become
no truths in another life.
"Butthere are amongst the Gentiles, as amongst Christians,
both wise and simple; and, that I might be instructed con-
cerning the qualities of each, it has been given to converse
\vith them, sometimes for hours and days: at this day how-
ever there are scarce any of the Gentiles \vho are wise,
whereas in ancient times there \vere great numbers, espe-
cially in the ancient Church, which was the source whence
wisdom flowed to manynations."-A. C. 2589-2591.
"Upright Gentiles in another life, are generally instructed
accordiilg to the states of their lives, and according to their
religious principles, so far as it is possible, consequently in
different modes."-.A.. C. 2600.
THE FORMS OF SPIRITS.
On the appearance of a certain spirit, Mrs. H. asked him if
he could take any other form than that he had as a man.
He ans\vcrcd- " Had I lived as a brute, I should so appear to
you. We cannot take what forms we will : as our disposi-
tions are, so we appear to you."-Seeress, p. 269.
The accordance of this with Swedenborg's teaching is very
obvious.
" Among the wonderful things which exist in the other life,
this also is one, that when the angels of heaven inspect evil
spirits, these latter appear altogether otherwise than as they
appear among themselves. When evil spirits and genii are
among themselves~ and in their infatuated lumen, such as is
from a coal fire, as was said above, they then appear to them-
selves in a human form, and also according to their phantasies,
not unbeautiful. But when the same are inspected by the
angels of heaven, then that lume~ is instantly dissipated, ~nd
they appear ·with an altogether different face, e~ch accordi~g
to his genius; some dusky and black as dev1ls, some Wlth
pale ghastly faces like corpses, some a~o!t without a face,
and in its place something hairy, some hke grates of te~tb,
some like skeletons · and what is 1nore wonderful, some hke
monsters; the deceitful like serpents, and the most deceitful
like vipers, and others in different forms. But as soon as the
248 APPENDIX B.
angels remove from them their sight, they appear in their
previous form, which they have in their own lumen. • • •
The reason why m1n-elic s irrht hn'-~ in it ~u<:lt di1c:n·}·, i-., be-
~ ~ .
cause there is a eorre~pondence betweeu lHlclleclltal and ocu.
lar sight; hence there is in the sight of the nngels a perspi-
cacity, whereby the infernal lumen is dissipated, and the in-
fernals appear in such a form and genius as they reallyare."-
.A. c. 4533.
" ¥Vhen the spirit of man first enters the ·world of spirits,
which takes place shortly after his resuscitation, spoken of
above, he has a similar face and a similar tone of voice to
what he had in the world; the reason is, because he is then
in the state of his exteriors, nor are his iuteriors as yet uncov-
ered: this state is the first state of men after their decease.
But afterwards the face is changed, and becomes quite an-
other one; it becomes similar to his ruling affection or love,
in which the interiors of his mind had been in the world, and
in which his spirit was in the body. For the face of man's
spirit differs very much from the face of his body; the face
of the body is from the parents, but the face of the spirit from
its affection, of which it is the image ; into this the spirit
comes after the life in the body, when the exteriors are re-
moved and the interiors are revealed : this is the third state
of man. I have seen some recently from the 'vorld, and
knew thetn from their face and speech, but when they were
afterwards seen, I did not know them: those who were in
good affections were seen with beautiful faces, but those who
were iu evil affections, had faces deformed; for the spirit of
man, viewed in itself, is nothing but its own affection, the
external form of which is the face. The reason also why the
faces are changed, is, because in the other life it is not la·w-
ful for any one to counterfeit affections which are not proper-
ly his own, thus neither to induce on himself faces contrary
to the love in which he is; all, whoever are there, are reduced
into such a state that they speak as they think, and show by
the looks and gestures what they will. Hence now it is that
the faces of all are the forms and effigies of their affections.,-
H. ~·H. 457.
"After having passed through the first and second state,
they are so separated that they no longer see each o~her nor
know each other; for every one becomes his own love, not
only as to the interiors which are of the mind, but also as to
the exteriors ':vhich are of the face, the body, and the speech ;
for every one becomes the effigy of his own love, even in ex-
ternals. Those who are corporeal loves appear gross, obscure,
APPENDIX B. 249
black and deforme~; but those .who are heavenly loves, ap-
pear fresh, br~ght, fall and beautiful. They are likewise alto-
gether dissimilar as to their minds and thoughts ; those who
are heavenly loves are also intelligent and wise, but those
who are corporeal loves are stupid, and as it were sottish.
When it is given to inspect the interiors and exteriors of the
thought and affection of those who are in heavenly love, the
interiors appear like light, in some like flaming light, and the
exteriors in various beautiful colors like rainbows: but the
interiors of those who are in corporeal love appear as some-
thing black, because they are closed, and of some as dusky
fire, who are those who had been interiorly in malignant de-
ceit; and the exteriors appear of a dirty color, and disagree-
able to the sight."-Id. n. 481.
"All spirits in the hells, \\then inspected in any light of
heaven, appear in the form of their own evil ; for every one
is an effigy of his own evil, inasmuch as with every one the
interiors and exteriors act as one, and the interiors present
themselves visible in the exteriors, which are the face, the
body, the speech, and the gestures; thus their quality is re-
cognized as soon as they are seen. It is impossible to de-
scribe in a few words all those forms such as they appear, for
one is not like to another; only between those who are in
shnilar evil, and thence in a similar infernal society, there is
a general similitude, from which, as from a plane or deriva-
tion, the faces of each appear there to have a kind of likeness.
In general, their faces are direful, and void of life like
corpses ; in some they are black, in some fiery like little
torches, in some disfigured with pimples, warts, and ulcers;
in some no face appears, but in its stead something hairy or
bony, and in some teeth only are exhibited. Their bodies
also are monstrous ; and theu speech is as the speech of
anger, or of hatred, or of revenge; for every one speaks from
his own falsity, and the tone of his voice is from his own
evil : in a word, they are all images of their own hell. In
what form the specific hells are, or the infernal societies, it
has often been given me to see ; for at their appertures,
which are called the gates of hell, for the most part appears
a monster, which in general represents the form of those
who are within; the fierce passions of those who dwell there
are then at the same time represented by things. direful and
atrocious, the particular mention of which I onut."-H If H.
n. 553.
SPIRITS SEEN BY A SPIRITUAL EY.E.
On one occasion the Seeress remarked that " spirits are
.APPENDIX B. 251
that she h~d a faculty of seeing different to that of ordinary
human bemgs,"-p. 166.
So sh~ ·says of sp~ctres, th~t " their fe~tnres are mostly as
when ahve, and the1r eyes bnght, often hke a ftame.''-p. 77.
It ·would doubtless be an easy matter to eA1end much far-
ther this list of parallelisms, but it would require such copi-
ous citations from S\vedenborg to present the items in their
true light, that I forbear. The fact of the coincjuences must
be very obvious, and the grand conclusion equally so, that
the human race is in the closest conjunction with the spirit-
ual world, and that Swedenborg has developed the laws by
·which that relation is governed. With the present accumu-
lation of facts before us, and with such a po\ver of internal
evidence as attaches to his revelations, we cannot but regard
it as idle to dispute the soundness of his claim to a super-
natural insight into the Yerities of the \vor1d unseen. This
claim is to be decided upon by the truth or falsity of thefun-
damental principles on \Vhich his disclosures rest. A thousand
objections may be urged against the detmls of the system;
but the main question is that which regards the principles. If
these are sound and incontrovertible, and what are called the
details fl.o\v by legitimate sequence from them, they obviously
cannot be wrought into a plea which shall go to nullify the
force of the evidence that sustains the principles. These prin-
ciples are psychological. They involve the true nature of
the human soul. If that is what Swedenborg affirms-if the
soul is the real man, and the body a mere mass of machinery
by 'vhich to execute its promptings-then we see not but all
that he has stateu respecting its future conditions will inevit-
ably follow. But the truth in regard to the nature of the soul
is a truth that is to be apprehended independent of the liter-
al averments of the Scriptures, as much so as the truth of
Astronomy or Geology, and this truth, when once reached,
is imperative on our belief, and must necessarily control our
interpretations of the sacred text. No intelligent man feels
himself bound to forego the conclusions of his reason in re-
gard to the structure of the solar system, and the. age of the
earth, because he finds the inspired writers adoptmg the lan-
252 APPENDiX B.
guage of appearances and accommodating themselves to popu-
lar apprehensions. So we hold that the intuitions of the hu-
man mind, when they have free scope, must recognize the
intrinsic truth of Swedenborg·s doctrine of the soul. But his
doctrine on that head cannot be viewed apart from the
whole body of his disclosures of the spiritual world, to which
the soul, even while sojourningin the body, properly belongs.
It is part and parcel of the same great system of spjritual ex-
istences. The true issue then in regard to Swedenborg is not
primarily that ·which concerns an asserted mass of visions,
but the truth of certain grand psychological laws of our be-
ing, which is to be determined by its own internal evidence.
This issue, however, has thus far been uniformly avoided by
the opponents of the system. As if by one consent, they in-
variably urge their warfare against what they are pleased to
denominate the incredible and absurd features of the revela-
tions. Heedless of all protef.t against the crying injustice of
such a procedure, they still persist in hurling their arugmen-
tative missiles against the outworks and projections of the
citadel without any attempt to sap or undermine its founda-
tions. The shout is-the visions!-the visions! as if a more
senseless rhodomontade coulu never have entered the imagin-
ation of man. To all this our calm reply is, weigh thefundamental
psychological principles~ and see if the truth of the visions can
be resisted. So also in regard to the great fact of an internal
sense pervading the Word, the order of assault is always to
hold up to ouiutn and contempt the specific interpretations.
with a total disregard of the philosophical basis on which
they rest. We ask if man has not a spiritual nature which
absolutely compels the inference, that just in proportion as
that nature is developed, he will necessarily affix spiritual
ideas to what we may term material expressions? But a
spiritual idea is one that excludes space and time, and as
death introduces a spirit into a sphere in which space and
time are unknown, such a spirit comes of course into a spir-
itual perception of the universal contents of the \Vonl. They
are rendereu at once universal t1·uth. But the exaltation of
the inner nature in the present life brings the soul, in its mea-
APPENDIX B. 253
s~re, into.angelic perception, and thus into a. community of
vte,\~s \Vtth them on all spiritual themes. Is this ridicu-
lous or absurd ? Is there not here the assertion of a principle
which claims consideration? Is a man \vho holds this view
a fair butt at ·which to aim the shafts of scorn as havina re-
l:)
nounced his reason and given in to the \Vildest dreams and
fancies? Sho'v him the fallacy of his poSitions, and he will
then consent that you shall make game ex abundanti of the
crudities of his faith.
It is then the internal evidence of the truth of the under-
lying :philosophy of Swedenborg's system which commands
the credence of its receivers, and enforces its claims upon
the 'vorld. But we know too \Veil the innate aversion of the
mass of men to that cool, deep, and dispassionate reflection
which the subject demands in order to a justjudgment to \Var-
rant the expectation of its being generally entertained,unless in
consequence of something which may be termed a violent
motive to inquiry. In the case of Christianity such a motive
was supplied by miracles, which were a. merely external
testimony compelling attention to rhat which was internal;
for miracles do not of themselves beget faith in the truth of
moral doctrines, but merely put the mind into an attitude
favorable to the perception ofthat internal evidence on which
alone their truth can be effectually received. At the present
day \Ve are not taught to anticipate the working of miracles
such as distinguished the introduction of Christianity, for
there is no new religion to be commended to acceptance,
but simply the development of the interior genius of that
which is already established. This development consists
mainly in disclosing the hidden grounds of the accordance
between the teachings of that religion and the interior laws
and constitution of our nature. It may, therefore, be
reasonably anticipated that the confirmations by which this
shall be authenticated will be of an analogous nature-that
they \Vill grow out of some ne·w phasis of the laws of our
being-that they \Vill be something which, while it will
strike the senses, will at the same time address the reason
in a voice too loud to be resisted-and which shall thus ab-
•
254 APPENDL't C.
solutely force the mind to a ~omparison of the phenomena in
the t\\ro SI)heres of development. 1Uesmerism, we think,
answers to these conditions. The facts of 1.\Iesmerism we
regard as the miracles of tlus age. Not that they are intrin-
sically miraculous, for we have seen that they are the product
of the fixed laws of physiology and pneumatology, but they
subserve the ends of miracles in compelling attention to
the spiritual disclosures with which they inseparably connect
themselves, and wbic.h must in the end as assuredly confirm
the claims of Swedenborg as the truth of the facts is estab-
lished. This is the issue which V\Te confidently anticipate.
and the Christian world can therefore readily explain to itself
how it is, that the receivers of his doctrines are not in the
slightest degree moved by any form or degree of opposition
to a system which they have embraced as the result of the
most profound inquiry and the most careful induction. They
have reached and settled calmly down in the conviction,
not only that Swedenborg's revelations are true, but that their
truth is of such a character, that it is impossible to conceive that
the facts should be otherwise, except by a total subversion of
the known la\vs of our nature. They will unanimously
affirm, that the principles which would prove their conclu-
sion erroneous would sweep away the grounds of every
human judgment.
APPENDIX C.
SWXDISH DOCUl\t:INT RESPECTING THE RELATION OF SWEDENBORG'S
DOCTRINES TO ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
The ensuing document derives peculiar interest from the
date of its publication, which was as early as 1787, fifteen
years after the death of Swedenborg. It is a letter addressed
by the " Exegetical and Philanthopical Society" of Stockhohn
to the Ma211etic Association of Strasburgh, called" La Societe
0
des Amis reunis," which was formed for the purpose ofpros-
•
APPENDIX C. 255
ecuting careful inquiries into the nature and eftects of Ani-
mal :Magnetism, the results of which continued for many
years to be published in a journal devoted to the subject. Of
the society at Stockholm, from wh1ch the letter emanated
'
we kno\v little more than that it was instituted for the pur-
pose of extending the doctrines of the Ne'v Jerusalem, by
publishing Swedenborg's 'vritings in the various languages of
Europe,together with a new and amended edition of Sebastian
Schmidt's Latin version of the Bible, \vhich was the one that
S\v·edeuborg habitually u~ed. From a notice of the society
in the "N. J. Magazine,'' Lond. 1790 (vol. I. p. 25), it appears
that it was "firstfounded in the year 1786, by a few friends to
truth, and succf'ssively increased till their number amounted
to more than hv·o hundred persons, the greatest part of
\Vhom were men holding respectable offices in the State, and
of distinguished learning, and the majority of them clergy-
men, not to mention two of the first princes in Europe, who
took upon themselves the patronage of the Society."
In another notice in the same work, contained in a letter
from Stockholm, dated 1789, it is said that" ever since the in-
stitution of the Exegetic and Philantltropic Society, but especi-
ally in the course of the two lnst years, a considerable nmn-
ber of the clergy have been introduced into the new doctrine.
In one single bishoprick ·we can now reckon no less than
forty-six respectable and profoundly learned clergymen, of whom
I send you here,vith a list."
This letter, \vhich is accompanied by an address to the
king that \Ve also insert, is remarkable for the vein of siin-
ple-hearted and devout piety which it breathes, and for the
evidence it affords that the writers were early struck with the
obvious relation, which we have endeavored to establish, in
the preceding pages, between the facts of Animal :Magnetism,
then recently bec01ne known, and the doctrines of Sweden-
borg. The fact is worthy to be commended to the attention
of New Churchmen at the present day, who we believe have
been, for the most part, opposed to the mixing up in any
\Vay, of the doctrines of the New Jerusalem with the alleg-
ed developments of Mesmerism, though they have, at the
256 APPJ!:NDIX C.
same time, been disposed to admit their abstract truth. Fr01n
the view here presented it does not appear, that these early
receivers apprehended any danger as likely to ensue from the
recognition of the bearing ·which the Magnetic phen01neno.
'vere seen to have upon the disclosures admitted to have
been made by Swedenborg. That an impression to this
effect should have been generally entertained in this country,
is not perhaps surprising when we reflect, that the first an-
nouncement of these marvels was received with a universal
incredulity, and the whole subject treated as deserving
only of contempt and ridicule. In this state of things it was
natural that the disciples of the New Church should look
with a jealous eye upon any kinu of alliance between such a
mass of reputed delusions, and the sublime verities to ·which
they had given their cordial assent, and for which they had
in many cases incurred odium and obloquy. They w·ished,
therefore, that the skirts of their religious faith might be
kept clear from the contaminating contact of anything that
bore with the public so bad a name as Mesn1erism. It was
not a slight reproach that attached to the profession of
what they did fully and. cordially believe. They would not,
therefore, willingly countenance pretensions which would be
apt to load their belief with gratuitous prejudice. But the
course oftime has witnessed to the progress of truth. J\1es-
merism has gradually, in a great measure, triumphed over
the obloquy that assailed its outset. It is now very generally
conceded to involve a substantial truth, what ever abatement
on particular points may accon1pany the admission. Under
these circumstances the time seems to have come for taking
stronger grounds in regard to its remarkable phenomena, and
this, we think, can only be done by presenting them in
the light of the New Church revelations. This we have
attempted in the present ·work. It will be strange if those
who are really most interested in such an expos~ should
be the ones who stand most decidedly aloof from it. But to
the document itself, for the translation of which, from the
Swedish, I am indebted to the kindness of Mr. F. A. Strahle.
The reader ·will not feel himself bound to accept all the pro-
APPDDIX C. UT
posed solutions of facts, especially those which imply the
complete possusion of diseased patients by spirits. For our-
selves we do not by any means bring out this conclusion in
interpreting the Mesmeric facts in connection with Sweden-
borg's doctrines. We give the article mainly as a historWJl
document.
To his Majesty the King (Gustavus ill).
Most Mighty and Gracious Sovereign.
Among the blessings, which, through the ordering of an
all-wise Providence, present themselves to elevate your Ma-
jesty's reign to that legitimate and ever enduring glory, which
statesmanship, from its natively vacillating counsels, is so in-
adequate to reach, the foremost place undeniably belongs to
that new Heavenly Revelation, which the Lord in His infinite
mercy, has vouchsafed to communicate to mankind through
one of your Majesty's subjects, the ~departed EtLUiUJ:L SwJ:-
Dl!NBOJLG.
However common it has been in all ages, that " a Prophet
hath no honor in his country," yet now, since the above men-
tioned divine revelation and 1ystem ofdoctrine for the Lord's NlfJJ
Cl&ureh upon ~rth, has been for several years, in the more en-
lightened countries of Europe, acknowledged and eulogized
by lovers of truth, with all that reverence, love, and admira-
tion which its invaluable worth and benefit to all. ages, for
time and eternity, deserves ; the tum has at last come to our,
otherwise in its temperament so frigid and dilttory nation,
to be aroused by.the blaze of this heavenly light. Its first
rays have touched some among your Majesty's loyal sub-
jects, of all classes, and they have, for their mutual encour-
agement and instruction in the knowledge and practice of
what is the Divine Goodness and Truth, united themselves
into an " Exegetical and Philanthropic Society," instituted in thia
City the past year, on the birthday of His Royal Highness,
the Crown Prince, on the 1st of November, and strengthened
since that time by the addition of a worthy and considerable
number of members, both national and foreign.
Praised be the name of the Lord for ever, who has permit-
ted us all, the present members of this Societ>:, ~olive until
this day in peace a~d quietn~ss, under.a Christian govern-·
ment, and your MaJesty's mild and righteous sway; for
which blessmg we daily, from grateful hearts! offer up to the
Highest, prayers and thanksgiving for the Kmg, so.th~t \Ve
may for time to come "lead a quiet and peaceable life .m all
godliness and honesty ; for this is good and acceptable m the
aight ofGod our Saviour."
258 APPENDIX C.
Such are our united and invariable sentiments, to which,
through the Lord's grace, we hope that our manner ?f living
shall ever correspond; our doctril~es also not toler~tm~ an'X-
thing differing from this; for the1r f~1nda~ental p~mmple 15
"that no one can attain eternal happ1ness 1n the Kingdom of
Heaven, except in as far as he in this life has been a good
subject and citizen in his earthly father-land." (Vide Doctrina
Nova Hierosolyma Calestis, No. 93.)
This solemn declaration before God, of our irrevocable sen.
timents, in which it is our purpose to live as Christians and
happily to die, we lay at the foot of the throne of our most
indulgent Sovereign, with the deepest feelings of respect and
attachment; praying submissively, and supplicating for our·
selves, the present as well as the future, both national and
foreign Brethren under the dominion of your Majesty, as be-
ing one and all Professors of the pure Christianity of the Bible
and of that Divine doctrine which the Lord has been pleased
to reveal to his New Church, and which is founded there-
upon; to be continued undisturbed for the future, in the gra-
cious favor and protection of your Royal Majesty.
Most gracious King ! The cure of diseases by means of
Magnetism, and its adjunct, Somniloquism, are subjects which
at the present time attract the public attention in most Eu-
ropean countries.
Several worthy and distinguished members and friends of
the " Exegetical and Philanthropic Society" have also taken
cognizance of these two important discoveries.
Among the former, or the actual members of the Society,
many estimable gentlemen have not only informed them-
selves about the many curious phenomena connected with
these discoveries, from foreign journals, but have also insti-
tuted experiments themselves, or else have become attentive,
impartial and critical witnesses of the answers put forth by
sleep-talkers to questions proposed, on which occasions also
many of the latter, or the friends of the Society, have been
present.
These gentlemen have, by these means, become con-
vinced that these phenomena, when looked upon from a
proper stand-point, that is, with reference, not to vain cu1·iosity,
but to the real benefit ofmankind, never can, in their origin and
characteristics, as also in their already known or ·yet to be develop-
ed effects and consequences, be satisfactorily explained, unless
regarded in harmony ·with a true and genuine lmowledge of
the Creator, Man, and Nature.
As tlus knowledge, in its highest and most perfect purity,
is found in that Divine Revelation which the Lord has been
pleased to give mankind in the Bible, as well as in those
APPENDIX C. 259
doctrin~l \VTitin~s '~hich his infinite Goodness, and "\Visdom
have d1ctated, mspued and recorded for His New Church
upo.n earth, the before mentioned members and friends of the
Soetety_, have deemed it profitable, that such truths as may
be serv1ceable to the object contemplated, should be collected
from these Divine and heavenly sources.
l\Iost gracious King! Such is the motive for putting forth
the ~rese!lt treatise, ~hich the Society felt it a duty to pre.
sent 1n prmt, as a subJeCt for farther reflection. The sketch
of t~e practical use and application of this science in every-day life,
which the Society has found occasion to exhibit in this little
work, and which object ought always to be the aim of pure
Christianity, will, it is hoped, \Vith the blessing of God, not
be without fruit among readers who love virtue and properly
value the truth.
The Society has also considered the opportunity of send.
ing this Treatise to other countries, as appropriate for obtain-
ing information respecting the increase of solicitudeto become
thoroughly acquainted in its·whole extent with the NewDivine
Communication vouchsafed to the Lord's New Church, ·which
may have spread in the more important European coun-
tries ; in order that the Society may hereafter more definitely
fix upon the best time to execute certain of its adopted de-
signs in regard to publishing, 1st. Sebastian Schmidt's faith-
ful and excellent Latin version of the Bible, and which is to
contain Emanuel Swedenborg's amendments, in accordance
with the original Hebrew and Greek texts. 2d. The Lord's
Divine Revelation to His New Church in the original Latin.
3d. Complete and exact translations of the foregoing ·works
in French, no less than in the vernacular tongue of our own
country.
And in order to secure the executiou of the above.men-
tioneu projects in this our country, so that the expense of the
several editions, as 'veil as the profits from foreign sales of
the same, may remain in the land, the Society do most hum.
bly beseech your Majesty to grant them his gracious copy-
right and privilege for these and other \VOrks yet to appear,
with exemption from the shackles of censorship ; a great and
royal favor which the Society, in view of the immense im-
portance of this the~ undertakiJ;tg, viz. ~he benefit. o~ sound
instruction to mankmd on subJeCts whiCh most In\lmately
concern their happiness and well-being for time and for eter-
nity, in the greatest humility venture to assure th~mselves,
can never be refused to the Society by a great, enhghtene~,
mild and righteous Sovereign; it being, on the cont_rary, th~ll'
most ardent desire and lively hope, that Heaven m mfin1te
mercy has chosen as a blessing and a protector to her New
260 .APPJ:NDIX C.
Church, for the new heaven-descended city. a King, whom a
kind and all-wise Providence has set over this northern land,
out of which the Lord bas called that l\1esse11ger whom he
has been graciously pleased to make use of to record and
publish his Divine Revelation to his Ne'v Church: in order
that in both these important particulars 1night be fulfllled
what the Lord has foretold: "Behold, these that go to·ward
the north country have quieted (or, caused to rest,) my spirit
in the north country" (Zech. vi. 8).
In an age such as the present. when religious persecution
is regarded by every wise government with that detestation
which it deserves, no Swedish citizen, and least of all the
rnerilbers of this Society, can so far misapprehend the princi-
ples according to which our beloved country is govemed by
your Majesty, as to suppose that the Society can be actuated
in taking the step which we now in all humility undertake,
from fear of any exhibition of that intolerance which leads
the way only to darkness and barbarism. No; reasons and
motives quite different and more momentous have confirmed
our conviction, that the time is no\v arrivedwhen thatDivine
light ·which the LORD so mercifully has caused to spring up
in our beloved country, must no longer be" covered with a
bushel, or be put under a bed ; but it is to be set on a can-
dlestick, so that they which enter in may see the light: for
nothing is secret that shall not be made manifest, neither any.
thing hid that shall not be known and come abroad." Ac-
cording as every one, ruler as well as subject, shall exan1ine,
receive and follow this divine light of truth, so shall be their
destiny in this world and in that which is to come; "for who-
soever hath, to him shall be given; and whosoever hath not,
from him shall be taken even that which he seemeth to
have." Providence will no longer permit, as the time of the
Lord's Second Advent draws near, that truth shall be paired
with vice, virtue with falsehood, or Christ with Belial; for the
time is no'v again at hand, of which it is said:" One might-
ier than I cometh; he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost
and with fire ; whose fan is in his hand, and he will thorough-
ly purge his floor, and will gather the wheat into his gamer;
but the chaff he will burn with fire unquenchable." Yes,
u the time is at hand ; he that is unjust, let him be unjust
still : and he which is filthy, lethim be filthy still ; and he that
is rigHteous. let him be righteous still; and he that is holy,
lethimbe holy still And behold! I come quickly, and my re-
·ward is with me, to give to every man according as his ·work
shall be. I atn Alpha and Omega, the ueginning an(l the end,
the first and the last. Blessed are they that do his conunand-
APPENDIX C. 261
tnents., that they may have right to the tree of life, and may
enter m thro~gh th~ gates into the city."
Most gracwus Kmg ! the Society have considered them-
selves b~:mnd to submit. this short account of their general
pro~eed1ngs, and the obJect of the present treatise in particu-
lar, m the ~resent form, with all humility, to your Majesty.
The .society commm~d themselves to the high favor and
protectwn of your MaJesty for ever, with the most fervent
prayers and ardent wishes for your Majesty's happiness.
~lost mighty and gracious King,
Your Royal l\1ajesty's
Most humble and loyal subjects,
THE ExEGETICAL AND PHILANTHROPIC SociETY.
LETTER TO THE " SOCIETIE DES Al't-ITS REUNIS," AT
STRASBURG.
GENTLEMEN,-The genuine benefits which accrue to man-
kind through your useful researches and unremitting labor to
alleviate its sufferings, have awakened in us that respect and
veneration ·which always are the concomitants of philan-
thropic virtue and active wisdom; and we hereby assure you,
worthy sirs, of the pleasure which we have experienced in
reading those learned and important ·works, which some of
your members have published on the subject of Animal
1'Iagnecis1n.
Several of the members of our Society have practised mag-
netizing diligently and with success; and these experiments
have contributed much to direct our attention to the true prin-
ciples of Magnetism and Somnambulism, and consequently
to a solution of the phenomena which they exhibit. Permit
us, then, to lay before you the results of our investigations of
these subjects.
We believe that those systems which have their foundation
in mere physical causes, as "La Psycologie Sacree de Lyon,"
are quite inadequate to explain how those singular effects
take place and are produced, whicJ;t l\1agJ?.etism and Som-
nambulism present. It seems to be 1mposs1ble fully and ra-
tionally to explain them, unle~s .we once fo.r all, and without
shrinking from the shafts of ndlCule, take 1t for granted tl?-at
spiritual beings exert an influence upon the org.ans of the In-
valid during the time that the power.of Magnetism has pro-
duced a parti~l cessation of the fnnctt?ns ofthe soul, and that
these sp1ritlml ngents, in virtnc <;>f ~he lugher degrees of lulowl-
edge ·which they possess, ongmate these wonderful and
tz•
•
262 APPENDIX C.
otherwise inexplicable phenomena. To maintain that the hn-
Inau soul, or the primitive Ego (as it is called in the language
oJ the "Psycologie Sacree,") can effect anything of this kind,
or kno'v anything about it, after the paroxysm, wonltl be to
assume facts which militate against reason, and are contro-
verted by the ideas which we entertain respecting the human
soul; namely, that its essence consists in the '~till and the
understanding; properties which can never exist, except 1nau
posse~.--es self-consciousness (conscientia sui), which som-
nambulists generally do not.
Being at the present time engaged in the examination of
those manuscripts which were left to us by our enlightened
countryman Emanuel 8wedenborg, we have transcribed a
few passages from them which serve to thro\v 1ight upon
these subjects, and herewith subjoin these extracts, together
with some others from his printed works ; all of which may
be useful in explaining the causes of disease, the operations
of Magnetism, and the real state of the sleep-talker; all of
which is drawn from that true theory of the iioul and its in-
fluence upon the body, which we briefly insert at the close
of the extracts.* We propose, should you so desire, further
to pursue the analysis and proofs of the truths therein con-
tained, and should consider ourselves very fortunate if we
should succeed in imparting to them that importance and
weight which, in the estimation of every virtuous lover of
knowledge and frien<l of humanity, they so richly deserve.
We defer, for the present, letting our memoranda ef the
experiments so often by us repeated, be seen in print. Ex.
perimeuts have irresistibly strengthened us in the belief of
those principles which we here disclose, as being the only
satisfactory clue to all the phenomena appertaining to l\1ag-
netism and Somnambulism. We will, ho,vever, remark in
this place, by way of introduction, that every true friend of
his species and sincere \Vorshiper of virtue and truth, who
with sincere and humble prayer to "the Lord that healeth,"
begins in full reliance on Him to magnetize the sick, after
preparing them for a similar frame of mind, may convince
hhnself by personal experience of the effective power of this
re.ID:edy: ar~medy kno\vn in ancient times, and now, through
D1vme Prov1dence, restored to mankind for pm·poses worthy
of His goodness aud wisdom, and which will undoubtedly
more and n1ore develope themselves to those who desire to
kno'v them with a view of doing good. Every :Magnctiser, ·
* 'Ve omit the insertion of the::;c extracts, as they are, fi1r tho
most part, the same witll those which we have giv<.:u iu the body
of tho work.
APPENDIX 8. 263
alter having brollght his patient into a state of sleep-talking
may a~ ple~ure not only convince himself that the sleep~
talker 18 a different being from the patient, but also come to
the knowled~e of who tQat being is, and of a thousand other
WOJ?-derful thmgs respecting another life, religious truths, and •
th~ ~nward state of man. A Magnetizer speaking only to the
s.ptnt as_to another person,_
and not to the sleeper, can, by ra-
tional, drrected, !l~d well-d1g:ested questions, render it practi-
cable f~>r the sptnt to ma~e 1tself known as a being differing
from him whose tongue 1t makes use of. This communica-
tion seems not to fall within the sphere of those beings who
speak through the organs of the sleeper, before, by the Lord's
permission, those present by their questions, thus arranged,
have opened the way. But every one who will institute these
experiments,must be careful not to abuse them by an impro-
per curiosity ; for such an abuse would not fail to provoke
the infliction of well-deserved chastisement.
We make this remark after mature deliberation, and for
reasons which have great influence upon our hearts ; and
are prepared to meet every objection or contradiction, and
even, if necessary, that ridicule and mockery which may be
heaped upon us by the unthinking and spiteful rabble-who
in everything of this description see nothing but an object of
scam and sarcasm ; for these persons push their talents high,
in never investigating a subject, or to see it in any other, but
that distorted and obscure light which best suits them.
Those ignorant and self-worshiping people, who take upon
themselves to express the mind of the :public, whose scourge
they are, and who mislead the 'veak-mmded, so as to destroy
them with greater ease-these, 've say, are particularly eager
and active to assail everything with ridicule, which bears
any reference to a future life, the solemn thought of which
they hoot at with impious temerity, with insane levity en-
deavoring to exclude all hopes of a hereafter, and to banish
them from the hearts of others. No doubt you recognize the
picture of those persons to whom we allude in this sketch:
your country is full of them, as well as the rest of Europe,
over which these apostates from humanity have spread them-
selves, like the locust and the palmer-worm, and where they
impudently assume the name of philosop_hers, to which ~hey
have no right whatever; they base therr false conclus1ons
upon an imaginary foundation which they call Nature, pre-
tending that nature is entirely indepe~dent of. its preator;
they rely upon their own understandm~s, wh1ch m ev_ery
respect are at variance 'vit~ eter~1al ~sdo~ ;.and ~a~st
this wisdom these modern g1ants, 1n theu vam ~agmation,
throw up mountains of Rophisms, one more fnghtful than
•
264 APPENDIX C.
tile other; but the fate of such, has, and ever will be to siuk
back into that nothin(Y, into which they strive to plunge the
soul and everytl1ina ';vhich connects it ·with the Supreme
Being, Heaven and the \Vorld of Spirits.
As we have the pleasure of speaking to true philo~<;>pher~,
such as you, worthy sirs, whose .benevolent d1spos1tl0n w.e
venerate, there is no need of offermg any apology for the di-
gression from our subject, into which our just indignation
towards these ,,~rong~headed sophists, has led us. \Ve are
persuaded that you lament with us, the evils whieh they in-
flict upon the human race, while they fun1ish the edge of
their self-supposed keenness .of intellect, on~y.for the purp?se
of overthrowing the foundatwns of true religiOn, the blottmg
out of Divine Revelation, and the destntction of all real vir-
tue, '\Vhich is the bond of society, by which alone it can be
kept together.
The extracts annexed to this letter, translated from the La-
tin, and the conclnsions and remarks which we draw from
them, will serve to elucidate what we have already briefly
advanced ; and as in both of these parts of our letter, we go
back to those first principles, to whichthe phenomena known
in 1'fagnetism and Somnambulism have led us, snbjects
which at the present time seem to rivet the attention of every
reJiecting person in Europe, we ·wish to say that the oppor-
tunity was too favorable to let pass, to direct such persons to
the excellent 1naxims \Vhich alone can afford guidance, in
the investigation of the causes ofany visible effects whatever.
As there is an indissoluble connection between all existing
things, as there is between all truths, it is and remains at all
times impossible tofind the truth perfectly pure and unadulter-
ated, \vithout mixture of error, exceptwe take it from Divine
Revelation, which is the only living and inexhaustible foun-
tain of truth; and wh10h is now unknown or misunderstood,
as its waters so long have been troubled and soiled, but
which offers, when purified and restored to its primitive
clearness, to every one who drinks of it, a well of living wa-
ter springing up into everlasting life.
The high esteem in which vve hold yon, in consequence
of your laudable and ~nerous efforts in behalf of the welfare
of your fellow-beings, forbids us to doubt, that, as Christian
philosophers, you will concede, that the introduction which
·we have given to those subjects which are treated of in this
little brochure, may be advantageously read by many, inas-
much as it may awaken a desire further to investigate sev-
eral topics of importance, which \VC have here merely touch-
ed .npon. '\~e have, m~reover. cm~vi.uciug ~1roofs, that Mag-
Utltll)ffi and SomnaUlbuhsm, by thcu e.x.tcnslVe and beneficial
AI'PE.NDIX C. 265
influence, if ~ightly understood and applied, are intimately
conn~cted Wlth the advanc.enlent of divine truth; that they
s~renr::then at:d corroborate It by means of a speaking illustra-
tzon (~llustrat_10 loq.uens), a name by 'vhich they seem to be
sufficiently ulentt.fied by the author mentioned above. It
must also be admitted, that if man, as is asserted Ly that
·writer, who was illumir:ed by :pivin~ n·nth, is originally cre-
ated to be at the same tune an mhab1tant of earth and a citi-
zen of heaven, Phil. iii. 20, ("For our conversation is in
heaven," &c.) so as to have his outward ~enses of ~ight and
hearing opened, and through them to hoh.l cmnmunion with
his fellow-1nen, and also to have his inward sight and hear-
ing in exercise, in order to see and converse ·with angels and
spirits; if this be so, which we do not at all doubt, then Som-
uambulism may become to the Magnetizer and those present.
who 'viii rightly improve it, an adumlJration, though feuble,
of the first immediate correspondence with the invisible
\vorld; a state to which mankind may again aspire, when
the Lord:s New Kingdom shall have found sufficient access
to the hearts of mortals, that his Holy City may come <.lown
from hea~en, and the tabernacle of Go<.l shall again" be with
men, and he will dwell 'vith them, and they shall be his peo-
ple, and God himself shall be with them, and be their God."
"Ve even venture to hope, that every attentive reader who,
after divesting himself of all prejudice, so as to look steadily
at nothing but the pure truth, established by experience, fol-
lows the chain of ideas and argument here presented, and
puts himself in a position to make the experiments therewith
connected, shall be prepared to become convinced of the fol-
lowing truths and effects of ~Iagnetism, viz:
1. That all that is physical in Animal :Magnetism, is only
i.nstrurnentaJly appertaining to it, and that its main element is
of a tnoral or spiritual nature.
2. That there are two modes of magnetisiug, one of which
our sleep-talkers call the wondcr-wotki,tg, and the other the
supernatural.• The 1noral cause '\Yhich constitutes the efficacy
of the former, is the strong desire possessed by the magn~­
tizer to make an impres ~ion upon the patient, and the reli-
ance which he places in his own powers; the moral or spirit-
ual cause of snpen1atnral meloanetism, is also the d?sire
which the ~Iagnetizer possesses ofworking upon the patle!It,
and especially upon his inner man, which correspomls wnh
the disease; a desire which does not spring fr~m the nJagnet-
izer's vanity or self-conceit, nor fro_m any ulnmate v1ews of
gaining fame or money; nor does 1t proceed from.:my confi-
dence in himself; but on the contrary, from a s1uccrc nnd
* Sec note A.
266 APPENDIX C.
humble wish to be useful, subjected entirely to lhe will of
God. For this end he invokes the Divine blessing, if so be
that the healing of the sick, whom he de~ires to. benefit, shall
be conformable to the Divine purpose, 111 'vhtell alone he
places all his confi<leoce ; the auu and desires of the one ex-
tend no farther than to what appertains to the natural and
physical good; that of the other not to the natural and phys-
ical alone, but especially to the spiritual good of the soul
which alone can be truly and really beneficial to man.
Such a mttgnetizer, convinced that all diseases, as well as all
physical pain and ills to which mankin.d are exposed, are re-
sults of moral evil, endeavors by his conversation, and yet
more by his life and conduct, in a friendly manner to impress
the patient ·with that important admonition which our Lord
gave the man who had been diseased for a period of eight ·
and thirty years, whom he restoreu, and to 'vhom the Lord
said : "Behold, thou art made whole ; sin no more, lest a
worse thing come unto thee.''*
3. That the true theory of man teaches: that the human
soul is a spiritual organ, endowed with free will, reason and
power of action, which in proportion as it makes a good or
perverse uae of these capacities, renders itself apt and fitted
to receive the influences of goodness and wisdom from the
Lord, through the medium of angels and good spirits ; or the
iniluences of evil and folly from hell, through the tnedium of
devils and malignant spirits. All diseases, even those caused
by accident, as well as the accident which have given occa-
sion to the disease, are consequent upon the influences from
hell, to which 1nan by his unbridled passions and desires lays
himself open. It is vainly objected against this, that there are
sick persons, who to the eye of the world appear almost like
saints, and seem to have kept themselves aloof from fleshly
lusts \Vhich war against the soul (1 Pet. ii. 11). \Ve may be
fully persuaded, that these persons, if they sincerely examine
themselves before God, \vill find abundant cause to complain
in the 'vords of Paul: "The la'v is spiritual; but I am carnal,
sold under sin; so that when I woulu do good, evil is present
with me; for I delight in the law of God after the inward
man: but I see ~nother law in my members, warring against
the law of my mmd'' (Rom. vii. 14, 21, 22, 23).t But as sick-
ness and diseases are not the sole evils ·which afflict man-
kind, we n1ay easily find, that a person in perfect health may
be more under the dominion of evil desires, thanmany a sick
person. It \Vould be a gross mistake to make unpalatable
and improper application of thii general prindple to each
one indiddually, alike repugnant to the rules of good breed-
• See note B. t See note C
A.PP.ENDIX. c. 267
ing and dec~rllm, as to that Christian love aud charity which
far from bemg puffed up ot· vnunting itself at the m~fortun~
o~ a fello\:r-being, hopeth all things for the best concerning
h1m, and m the meant1m~, endnreth all .things, 1 Cor. xiii. 7,
and seeks by every possible means to promote his ·welfare.
4..That th~ act of r~agnetizing is chiefly a moral act, and
that 1ts physiCal part, 1s such merely as a handle or instru-
ment. The operative cause is the magnetizer's stmng desire to
benefit his neighbor; and the effect is that of removing or ex-
pelling the influence of the disease, as our sleep-wakers ex-
press it. In consequence of what they have told us, Mag-
netism, as to its moral cause, has some resemblance, though
faint, ·with the laying on of hands, 'vhich divine gift the Lord
imparted to the members of his church on earth iu the days
of the Apostles, and the promise of which seems to be given
not to the primitive Christians alone, hut 1nay belong to sub-
sequent times also, should Providence consider it conducive
to the furtherance of his holy designs; this is the evident im-
port contained in the divine promise, where the Lord says :
" And these signs shall follow them thatbelieve : in my name
shall they cast out devils, &c.-they shall lay hands on the
sick, and they shall recover" (~lark xvi. 17, 18). Here men·
tion is made generally of those that believe, without any
limitation as to the time it is to continue. Comp. James v.
14, 15. That this gift has ceased ever since the councils be-
gan, is alas ! but too true ; for from that time onward the
Christian ·world has perverted that pure religion which the
Lord bequeathed to his church, by the spurious glosses and
additions which they have appended to his doctrine of the
Holy Trinity, of the salvation of man, and other fundamental
articles of belief;-to these eiTors have been of course super-
added the declension of morals ; and it is nothing but these
errors and vices which have so remarkably adulterated Chris-
tianity, and caused it to s'verve from that purity of heart
and understanding, which ought to characterize the genuine
worshipers of the Lord• (2 Tim. iv. 3). But we do not find it
in any wise militating against the I,ord's goodness and wis-
dom, that ·when> of his great mercy, he shall again visit and
edify his new church, he may, 'vith purity of life and doc-
tTine, also restore tho~e his precious gifts which He bestowed
upon his first disciples.t It is certain, that ever since the
memorable period of 1757, not a year has passed, that atten-
tive enliahtened observers have not been aware of the J;>rO-
aress ,vl~ch the revolution in habits o~ thought and act~on,
~hich is now going on in our pla!let, 1s constantly makmg.
Just as the rising sun dispels themt~t and vapors of the earth
• See note D. t See note E.
268 APPENDIX C.
before hiln, so the approach of the Lorc.l's new kiugc.lmn
seems, in like manner, to have stimulateu the powers of hell,
to oppose its spread with all their might, as says the Prophet:
"'\Vo to the inhabitants of the earth and of the sea! for the
devil is come do\\ru unto you, having great 'vrath, because
he hath but a short time'' (Rev. xii. 12.) But if that matlness,
which wickedness and error entttil upon their votaries, has
been more general anti apparent, even so have Goodness and
Truth also, il1 their tlu-n, tnade greater and more rapid <ld-
vancement since that period, through the influence from on
high which they have been permitted to exercise upon those
who with sincere hearts dedic<lte themselves to virtnc and
·wisdom. The transition which we find that the natural world
is undergoing, and '\Vhich is palpably increased by the influ-
ence ofthe spiritual'\vorld npon this, renders itprobable, as our
sleep-walkers have declared; that supernatu.'ral gifts anrl pow-
ers will be bestowed upon such, u•ho ab.stain from all known and de-
liberate sinnintr: and in theh- hea'rts sincerely and humbly desire and
pray, that the Lord's will may be done in everything, and theirs
only in as far as'it shall be pe1jetdy conformable to His. Jn the
expectation, thereof, of seeing these hopes, so fraught with
blessings to the human race, confirmed, there certaiuly can
be nothing wrong, to consider some results of :Magnetism
and Somnambulism, which have already manifested theln-
selves, as being the harbingers of those blessings which the
Lord in his great mercy n1ay have in store for his obedient
and humble children, ·who are practically virtuous and zeal-
ous for the truth.
5. That the state of the Somnambulist, during the magnetic
sleep, may be called ecstatic, in order by that epithet to indi-
cate a suspension of the functions of the will and of the un-
derstanding, in the exercise of which, n1an's ordinary being,
or esse, consists. Such a state plainly demonstrates, that
what is said or done through the sleeper's organs, is not the
act of his soul, but of some other being, who has taken pos-
session of his organs, and operates through them. So long
as the ma~uetized person exhibits painful paroxysms, such
as convuls1~ns, &c., it is a sign that the spirit of disease,
which certamly cannot be a benevolent beinC'T, is still present·
but this. spirit has no :rower to speak throu
0
gh the organs of
the pattcnt, unless he 1s fully possessed; a dreadful coudi-
tiou, of which we have seen some appalling examples, of
'vhich statements have been prepared, to the truthfulness of
which there are many credible witnesses; this condition is
to a certain degree the same with that of £hose who are <le-
}Hived of thc1r reason. So soun as the magneti'l.ed per>:on
begins to talk in his sleep, it is a ~nre sign, that a ~p iritualbe-
ing and friendly to the person (as beiug his guardian-angel
APPUDIX C.
or go~ genius,~nd posse~ingthe same measure of goodness
and WlBdom Wl~ tlie patient} has succeeded if not entirely
to re~ove the dasease.or .rather the spirit of disease, has at
least m ~o fa~ rebuked 1ts mfluence, that he, wbo is a benev-
olent bemg, 18 able to speak and act through means of the
patient's or~s, and to give suitabl~ advic~ to those present
to P!omote ~ recovery; as also to 1mpartmformation on all
subJects wh1ch do not transcend his own knowledge. But
there mu~t be no other questions proposed, than such as may
be pract1cally useful and have a good object in view; and
not such as have their origin in a vain curiosity, and still less
such as are designed toridicule and debase so serious a mat-
ter. There are unfortunately persons of so malicious a dispo-
sition, who carry the del?.ravity of their hearts even thus far;
pretending with all poss1ble boldness and assurance to assert,
that Magnetism and Somnambulism, are nothing but hum-
bug and imposition, devised by the patients themselves, who
assume this guise of sleep-talkers only for the purpose of de-
ceiving the spectators. Such an imputation proves, that
these self-styled philosophers possess as little of sound under-
standing as of benevolent virtue; that they are incapable of
discerning truth from falsehood, or to investigate a matter
justly and without prejudice, while they always bring for-
ward the posnbilities of their own perverted imagination, in·
stead of actual f'ealities, of which every reasonable and can-
did person may be convinced through his natural senses,
which furnish him with incontrovertible testimony, through
the genuine deductions of his reasoning faculties, and finally
through a constant and infallible experience. As the spirit of
disease and its influences gradually relinquish theirhold upon
the patient, it often happens, that from day to day, good
spirits of a higher nature and more extensive kfl.O'Wledge, at-
tach themselves to the patient, which may be ascertained by
inquiring every time for the name which the spirit has borne
wliile on earth ancl in the flesh. By the extension or degree
of knowledge just spoken of, we mean a higher and more
perfect intimacy with the spiritual and sublime scie~ces, but
not with those of a natural and earthly nature, for w1th them
spirits of a lower grade are more conversant, as those sub-
jects are more homogeneal to the natural disposition, which
the higher spirits have laid aside, but those of lower grades
have not.
From this short sketch of the phenomena as connected
with our principles, which hat·e moved us to ad~lress you
with this letter, and to subject its co1~tcuts to t~1e JUdg~ent
of yourselves and the reflecting pubhc, you will not fa1l to
see, worthy sirs, that the development and proofs of the
270 APPENDIX C.
\Vhole are connected with the many distinct topi~s which we
hn.vc been obliged to tonch upon in the precedmg compen-
dious synopsis and subsequent extracts.. \Ve ventm·e, ho:w-
ever, to hope that neither you, \vorthy sirs, nor any other m~
telligent reader, will find anything supe~fiuons, \vhen tl~~t
compend is considered from the stand-pomt of general uttli~
ty, but rather a stimulus and encouragetnent to seek for far-
ther information, and to push experiments to a greater ex-
tent, which is what \Ve especially aim at. . . .
How desirable it is that those who, from mclmat10n and
with earnestness, apply themselves to the study of Magnet-
ism and Somnambulism, \vould suffer themselves to be en-
couraged from this, more and more to lift up their hearts and
their understandings to Hi1n" who alone doeth great wonders,
for his mercy endureth for ever., (Ps. cxx..~vi. 4). What an
infinity of sublime knowledge, what depths of useful and en-
lightening truths are held out to those in that new· Divine re-
velation \Vhich the Lord of his boundless mercy has been
pleased in these our days to add to that proclamation which
he has already given us from his goodness and wisdom, as
contained in the Holy Bible! But the beneficial and saving
po,ver of both these fountains of Divine truth, is misunder-
stood by those who thence seek for truth, without being ani-
mated by the heavenly desire to put in rractice that which
they learn, and to carry out in the life al that is good and
profitable. Yes, for without this all endeavors to discover
the secrets of ·wisdom are nugatory, and on the contrary in-
jurious, and \VHl dra\v down misery and condemnation upon
those who abuse them. It is all of no avail " to speak with
the tongnes of man and angels, or have the gift of prophecy,
and to understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and have
all faith, so as to remove mountains," (1 Cor. xiii. 1,) except
a man's life exhibits a constant practice of brotherly love.
As the Gree11lander during six months of the year does not
see the sun above his horizon, but is surrounded by his eter-
nal ice, illumined only by the feeble light dispensed by the
~oon and the northern lights, just so unhappy is his condi-
tJOn when compared with the happy and active inhabitants
under a more temperate and agreeable zone, as the state of
hi~:TI ~vho is cov~tou~ <?f k~1owledge but devoid of virtue, de-
ceived by the vam d1stmct10n of being seen and gazed at, and
the object of his own misguided self-love, when compared
with the intelligent and moral man ·who exerts himself for
the \Velfare of his race, 'visely and virtuously, carrying within
the light of eternat wisdom, and the vivifying heat of the
sun of heavenly love, and by these guided and cheered on
his way. He cannot be deceived as to the correctness of his ,
APPENDIX C. 271
steps, which all tend to tJ:e same goal, which is, to glorify his
Maker and to ~enefit .socu:ty. As he progresses on this laud-
able pat~1, all drfficulttes dtsappear, even those which to him
se~med msurmountable; he discovers new opportunities for
dom~ go.od, an~ finds ~esh means of accomplishing it. The
steadtly mcreasmg desrre o~ enl~rging his sphere of useful-
ness, and the heavenly sat1sfact10n which accompanies the
practice of virtue and benevolence, are the true and substan-
ti.a~ rewards "\\~hich. are earned by an honest man, a good
c1t1zen, and a genume Christian. It is this ever-active love
and solicitl~de for th~ well-b~ii~g of the human family-this
only true vtrtue, 'vh1ch the d1vme and beneficent doctrines of
Christianity so eminently uphold and inculcate, when they
teach that love to God and man never faileth, but that aU
other qualities and gifts shall come to nought (1 Cor. xiii. 8).
For it is the appropriate province and element of the soul of
man to practise this. Happy, therefore, is that man who,
during his pilgrimage through this life, in which he is tried
and trained up for a better state of existence hereafter, endea-
vors to improve every moment 'vhich Divine Providence al-
lots him, to the active exercise of this virtue, of 'vhich it is
said," He that dwelleth in love, d\velleth in God, and God in
him" (1 John iv. 16); and thus he enjoys a real blessedness,
and his heaven begins already on earth.
That divine revelation which the Lord of his infinite mercy
has vouchsafed to His ne"v church, aims principally to kindle
this virtue in the breast of every mortal. It is a revelation
which, by the most persuasive arguments, calls back the
Christian to that paramount conunandment of love (John xv. 12,
17; 1 Cor. xiii. 13), the obedience and practice of which are
his true and distinguishing mark (John xv. 12, 13). The ap-
plication of this beneficent doctrine to the social duties, which
is the main point in the new revelatioil from heaven, uemon-
strates how usefnl it would be in every state and every gov-
ernment; it urges, as its cardinal P!inciple, thatno one can be
happy in the eternal. state, o~ly 1~1 as. fa: as he bas been a
good citizen and a fa1thful subJeCt 111 tlus life. (See The New
Heaven, No. 93.) A principle which is rendered so clear and
conspicuous by this doctrine, that in the view of every atten-
tive and unbiassed reader, it completely throws to the gro~nd
those pernicious errors, those sup~rstitious schemes, \VhlCh
the passions, ignorance and unbeh~f o~ men have sought to
introuuce in preference.to th~ soc.tal. vrrtues.; the only. pat.~
which conducts to happmess m thiS !Jfe and 111 that wh1ch l:s
to come. .
We beg to express our desire, worthy sus, that you, a~ well
as the Societies or individuals to whose knowledge thlS let-
272 APP.ENDLt C.
ter may come, and who take an interest therein, or arc en-
gaged in those subjects of ·which it t_reats, would do_us the
kindness to send us such of their pubhsbed works. wluch are
herewith connected aud at the same time have the goodness
to inform us at 1vhi~h bookseller's or commercial house we
are to forward the payment therefor. \Ve would also, with
great. pleasure, accept written comments on this letter, and
the topics which are th~rein presented. .
Before concluding tlus letter, may we be perffiltted to an-
nex an announcement intended,not for yourselves alone, but
for every one under 'vhose eye this s~or~ epistle may fall,
and which it was intended from the begmnmg to make gene-
rally k11own, viz. that 1ve have undertaken to publish A
new and corrected edition of all the books of the new lteavenl·y 1·eve-
lation to the Lord's new Clw1·ch, embracing, 1. A reprint of tlte
original Latin works, those al1'eady p1·inted in England and Hol-
land as well as the not yet printed manuscripts. 2. French and
Swedish translations of these works; and 3. A 1·eprint of Sebas-
tian Schmidt's Latin version of the canonical books of the Sacred
Scn.ptu1·es, with Emanuel Swedenbo'rf[s corrections and amendments,
according to the Hebrew and Greek O
'riginal ground text. This
edition will be issued with all that care and attention which
the greatimportance of the subject demands, and in a conve-
nient quarto or octavo form, printed with clear type and on
good paper. The price will be as low as the outlay attend-
ing so great an undertaking "vill admit, and will be regulated
according to the larger or smaller number of copies which
shall be printed ; and in order that it may be known by what
to be guided in this matter, we beg that all friends of the
truth, who wish such au undertaking to be carried into effect,
would please to notify us how many copies of these several
works may be sold by them.
We remain, with friendship and esteem,
Worthv sirs,
· Your humble servants,
THE ExEGETICAL AND PHILANTHROPIC SociETY.
STOCKHOLM, June 19, 1787.
Notes to the above Letter.
A . That men, whose lives and prjnciples otherwise are
highly vicious a~d cu1p~Lle, max }Jerform miracles, is attest-
ed hy rhe Lord hnnself (l\'Iatt v11. 2.2. 23). TL10se ·who have
studied so deeply in the arts of .il!agir and 1'/tawnaturcr'l should
seriously.reflect upon this decl_aration of the Lord: tf1~ir eter-
nal happmess depends upon 1t; and no one can with impu-
APPDDIX c. 273
nity enter these devious paths leading away from the onl
true ~ne ~hioh leadeth tmto 1" (John xiv. 6). y
It 18 ev1dent that by supernatttral is meant whatever is be-
yond the n~~ural, sensual and corporeal, and signifies, there-
fore the spantual and heavenly. In this sense it is said in the
Sacred SCrip_tures, " that which is hom of the flesh, is flesh
and that which is born of the spirit, it spirit," (John iii. 6) ~
and " the natuml man receiveth not the thmgs of the Spiritor
God, for they are foolishness unto him, neither can he know
them, because they are spiritually discerned" (1 Cor. ii. 14).
"It is the Spirit that quickeneth, the flesh profiteth nothing ;
the words which the Lord speaketh unto us, they are spirit
and life " (John vi. 63). It is characteristic of all the gifts of
the Spirit, that they tend to general benefit and improve-
ment (1 Cor. xii. 7 and sequ.); but such is by no means the
case with love of self and the love of the world. Those who
poaeess only the wonder-working power, are impelled by
these affections (Matt. vii. 22, 23); and consequently possess
the wonder-working power of Magnetism only, unaccom-
paujed by the supernatural, that is, the spiritual and hea-
venly power and Influence.
We may remark here, in passing, that the frequent relap-
188 to which all who have been considered as cured by
JDeallS of the wonder-working magnetism, are exposed,
spring from lack of virtue and wisdom in those egoistic Mag-
netisers, who in their efforts aim only at effect, that is, at the
diseases themselves, but overlook the most important effect,
which aims at the causes, or the patient's moral disposition
and character ; which causes, as long as they exist, cannot
but produce the same effects, or repeated relapses. On the
other hand, we have cases of cure in the most inveterate dis-
eases, such as gout, rheumatism, lameness, deafnees, &c. by
means of the other species of magnetism which, as it were,
introduces between the magnetiser and the magnetised a
sphere of communication, of action and reaction, and of con-
fiaence and relia.ace upon the Lord who healeth (Exod. xv. 27);
and of genuine zeal to obey all His holy commandments,
which is the only legitimate evidence that man can offer in
proof of his love for this his greatest benefactor, whose assist-
ance he invokes and trusts to (J~hn xiv. 21). In this man-
ner is brought to pass what the Sacred Scriptures declare,
namely, that " the prayer of faith shall save tb~ sick! and the
Lord shall raise him up; and if he have commttted sms, they
ahall be forgiven him" (James v. 15). Wh_en the cause of
the disease, or the dominion of sin _
in the pattent'_s hea~, has
ceased to exist, then the effect, which was the d1sease Itself,
also ceases, never to retum.
274 .A1lP£~l>IX e.
B. That diseases generally are caused by cv!L spi_
rits, c~r­
responds with the declaration the Sacre~ Scn_pture~. as m
Acts xix. 11, 12 :-"And God ,,"l·on~ht specml mtrncles by the
baud of Paul, so that from his body were brought unto the
sick handkerchiefs or avrons, and the disca."cs dcpartc~ fron1
them, and the evil spirits '\Vent out of them." It 1s here
spoken of diseases, butnot of the beiug possessed by unclean
spirits, which has been added by some 1ater translators of
the Bible, bnt is not found in the original Greek. Between
common diseases anu possessions there is, ho,vever, a fun-
damental distinction; in the former, the person is only influ-
enced to a certain uegree by the e\'il spirits, but in ihe )atter,
the same as in madness and iusanity, which always is a more
or less complete possession, he is altogether under the do-
minion of Satan and devils. These spirits of disease are also
spoken of in the Sacred Scriptures (rrvtvfHl 'acrOtvcia~, spiritus in-
firmitatis). "\Ve are told in Luke xiii. 11, that " there was a
woman which had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and
was bowed together> and could in no wise lift up herself."
In the Greek U1ere is nothing in this passage which indicates
that this woman was possessed, but only atTiictetl with a kind
of paralytic disease; such was also the case with Simon Pe-
ter's 1notber-in-law, who was not at all possessed (Luke iv.
38, 39); but is spoken of as suffering from a great fever, and
it is said the Lord rebuked the fever, and it left her; which
expression sufficiently illustrates that the disease had its ori-
gin from a spirit which the Lord rebuked and cast out.
C. Every man who lives in this world receives more or less
good and bad influences ; this life is only a preparatory state,
i11 which man has full liberty to choose to which kind of in-
fluence he will surrender himself, either to that of heaven
or to that from hell; which always conforms to the man's
habits, the passions which govern him, that desire 'vhich he
possesses to find the truth, and to carry it into practice, the nse
which he makes of his physical and mental powers, and the
mo~al and .natural advantages of birth, fortune, &c. \Vith
wh1eh Prov1uence has endowed him.
. D • .The natural ·world is the world of effects o1· of phenomena,
1n theli lowest sphere, or lowpst degree of consolidation in a
natural form ; these effects have their cause or ori rrin in the
spiritual world, even as their final object is derived from the
celestial -world, the soul of which is the Lord Eternal, God...
man (Deus Homo), who thus orders aud ordains all ulti-
mate results, causes and effects by his Divine Providence as
the Lord hl1nself testifies, saying," vVho hath wrourrht ~nd
done it, calling the generations from the beginning r J, the
Lord, the firs~, and with the Jast; 1 am he" (Isaiah xli. 4).
APPENDIX C, 2i5
As the three prop~rties. of ~an, viz. 1. The will, which refers
to the end or obJect m v1ew; 2. The unde1·standing, which
cor:esponds to the causes, or means employed; and, 3. Action,
wh1eh re_lates to the effects, and constitute the being, whose in-
strument IS the body. ~o al~o the Lord is man, spiritual in his
esseuc~, and the ~ughest. an~ fullest prototype of our weak
and fimte humantty, ·whtch IS created in his imaae and like-
ness .<Ge~l. i~. 7).. The will o! God is his goodness this under-
standmg_ ts h1s w1sd?m ; a.nd hts action is hi~ omnipotence, or that
emanat10n from HlS dwme nature ,,·hich is called the Spirit of
the Lord, or the Holy Gltost. h1 this manner the Lord is God
and man, the first; but he did, moreover, in the fnlness of
time, become a natural, Teal man; and is thus made the last,
in order that by his natural humanity, after having been sanc-
tified and made divine, through temptations allowed to assail
it from the powers of darkness, ·which he uniformly resisted,
overcome, and took captive, he 1nightfor ever keep hell under
his feet without destroying it, \Vhich would have taken place
if he approached it in his Divine nature, and without shroud-
ing or moderating his consuming fire (Dent. iv. 24; Heb. xii.
29), by veiling it in natural humanity. It is by means of these
victories over hell, and all its temptations and onsets-of
which the sufferings on the cross were the last-that the Lord,
God ancl man. in the fulness of time, has become the Savio1w
and Redeemer, not only upon earth to mankmd, but also in the
angelic Ileaven, and in the world of spi'rits, which are insepara-
bly connected with humanity, \\'hich is their origin and foun-
dation, and through whom are exhibited aU effects of ends
and causes, which there concentrate and settle. \Vithout
this salvation, mankind '\Vould have been swallowed up and
conquered by hell, which, atthe time of our Lord's taking hu-
man nature to himself, already had appeared upon earth-
had overspread it and prevailed over it; which is proved by
secular as well as Church history, in the accounts they have
bequeathed us of the u:o~ship .of devils among the .heathen;_ of
oracles, of possessions by evil sp1nts, and of the v~nons magteal
arts which then were quite common; facts whiCh more mo-
dern Savans have classed among nursery-tales; but to \\:hich
there is always found a substratum of trut~1, notwithstaudjng
all the additions with which they may be mterlarded. .
It is remarkable that the Lord, in the prophecy from Is.a1ah
quoted above, says, " I am 1.vitlt, or a"!ong, tile last;" tl1~t 1s to
say, that by His divine influence ~1e IS here bel?w wtth the
children of men, who are the last lmk of that cham c<?mposecl
of those who are created in God's image, and to be H1s dwell-
ing-place: for when this prophecy 'vas ma.de, the Lord had
not yet assumed natural humanity, or the likeness of human
t
APPI:NDIX c. 277
onieal books of God's ho!y wo~ have been composed by
correspondence~, as well. m theu connection as in every se-
parate part. hi pr'?portion as man receives the doctrine of
COlT~, he will understand not only the literal sense
ofGOd's word, which is the outward body, and the last out-
ward.garment, ~1?-t what is infinitely more, he understands
the l&iddm or ~ritud smse of the Holy Word, which is as it
were, the soul, in which is the life, which proceeds fro:O. the
Lord, and which, in its inmost meaning, is Himself. For thus
it is written : " In the beginning was theWord, and the Word
was with God, and the Word was God" (John i. 1). It is
the t1W tmd living Word of God'UJhich endurethfor ever, through
the potDer and indwelling of which, and the life conforming
tAereunto, that man ilregenerattd 1 Pet. i. 23, and not through
the letter, which, alone and separated from the spin·t, is as the
body without the soul, which only kilkth, while the spjrit giv-
MI& life, as is said in 2 Cor. iii. 6. The literal sense and mean-
ingof the word is penned in accordance with everything that
is found to exist in the natural world, and its corresponding
epiritual meaning is composed of what exists in heaven. rt
18 the unfolding of this spiritual sense and meaning, presented
with a degree of clearness and force of excellence hitherto
unknown, which the Lord has been pleased in our day to
oause to descend unto the earth through His gratious revela-
tion to His mtD el&urck. A development whicli is foretold in
Holy Writ, bythe name ofthe Lord's second coming," When
Ae lholl wme to be glorified in His saints, and to be admired in o1/,
dim tluJt believe " (2 Thess. i. 1O).
'lbat this second advent of the Lord shall be attended with
-.pernatural gifts, bestowed upon those tJJho 'IIJorship Him in
lpirit atatl in tTutk, is an expectation on which they liavegood
grounds to depend, according to the Divine promises which
the Lord has been pleased to give unto them : " If~ abide in
me and my 'tDords abide in you, ye lholl aak tehat ye tDill, and it
fiAtdl be dime unto you" (John xv. 7). "Verily, wrily, I~
unto you, he that believetlton me, the 'UJOrb that I do sholl/Udo also,
ond greater 'UJorlt.s than these 1halllu do, beC41J,Se I go vnto my Fa-
llin'" (John xiv. 12).
The spiritwil gifu which tJu: ~rd.of His grace ~stowa
apon his true worshipers, are distinguished, 1. By calling on
die Lord our Saviour. 2. Byan implicit ~st and con~dence
in His holy Providence, an~. 3. By employmg. ~ f{ifts _for
the general good (1 Cor. xu. 3, 7), c~aracterJStics diffe~
very materially {rom, 1. The overweenmg confidence which
the egoistical Thaumaturg, addicted to magical~· reposes
in himself. 2. His ambitious and covetous ~esigDs, and 3.
His invocation of other beings than the Lord hlDlSelf, be they
13
I
I
I
278 APPENDIX C•
.A11gels, Spirits, or Saints~ which is expressly forbidden as an
abominable idolatry (Deut. vi. 13, et sequ). " Thou shalt fea!
the Lord th·y God, and sen•e him, aml shalt su•ear by Ids name. Ie
shall not goafter other gods," &c. tha~ i~ to say after 11e~ther Ange~s,
Spirits, or Saints. \Vhen man duecrs his adoratw.n and lus
prayers to the Lord himself, he often sends to hm1 angels
and good spirits, but let him never in any n'l~rmer offer ·wor-
srup to them. " See, that thou do it not," sa1d the angel to
John, uforI am thyfellow-servar~;t, and oft~y b1·eth-ren the J!1·ophets,
and of them which keep tzte saymgs ciftl11s Book:· v:o~slup God."
The 'vorship ofthe Vugrn :Mary and of the Samts, mtroduced
by the ecclesiastical councils, is one of the 1nost scandalous
perver:::ions of Christianity, which has contributed in no small
measure to the withdrawal of those spiritual gifts, ·which the
Lord has given to his church and congregation; in the place
of which magical arts and incantations are used, which in all
ages have been connected with such idolatrous ·worship, ad-
dressed to angels, deceased n1en and won1en, spirits and
devils. We cannot sufficiently urge and entreat the friends
of man and of religion, in civil as well as ecclesiastical gov-
enlments, to direct their earnest -and prompt attention to this
all-important subject, the consequences of which will be the
condemnation of so many human beings in this and in the
futttre life (2. Thess. ii. 4, 8-12.) J.Vlay the learned, read and
ponde1· upon the chapter on :Magic, in "the Gottliche nnd
wahre methaphysica (divine and true metaphysics)," written
by Pordage, an Englishman.
" Learn ho~t.: to exercise your will powe1jully," says .l\1esmer.
"Believe and will," says the author of" Les J\tlemoires de Busan-
cy" (Marquis de Puysegur). These words express everything.
Vide, "Essai sur la theorie du, Somnamb,ulisme JJ-lagnet1q11e, par
~1ons. .1\Iontravel," p. 45.
" TVheTefore I put thee in 1·ernemb·rance, that thou sti1· up the g'fft
of God, u·hich ~·s in thee ; fm· Gocl hath not g·iven us the spiTit of
fear, but ofpou•er, and ciflove, and of a sound mind" (2 Tim. i. 6,
7*). The spirit oflove, is the divine influence from the Lord on
the will of man. The spirit of a sound mind, is the divine in-
fl?~nce. on man's U'nd.erstandi'ng, and the spjrit of poU'e·r is the
d1V111e mfluence ap~hed to man's actions; that is to say: The
influence of the Trnrne God, the Lord Jesus Christ, of his
Goodness, TVisclom, and almighty Power upon the three car-
dinal properties ofthe soul of man. A real Christiau can do
all things throttgh Christ, u•ho strengthenetlt him (Phil. iv. 13).
":My brethren, count it all joy, when ye fall into divers
'lt. In the Swedish version it is called the spirit of prudence, of
caution.
.lPPJ:MDIX C. 279
temptations. Knowing this, that the trying of your faith
worketh patience ; but let pat~ence hav:e her perfect work,
that ye may ~e perfect a~d entire, wantmg nothing. Ifany
~you lack Wisdom., let htm ask of God that giveth to allmen
bbef!llly, an~ up~ra1deth_not; and it shall be given him. But
!et ~ ask m fatth, nothing 'Yavering. For he that wavereth
IS like a wave of the sea, dr1ven with the wind and tossed
For let not that man think, that he shaU receive anything of
the Lord. A double-minded man is unstablein all his ways"
(Jam• i. 2-8), That is to say," No man can serve two mas-
ters, for either 1\e will hate the one and love the other ; or
else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye can-
not serve God and mammon" (Matt. vi. 24 ; Luke xvi. 13), or
as is the same,1hose gifts and capacities, which man ascribes
to himself, and for which he does not give God the glory,
from tDhom cometh down every good and every perfect gift (James
i.17). "The Pharisees" (or those self-conceited and ignorant
sophists, who recognized no other motive to all human ac-
tion, but self-love)," who were covetous, heard all these
things, and they derided him. And he said unto them : Ye
are they who justify themselves before men; but God know-
eth your hearts; for that which is highly esteemed among
men, is abomination in the sight of God" (Luke xvi. 14, 15).
We do not doubt that Christian philosophers, such as we
have reason to believe the Mar~uis de Puysegur, Monsieur
Montravel, and all benevolent, d1sinterested and enlightened
magnetizers who resemble them, to be-acknowledge, vener-
ate, and follow with humble zeal, the only infallible and :per-
manent principles, contained in the inspired passages JUSt
quoted. To teach and instruct mankind that self-love is and
ought to be the only motive of action, from which follows
that they should believe that the Creator had intended men
to be incarnate devils, would entail the most appalling and
destructive consequences, not only upon Christianity, but
upon the whole social system. Compare what is said atthe
end in the extracts translated from the Latin.
u Rejoice not that the spirits are subj~ct unto you, [an~ !>n
account of other similar supernatural gifts,] but rather reJoice
because your names are written in heaven" (Luke x. 20).
1 Peter i. 2, &c. :-" Elect, according t!J t~e fo~~nowle~ae
of God the Father" (i. e. destined to enJOY m th1s hfe, and m
that which is to come, that happiness which virtue confers,
according to the providence of Divine goodness), ".through
the sanctification of the Spirit" (through the e~an~t1on from
the Divine Nature)," unto obedience. and spnnklmg ~f ~e
blood of Jesus Christ" (to yield ob~d1e~c~ to the Lords ~~­
vine humanity, and to rece1ve the life-gtvmg and actual m-
280 APPENDIX C.
corporation with his tn1th, operating through dced.s): " ~race
1mto you and peace, be multiplied'' (may the Dtvulo mfl:u-
ence, which ·works riahteousness in your hearts, and, as 1ts
consequence, srives yo~1 a good and quiet conscience, be mul-
tiplied unto y~u).
Here ''re have a compend of the Christian religion in a few
lines. How siJnple, how intelligible, benevolent and condu-
cive to the happiness of society ! Let us listen to the rest
of Peter's exhortation, ver. 17, "And if ye call on the Fa-
ther, who, without respect to persons, judgeth according to
every man's work, [but not according to every man'§ faith
alo11e,] pass the time of your sojourning here in fear. Seeing
ye have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the
Spirit, unto unfeigned love of the brethren, see that ye love
one another with a pure heart fervently." (Chap. ii. 19).
"For this is thank-worthy [or a g1·ace, as in the Swedish], if
a man for conscience sake toward God, endure suffering
wrongfully,"-" for even hereunto were ye called" (as it is
through much tribulation that we must enter the kingdom of
God. Acts xiv. 22), "because Christ also suffered for us,leav-
ing us an example, that ye should follow his steps: who
did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth: who,when
he "\Vas reviled, reviled not again; when he suffered, he
threatened not, but committed himself to Him that judgeth
righteously: who his own self bore our sins in his own body
on the tree, thatwe, being dead to sins, should live unto right-
eousness" (vers. 19, 21-24). This is the invariable aim and
object of all the injunctions of our holy religion; its myste-
ries, doctrines and commandments all centre into this, that
we should love and practise righteousness-to live nothing but
righteousness, which consists in loving our neighbor as our-
selves, and thus, of course, comprises brotherly love to·ward
each other. (Chap. iii. 12 et sequ.) "For the eyes of the
Lord are over the righteous, and his ears are open unto their
prayers: but the face of the Lord is against them that do evil.
And who is he that will harm you, if ye be followers of that
which is good ? But, and ifye suffer for righteousness• sake,
happy are ye! For Christ also hath once suffered for sins,
the just for the unjust, that he might bring (offer) us to God."
In commemoration of which divine and beneficent act the
holysacrament ofthe Lord's Supperwas instituted by the Lord
out Saviour, for his true worshipers, for the worthily par-
taking of which man does properly prepare himself, when
with real deep-felt abhorrence helooks upon all unrighteous-
ness, and as truly loves only righteousness. (Chap. iv. 2
et sequ.) "That he no longer should live the rest of his time
in the fle~h, to the lusts of men, but to the \Vill of God;" and
APPENDIX D. 281
'" As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the
same one to another, as good stewards of the manifold !!race
of Go(~. If any man .sl?eak, let hi~ speak as the orac~s of
Go~ ; 1f any. ma11 mmtster, let hun do it as of the ability
whtch God gtveth; that God in all th~gs may be glorified,
through Jesus Chnst; to whom be pra1se and dominion for
ever and ever." Amen.
APPENDIX D.
TRANCE OF THE REV. WILLIAM TENNENT.
THE following case of trance, which is extremely ·well au-
thenticated, occurred at NewBrunswick,N. J. about the middle
of the last century. The memory of it is evennow traditionally
well preserved in the region of country where it took place,
and it is but a fe\v years since the writer of the letter intro-
duced in the narrative went to jom the spirit of his revered
predecessor, the subject of this remarkable experience. The
temporary translation of theinner.man into the spiritualworld,
and the vouchsafement of an extatic vision of the heavenly
hosts, is far from being without precedent; but the subse-
quent loss of memory constitutes the grand peculiarity of Mr.
Tennent's case. This, we think, is amply explained on the
principle laid downby Swedenborg of the distinction of mem-
ory into external and internal, and which ·we have brought
to the solution of the presentcase on a precedingpage (p. 97).
The external memory is the repository of everything which,
in Swedenborg's phraseology, comes under the head of scienti-
.fics, in \vhich are included languages, arts, sciences, all of
which become naturally dormant in the other life, while in
the internal memory survive those things ·which, from inmost
affection, have become inwrought into the central life of tlie
spirit. For a full development of t~e nature. ~d laws of
memory, as respects their operation In the spmtual 'vorld,
see A. C. 2469-2494.
13*
282 APPENDIX D.
"After a regular course of study in theology, Mr. Tem1en~
was preparing for his examination by the presbytery, as a
candidate for the Gospel ministry. His intense application
affected his health, and brought on a pain in his breast and
a slight hectic. He soon became emaciated, and at length
1vas like a living skeleton. His life 1vas no1v threatened.
He \vas attended by a physician, a young man who was at-
tached to him by the strictest and warmest frienilsh.ip. He
grew \.vorse and "\Vorsa, till little hope of life was left. In
this situation, his spirits failed him, and he began to entertain
doubts of his final happiness. He was conversing one morn-
ing ·with his brother, in Latin, on the state of his soul, when
he fainted and died away. After the usual time, be was laid
out on a board, according to the cormnon practice of the
cotmtry, and the neighborhood \.vere invited to attend his fu-
neral on the next day. In the evening his physician and
friend returned from a ride into the country, and was afflicted
beyond measure at the news of his death. He could not be
persuaded that it ·was certain; and on being told that one of
the persons who had assisted in laying out the boily, thought
he had observed a little tremor of the flesh under the arm, al-
though the body was cold and stiff, he endeavored to ascer-
tain the fact. He first put his own hand into 'varm \.Vater,
to make it as sensible as possible, and then felt under the
arm, and at the heart, and affirmed that he felt an unusual
warmth, though no one else could. He had the body restored
to a warm bed, and insisted that the people who had been
invited to the fune1·al should be requested not to attend. To
this the brother objected as absurd, the eyes being sunk, the
lips discolored, and the whole body cold and stiff. However,
the doctor finally prevailed, and all probable means \.Vere
used to discover symptoms of returning life. But the third
day arrived, and no hopes were entertained of success but
by the doctor, who never left him night nor day. The people
were again invited, and assembled to attend the fw1eraJ. The
doctor still objected, and at last confined his request for delay
to one hour, then to half an hour, and finally, to a quarter of
APPENDIX D. 283
an hour. He had discovered that the tongue was much swol-
~en, and threatened to crack. lie was endeavoring to soften
lt by some emollient ointment, put upon it with a feather,
wh~n the brother came in, about the expiration of the last
per10d, and, mistaking what the doctor was doing for an at-
tempt to feed him, 1nauifested some resentment, and in a
spirited tone said, cIt is shameful to be feeding a lifeless
corpse;' and. insisted, 'vith earnestness, that the funeral
should imn1ediately proceed.
"At this critical and important moment, the body, to the
great alannand astonishment of all11resent, opened its eyes,
and gave a dreadful groan, and sunk 3-co-ain into apparent
death. This put an end to all thoughts of burying him, and
every effort ·was again employed, in hopes of bringing about
a speedy resuscitation. In about an hour, the eyes again
opened, a heavy groan proceeded fr01n the body, and again
all appearance of animation vanished. In an another hour,
life seemed to return with more power, and a complete revi- ·
val took place, to the great joy of the family and friends,
and to the no small a5tonishment and conviction of very
many who had been ridiculing the idea of restoring to life a
dead body.
"~'lr. Tennent contined in so 'veak and low a state, for six
weeks, that great doubts were entertained of his final recov-
ery. However, after that period, be recovered much faster,
but it was about twelve months before he ·was completely re-
stored. After he was able to walk. the room, and to take no- ·
tice of 'vhat passed around him, on a Sunday afternoon, his
sister, who had staid fr01n church to attend him, was reading
in the Bible, 'vhen he took notice of it, and asked her what
she had in her hand. She answered that she was reading
the Bible. He replied, c\Vhat is the Bible ? I know not
what you mean.' This affected the sister so much that she
burst into tears, and informed him that he V\.ras once 'veil ac-
quainted \vith it. On her reporting this to the brot.her,.·when
he returned, l\.1r. Tennent was found, np01~ e~~mmat.wn, to
be totally ignorant of every tran!action of Ius llte prev1ons to
284 APPE:SDIX D.
his sickness. He could not rend a single 'vonl, neither <li(l
he seem to have uuy idea of what it meant. As soon as he
became capable of attention, he was tanght to read and
\Vrite, as children are usually taught, and afterwanls begau to
learn the Latin language, under the tuition of his brother.
One day, as he was reciting a lesson in Cornelius Nepos, he
suddenly started, clapped his hand to his head, as i1 some-
thing had hurt him, and made a pause. His brother asking
him what was the matter, he said, that he felt a sudden shock
in his head, and it now seemed to him as if he had read that
book before. By degrees his recollection was restored, and
he could speak the Latin as fluently as before his sickness.
His memory so completely revived, that he gained a perfect
knowledge of the past tmnsactions of his life, as if no difli-
cnlty had previously occULTed. This event, at the time, made
a considerable noise, and afforded not only matter of serious
contemplation to the devout Christian, especially when con-
nected with what follows in this narration, but furnished a
subject of deep investigation and learned inquiry to the real
phllosoplaer and curious anatomist.
"The writer of these memoirs was greatly interested by
these uncotn1non events; and, on a favorable occasion, earn-
estly pressed J.Vlr. Tennent for a minute account of ·what his
views and apprehensions were while he lay in this extraor-
dinary state of suspended animation. He discovered great
reluctance to enter into any expla.uation of his perceptions
and feelings n.t this time; but, being importunately urged to
do it, he at length consented, and proceeded with a solemnity
not to be described.
" ' \Vhile I was conversing with my Lrother,' said he, ' on
the state of my soul, and the fears I had entertained for tny
future welfare; I found tnyself, in an instant, in anotherstate
of existence, under the direction· of a superior being, \vho or-
dered me to follo~w him. I was accordingly wafted along, I
lrno"\v not how, till I beheld at a distance in ineffable ()"lory
0 ,
the. impression of which on my rnind it is impossible to
cornmunicate to mortal man. I irnmediately reflected on my
happy change, aud thought-\Vell, blessed be God! I am safe
I
.lPPDDIZ D. 285
at last, notwithstanding all my fears. I saw an innumerable
host of happ~ beings, surrounding the inexpressible glory, in
ac~or adoration and joyous worship; but I did not see any
bodily sh~pe or representation in the glorious appearance.
I heard things unutterable. I heard their songs and hallelu-
jahs of thanksgiving and praise, with unspeakable rapture.
I felt joy unutterable and full of glory. I then applied to my
conductor, and requested leave to join the happy throng; on
which he tapped me on the shoulder, and said, " You must
retum to the earth." This seemed like a sword through my
heart. In an instant I recollect to have seen my brother
standing before me, disputing with the Doctor. The three
days during which I had appeared lifeless, seemed to me not
more than ten or twenty minutes. The idea of returning to
this world of sorrow and trouble gave me such a shock that
I fainted repeatedly.' He p.dded, ' Such was the effect on my
mind of what I had seen and heard, that if it be possible for
a human being to live entirely above the world, and the
things of it, for some time afterwards, I was that person. The
zavishing sounds of the songs and hallelujahs that I heard,
and the very words that were uttered, were not out of my
ears, when awake, for at least three years. All the kingdoms
of the earth were, in my sight, as nothing and vanity ; and
so great were my ideas or heavenly glory, that nothing which
did not in some measure relate to it, could command my se-
rious attention.'
"Itisnot surprising, that afterso affecting an account, strong
solicitude should have been felt for further information as to
the words, or, at least, the subjects of praise and adoration,
which Mr. Tennent had heard. But when he was requested
to communicate these, he gave a decided negative, adding,
'You will know them, with many otherparticulars, hereafter,
as you will find the whole among my papers;' alluding to ~is
intention of leaving the writer hereof his executor, which
precluded any farther solicitation. . . .
" The author has been particularly sohCitous to obtam
every confinnation of this extraordinary event in the life of
Mr. Tennent. He accordingly wrote to every person he could
286 APPENDIX D.
think of, likely to have conversed ·with 1\fr. T. on the subject.
He received several answers; but the following letter from
the worthy successor of 1\Ir. Tennent, in the pastoral charge
of his church, will ans,ver for the author's purpose.
"MoNMOUTH, N.J. December 10, 1805.
H DEAR Sm-Agreeably to your request, I now send you,
in writing, the remarkable account which I some time since
gave you verbally, respecting yonr good friend, my worthy
predecessor, the late Rev. William Tennent, of this place. In
a very free and feeling conversation on religion, and ou the
future rest and blessedness of the people of God (while tra-
velling together from Monmouth to Princeton), I mentioned
to 1Hr. Tennent that I should be highly gratified in hearing
from his own month, an account of the trance which he was
said to have been in, unless the relation would be disagree-
able to himself. After a short silence he proceeded, saying,
that he had been sick with a fever; that the fever increased,
and he by degrees sunk under it. After some time (as his
friends informed hiln), he died, or appeared to die, in the
same manner as persons usually do ; that in laying him out
one happened to draw his hand under the left arm, and per-
ceived a small tremor in the flesh ; that he was laid out, and
·was cold and stiff. The time for his funeral was appointed,
and the people collected; but a young doctor, his particular
friend, pleaded with great earnestness that he might not then
be buried, as the tremor under the ann continued; that his
brother, Gilbert, became impatient "\Vith the young gentle-
man, and said to him, ' What! a man not dead who is cold and
stiff as a stake!' The importunate young friend, however,
prevailed; another day was appointed for the burial, and the
people separated. During this interval, many means were
made use of to discover, if possible, some symptoms of life;
but none appeared, excepting the tremor. The doctor never
left him for three nights and three days. The people again
1net to bury him, but could not, even then, obtain the
consent of his friend, who pleaded for one hour more.
'
and when that was gone, he pleaued for half an hour,
·~·
APPENDIX D. 287
and then for a quarter of an hour; when, just at the close
of this period, on which hung his last hope, Mr. Ten-
nent opened his eyes. They then pried into his mouth
'vhich was stiff, so as to get a quill into it, throuah which
some liquid was conveyed into the stomach, and he, Ly de-
grees, recovered.
" This account, as intimated before, Mr. Tennent said he
had received from his friends. I said to him,' Sir, you seem
to be one, indeed, raised from the dead, and may tell us what
it is to die, and what yon were sensible of while in that
state.' He replied in the follo,·dng words:-' As to dying, I
found my fever increase, and I became weaker and '\Veaker,
until, all at once, 1 found myself in heaven, as I thought. I
sa'\v no shape as to the Deity, but glory all unutterable f Here
be paused, as though unable to find '\vords to express his
views, let his bridle fall, and lifting up his hands, proceeded,
'I can say, as St. Paul did, I heard and saw thiugs all unut-
terable ! I sa'\v a great multitude before this glory, apparently
in the height of bliss, singing most melodiously. I was trans-
ported with my own situation, viewing all my troubles end-
ed, and my rest and glory begun, and was about to join the
great and happy multitude, when one came to me, looked
me full in the face, laid his hand upon my shoulder, and said,
" You tnust go back." These words went through me; no-
thing could have shocked 1ne more ; 1 cried out, " Lord must
J go back !" 'Vith this shock, I opened my eyes in this worl<l.
\Vhen I sa\V I was in the world, I fainted, then came to, and
fainted for several times, as one probably would naturally
have done in so \veak a situation.'
".1.\tlr. Tennent farther informed me, that he had so entirely
lost the recollection of his past life, and the benefit of his for-
mer studies, that he could neither understand what was
spoken to him, nor '\t•rite, nor read his own name; that he
had to begin all aue'\V, and did not reco1Iect that he had ever
read before, until he had again learned his letters, and was
able to pronounce the monosyllables, such as thee and thou;
but that, as his strength returned, which was very slowly,
his memory also returned. Yet, notwithstanding the extreme
