{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__raleigh___metaphysical_healing_v2.pdf","mytitle":"Metaphysical Healing V2","mylang":"de"}
METAPHYSICAL HEALING
These lessons are the practical experience of Metaphysics applied to dis-
ease in all its aspects to restore Health on all planes, Physical,
Astral, Mental, Soul and Spirit. They show how to
master disease and gain and retain what the
world is seeking, Equilibrium and Health
By
DR. A. S. RALEIGH
Volume II
A Course of Private Lessons given
to his personal pupils
THE HERMETIC PUBLISH lNG COMPANY
3006 Lake Park Ave. Chicago, lll., U. S. A.
Copyright, 1932 by
The HERMETIC PUBLISHING COMPANY
Copyrighted and Registered at Stationers' Hall,
London, England
(All Rights Reserved)
CONTENTS
Page
LESSON ON
Phreno- Therapeutics ......................... 7
LESSON ON
Psychical Healing ............................ 15
LESSON ON
Spiritual Healing ............................ 23
LESSON ON
Absent Healing 32
LESSON ON
High Potency Homeopathy •••••• • •••• • •••••••••• 38
LESSON ON
Christian Science ............. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
LESSON ON
Chromopathy .................. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
LESSON ON
Hermetic Medicine ............................ 55
LESSON ON
Astrological Medicine ••• • ••• ••••••••• •• ••• ••• 63
LESSO~ ON
Magica l Healing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
LESSON ON
Psychic Diagnosis .............. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 1
L E S S 0 N
on
P H R E N 0 - T H E R A P E U T I C S
In the early days when Phrenology was developing to the point of
an exact science, in 1832, to 1835, along there and in the years follow-
ing, the study of Animal Magnetism attracted considerable attent ion and
Professor o. S. Fowler, at t hat t ime came to the conclusion that the
Phrene Organs of the Brain and the mind were really the mental poles of
the diverse parts of the body and t hat by the stimulation of those or-
gans it would be possible to develop the different parts of the body and
to strengthen their activity. I n other words, that functional diseases
of the body could be cured by appl y i ng magnetism to their phrene organs
and in this way strengthening t h em. The organ, or muscle, in a word,
could be stimulated, not by applying magnetism to it direct, but by
applying it to its phrene orga n.
This was Fowler's theory which , however, he was not able to verify
by experiment. In the course of time Fowl er pa ssed away without having
tried this theory. We discovered , bY accident, the truth of the genera l
principle, and in a number of experiments worked it out, demonstrating
it to be correct. We know at the present time that every organ of the
body, every muscle, every nerve center, bas its correspondi ng pole in
the brain; not only that, but every br ain cent er has a corresponding
pole in the body or the face, t he hands, tee feet, or wherever i t m
ay be.
The system of Phreno-Therapeutics which we have devel oped , con-
sists of the application of m
agnetism to the Phrene Or gans which govern
those functiona l organs of t he body . Consequently, if a man ' s body is
out of order we should fi nd out what the t rouble is and find t he phrene
organ which governs that or gan of the body, which control s and regulates
that function and by t he appl ication of magnetism or some other method
of stimulation, we will be able to direct a current of energy to that
organ to build it up, strengt hen i t and give it new force.
The first organ we want to consider i s ALIMENTI VENESS, lying just
forward from the ear and back of the Temple. This i s t he lowest organ in
the head, forward from the ear, that is rather on the side of the head,
7
coming down to the face. The front of the Organ is really the Organ of
:Sibativeness, giving the desire for liquids, and back of this the desire
for solids. Now, as a matter of fact, this organ of Alimentiveness,
including Bibativeness, is the pole of the stomach and the entire
digestive tract and regulates the digestive process . It is the Center
of Appetite and also gives the power for satisfying that appetite .
It is in two divisions, Bibativeness regulating the assimulation of
liquids of all kinds--water, soups, milk, coffee, tea, wine, whisky, --
everything in the liquid form, in f a ct, is included under the head of
Bibativeness, while all solid foods are included under the head of
Alimentiveness . If the stomach i s weak this organ will be found to be
correspondingly weak. If on the other hand, the stomach is strong, able
t o digest anything, this organ will be found to be very strong and vice
versa. As the body develops through the strengthening of the digestive
processes , this organ will be found to develop and as this organ develops
s o the strength of the stomach and the digestive processes will develop
a lso. The secretion of gastric juice, or pepsin, of the pancreatic
j uice and everything of that kind, all the digestive fluids, in fact,
i s governed by this organ. Likewise, also the secretion of saliva,
the glands in the mouth which secrete saliva are also governed in this
way by this organ. It is the function of this organ, in other words, to
supply stimulus to all of those special organs which operate in that
way.
The time will come when, as a result of the study of Psycho-
physiological sarcology, there will be discovered in this organ, an
organ governing each of those physical organs . It will be found to be
not only a faculty, but a group of more than a dozen distinct faculties,
but at the present time we know it as only one faculty although we know
that it governs all those functions, sending the stimuli to the diverse
organs, and thus enabling them to perform their functions.
If there is found in a patient, difficulty in digesting solid
f ood, he can live on liquids all right, then that part of the organ
ordinarily called Alimentiveness, lying nearest the ear, should be
s trengthened, and the way to do this is to stand back of your patient ' s
chair, then place your fingers of the right hand over the organ on the
r ight side of the head and the fingers of the left hand over the organs
on the left side of the head so that your hands will become a battery ,
the positive pole being placed on the right side, which is the negative
pole of the brain, and the negative hand on the left side, which is
the positive pole, thus establishing the complete connection. Then,
by a process of treatment, transmit the healing force from your body
into t he brain of your patient, let the treatment l ast fifteen or twenty
~inutes, i f need be , continually keeping a stream of energy flowing
~nto that br a in, stimulating it, building it up, and at the same time
~~ your consciousness upon the digestive process es, picturing the
8
changes which you wish to take place, seeing them as already taking
pl ace. Never tell it to do so by and by, but always direct it right now .
It should be borne in mind also that a lack of appetite , loss of
appetite is due to the inability of the system to adapt itself to the
use of food, therefore , if t he appetite be poor and you want to restore
it , simply go to work and treat the the organ in the same way.
Bibativeness, when weak causes inability to digest liquid food,
and should be treated for t his purpose, building it up in order to
give ability to handle liquid foods.
If, on the other hand, you find the difficulty manifests itself
by a lack of appetite r ather than inability to handle food, treat it
just the same, to build up and restore the appetite . If you find there
is a strong appetite f or liquids, too much, too strong, as is mani-
fested in the toper, t hen the desire for food should be stimulated in
the pl ace of the des i re for l iquids .
People who are co~pulent are so largely because of too great an
activity of the f a culty of Bibativeness, because they get food from
the use of liquids, to a great extent. Also this organ of Bibativeness
gives capacity f or abs orption to a much greater degree than is found
in other persons. People with a large development of this faculty not
only handle liquifs, but also absorb a great deal of liquids. There
are persons who dr:...::U: as much as two gallons of water daily and ab-
sorb the l arger q~tity of it . Others cannot handle it at all . We
have seen people Tho could not drink more than a pint of water a day.
The ability t o co3sume l a rge quantities of liquids consists of the
ability to abs orb them and this capacity for absorption is the cause
of t he putti~g on of adipose tissue.
Patie3~s who a re too corpulent should be restrained from con-
suming so =~ch liquid , so that they wil l not absorb so much and in such
cases t he facu:ty of Alimentiveness should be developed to a certain
extent an d not the faculty of Bibativeness. On the contrary if a pa-
tient is too thi n, if he needs to put on tissue, develop the faculty
of Bibativeness, g i ving i ncreased power of absorption and in this way
he will improve greatl y i n health.
Vitativeness, the organ lying back of the middle of the ear,
gives desire of life and i s , therefore the organ to be stimulated in
treatment of melancholi a when it manifests itself in the form of dis-
interestedness in l i fe, and i ndifference to life . This may be over-
come by stimulating that f aculty s o a s to bring a bout a grea ter desire
for life . Not only s o, but this organ gives vitality. It is the center
in which is developed that v ita tive power, vital energy, or Prana, in
other words. There are a great many forms of energy produced in the
system. They are all mani fes t ati ons of one form, but there are organs
provided in the brain for t he purpose of preparing special forms of
energy to be employed in ca rrying on the work of the system. Not only
9
is this true, but there also are organs of the body adapted to the work
of preparing those forces so that they may be adapted to physical uses.
The preparation of vital energy is the function of Vitativeness and a
low state of vitality may be remedied by the application of magnetism
or psychical force to t his organ in the same general way as would be
done {n treating Alimentiveness.
Just bel ow this organ is the organ of Amativeness, lying at the
base of the brain , reaching from back of the lower part of the ears
clear around to the back of the brain. This, however , is divided into
two organs, two subdivisions . That part on the s ide of the head , back
of the ears gives the love of sex as it ordinarily expresses itself,
a nd might be ordinaril y termed masculinity and femininity as it may
occur in man or woman, giving a more positive or a more negative
charact er to the being, and if this be wanting in a person, if he be
weakly sexed, and the sex needs strengthening, of course, it should be
done by the application of Magnetism to this part of the brain.
That part lying at the back of the head, the extreme base of the
brain, is the organ of Reproduction, which gives the instinct for
reproduction , the desire for offspring and for cohabit ation. At the
same time it gives virility. It gives the power of reproduction , and
all forms of sexual impotency be they in either man or woman , a re due
to an extreme weakness of this part of the brain. Such complaints
should be treated, therefore, by an application of magnetism to this
part of the brain , it being the pole which governs the sexual organ
and it is because of this f a ct that the treatment of sexual weakness
has been so terribly futile . Physicicans undertake to treat the or-
gans locally when, as a m
atter of f act, it is not a local trouble at
all; it is a l ack of sexual force, because the sex energy for the pur-
pose of reproduction, is manufactured , generated here in this part of
the br ain, and the sexual organs cannot perform their functions without
the energy through which such funct i ons are to be performed. This
energy, we say, is produced here, therefore, this part of the brain
should be s timulated in order that it may acquire the ability to gen-
erate this force . The sex energy which is not used on the physical
plane , that which is manifested on the higher planes is generated i n
that part of the organ denominated the Love of Sex , and if it be found
weak in this respect, must be stimulated here.
The power for executing anything which may be in the mind, the
power for applying one ' s executiveness, in other words , lies in a
development of the organ of Destructiveness, the front part of this
organ , lying a l i ttle forward of the middle of the ear, but up over
the ear, j ust back of Alimentiveness , and the ability to work, to carry
out something, is found in the organ of work which is the rear half of
t.he organ , coming downward over the ear , down to Vitativeness . I nability
to carry out work, which a great m
a ny people consider to be chronic,
10
laziness and an evidence of total depravity, is in reality nothing but
an undeveloped, languid or dormant state of this part of the brain, and
by the application of Magnetism, the stimulation of this faculty, all
indisposition to work, languor and indifference to things will dis-
appear.
The Organ of Agreeableness, lying downward on either side of
Human Nature toward the side of the head is in two divisions, Bl and-
ness, which is toward the top, and Youthfulness, a little lower down.
It has been a problem among phrenologists to find why this Organ of
Agreeableness should be associated with Youthfulness, why it should
give the youthful character, etc., but as a matter of fact it not only
does that, but it prevents old age, it prevents the ageing process .
One who is agreeable, one who is trying to please, to make people happy,
in a way to be entertaining, is developing a tendency which rouses the
youthful vibration in his being and will prevent the ageing process.
To apply magnetism to the upper part of this Organ would simply develop
Blandness. It is the lower part which gives the youthful character
and the sprightly agreeable tendencies manifested in youth, and these
activities will, as a matter of f act, have the effect of rejuvenating
the entire body, and will make it younger .
The Organ of Tone, lying backward from Time and below Mirth-
fulness and forward from Constructiveness, is in two divisions, namely,
Melody and Harmony. The l atter lying backward from Melody. This or-
gan of Harmony gives, of course, an appreciation of Harmony. It is
from this that the musician gets his harmony, and it is not simply
this, but it also develops a state of harmony, harmony of vibration
throughout the entire system from head to feet. The vibrations and
circulations of the system are carried on in strict accordance with
harmony. Discord is eliminated from the system and harmony is estab-
lished as a result of t he activity of this organ. Harmony being the
keynote of health, being the influence which is most promotive of
health, health, in fact, being nothing but a state of harmony, the
development and stimulation of this organ will conduce unto a state of
harmony and therefore of health. The greatest healing force for the
body is, therefore, the harmony which will emanate from the activity
of this organ.
Application, lying back of Continuity, is the extreme back of
the head, and just below Self- Esteem, gives not only the tendency, the
desire to applying one's self to anything, but gives the power , the
"stick-to-it- ive- ness" in other words, which will keep one from wander-
ing from one thing to another. The inability to stay with a certain
thing is not, t herefore, a physical defect in the ordinary sense, but a
mental defect and must be treated by the application of magnetism to
that part of the brain.
Color blindness in any degree, is due to a weakness of the Organ
11
of Color, lying just below the eye, and just backward from the sight.
?he strength of that organ is manifested by the elevation of the eye-
brows at that particular point; its weakness is indicated by a depres-
s ion of that part of the eye. The more highly developed this organ is
the more acute will be one's sense of color, one's ability to differen-
tia te between shades and tints, while one who is weak in this organ will
scarcely recognize the secondary colors. Our father, for instance,
never was able to tell any difference between blue and green. Color
blindness is, therefore, due simply to an undeveloped or dormant state
of this faculty and can in every case be removed by the quickening and
development of the faculty, that is by the application of magnetism,
in the same way we would treat the other faculties.
Now the faculty of Order, lies just outward, just back of Color
a nd manifests itself first in Neatness and then a little further back
in System. It may not occur to the average person as being a disease
when he is wanting in order , wanting in neatness or system, but we
consider one of the most serious diseases to which the human family is
subject , to be want of order and system and in the conduct of affairs .
If a person is not neat or not systematic in his way of carrying on
things, this Organ should be developed, and it should also be borne in
mind that this Organ of System, if it be extremely weak is liable to
affect the physiological condition, so that the different functions of
the body do not act in Harmony; a person gets so that everything is
chaotic in his actions, so he will be chaotic in his manner of life in
what he does, and everything of the kind, in his very functional ac-
tivities. In order that the system may be clean it is a l so necessary
that this faculty of Neatness should be extremely active, for the
faculty not only gives the desire for neatness, the tendency for neat-
ness, but the diverse parts of the body also respond . Unless this fac -
ulty is, therefore, sufficiently s trong it will not keep the system
clean. Disease of either type, that is where there is no system, where
the body is chaotic, or where it is filthy and is not sufficiently
purging out the impurities, should in either case be treated by a proper
development of the proper part of the organ.
A weakness of the Organ of Weight, which lies forward from Color,
just above the sight of the eye, manifests itself in difficulty in pre-
serving the center of gravity. A man who cannot stand up on his feet,
so to speak, who cannot stand on level ground, has this difficulty be-
cause of a weakness of the Organ of Weight . He cannot preserve his
equilibrium and thus his whole system is thrown out of order. For a
difficulty of this kind, a difficulty which we ordinarily attribute
to a l ack of steadiness, of nerve, we should develop the Organ of Weight
by the application of Magnetism to it, and when it is developed we will
fi=d the difficulty in maintaining the center of gravity will imme-
ciately pass away.
12
One of the most important organs is that of Physical Observation,
which manifests itself in a prominence just above the bridge of the
nose, running in fact, from the bridge of the nose up between the eye-
brows and a little above , manifesting itself in a prominence there and
also an elevation. Now, this is really the center of all physical
senses, seeing, hearing, tasting, smelling, touching, and everything
of the kind; they all have their center in this organ, and so if t here
be weakness in any of those senses, in the auditory, olfactory, gusta-
tory, or tactile nerves as the case may be, apply magnetism to that
part of the brain and you find those nerves will become more sensitive ,
and practically all those defects will be removed. Not only that, but
a weakness in the accommodating muscles of the eye, or any of the other
organs may be cured in the same way .
We should bear in mind, however, that there are a number of
facial poles which may be employed the same as those in the head. It
is almost as important to treat the facial poles properly as those in
the cranium.
Between the corners of the mouth and the ears we have situated
the pole of digestion. It may also be used in treating the stomach.
Between that and the corner of the mouth, right back over the hectic
flush which first comes in the case of consumption, is the facial pole
of the lungs and by the stimulation of that with magnetism, the lungs
may be cured, and any case of consumption can be cured if stimuli be
applied there in time.
In the lip, right in the front part of the lip, right in the
center, is the pole of Amativeness. It is for this reason that during
the courting season man and woman always kiss with that part of the
mouth; you never see them kiss any other way. Amativeness naturally
expresses itself there and is indicated by a prominence and thickness
of that part of the lip, but remember it is at the edge of the lip, the
termination of the lip and stimulation of that part will consequently
give strength to the reproductive power, or the amorous power, in a
way, not so ouch the reproductive power as the love of sex.
Now, right in tbe corner of the mouth , but still on the upper
lip is the pole of Parental Love and a prooinence of that part of the
mouth or lip will give the power for procreation , for parentage, while
midway between the corner and the ce~ter of the lip a prominence in-
dicates Platonic love, fraternity, etc .
Now, in the lip and above the edge, between that and the nose is
the Will. The longer the lip is, therefore, the more powerful is the
force of Will. This is what is meant by the admonition to "Keep a stiff
upper lip." By the development of that, tbat is by the application of
Magnetism, it will be found that the power of the Will will be
strengthened.
In weak eyes we find that the eyeball gradually sinks, conse-
13
quently in a case of this kind Magnetism should be applied in order to
bring it out .
Generally speaking the upper part of the head , from the eyes up-
ward, indicate the intellect, from the mouth upward the emotions, and
downward the physical powers, though this is not a lways the case, and
by stimulation of those parts of the body we may stimulate the organs
which they represent and consequently the parts of the body which are
under their control.
There is a statement in the Bi ble that Joy doeth good like a
medicine , and sorrow drieth up the bones and in this sense it is true
and the Organ of Hope and also the Organ of Mirthfulness will be found
exercising a very great healing influence when stimulated, by reason of
the vitalizing essences which they pour forth .
If you wish to treat a certain local trouble in this way and do
not know its phrene organ, it will ordinarily be found sufficient to
press the hands closely on the head; go over the head completely with
considerable percussion with the ringers . The moment you feel a sensa-
tion in the organ which you want to treat - remember you should go over
your own head and when you feel in that organ the sensation, or in fact,
any sensation, know that you have f ound the mental pole, the cranial
pole of that organ located the same place on the head of your patient ;
apply magnetism there and you will succeed in reaching the organ and thus
strengthening it .
In the treatment of functional diseases it will be found that this
Phreno- Therapeutic method is more than ten times as efficacious as the
application of magnetism direct to the bodily organ could be, because
you are now touching the center, as it were, the spring which directs the
current and which is supplying the power to that organ. You are at the
same time developing it so that it will of its own volition as it were ,
produce much more power than it did previously.
This is, in brief, the system. It may be applied in almost any way.
It is simply the application of the magnetic or psychical force to the
phrene organs, governing the different functional centers of the body and
as you apply this force, quickening and stimulating an organ, and there-
fore, sending forth a current of energy, charging , v italiz ing , magnetiz-
ing the organ which is weak, you will thus build it up , strengthen it ,
compel it to perform its function . It is the natural method of stimulating
the diverse organs of the body, and will be found to be effective in every
instance no matter what the trouble may be.
14
L E S S 0 N
0 N
P S Y C H I C A L H E A L I N G
The main difference between Psychical and Magnetic Healing is
that whereas the magnetic force which is used in Magnetic Healing is
generated in the organs of Vitativeness and Amativeness, being what we
might term Vital Magnetism and also being closely allied to the Sexual
Force, -in fact, being Sexual Force in a slightly different form and
when generated solely through amativeness, being that force absolutely.
In Psychical Healing we employ the Psychical Force which is gen-
erated in the Organ of Spirituality . This force being generated there,
may be used for the healing of the body. Inasmuch as it possesses a much
higher rate of vibration, being not Physical or Astral, but of a Soul
Character , it is of much more force for healing purposes than the or-
dinary magnetism or anything of that kind. Because of its higher rate of
vibrat ion, it is able to raise the Aura so far above the plane of disease
that those discordant conditions will become impossible.
There are two ways in which this healing force may be employed.
The first is to stimulate the activity of the organ of Spirituality so
that it will generate a much greater quantity of psychical force than
ordinarily, at the same time directing this fore e to the part of the body
where it is needed.
The other method is to transmit the psychical Force from t he or-
ganism of the Healer into that of the patient.
In the first method there are also two divisions . The first is by
Suggestion, to stimulate that faculty. This is performed by making such
statements or motions or anything else, whatever it may be, as will
stimulate the organ by reason of calling up those pictures in mind, sug-
gesting to the imagination or thought or emotions , those things of a
spiritual character, so tha t in this way, the organ will be made to act.
The other method is by the application of magnetism or psychical
force to that part of the brain so that it will, in this objective manner
so to speak, be stimulated.
15
: o follow the latter practice, the Healer should have the patient
seatec in a chair and stand behind the chair . He should then place the
=::.actr:cal Hand on the Magnetic Faculty; that is to say, the right hand
s~ou: e be placed on the right side of the head and the left hand on the
:e~ t side , so that the electrical hand will be over the Magnetic Faculty
a.
-:c the Magnetic Hand over the Electrical Faculty, and then , by con-
ce:lt r a tion, of the mind, send the energy down through the right hand, into
: !:e ?.~agna t ic Faculty, then letting it pass out across and from the Mag-
:::etic Faculty, through the Electri cal Faculty back into the hand, so that
the circuit will be closed, passing through the hand to and through the
~rain of the patient back to the hand again.
Now, in this way, having the circuit closed, concentrate the mind
and drive the force, the psychical force, from the body into the brain
of the patient.
Inasmuch as it is the natural function of the organ of Spirituality
t o generate Psychical Force, as well as a number of other things , it is
a l s o its natural function to receive the spiritual force from above , con-
s equently when negatively polarized, it is able to receive the psychical
force with the greatest freedom.
In this way you can practice either the method of transmitting
the force or you can stimulaate the faculty . It makes no difference which
it is . This is the best method to pursue .
Of course, if you want to simply stimul ate the f aculty, you shoul d
transmit the force to the organ of Sp irituality. It makes no difference
about what becomes of it afterwards; you simply transmit the force there
a nd then keep your mind concentrated upon the idea of stimul ating that
faculty, and while in this concentra tion, the hands on the head, you
should form in mind a picture of the awakening of the faculty, see it
a wakened, becoming more active, bei ng stimulated into new life, new ac-
tivity. It is a very good idea to ha ve some definite thought in your mind
wh ich will stimulate this picture and while you continue to hold the
hand s there maintain an attitude of positive concentration, always af-
firming the awakening of the faculty . It is being quickened, s timulated,
a roused , excit ed, etc ., in such a way as to call out all the energy that
there is in it; it is generating more energy, etc . Everything which has
t.he tendency of awakening and stimulating the faculty, filling it with
~e~ l ife and energy, putting it to work, will be found effective, as the
o~e a ll- important thing for you to real i z e in this work is the activity
c ~ :.he f a culty. That is what you want to demand if you can bring about that
c=~c! i tion it wil l gener a t e a sufficient quantity of the psychical force.
But if you want to follow the other method you must , by con-
:e::t:-at:.on of mind, transmit to this faculty the requisite quantity of
;syc~:cal force continually driving it in. Then the picture, in addi-
: ::= : J c e i:1g one of the awakening, quickening and stimulation of the
~a =~-: :·. =~st a lso be one which will represent the flowing in of the
16
psychical = o~ oe ~~c= :c~~ body, through your fingers, into the Faculty
of Spir:.t~::. :.:.-. ·.::o:.l =ust see streams of this energy flowing in, through
the orga..:1 of spirituality into the body of the patient. Let the currents
flow ~ . As you see this in your mind's eye, as you imagine the inflow-
ing currents of force, they will actually flow in, for it is by the
imagi:Iation, by t he concentration of the mind that the force is directed
and as you direct it in this way, so will it go.
By this concentration of mind, you will be able to transmit the
psychical force to the organism of your patient; that is to say, you
will get it in there and at the same time you will be awakening the
organ of Spirituality, because as it passes through that organ it must
necessarily quicken that and make it work and thus it will generate
more spiritual force or psychical force at the same time it is receiving
that from you. For this reason Psychical Healing is far more efficacious
than Magnetic Healing.
Another thing, you do not have to place your hands anywhere else.
The psychical force being of a higher order than magnetism, will much
more easily respond to the direction of the consciousness than the
magnetic force; in fact, it is of a higher order than mind itself,
being really on the Buddhic Plane. The concentration, therefore, must
be of a very high quality; merely intellectual or emotional concentra-
tion will not direct it. You may simply fix your attention on that part
of t he body where you want to direct it and it will immediately go
there, or you may mark out the path which you wish it to travel, the
nerves over which it must travel, or nerve center it has to reach, and
it will follow your intelligent direction, traveling over those nerves
and charging , magnetizing that nerve center or plexus, ganglion or what-
ever it may be. If you do not know this you may simply concentrate on t hat
organ or muscle, that part of the body you want it to go to and when you
concentrate there, your attention will carry the psychical force directly
there so that it will permeate that part of the body, will fill it
with new vitality, build it up and strengthen it.
You may thus concentrate upon the hand or arm, the foot, the
lungs, whatever it may be and while fixing the attention there, at the
same time continually transmitting a stream of psychical force into the
body, you will carry it to t hat part of the body. This should be
distinctly borne in mind. You do not merely diffuse the force through
the body, but if you keep the attention fixed on a definite part of the
body a ll that you put in through the organ of spirituality will go
there. The only way to diffuse it through the body is to fix your at-
tention that way, let your attention go through the body from head to
feet, and whatever you suggest for it to do when it is going that way, it
will do. It absolutely responds to the attention which you give to the
body. For instance, if you direct it to eliminate certain poisons from
the body, it will spend itself in this way. If you direct it to build
17
up new tissue, it will do so. If you direct it to give stre::g::-: ~-:~: ­
ity, energy to that part of the body, it will do so. If yo~ ~~~=~: :t
to heal up a wound, it will do so. In a word, the psychical ==~:; ~s
the power of performing any funct ion appertaining to t he ~-~
ganism, no m
atter what it may be. It is in deed and in tr~:::. e
"Cure- all.• There is no disease to which flesh is heir but T::.a-
will cure, and it will cure one just as easily as it will ~o:::.e~. ~~e
work which it performs depends upon what you tell it to perfor::.
Remember then, that the universal medicine is being p:a:e: ~
the body of the patient, by your treat ment and you are thus g:.·;:.::,; :.o
his body a force which is capable of doing anything imaginab:a . 3:
fixing of your attention on a definite part of the body, a ce=::::e
organ or nerve center, whatever it may be , you are directing t~e: =orce
to a given point so that all that you put i n the body is sent to :.hat
point.
Likewise, by fixing your attention on what you want it :c co ,
by concentrating the mind in such a way as to form a clear pict~e of
the work which it has to do, you wi ll cause it to perform any flZlct.ion
that you may have in mind. Remember, however, that in giving this di-
rection, you are not to tell it to do this after a while, not t o have
the idea that it should l ater on do so and so , but you are to direc t
it to do it now, for it is only while that. picture is held in your
mind that the energy is being so directed. It is the picture held
in mind that directs the activity of t~:s force , therefore, you
should, in your consciousness, see it per=orming certain functions
here and now. Give your positive dire ctio~s continually, m
a intaining
in mind the picture of the work, so that it will go ahead and perform
it. Always bear in mind that the w orkma~ :s the Psychical Force , but
the foreman who directs this force and ei~ects its labor, is the
picture which is in the mind of the Hea:e~ . The danger is if you do
not do this, you will leave an undirectec =orce in the system which
will respond to the pictures you form. Co::sequently afterwards if you
form a picture there without reference to : :s t~erapeutic value,
your suggestion giving direction t o the pic:~e, w~ich you might not
wish to form in the mind of your patient, ::e~ert.~eless , it will direct
the activity of this force a nd thus you =ay accomplish results which
would not be at all desirable. Likewise, :~ you leave an unemployed
force in the body of the patient, he , hi~self may form mental pictures
which will direct the opera tion of this forc e and will accomplish very
undesirable results.
The whole key to Psychical Healing is , briefly, to impart the
psychical force from your own organism, through the organ of Spirit -
uality of the patient into his body. The more you put in there, the
better, and this is accomplished by concentration of the mind posi-
tively and by maintaining the concentration and all the attention on
18
: ~e S:'~ ?:~e, by maintaining the activi ty of your own Or gan of Spir-
.::::.a: :.: :· a=ci thus transmitting the force to the body of the patient.
Se:o~d : Transmitting this force to a given part of the body by
:~e :-:.x:.:Jg of the attention upon that point and keeping it there through
~:.= e~~ :re treatment.
:hird : By maintaining in the consciousness a picture of the re-
s'.:.:~ which you wish to accomplish as being actua lly enacted before you.
Lastly : In never leaving any of t he Psychical Force within the
~a:ient which has not been directed and employed.
If you will observe these directions you will find no difficulty
i3 the world in perfectly employing this wonderful healing method
a nd in curing a ll the ills to which flesh is heir by the mere applica-
tion of the psychical force.
It should be borne in mind also that this method is f ar more
safely employed than the magnetic method because this being a soul
force and not a physical or an ast ~al force, is not influenced by the
condition of the body as the magnetism is . For instance t here is no
danger of ever transmitting a diseased condition which exists in the
healer, through Psychical Healing, and this is almost certain to take
place in Magnetic Healing . Also , the condition of the passions will
never effect the psychical force while they do in Magnetic Hea ling.
Even the mental states, beliefs, etc. will not effect the patient as
they would in Magnetic Healing.
None of those undesirable conditions can possibly take place
because it is no part of t he physical, mental or astral being of the
healer, therefore, can never have any effect of that kind. Neither
will it influence t hose principles except as it raised their vibra-
tions.
At the same time it should be borne in mind that this method will
make the patient more spiritual, will develop the soul quality within
himself, and the psychical healer is a physician of souls as well as
bodies.
For one who is able to perform this kind of healing, it there-
fore, becomes decidedly desirable t hat it shoul d be made use of in
preference to all other methods with the single exception of Spir itual
or Divine Healing . But in order to do this the mind and soul of the
healer must be kept from the lower elements . The passions must not
be allowed to operate, in fact, the hea ler must function upon the Bud-
dhic Plane while he is giving the treat ments , his whole consciousness
must be fixed in the realm of soul, otherwise he will not transmit
soul force but magnetism.
He must keep his consciousness fixed there and thus be in a state
of Cosmic Consciousness . If be is not, it will be impossible for him
to transmit the psychical force.
It will also be borne in mind that it will depend up0n the spirit-
19
uality of the healer generally, to the degree to which he c~ e~te r
ioto this condition which is necessary to give the right kind of psy-
ch~cal treatments. The more spiritual a person is, the more thoroughly
he is identified with the Buddhio Plane, the greater skill he will
~ave in this kind of work.
The size and activity of the organ of spirituality will, there-
fore, determine the ability of a person to perform Psychical Hea ling.
Let it be distinctly understood here and now that no person with small
spirituality can learn to practice Psychical Healing. The Psychical
Healing requires absolutely a high development of spirituality. The
larger that organ is and the more a ctive it is, the greater will be his
healing power no matter whether he knows anything about the scientific
a pplication of it or not. The technical knowledge of Psychical Healing
is one thing, but the power to heal is another thing. One who has large
spirituality and who is positive s o that he is able to transmit it and
who has the power of concentration, whether he knows anything at all
about the method, can do more than ten times as much as one who has a
perfect understanding of the system, but who has a small development
of spirituality.
Now, spirituality makes one naturally religious. We do not mean
by this that he believes any particular religious creed or anything
of that kind, but we do mean that he is naturally religious, that he
is what m
any would term superstitious , one who has faith. By religion
in this respect, we do not mean worship, but we mean faith, we mean
that he believes in God; he knows- that God and the Divine are true .
To the spiritual man the super-natural is much more real than the nat-
ural. Such a man can do this kind of healing, no other man can. It is
utterly useless for a rationalist, one who believes in nature only
and denies the supernatural, to try to perform Psychical Healing.
No matter how much he knows about those things he has not the power to
do it; he hasn't the healing force unless that healing force is gen-
erated in his organ of spirituality , and if that organ is small, of
course, it is unable to generate very much of this force.
This is really the secret of the healing saints who have been
found in all religions . They have had faith and by reason of their
faith they have had great spirituality, great soul force and that force
has been transmitted to the bodies of their patients. In other words
they have had big souls a nd, by reason of their largeness of soul they
have been able to exercise healing power.
Now, there is no use for t he little souls to undertake to du-
~:~cate t heir work. They have simply been overflowing with the psy-
chical power and wherever they have fixed their attention they have
ci~ected it . This is the secret of the natural hea ler, who does those
To~~erful works of healing. Magnetic healing cannot duplicate it. It
~s p ~ssible only by reason of the great psychical force which is over-
20
flowing the very being of their hea ler.
The great mistake which so m
a ny of the healing systems of the
present day make, is in assuming that it is merely the mind. They can
s ee nothing higher than the mind. They say that if there is any soul
beyond the mind they do not know what it is , while as a matter of fact
the healing power is found to increase in direct r at io t o the spirit-
uality, unselfishness, purity , morality and saintliness of character
of the healer and to decrease in direct ratio to his immorality, im-
purity and selfishness without reference to his intellectual power .
The healing power, t herefore, does not depend upon intellect,
it does not depend upon the power of concentration, it does not depend
upon the imagination. These are simply means of directing the power,
they are very important because without them, the force will not be
properly directed, but will be scattered and thus will not be employed
to the best advantage. But the power itself , consists of spirituality.
The more spiritual a pers on is, the more power he possesses, conse-
quently the person who would be an effective psychical healer must first
develop his organ of Spirituality.
Second: He must live on the Buddhic Plane as much of the time as
possible and t ry to the best of his ability to entirely identify him-
self with it.
Third : He must renounce everything which will in any way inter-
fere with his spirituality.
Fourth : He must develop the power of concentration to the highes t
possible point .
Fifth: He must learn to fix the attention on a given point and
Sixth: He must develop a vivid imagination which will enable hi m
to see the mental pictures necessary for carrying on the work.
Seventh: It will be found necessary for him to become as positive
a s possible .
Eighth : He must use this psychical force which this will develop .
for healing purposes , not for other purposes. For ins t ance, one can-
not be a great teacher and a great healer both, if he does ver y much
of either one. The psychical force is developed, but i t naturally
follows those channels which it has acquired t he habit of fol l owing.
The teacher, therefore, will naturally us e up hi s psychical force in
teaching; the writer in his writing ; w
hatever it may be that he does, it
will naturally follow that channel. The hea ler, t h erefore, must fol-
low healing to the exclusion of everything els e if he would reach the
highest att ainments along this line. Thus he will be ena bled to accom-
pli sh a great deal .
The hea l er must be sure that he does not do anything, keep up
any practice which will interfere with t he development of his spirit-
ual ity. That is the all- important point to be borne in mind. It is for
t his reason that healers of this t ype have usually maintained the
21
~os~:~:= : ~a: it was better not to charge anything for their healing ,
:: ;:~~ : ~e treatments free of charge, than to cha rge money, the reason
=~~=; :~: if they charged money for it and followed it as a business
· · as :~ able to develop their selfishness . They were not likely to
=.:_-;·: : 2-:e interest of the patient at heart suffic iently, but would rather
;:.·.-~ 2.7 to those thoughts which would call up the lower principles
.....- :ake them down from the Buddhic Plane and consequently they would
==: transmit the psychica l force but magnetism. This, however, does
=:: 3ecessarily follow from charging a fee, if the fee be reasonable,
=~ the healer has the interest of the patient at heart and his healing
~s not for his own interest so much as for the good of the patient and
~e at the same time reali zes that he must have a compensation ; he must
: ive in order to do this . If his fee is a means to an end , namely the
means of enabling him to do more work of this kind, accomplish more
good, then this difficulty will not arise . If he a lso realizes that it
is necessary to make charges in order to accomplish the best results
it will be found absolutely necessa ry that he will do what will ac-
complish the most good, consequently in charging the patient a mod-
erate fee he is really making the patient appreciate t he value of the
treatment and consequently doing the patient good. For this reason the
acceptance of a fee will not in any way interfere with that perfect
unselfishness , t hat Buddhic consciousness which is essential unto the
perfect accomplishment of the work and in this way he will be able to
transmit the healing force because he will maintain his consciousness
upon that plane of perfect unselfishness and thus he will be generating
the spiritua l or soul force and transmitting it to his patient and thus
will accomplish the best possible r esults .
Remember, however, that the one point to be borne in mind is that
Spirituality gives the psychica l force that is used in Psychical Heal-
ing . The other methods are merely methods of direction a pplied to that
force . The concentration, the fixing of the attention , the mental pic-
ture even the placing of the hands and everything of that kind are
merely so many details to be employed in the healing of the patient,
so many details employed for the direction of the healing force which
is generated in the organ of Spirituality and which, therefore, oan
only be governed by reason of the Spirituality of the healer.
22
L E S S 0 N
0 N
S P I R I T U A L H E A L I N G
The only difference between Spiritual Healing and Psychical
Healing is, that whereas in Psychical Healing the force that is em-
ployed is psychical forc e generated wit hin the Organ of Spirituality
in the Healer, that is to say , he is using his own psychical force, is
transmitt ing this through t he Organ of Spirituality in hi s patient t o
the different part s of the body and thus accomplishing the healing,-
whereas, in Spiritual Healing or Divine Healing he is not using his
own force, but is using the Spirit of God to accomplish the work. The
method is precisely the same . You stand back of your patient and
place the right hand on the right side of the head, the left hand on
the left side, placing the fingers over the Organ of Spirituality.
Then you begin your t reatment in the same way you would in psychical
healing, transmitting the current down to the hand and into the brain,
through his Organ of Spirituality, and from there over the system,
directing it wherever you will, simply by fixing the attention upon
that part of the body where you want the current to go and as long as
you keep the attention concentrated upon any given point you are main-
taining the current of force there in that particular part of the body.
Or, you may sweep a current through the body from head to foot, stim-
ulating all the cells and tissues, nerves, etc., in the body to action.
In this way the current may be able to have a general ~~:ue~ce upon the
body from head to foot, or in case you want to dr~ve out so~e disease ,
something like scrofula or eczema, you w~t to oake it come to the
surface, you simply cause the force to go t!::rough and through the body
and then by concentration of the attention, cause it to flow out from
the center of the body to tbe surface , until f ina~ly it flows out through
the pores of the skin . In this way you can bring this diseased tissue
to the surface and ultimately cure anything in that way. You can carry
out effete matter and all the poisons that may be accumulated in the
system.
The cure of poisoning may be accomplished in this way or you can
23
c!-~e the vibration of the body, the Aura and everything by simply
ca~s~~g it to flow through the entire system, and then to keep in mind
:~~s 7ibration, holding it in relation to the vibratory force s of the
:oc.y U."'lt il they are raised up, brought into this state of vibratory har-
=~=7· It should be borne in mind, however, that it is not your psychical
~ orce you are using when you are performing spiritual healing . Spirit-
~ : Healing is another force, in fact, it is the Spirit of God in the
:::gbest aspect.
Of course, there are two kinds of Spiritual Healing. Spiritual
Healing in the strictest sense of the word is not the Spirit of God,
but the Universal Spirit, that is drawn into the being by elevating the
individual spirit until it unites for the time being, with the Universal
Spirit.
A person to do this kind of healing must be a Para-Nirvani, or at
least he must be functioning on the plane of Para-Nirvana at the time
he is giving the treatment in order that he may be filled with an
influx of that Universal Spirit and thus his Organ of Spirituality be-
comes the channel through which that spiritual force pours into his
system. It streams in there and fills his system through and through
until his whole being is charged with it. He becomes a magnet and is
thus able to transmute this healing spiritual force to the organism of
the patient .
Now, this kind of healing is not magnetic healing, neither is
it psychical healing. The force is of a higher order, instituting a
much higher vibration, and will accomplish all the work that the
other healing methods accomplish with none of the other evil conse-
quences . But it is possible to do this only when you can lose sight of
your personality , your individuality; as long as he contemplates him-
self as being separate and apart, it is utterly impossible for him to
accomplish this phase of healing. It is necessary for a person in order
to accomplish Spiritual Healing, to thoroughly identify himself with
the Universal Spirit and at the same time to have his patient identified
in his consciousness with this Universal Spirit , so that there is no
difference. His spirit and that of his patient are identical and they
a re in turn, identical with the Universa l Spirit, consequently he is
simply a channel through which that Universal Spirit flows, and thus his
Organ of Spirituality is the medium by which Brahman is able to flow in;
becomes the channel through which it flows in through his hands, into
:he Organ of Spirituality of his patient, and thus through his entire
body .
A spiritual healer then must be the medium, the modulating chord,
as :.~ were, between the patient and the Universal Spirit, and his ca-
;a:::y to heal depends upon his ability to accomplish this work, to
:e~o=e in deed and in truth, the modulating chord which will bring
:~r=o=y between his patient and the Universal Spirit.
24
Now, it should be borne in mind that spiritual healing is through
t he Spirit, not through the body, that is to say you must bring your
pa tient's spirit into union with the Universal Spirit and thus his
spirit is first awakened, spiritualized, filled with the Universal
Spirit. The union has been accompl i shed so far as the spirit is con-
cerned. Then this must flow in unti l the soul is awakened and fill ed
with the spirit, -brought into union and harmony, then down to t h e
Causal Body, the Mental Body, the Astral Body, Etheric Double, until at
last the gross Physical Body is brought into union. The Universal Spiri t
now reigns supreme throughout the entire being of the patient . It i s
in this way that Spiritual Healing is accomplished.
What really is the cause of sickness and weakness, and every-
thing of that kind? I s it not because of individualism? Is it not be-
cause the patient has separated from the universe, is no longer a part
of the Kosmos, but has separated h i mself as it were, and thus is starv-
ing for the want of this spiritual f ore e? Now, the healer becomes t he
modulating chord through which the patient is brought back into ha r -
mony, his entire being is made to perfectly harmonize with the uni -
versal spirit, and thus that spirit is enabled to come forth into mani-
festation, to manifest itself in and through his entire being. When
you realize this, you will underst a nd why it is that the Spiritual
Healer must be one who is in perfect harmony, for the time being with
the Universal Spirit. But this is not all, - he must also be in har-
mony with his patient. He must be able to sympathize with the patient ,
to enter into rapport with him and thus act as the medium between the
Universal Spirit and the Individual Spirit. It is for this reas on that
those who have performed this kind of healing have usually adopted the
rule of char g ing no money for what they do. They do the work gr a tui-
tously becau s e that will ena ble them to be in a more sympathetic sta t e
in rela tion t o t he patient, t han they could be ordinarily, if they
charged money f or it. They sympa thi ze more with those they are serving ,
to whom they a re giving somethi ng , than they would likely to with per -
sons who were pa ying them money fo r what they did. However , one who has
the proper degree of sympathy and who charges money, not in the sense
of payment for w
hat he is doing, bu t to enable h i m to live so that he
may be able to do more good - his r eception of money under these condi-
tions would not be detricental . But remember, it is sympat hy t hat es-
tablishes the connect ion betwee~ the Bea ler and the Patient , s o that
he is able to transmit t he healing spirit , and i t is s elf- forgetful-
ness, self- abnegation, t hat establishes t he har mony between the
healer and the Universal Spir it .
Remember then, tha t t he h ealer i s merely the cha nnel through
which the Universal Spirit flows into t he patient, he is a mediator, a
condenser , as it were, one who brings a bout the state of connect ion be-
tween the spirit and the individual and consequently this kind of heal-
25
~=b ca= :e ~~ac:iced only by persons who have t he spiritual character.
~::e ~~: :: sp:~:tual in a prominent degree; he must also have lost
~:~: :~ :~e t~ought of being an individual spir it. He must have lost
s~~: =~ :~os e feelings and brought himself into perfect harmony and
·-· -~ ~ :~ the Universal Spirit else he cannot do t his kind of healing,
2..:!=. ~: :.s because of this fact that there are so few persons who really
:::.:.:·:: :.n Spiritual Healing . With the average person Spiritual Heal-
:.::; :-:a::y means Psychical Healing - in many instances, Magnetic Heal-
:.::;. a=c very few realize that there is such a thing as healing which
:.s ;e~~ormed by the Universal Spirit passing through the spirit of the
~ea:er into that of the patient.
Divine Healing differs from Spiritual Healing in that it is not
:~e Universal Spirit, but the Divine Spirit, the Spiritus Sanctus, that
:s the Healing Force. I n this case the same state of sympathy, har-
=o~ y and unity must exist between the healer and the patient, but the
=ealer himself must be functioning on the Maha- Para- Nirvanic Plane
et the time he is accomplishing the healing. He must be in union with
tee Spirit of God so that it permeates his being and fills him. Thus
he must identify himself with God. He must lose sight of all thought
of self, all materiality and everything of that kind. His individuality
m
ust be entirely obliterated for the time being so that he is conscious
of his absolute union with God. This can be accomplished only by Mys-
tics of the highest order . When the Spirit of God flows through his
being and acts upon the spirit of the patient and coming down, heals
the various principles by bringing them into harmony with God, so that
they are united and the connection is made between the Spirit of God and
the Spirit of the patient and all the way down, when man has been brought
i nto that state of perfect union with God, then the illness will nat-
urally disappear and this is what it means to accomplish Divine Heal-
ing .
Let it be understood definitely that an atheist can never per-
form Divine Healing because he cannot bring himself into that state of
sympathetic union with God. An infidel or a rationalist cannot do
this kind of healing. He may be very spiritual in the sense of having
considerable spirituality, but a person must have attained UNION with
GO
J before he can accomplish this kind of work. He may be a Para-
_·:.rvani and yet if he sees nothing beyond the Universal Spirit he can-
=ot do Divine Healing, because he cannot get in touch with this Spirit,
~e cannot get into harmony with it, and, therefore, cannot administer
:: :.o his patient.
It should be distinctly understood that the Divine Healer is
~== w~o is in a state of conscious union with the Spirit of God. By
:-ea scn o
=this , the Spirit of God acts through his being, passes from
~:~ ~c ~~~s enters into the organism of the patient, first acting
~~~= ~:.s sp::-it and then down through the various principles of his
26
being . For this reason no detrimental effects are ever found to r e-
sult from Divine Healing. It is always beneficial and never other-
wise. It is not the magnetism of t h e Healer that is used, but the
Spirit of God; the vibration is all on the Divine Octave. However, of
course, it has to be lowered to the lower octaves, as it comes down ,
otherwise the patient could not endure it, but it is purely divine in
its origin and consequently cannot have a ny evil influence . Not only
will it cure the body, but it also heals the spirit, the soul and the
mind, the Astral body and everything of the kind. The Divine Healer i s
a physician of Souls as well as of bodies. Thus the vibration going on
in the spirit will be in perfect harmony with the Spirit of God, and
likewise, the soul, the Buddhic vibration , is brought into perfect har-
mony, the mind and the emotions , everything , are in harmony with God,
so that a t the expiration of a treatment the patient has a much clearer
and a more spiritual mind, his r easoni ng is much deeper and more spirit-
ual and his emotions are soon to be more spiritual, more and more in ac-
cordance with the Spirit of God and the eternal fitness of things and
because of this fact , because he is brought into this state of being ,
this state of absolute harmony, we find that he is a better man by rea-
son of having received the treatment , and it has been observed that
those who have received the treatment, and that those who have received
Spiritual Healing acquire a change of character to a great extent. It
makes them better, brings them more into harmony with God and that is
really the mission of the Divine Healer . He should not think of heal-
ing people s imply to cure them of their bodily diseases . That is not
his mission. He should make the healing of the body a means of healing
the soul . However, in some instances this will be found to bring a
very great degree of disturbance in the constitution of the patient be-
cause his emotions, for instance, are antagonistic to God , they are
material or sensual or selfish; they are not in harmony with the
Divine at all. Now, when a vibration which is in perfect harmony with
the Divine Spirit, the Divine Vibra tion strikes the Astral Body, it
begins to establish emotions of a spiritual character. These are an-
tagonized by his normal emotional state. The result is a disturbance,
a discordant state of emotion is brought about and it is likely to
make the patient worse. He is liable to become sick as a resul t of his
emotions, or he may get along distracted under the influence , and it
is only by a tremendous current of the Divine Spirit coming with suf-
ficient force to change the vibration completely, to neutralize all
those influences and establish spiritual conditions in the emotional
nature and its vehicle, that these disturbing influences can be over-
come. Therefore, it is not advisable for healers to practice Divine
Healing excepting in such cases as the patient rea lly wants to become
spiritual, where he really is anxious to get out of these improper
emotional states, because if he antagonizes this spiritua l influence
27
:t will in many insta nces make him worse than otherwise, unless the
pe~son has a trem
endous amount of spiritual force , so that he is able
:o entirely overcome this antagonistic state.
The Divine Healer, therefore, should heal only when requested
to do so and should heal only when he is recogniz ed as a Divine Healer.
He should not allow himself to be classed as a Faith Doctor, or a mag-
~etic healer , or anything of that k ind . He should always hold himself
forth as a Divine Healer, giving God the glory and forcing his patient
to do likewise, that i s recognize the Divine Force operating through
him, the healer . In this way, if he maint ain his religious char a cter,
his spiritual bases, and they come to him in this way, they are likely
to recognize his position and thus bring their principles more into a
suscept ible state in reference to God and His Spirit . One whose mind
is skeptical, rationalistic, materialistic in regard to God is by this
very f act separated from a nd antagonistic to God ' s Spirit. His mind
instead of being negative to the Spirit of God is positive, conse-
quently it is very difficult to heal one who is antagonistic in this
way. One who does not believe cannot easily be healed, not so much
that f aith is necessary, not so much that there is nothing but sugges-
tion involved, but his attitude of unbelief will drive away, will repel
the Spirit of God whereas belief has but little to do with magnetic
healing .
But when Spiritual Healing does get in its work it really has
the influence of changing his processes of thought , of changing his
mental activity. One whose reason has been developed a long lines away
from the Spirit of God, is a l so antagonistic in a certain degree , but
if this can be overcome so that the spirit is able to get in its work
it has the effect not only of heal ing his body, but also of heal ing hi ~
soul , hi s spirit , his mind, his heart , and everything else, because i t
reaches the body only by reason of its already having accomplished the
work in the higher principles . Thus the pers on will become a good m
an
or a good woman , Godlike , saintly, as a result of these treatments, when
they are given by a true Divine Healer .
Now, the Divine Healer must be in a state of Oneness with God
in order to accompl ish Divine Healing because he cannot otherwise get
:be Divine Power. It does not come to him unless there is a state of
affinity existing between his own spirit and the Spirit of God. It is
~or this reason that healers must lead austere lives. They must lead
:ives wherein the spiritual principle becomes the predominating one ,
wherein the Spirit is the strongest force, at the same time it must
be in perfect harmony with God ' s Spirit . They must keep His oommand-
=e~~z a3d live in accordance with His word . They must be men of faith .
:~:7 =~st have lost sight of the external and wordly thought s and
~:::_=gs and everything of that kind. No one but a saint can be a Divine
~sa:er . !'en a.~d Women who are not saints, who clai m to be divine heal-
28
ers are liars. They may perform magnetic healing, possibly psychical
h ealing , but Divine Healing is an utter impos sibility to one who i s not
a saint, and the highest perfection of Divine Healing is possible to a
Christia n only. A certa in amount of it may be done by persons who have
not become Chris tians , that is by a person who knows nothing a bout
Christianity but is very devout, and spiritual, who recognizes the
Divine Spirit and who has developed powers by contemplation a nd medita-
tion , but it cannot in the highes t s ens e be performed by any one but a
Christian. Now, the man who does not know the difference between the
Divine Spirit and the Universal Sp iri t i s usually simply acting with
the Universal Spirit. Of course, there ar e s ome persons who know nothing of
nature , but only know the Divine Mysteries, who do not recognize any
difference between the two, but t he ordinary person who does not
know the difference simply knows t he Universal but not the Divine
Spirit.
The Divine Healer fully recognizes his healing a s being a
religious act , as part of his spiri t ua l ministration and as being a
gift from God. However, one who is not by nature a good psychical healer
can never be a good Divine Hea ler , or a Divine Healer of any kind, for
that matter and the reason of this i s quite plain, quite simple if you
look a t it properly. The Divi ne Spir i t supplies the Healing Force in
Divine Hea ling , gives t he same as in Psychical Healing, consequently
a person must be able to do psychical ·healing, plus the Spirit of God
in order to do Divine Healing . Spiritual Healing is Psychical Healing
plus the Universal Spirit . Now , when one has received the Holy Spirit
if he was already a healer, then the capacity to heal, or the Spirit
of God will naturally flow through tha t channel, will na turally express
itself in that way, but if he does not have the capacity, then it will
express itself in some other way, so do not for a moment get the idea
that a person ' s being in harmony with the Spirit of God, in union wit h
the Divine Spirit must necessarily confer upon him healing power. He
must be a healer already if it does. He will have a spiritual power,
but it depends upon the character of his make-up, the facult i es and
powers that he had already as to the channel through which this Spirit
will flow, will opera te, and in order to a ccomplish a great deal of
this work, it i s neces s ary tha t he confine himself almost exclusively
to it; also he should not try to pract ice any other k ind of healing
when he begins to do Divine Heal ing. He should abandon all other
methods and let t he Spir it of God act upon h i s patient . Anot her thing,
he should never heal a per son who is not willing to have his s oul and
spirit healed as well as his body .
The Divine Healer w
hen he t akes a patient shoul d look to see if
t he disease has come upon t he patient as a result of a ny sin which he
has committed, any special sin, and if so, he should heal him only on
condition that he repent of the sin. A person should be healed only
29
on condition that he should renounce all his sins and if he does not
do it, if he gets diseased a second time he should not be healed at all,
but allowed to rot or die or anything else. He should be healed only
o:1ce :for the same disease, and this should be on condition that he will
=epent of his sins. As Jesus said "Thy sins be forgiven thee," when-
e7e= He healed disease, so the Divine Healer should regard himself as
a ?=iest whose mission it is to forgive sins, therefore, he should
=e7er heal until he has first shown the patient that his disease has
co~e as a pu.nishment for sins, that it is caused by certain sins that
be has committed. He should bring this home to the patient and should
:1ot give him a single treatment unless the patient admits it - that
is in a case where the sickness has come as a result of sin and not
because of accident or anything of that kind. We are speaking now of
those diseases which are the result of sin either aga inst God 's re-
vealed Law or His Natural Law. Now when one realizes this and admits
i t, confesses that he has sinned , he should then be required to aban-
don those sins and having repented of his sins the Divine Healer should
heal him of his diseases, free him from the consequences of those sins
which he has now abandoned.
This is really the work of the Divine Healer and he should work
to that end, always recognizing the fact that he is not a physician of
bodies alone, but a physician of souls that he is a priest as well as
a doctor and he should never allow himself to be cla ssed as a physician,
but always as a priest. In the Divine Healer we have the priestly phy-
sician applied in a therapeutic way. The person wh o will not recognize
him in his priestly capacity, who does not have faith, should not be
given the benefit of his offices, should not be healed unless some one
else comes and intercedes and supplies the faith, - a member of his family
or some one closely related to him.
It should also be borne in mind that it is possible for a Divine
Healer to heal people without placing his hands on their faculties
this being merely a convenience and an important aid, but the healing
can be affected without touching the patient, simply by projecting
this spiritual power, this Divine Force from the organism of the Healer
i nto that of his patient, or by calling it down and transmitting it,
s o that the Aura of the patient is entirely permeated by this healing
f orce. Likewise he may heal at long distances without having touched
the patient in the slightest degree, even being hundreds or thousands
of miles from him, there being no limit to the distance over which the
Spirit of God travels.
But we may briefly sum up the nature of Divine Healing by say-
:~g it is the Spirit of God applied through the organism of a Healer
•~o ~ s in harmony with God and in sympathy with the patient, to the
;::.a.t.:_e:It ' s pr i nciples and ultimately to his body, for the purpose of
= = ~~g:_=g about a state of health and harmony, and it is applied in the
30
same way that all other healing forces are appli ed. In Magnetic Healing
it is the animal magnetism that is applied; in Psychical Healing, the
psychical force of the healer, and in Spiritual Healing the Universal
Spirit, so in Divine Healing it is the Spirit of God, and the means
employed in bringing this Spirit of God into contact with the patient ,
enabl ing i t t o transform the being of the patient, are the same means
as t hose employed in any other kind of healing. Being, however , of a
higher rate of vibration, on a higher octave, it is, therefore , much
more powerful in its action than any of the other healing agents, -
likewise being of a much finer vibration, it is possible to charge the
body of the patient with a far greater quantity of this force than
with any of the lower principles. What would cause pain, severe
shock, even disruption to the body if magnetism were employed , will
cause no disturbance at all when the Spirit of God is applied. I t be-
ing of so much finer vibration, will admit a much more powerful current
without any danger whatsoever to the patient . However, it may not be
at all best for one whose passions are violent and one whose ambi-
tions are of a vile or gross character to receive a current of the
Spirit of God. There are persons of such character that there would be
danger of their being struck dead the moment they received a current
of the Spirit of God, because of their bitter antagonism, their op-
position to those emotional vibrations, etc . , which will be awakened
and set up whenever the Spirit of God comes in contact with their
spirits, and their lower principles. For such, it is best to shun the
Divine Healer, - it is best for them to resort to healing agents of
a lower potency, but for the one who is able to come into harmony with
God's Spirit, is able to become negative to it and yield to its trans-
forming influence, so that the chemical processes necessary may go on
within his being, there is nothing so advantageous as Divine Healing.
31
L E S S 0 N
0 N
A B S E N T H E A L I N G
As the healing force is not limited by space, but being a cosmic
principle, may go to any distance, in the same way electricity or mag-
netism or anything else would go, it follows logically that healing
may be accomplished at a considerable distance from the heal er. We do
not have to be in personal contact with the patient in order to ac-
complish the work of healing. Absent Treatment is quite as practical
in its operation, as treatment by contact; in fact we find the prin-
ciple of Absent Treatment is employed by a number of healers who do not
call themselves Absent Healers . For instance quite often the healer
cures his patients without touching them; that is to say, he gives his
treatments without placing his hands upon the patients . The method of
the Christian Scientist is solely an application of the Absent Prac-
tice . The Healer sits by the patient and concentrates in his own mind
and while, of course, they call it the realization of the illusion of
diseases and everything of that kind, the reality of Spirit, never-
theless the healer is transmitting healing force to the organism of
his patient by reason of the realization of the picture, - it is by
Mental picturing that the work is really accomplished. The healing
force is transmitted to the patient by reason of the transmission of
the vibratory state; that is to say, the rate of vibration operative
within the Aura of the Healer is transmitted to the Aura of the patient
and this accomplishes the work.
Healers quite often accomplish works of healing without touch-
ing their patient, without the patient knowing that he is being
healed . The only thing to do is to simply form the mental picture and
go through the manner of healing in the same way you would by con-
:act, only you do not put your hands upon the patient, because magne-
~ ~s=, psychical force, or spiritual force, as the case may be, may be
:~a=s=itted through the Aura or Ether from one organism to another,
:=ere~ore, healing may be accomplished without coming into physical
contact with the patient .
32
Now, if you can heal a person across a room, without touching
him while standing at the opposite side of the room, on the same prin-
cipl e you can heal him at a distance of a thousand miles . There are
several methods which may be followed, any one of which will be found
to be very effective. In the first place, you may sit quietly, enter
the silence, and form in mind a picture of your patient sitting before
you just as though he were there in the room, and then you begin to
transmit the current. Follow the r ule exactly the same in t his treat-
ment that you do in the ordinary treatment . If you are going to prac-
tice magnetic healing, you should fix your attention upon your pa-
tient and will for your magnetism to go to him and enter his body and
as it passes down the spinal cord, it will go out along the proper
nerves until it reaches the part, and there magnetize it just the same
way you would if you were giving a magnetic treatment, the only differ-
ence being that you do not touch the person with your hands . Of course,
you could not do that as he is at a considerable distance from you.
Simply will for your magnetism to enter his body and then, by concen-
tration of the will, direct the attention along the nerves the way the
current is to go, keeping in mind the picture of the magnetism flow-
ing along and doing this work; at the same time keeping in mind the
picture of the transformation which is to take place. Now, if you will
do t his with sufficient concentration, you will be able to a ccom-
plish the relief of any disease, by magnetism.
On the other hand, you may want to treat a functional disease,
or some organic trouble, something which requires the m
agnetizing of
the sympathetic nerves . In that case you want to fix your attent ion
on the Sol ar Plexus, of your patient; then will for a current of mag-
netism to flow into the Solar Plexus , filling it up and charging it
with a magnetic force . Then let it flow out along the sympathetic
nerves, so that they are quickened, stimulated and magnetized, until
you come to the nerve center that is weak. If it be a funct ional dis-
ease, all you have to do is to magnetize this nerve center suffi-
ciently to enable it to perform its proper functions. When it has thus
been sufficiently magnetized, the treatment is over for the time being.
Give your treatments regularly just the same as you would if the patient
were coming to you. Stimulate his nerve center until it has finally
gained the necessary strength to perform the functions in a proper
manner. While stimulating a nerve center you should always hold in
mind a picture of the result you wish to accomplish. That is, if you
want to treat the heart in this way, see the heart beating in just the
proper manner. See it performing its functions properly. If you are
treating any stomach trouble, see the stomach digesting the food, see
it in a state of perfect health, direct it in its activities, and at
the same time keep this magnetic current flowing in there by watching
it flow in. Your magnetic force is sent through the Aura to the place
33
~=~e 7:~ ~ :~=~: ~s ~n, the same way that the vibration of Hertzian
Tz~=~ ~~= ~== : ~:~:~ through the ether, in wireless telegraphy. You
c.:..~e; : :::.~~ ==~~= s.o that it flows to your patient.
~: . : ·:s.e::-·;e this point carefully, it is not by thinking that
T: ~==:. ~~:~e : s no gerater error than to assume that man accom-
;:~s.~=~ =-=~~=g by thinking. You may think all you want to for your
;c.:~:=: :::: 70u are not going to transmit healing magnetism by thought.
:: ~5 =~ a co~centration of the wil l that the healing force is sent.
~=~ =z7 =o: know how to heal, but if your will is exercised in precisely
:::.: ~.:._g::: C.irection, you will find you will be able to heal your patient
~=a ::-e-a~kable manner. The will is the positive pole of the emotions;
~: ~=;~esents Desire positively expressed. By this statement it will
:: ::=terstood what is to be done in healing. It is not simply to
::::~. :lot simply to talk to the patient in a way, but it is to COMMAND,
::::a: :..s the force which heals; it is the Word of Command.
You may practice Psychical Healing in the same way you do Mag-
=stic Healing; that is to say, you may concentrate the attention upon
tne faculty of Spirituality of your patient and thus follow the same
oethod that you do in the regular Psychical Healing when you have your
hands on the patient . You do all the work of control by concentra-
tion of the attention. It is not absolutely necessary to concentrate
on this Organ of Spirituality at all. You may make a picture of the
patient in all his entirety, that is, you may picture him with his Aura
permeating his body and see within the seven principles of his being.
Now , when you have concentrated upon these seven principles, fix your
attention specifically upon his Soul; transmit the healing current to
his soul principle and then let it go down to the lower principles, on
down until it acts upon the psychical body in the same way you would
practice ordinarily when giving Psychical Healing.
If you want to practice Spiritual Healing, you follow the same
rule, only concentrating upon his Spirit and transmit , by the focusing
of the attention, your own spiritual force, so that the patient is
made to receive it; his spirit is charged with it . Then you go on down,
descending from one principle to another until at last you act upon the
particular part which is diseased, forming in mind a picture of what
you want to take place, seeing it actually taking place, actually
transpiring . When you have done that you will accomplish the work.
In all these methods of healing, the Law of Periodicity should
~e observed; that is to say you should have certain days on which you
g!~e the treatments and never fail to give the treatment on that day,
p::-~~!ding you are not giving the treatments every day.
You should also have a specific hour, even to the moment, to give
: ::: ::::-ezt:Jent . If the patient knows you are treating him, it is best
:c 2-:-e .!:i::J a lso observe the same time and at the moment when the treat-
===: .:.s to ~egin , sit or lie quietly in his room, relaxing every muscle,
34
relaxing the mind and spirit and wait in a receptive atti tude, an att i -
tude of expectancy, waiting for the operation of the healing force, and
also it is a good idea to have him concentr ate his mind in this passive
way, upon the seat of the disease , and hold in mind the picture of the
healing work; see t he healing force operative there; in other words, he
should co- operate with you in the treatment, only he should be negative
while you a re positive. When you have a patient , who is capable of this
negative co-operation with you, you will have but l i ttl e difficulty
in curing him.
You may practice Suggestive Therapeutics at a distance, as
well as t hese other forms of healing, and to do this , all that is nee es-
sary is to form in your imagination a picture of your patient and then,
by concentrating the mind, simply talk to him, simply give the sugges-
tion in the same way ; al so give it as though you had him right before you.
Even suppose you want to give a person suggestive treatment in the room
where you are. You can do it much better by thinking than by speaking.
Simply form in your mind the thoughts which you wish to transmit, keep-
ing your mind positive and you will project them to his mind. Now in
the same way, you may concentrate and positively transmit your thought
to one who is thousands of miles removed from you, giving him a sug-
gestion, t elling him just what to do, telling him just what is going
to take place and he wil l respond in the same way he would respond if
you wer e t alking t o him.
You may also practice Divine Hea ling at a distance. This is ac-
complished by drawing into your own being the power of God, the Di-
vine Spirit, and at the same time remaining in perfect harmony with
your patient, realizing your unity with him, merging your very identity
into that of your patient, and while maintaining this state of deep
concentration realize the inflowing of the Spirit of God into his body,
see it flowing in t here . Form the spiritual realizat ion and while
maintaining this state of spiritual realization, this spir itual con-
centration, you will be transmitting the force to t he body of your
patient. Observe however, that to do this properly you must be posi-
tive to the patient in the same way you would in the other methods of
t reatment. The key to the situation in t he maintenance of a state of
negative concentration with reference to God and positive concentra-
t ion with reference to your patient, so that by being negative you at-
t ain to Oneness with God and thus through t hat, with the Spirit , and
by maintaining a positive state of harmony with your patient , you trans-
mit t he healing potency to his organism.
It is necessary that you observe the state of absolute union
at all times when giving treatments by any of these methods .
I f your patient knows you are treating hi m, have him concentrate
at the same time, and he shoul d concentrate by observing an attitude
of expectancy, coupled with one of powerful desire. You, on the other
35
hand, shoul d concentrate the Will powerfully in the most positive man-
ner, thl.4s projecting the force to your patient. However , it is possible
to acco~pl ish healing without the patient knowing anything about it.
:3 ~t.~s ~ay you can do a great deal of work that you could not do by
a=y other method. It is always , however, much easier to transmit the
hea:i3g force to one who is co-operating with you than to one who does
=ot know anything about the work. Do not get the idea, however, that
you can accomplish as much, that is to say, as great results by the
s~e treatment at long distance as you could if your patient were with
you and you were giving him direct applications of the healing power.
You cannot do this, for the simple reason that the power diminishes
according to the distance it has to travel. A certain amount of the
healing force is scattered. It requires the concentration of the Will
to project magnetism to any distance at all, and its general tendency
is to diffuse itself through space. To make it travel a direct line to
concentr ate a powerful current to a given point, it becomes absolutely
nee essary that we should concsntrate the Will with considerable force.
In this way we will keep the magnetism or the Spirit whatever it is,
together, thus concentrating a powerful stream of this force instead
of diffusing it over a great deal of space. In fact, the difference be-
tween the Healer and the other man is not so much in the fact that the
Healer has a large quantity of magnetism, as it is his ability to con-
centrate his force on a given point and force this to flow in a con-
centrated stream while the other man scatters his forces and thus does
not accomplish any very great results upon any one point. The prin-
ciple, therefore, in the healing power consists of the one-pointed-
ness of concentration. This is particularly true of Absent Treatment,
but as this one-pointedness s o far as the transmitted force i s con-
cerned, is gradually lost as it travels, because the power of concen-
tration diminishes in strength accor ding to the square of the dis-
tance, the result will be that man who could perform wonders at a short
distance, will have no effect at a distance of a hundred or a thousand
miles. It is best, therefore, that we should not practice Absent
Treatment if we can have the patient come to us, it being much better
to have him with us, than to undertake to treat him at a distance but
where this cannot be done, where we cannot have the patient with us, it
is advisable to practice Absent Treatment.
It requires much greater concentration upon the part of the
healer to accomplish results in the absent way than to accomplish them
~Y the direct treatment, consequently there is more work for him and
~e is entitled to just as much, in fact, to a greater compensation than
~=cases in which he gives them direct, although he cannot accomplish
~t.e sa=e results .
A.bsent Treatment, is therefore, the application of the same
~unca=e4tal principles that are employed in the direct treatment. The
36
Healer should bear in mind that the method is precisely the same, the
only difference being that it is by fixing the attention and by positive
concentration of the Will that the work is accomplished by Absent
Treatment . This is also the way in which we heal by direct treatment,
only in direct treatment we use the hands, come in direct contact with
the patient ' s body, while in absent treatment we transmit the healing
force through the atmosphere or the ether, and thus come in contact with
the organism of the patient, the ether acting as the plastic medium
through which the healing force passes from one organism to another .
The analogy between Absent Treatment and Wireless Telegraphy is
almost perfect. If you assume that the Hertzian waves transmitted in
wireless telegraphy represent the Healing Magnetism employed in Absent
Tr eatment , then the analogy will be perfect, the ether in either case
being the plastic medium between the two instruments, the vibration
being the same, that is, as it passes through this plastic medium exer-
cising a corresponding influence upon the organism of the patient .
Absent Treatment is, therefore, not a figment of the imagination,
not an illusion, not a mystical vagary , but is an application of the
known laws of physics to the healing of the body at a distance from
the healer , its laws being the same as any other methods of Healing,
but of course , its potency not so great as that of the ordinary heal-
ing methods, because it naturally diminishes in accordance with the
square of the distance that the force has to travel.
37
L E S S 0 N
0 N
H I G H P 0 T E N C Y H 0 M E 0 P A T H Y
One of the departments of material medicine, High Potency Home-
opathy, is, in reality, metaphysical in its fundamental principles.
The vibratory law, which governs in all departments of metaphysical
therapeutics, is really the fundamental principle operative in the
high potency system.
The fundamental principle of Homeopathy is the active principle,
the spirit, so to speak, of the drug, which must be extracted and em-
ployed. The crude drug, the body of the drug, is to be avoided, and the
only way known to the Homeopath, to get rid of the body of the drug is
by attenuation, so the method is to attenuate the drug to the lowest
possible point. In so doing, the percentage of the crude drug will be
rendered correspondingly low, while the spirit of the drug remains,
and this will exercise its influence upon the system unto the purging
out the diseased condition.
However, it is not orthodox Homeopathy we are interested in just
now, but the high potency branch of the school . The principle of High
Potency Homeopathy is the trituration of the drug and if we look at it
properly we will see that they are really making use of the vibratory
law. In making trituration, nine parts of sugar to one part of the drug
are placed together. Then while the trituration is being made it is
s tirred with a glass rod a certain number of times; say a hundred
times. Then they place one part of that to nine parts of sugar and
~e a second trituration, stirring a hundred times . The first trit-
urat i on is lx. The second is 2x. Each further trituration is one-
~en th of the first added to nine parts of sugar. Some of the high
;o~e~cy homeopaths make as high as 30x. That means the thirtieth
a : ~e~~ation, or in plain English one- third of one per cent of the drug
a= ~ ~~ ~ety-n ine and two-thirds per cent sugar. In those thirty attenu-
a:~e~s :t has been stirred a hundred times each or three thousand
::=es := =ak: ng the trituration.
38
Now, as a matter of fact, it is the stirring that really accom-
plishes the work. You can readily see that after a drug has gone
through thirty attenuations there would not be any curative efficacy
in it, from the standpoint of ordinary pharmacy. It is not its chemical
character, but the stirring that makes the remedy, and bear in mind,
the most powerful drugs, s o far as their therapeutic value is con-
cerned, are these very triturations, these very potentized remedies .
As the rod is triturating the remedY it is held in the hand of the
triturator and his attention is fixed, is concentrated upon the object
in hand. He is forming a picture all the time of the result he wishes
to attain. He has before him the picture of certain effects which he
wishes to produce . He i s undertaking to cure his patient of a certain
disease; he must bring about certain physiological results and, for
this reason, he has in mind the image of the picture that is to be
produced on the same principle as any other mental picturing. He does
not have to k.now anything about the law of mental picturing, though
most of the high potency Hom
eopaths do have an inkling of it, but the
very fact of his keeping his mind concentrated on the result which he
wishes to accomplish , keeps that picture clearly in his consciousness,
and as he continues to hold this picture , the Aura is made to vibrate
in harmony with it . The picture establishes the corresponding vibra-
tion throughout his Aura. All those whirls which correspond to t he
picture are there established. His Mental Body is vibrating cont inu-
ally and expressing that picture, and as it descends to the Astral
Body it also receives the vibration and responds to it, so t hat thet
picture is expressing itself continually in the Astral. The Astral , in
turn , acts upon the Etheric Double and causes it to vibrat e i~ ~une
with the vibration of the Astral . The picture is thus expressec ~= tbe
vibration of the Etheric Double. This last, in turn, acts upo= ~~e
gross physical body, causing the nerve currents to f l ow in ~e~=o~y ,
and the entire circulation of the nervous system is thus express~ng
the picture which is held in the consciousness , acti~g ~~ ~e~=ony wit h
it . The nerves, in turn, stimulate the muscles to co= t~ec~ a=c relax
according to the shifting character of t he picture . :~e ~ es~lt is , the
motions of the body or mus cles, ar e the very express: o= o~ this mental
picture, and because of this muscul ar contrec:: o= e=c ~ elaxati on,
which is the very same princ iple which :s ~o~
~c ope~et ~ve in muscle
reading, the trained muscle reader si=ply se=sing the ~ scular con-
traction and relaxation. This causes t~e finger s to trecble a nd quiver
according to the impuls e t hat is flow: ng fro~ t he pi cture. Every
tremor, every quiver of t h e hand is but tbe expression, but the out-
ward manifestation of t hat vibr ating f orce, which is, in turn, the
expression of the picture. By holdi ng a pen in the fingers, the
tremor, the quiver of the fingers is imparted to it, thus determining
the formation of the letters . It is in this way that by graphology, it
39
is ;css~: - e ~ o eiagnose a person's thoughts at t he time he is writing,
:::.s ::ss::.=;s. to know the picture which is in his consciousness, by
~=e :::~=z::.o~ of the letters. Likewise if we get the mean of those
e~~s=: ~:. ~:.: ies in the formation of the letters, we will be able to
~s:~=z:e :::.s char acter because we can see what is continuously in his
=c=s=~c~s~ess, what is governing his vibration, etc . Now, it is in the
sa=e ay that by holding a glass rod in the hand, the vibration ex-
~~sss~~g itself through the quiver of the hand, is imparted to the
~c~ a=e it, in turn , quivers, trembles, and vibrates as the hand
=c~es . iberefore, the body of the rod is the perfect ego, so to speak,
~= t~e man, of the combination which is the expression of the muscular
-a~, and all being the effect of the picture held in the conscious-
::less .
Now, as this picture represents the effect which is to be pro-
cuced, it consequently generates or establishes the r ate of vibration
which will be present in that effect . The picture of health, for in-
stance, will establish a healthy vibration and thus it is passed down
through the various media, the Astral body, the Etheric Double, etc.,
the nerves, muscles, and everything, all along until that glass rod,
responding to that vibration, generating the same vibr ation, will
impart to the solution, the same rate of vibration and cause it to
vibrate accordingly.
Now, every time an attenuation is made it has been stirred a
hundred times and a ll the time during the stirring, the rod is vibrat-
ing . It has the same effect in a general way that the electric
vibrator would have on a person or anything of the kind. It is con-
tinually vibrating and as the stirring goes on more and more of this
vibration is imparted to the solution, and as the attenuations are
made from time to time, there is less and less of the drug and more
and more of the vibration. The result is, when the last attenuation
is made, the result is not a drug at all but is in reality, a bottled
up vibration and is powerfully charged in this way and quite as ef-
fectively charged as by sending a current of electricity through it .
It should be borne in mind that the therapeutic value of the
trituration depends upon the intensity of the concentration. The more
perfectly the picture is held in mind, and consequently the more in-
tensely the vibration is concentrated there, the more powerfully will
it become the embodiment of that vibration, consequently the more
efficacious it will become as a therapeutic agent . Also, we must bear
~ cind the imagination and its wonderful influence. A person who is
~ot i~ginative should never triturate a medicine . One who looks at
e·:e:-yt.hing from a common sense standpoint will accomplish but few
~es·~ts . ~he man with a vivid imagination, the one able to make very
7~7:.c, clear pictures and to hold them for a consider able length of
::.=s, t~e one who is ent husiastic about the work, who feels he is
40
going to accomplish resul ts, who wants to h elp people, can accomplish
much more than anot her can, becaus e t he p icture i s f ar mor e vivid
and, therefore, his vibration is f ar more intens e . He is breathing
health into the solution all the time be is m
aking t h e tritura tion.
The higher the potency or trituration , the less of the drug
there is in it. I t is the quantity of sugar and , cons equently the
number of times it has been s tirred, t he amount of trituration, that
establishes the potency of the trituration. The High Potency physi-
cian, therefore, considers m
edicine stronger, more powerful in propor-
tion a s it has been triturat ed, and that means attenua ted, - not in
proportion to the presence of the drug. It i s, therefore, the vibra-
tion that counts, but this vibration will be in proportion to the
vividness of the imaginat ion and to the degree of concentration.
We should not f a l l into the err or of thinking that the potency
depends merely upon t he number of attenuations, upon the length of
time the trituration has lasted . It depends much more upon the m
an who
is doing the tri turat ing. Likewise , it depends largely upon the gen-
eral character of the man's vibration . That must be taken into con-
sideration. One who is habitually healthy, whose entire attitude is
one of health , will naturall y have a healthy vibration, and that will
be imparted to t he t r i t uration . Furt her, one who believes in health,
one who is optimi s tic will have a general vibration of this kind and
that will be involved. Further , i f t he man have a specific disease
the vibration of that disease wi l l be imparted to the remedy while the
trituration is going on, so that instead of its being a curative agent
it will effectuall y inoculate the patient with a certain disease. No
person should ever att empt to triturate a remedy unl ess he is per-
fectly free from disease, unless he is optimistic and in a healthy
frame of mind, unless his whole attitude is in accord with hea lth.
Another thing: there are cer tain characteristics of mind, cer-
tain faculties and certain propensities which have a correspondi ng
rate of vibration, and one having an undesirable propensity should
never triturate, because he will impart that vibration, so t hat the
influence of that upon his body wil l be communicated directl y to the
body of his patient, through the remedy. A person shoul d never trit-
urate when he is out of s orts, or angry , when his mi nd is not in a
s t ate of perfect harmony. He should al ways be in a state of absol ute
calm, of poise, s o t hat he will i mpar t t hat poise, that calm vibr a-
tion. If he is not i n such s t at e , he shoul d not attempt to make a
trituration.
It will, therefore , be r eadily seen how important i t i s that
only the right kind of a per son should perform a t r itur ation, in order
that a perfectly normal, proper vibrat ion a l one may be i m
pa rted , the
potentized remedy thus becoming the physical vehi cle for the imparta-
tion of vibration.
41
~he high potency Homeopaths have recognized the vibratory char-
acter of t~eir remedies to the extent that they have required that in
al: ~otentized remedies the entire trituration shall be made by one
persc=; ~o one shall take his place after it has begun; the same one
=~s~ co=plete the trituration, and this is evidently for the purpose
o~ ~~e7enting different magnetisms acting upon it, different vibr a-
~~ c=s : so that it may have the same vibra tion all the way through; but
~~~s T~l l not prevent a weak vibration being imparted by one whose
~~~~ation is naturally weak.
W
e can readily see from the admission that is here made by the
:-e6 ul ations, so far as they were able to make them, that the value
c~ an attenuation or trituration depends absolutely upon the man who
is making it . No man who is not qualified to heal magnetically and
psychically is qualified to make a trituration. We should, therefore,
real i ze that the fundamental principles of Vibratory Therapeutics are
also the fundamental principles of High Potency Homeopathy. We are
really employing identical systems, and all the way through; it is the
application of the great vibratory law, the only difference being
that we realize the high potency homeopaths impart vibration to a
physical medium and use that as a mea ns of communicating a vi br ation
t o the body of the patient and the Metaphysical Healers us e sqme
metaphysical medium for the same purpose, such as magnet ism or psy-
chi cal force or something of that kind, the Suggest ive Therapeutists
employ suggestion for the same purpose, to i mpart the v ibr at i on to
the minds of t he patients. In other words, t he secret of the healing
art is the impartation of t he h eal i ng vibration to the patient's Aura;
that is what rea lly a ccomplishes the cure . You may impart that di-
r ectly to the Aura, as i n Magnetic Healing and Psychica l Healing and
such methods, or you may impart it t hrough the formation of a mental
picture in the patient' s consc i ousness , by Suggestion, or in the thi rd
pl ace, you may form the ment al picture i n your own mind so as to
est ablish the vibration within your own Aura and then transmit that
vibr ation to a physical medium, as in t he high potency method, forming
a potentized remedy which is the m
aterial channel through which the
vibr ation is imparted to the patient's Aura. In either case, however,
it is vibration that is employed for establishing the state of health,
healt h being an harmonious state of vibration, and disease a dis-
cordant sta te of vibration. Healing consists in replacing the dis cord-
ant vibr ation with harmonious vibration, Harmony of Vibration,
:~erefo re, being a therapeutic agent . Mental Picturing is the force
T~~ch r egul ates the character of the vibration. High Potency Home-
o:;:et!::y is, t herefore, an application of this law to therapeutic uses,
:7 establishi ng the vibration in a physical agent and using that as
:::e co:mection between the healer and the Aura of his patient.
42
L E S S 0 N
0 N
C H R I S T I A N S C I E N C E
The Christian Science System of metaphysical therapeutics begins
with the assumption of two minds, what they term the mortal mind and
the immortal mind. Disease is supposed to be due to the errors of
mortal mind; the thinking of the mortal mind, being erroneous, sows
the seeds of discord which result in disease. Immortal mind, on the
contrary, is always healthful; its thinking is promotive of harmony
and therefore, will establish health.
The entire system of Christian Science as a healing system is in
reality the replacing of suggestions or thoughts of mortal mind with
those of the immortal mind. A treatment consists in a course of in-
struction from the point of view of the immortal mind and a denial of
the errors of mortal mind.
It is difficult to ascertain just what they mean by these ex-
pressions, but when we get at the foundation, we see that their system
is perfectly true and of the very highest order. Very few Scientists
have ever realized what is meant by those expressions, - as a matter
of fact they mean by Mortal Mind, the Human Mind; every thought of the
human mind i s mortal and is, therefore, promotive of disease. By the
immortal mind they mean the Divine Mind, the God Mind. Now, mortal
mind thinks erroneously; its thought is always untrue; it is out of
harmony with the Divine Mind and because of this discordant state, it
expresses itself in discordant vibration, disturbing forces, which
shut us off from the higher life force. We are told by Scientists that
sickness, sin, pain and death are all errors of the mortal mind, and
in the highest metaphysical sense , this is literally true, but unfor-
tunately, we do not realize the metaphysical usuage often enough. Too
many people are prone to assume this to be a literal statement of
facts from the standpoint of the physical. The action of the mortal
or human mind is really error because it is in opposition to the
Divine Mind. The Divine Mind is always true; its thinking, its
43
e=c:~z~s a~: - ~= ;z;~ess~oo of the highest truth and a s it moves, as
~~ :~~~s. ~~= ~~=~a~~on is set up which will express health, life,
=~~s::~ Sc~ence recognizes that all ac tivit ies of the human
~=~. =~ ==~:a: =~nc, being antagonistic to the activities of the
:.:.-·-::= •- :::.. =.1st therefore, be erroneous in the sense of being out of
~==:=~ == a=tagonistic to that which is fundamental because the human
~::~ ~:a:s Tith effects and not with causes and takes those effects
?:= :a~ses, assuming that they are fundamental, assuming that those
a~;ea=a=ces a re realities . It, therefore, deals in the realm of Maya,
~~== :~e Oriental point of view. Dealing in that realm, it is erro-
===~s, ~t is illusory. Now, this is the true sense in which mortal
~~ ~s sowing errors, in which all the activities of the human mind
~a called the errors of mortal mind. It is in the deali ng with the
~=enomenal and taking that for the real. The activities of the Divine
~.!:i::1d must generate in the being those vibratory effects , those emotions
which are the effect of the Divine . In other words, those emotions of
harmony must take the place of emotions , of discord , consequently if
you can stop the thinking in this Maya, if you can stop this limited,
phenomenal, illusory, thinking, and think from the standpoint of
absolute reality, think always in universals , not in particulars,
if you can think in abstract principles, think from the standpoint of
the Divine Oneness, you will thus set aside all those emotions which
a re generated through the individualism of human thinking. Mortal
mind then will cease to act and I mmortal Mind will be acting because
the Manas will now move under the impulse of Immortal Mind, duplicating
those emotions, reproducing those thoughts, because it will simply
be the embodying of the Divine Mind, letting that shine through the
human. Manas, instead of being self- acting, will now be acted upon
by the mind of God. It is this, that the Christian Scientists mean
by replacing the errors of mortal mind by the truths of immortal mind
- what they call immortal mind is the mind of God, acting upon and
through the human mind, instead of the human mind directing its think-
ing. The human mind becoming the channel for the expression of the
Jivine Mind, is Immortal Mind; when it is self- acting, it is mortal;
~hen this Immortal Mind has been established in opposition to or in
the place of the mortal mind it will, therefor e, establish the vibra-
~~on of harmony throughout the system. Discord will be replaced by
~oony and thus health will be the result . Sickness being the effect
~= ciscord which is the result of mortal mind thinking, will now be
=sp~ced by health, the effect of harmonious vibration, which is the
==s·~: of Immortal Mind thinking.
~~~s the natural consequences of the establishment of Immortal
~~~ ~ :~e place of Mortal Mind in the person's thinking, must neces-
s.a:-.:..: :- !:: :~e establishment of perfect health in place of sickness.
44
Sickness is, therefore, shown to be the result of incorr ect thinking,
or thinking from the limited or human point of view ; health must
necessarily flow as naturally from correct thinking, thinking of a
harmonious character , thinking which is the outgrowth of the immortal
mind.
The perfect cure for all disease, then, is the establishment of
the Divine Mind in and through the human. There is no other way to
perfectly accomplish a permanent state of health, and in this they are
right, for if we cure disease either by medicine , healing or any other
way , and do not change the trend of one's thought, we allow the
patient to cont inue in that individualistic road, to continue under
the dominance of mortal mind and he will continue to sow the seeds of
disease and his system will get sick again ; but if his thi nking can be
regenerated, i f he can be brought to think f r om the point of view of
I mmortal Mind, that is, if God 's mind can operate through him, he will
then think in a Cosmos instead of in a chaos and the result will be
his body will be well, harmony will reign and perf ect health ; and the
success which the Christian Scientists have accomplished has been due
to the fact that they have succeeded in establishing harmony of vibra-
tion throughout the system of their patients . They al so teach that
sin is a consequence of the errors of mortal mind , and it is a fact
that if man did not follow his own mind, if he allowed God ' s mind
to operate through his, of course, he would not commit any sin. Death
is also an error of mortal mind, that is death comes upon man because
of his following his own mind, the human mind instead of the Divine
Mind, but when the Divine Mind has become generally individualized by
man, death will depart . That is all perfectly true.
But it is the therapeutic side of Christian Science that we are
interested in at present. Those therapeutic effects are brought about
by the establishing of universal harmony within the body. The method
of treatment is the recognition that disease is an error of mortal
mind. It is to emphasize that in the absolute, the eternal, there is
no such thing as disease, and this is real ly an upsetting of an old
error into which humanity has fallen, namely that sickness, sin and
death and everything of that kind are fundamental; that they are abso-
lutely necessary and that we should not look for anything else . The
idea that it is possible to get beyond that, has been lost sight of,
and so the Scientist practitioner would impress upon the mind of the
patient the idea that all his sufferings are due to the fact that he
is not living in the absolute; that he is living in the relative, and
should see that in the absolute there is no such thing; that in the
fundamental principles of nature disease does not exist; that disease
is a discordant condition and is caused by being out of harmony with
the fundamental and that if he will get in touch with the fundamental
he will escape disease and everything of that kind. For this reason,
45
the Sc~e~tist tells the patient that there is no such thing as the
disease ~e thinks he has; that is to say, it does not exist in the
eternal; ~t ~s not real; it is the outgrowth of man' s thinking; it is
not a part of the world of God; disease is not a creation of God, but
a c r ea:~o~ of man, and for this reason it is transitory; it will pass
aTay; a=d the Scientist tries to induce the patient to place his con-
sc~c~s~ess in that which is eternal , that which God has produced, and
::.·:i..::g in t hat, he places himself on a plane above and beyond all
~~ese things . Disease now cannot reach him because he is living in the
real= of the real, not in the realm of the illusory which is the
pro~~ct of human thinking. That if you will cease your human thinking,
;o~ will place yourself on a plane where human thought cannot reach
you, or where the effects of human thought cannot reach you, and that
t~is is also the way to escape from disastrous suggestions; all those
suggest ions which are undesirable which flow from man's malicious
=ental malpractice immediately lose all their force when we have t he
Divine Mind operative within us. When we do this , the human mind
having ceased to act, all those things coming from human mind cannot
influence us .
The message of CHRISTIAN SCIENC
E, therefore, is to establish
the operation of the Divine Mind within us and in this way escape
the influence of the human mind, the influence of all human thinking,
and disease, being an effect of human thinking will no longer reach
us; i t will cease to exist for us, because disease is a consequence
of human thought; that when human thought has ceased, disease ceases
to be; to us it does not exist, and so the Healer teaches the patient
that it is non-existent ; teaches its illusory character and the method
is usually, to teach that it has no existence at all, that it is a ll
an illusion, to get the patients to realize, to form this higher ideal,
so that the mental picture is formed of the ideal condition; to place
that before the patient as a reality, and let him think in the terms
of the Divine . Let his human mind reach out and flow towards the
Divine point of view and in t ime , the DIVINE MIND WILL BE ENTHRONED.
~hat is the idea, and if you take the suggestions t hat are offered to
t he patient of the Scientist, they are really suggestions designed
for the purpose of establishing these divine principles. For instance,
they say there is no sin, t here is no disease, that God is good and
God is all; all is good. These abstractions are stated, and all the
:~inking of the pa tient is supposed to be built up out of these ab-
s:ractions. When one learns to think in the abstract instead of in the
~:=crete , he will , t herefore, get into harmony with the Universal
::=s~:ousness . Of course, in their effort t o go beyond the relative,
:c :=~~ in the terms of the universal they run to the opposite
ex~re=e of failing to admit the relative existence of the relative,
~~:.:e c~:en, and so they go too far to the extreme, nevertheless they
46
have the fundamental idea correct.
This line of suggestion which t he Chri stian Scientist is
continua lly offering, has the tendency t o es t a blish a mental picture
of ideal conditions, and the picture wi ll have the effect of estab-
lishing the proper rates of vibrat ion wi thi n the system; will in other
words, esta blish harmony.
The entire treatment i s for the purpose of establishing pictures
of harmony in the mind of t he pat i ent and thus give harmonious vibra-
tion throughout his Aura , es t ablishing the state of harmony and
leading up to harmonize t hinking so a s to bring the pa tient out of his
sta te of discord. The Christian Sc ientist makes use of affirmations
and denials as means of establishing this picture . In order to build
up the picture and t o keep it in mind, the patient is instructed to
affirm, I am s o and so; t hat is , affirm those things which are regarded
as being the t eachi ngs of I mmorta l M
ind; to continually affirm the
thoughts of Immor tal Mind , to identify himself with the Immortal Mind,
to affirm a ll t he suggestions coming from that mind and thus he will
picture the Immortal Mind 'i1 ithin himself; will reflect that within his
mind; that by denying t he suggestions of Mortal Mind they can be kept
out, that we can drive them out by denying them;- and here they make
a FATAL MISTAKE. All t he weaknesses and failures in Christian Science
are due, principally to t h i s pr actice of denials. It should not be
indulged in, under any cons i der a tion. By denying anything we form a
picture of it just as effectively as we do by affirming it . It i s
not our belief in a thing, tha t injures us, but the picture of t he
thing which we have in mind , becaus e that picture attracts the
vibration; it is the force back of the vibration, which is expressing
itself through vibration. This force which vibrates throughout the
system, being the cause of the physical condition, the cau se of health
and disease and being regulated and determined by the pictures in
mind, depends upon the degree of those pictures for its thera peutic
effect. Our opinion of those pictures has a bsolutel y no effect . A pic-
ture of disea se must set up the vibration which wi ll express itself in
disease, while a picture of hea lth mus t express the vi br a t i on of
health, our intellectua l view of thos e pi ctures having no i nfluence
upon their effects. The only va l ue of correct opini ons ~s t he influ-
ence they have in t he est ablishment of correct pictures ~n the mind .
Our thinking i s , t herefore, the cause of the pictures tha t we have
before us continua lly and they establish the sta te of health. The af-
firmations of health and positive condition are likewise va luable
because they are setting up those positive vibrations which will ex-
press themselves in healthy s t ates, but to deny a di sease, a specific
disease, particularly, i s t o f or m a pictur e of t hat condition in the
subconscious, and to form such a pi cture means to set up the vibration
corresponding to it; that is the vibra tion which will actually exist
47
in :~a: c~seas e, and thus to embody it .
c=r:stian Science with the denials left out, simply resorting
: o :~e affi rmations is a perfectly logical system of therapeutics . In
fact ~t is one of the highest forms, depending as it does, upon the
establishment of the Divine Mind in the place of the human , as a means
of establishing harmony and therefore, health.
Another error which t hey have made is in discarding natural
methods of healing, in repudiating hygiene and everything of the kind
and teaching they may by simply living in the consciousness of the
Divine, by having the Divine Mind manifest through him , would be a ble
to maintain perfect health a nd need not pay any attention to his
physical living. This, of course, is an error. We should live as near
perfection as possible; we should conform our lives all the way through
to the highest point of purity and by so doing we will remove a great
deal of work which must be done by the changing of the thought . Then
let us think in harmony with the Divine, let Immorta l Mind t ake the
place of Mortal Mind , but at the same time do not discount the impor-
tance of correct physical living. Of course, the error alluded to,
grows out of the idealism which Mrs . Eddy taught, namely that man is
spirit and being a spirit, is not dependent upon matter, that there
are no material influences which can be brought to bear upon the human
spirit , consequently, we should not pay any attention to these things,
that if we go to resorting to hygiene and material agents we a re thus
placing ourselves on a material basis , we are thus recognizing the
material, and thus descending to the plane of mortal mind; that we
should bear in mind that we are not material, but are spirit and
being spirit, matter cannot have any influence upon us. But this is
an error , due to a f ailure to realize the fact that material things
a re just as spiritual as we are . Did they realize that everything,
that matter itself, is simply spirit on a lower octave , then all these
difficulties would be removed. They f ail to realize this, thinking
that all is an illusion, failing to recognize the reality of the phys-
ical body, and of course, in one sense its unreality is true, the body
is not real in the highest metaphysical sense, but in another sense it
is , because it is the spirit on a lower octave. M
atter, therefore,
is a mode of motion of spirit . This they have failed to see a nd in
failing to s ee this , they have undertaken to deny its existence a ll
the way through. The true view is that it does not exist as m
atter, but
as the Maya of Spirit . Failing to recognize this differentiation of
spirit , the Christian Scientists do not deal with it in the proper
=a3ner . The true method is to recognize the relation of spirit to
=a:ter, and conform in diet and outwa rd habits a nd everything of the
k:=c to the highest rules of hygiene, at the same time keeping the mind
~:xec i~ itself, thinking upon reality, and there can be no higher
~ea::ty than the recognition that a ll things are emanations from God .
48
This is the supreme reality, and if the body be recognized as being
a part of the universe which has emanated from God, as being, there-
fore, a creation of God and so, brought into harmony with all those
things, the effect will be just as good from the point of view of Im-
mortal Mind and there will be much less rubbish for Immortal Mind to
clear away than what exists under present system.
Christian Science is, therefore, the erroneous outgrowth of an
incomplete cl assification of nature. A deeper classification will
ultimately express itself in a more perfect state of health. This
is a modern version of the old drastic doctrine that matter is essen-
tially evil; that it is not God created.
Matter is just as much a product of God as Spirit is . Of course,
it is on a lower octave, but still it is a projection of God. The
errors of mortal mind are the thinking of the human mind. Matter
obeys the laws of God; mao does not; therefore , the cause of sick-
ness is not matter, but erroneous human thought . Let man obey the
material laws; let him conforo to nature in material things, and in
his thinking conform to tbe absolute reason, to the Divine promptings,
and then perfect health will express itself .
We see, therefore, that Christian Science is not perfect in
its classification. With the great truth which it announces, which
relates to mortal and Immortal Mind, it still fails to recognize the
fundamental principle of the unity of nature , both spiritual and ma-
terial . It discards matter in its classification, and thus propagates
erroneous conceptions . This philosophy, which is ideal but not abso-
lutely corr ect, must necessarily establish pictures of the same order
in the mind of the patient, which will direct the vibratory forces and
therefore, i t must lead to a disordered, deranged state of mind. It
does not enthrone Immortal Mind completely, but there is a distortion,
a mixed consciousness, which expresses itself in and through the har-
mony and also through the inharmony; it is a state of confusion,
chaotic and Cosmic, the Immortal and Mortal Mind mixed. It is for this
reason that Christian Scientists very often get their conceptions
mixed and their systems become out of order. Diseases grow up in spite
of them because their system of thinking, their system of philosophy
is not altogether correct . If they would purge out this incorrect con-
ception and bring all their thinking into harmony with the Divine
Mind, with the Immortal Mind, they would be able to entirely eliminate
those pictures which express themselves in vibrations of disease, but
owing to this distorted condition they do not always yield the best
results.
I t is in order to maintain their own Cosmos, to prevent any dis-
cordant influence, that they condemn the idea of reading any liter-
ature other than that of Christian Science. They oppose the idea of
introducing other ideas which can establish conceptions out of harmony
49
with their own view; that is, out of harmony with those principles
which t hey assume to be the realities of Immortal Mind and this is,
~roo that point of view, perfectly correct . One's mind should be built
up exc lusively of truth, of the expressions of Immortal Mind if he
~ould expect to have the influence of Immortal Mind manifested in his
being .
However, Christian Scientists make the mistake of assuming that
their teachings always manifest the perfection of Immortal Mind. This
is owing to the fact that they have accepted certain abstract prin-
ciples as being the dictate of Immortal Mind. These principles they
have not fully tested, and in fact, many of them are emanations of
mortal mind, and the application which is made of them by Scientists is
invariably an off shoot of the Mortal Mind, consequently they cannot
accomplish the work which t h ey have in view.
But an ultimate Christian Science must be evolved, which will
present nothing but the thoughts of Immortal Mind. By establishing
these in the consc iousness of the patient, by building up his mind
with those thoughts of Immortal Mind and thus by establishing noth-
ing but the Immorta l pictures within, the vibrations naturally flow-
ing from those pictures will determine the vibrations of the patient's
entire Aura, consequently his inner principles will move in harmony
with the absolute and eternal principles. Universal harmony must then
be established throughout the entire system, and universa l harmony must
result in perfect health.
The difficulty in Christian Science is, therefore, not in any
error in its fundamental principles with which it starts out, but in
their limitations and the consequent erroneous applications which
are made of those principles, which lead unto great difficulty in man-
kind's reaching Immorta l Mind and bringing those universal abstractions
into practical operation. Christian Science is perfect, but Christian
Scientists are woefully imperfect . Because they do not embody and
comprehend the fullness of Christ ian Science , they fall far short of
realizing the results at which they aim.
50
L E S S 0 N
0 N
C H R 0 M 0 P A T H Y
Remember what we have so often said, that form, sound and color
are inseparably connected with all vibratory activities. Whenever
energy is vibrating to a certain r ate, that is, a certain rapidity or
a certain rhythm, those vibrations assume a form which is the result of
this r ate; a definite geometrical figure which is the inevitable and
natural result of that particular rate of vibration. It also produces
a definite sound representing that particular rate of vibration. It
not only reproduces t hat sound, however, but it also assumes a certain
color. But it isn't our purpose t o go into details in regard to esoteric
meanings of color, as that is very t horoughly dealt with in the lOth
lesson of our course in Motion and Number. We will simply deal with
them in relation to their therapeutic value.
The color of any subject is due to rhythm; it is the expression
in the line of color of the vibratory rate of that object- of the
energy composing it. The result is that whenever you see the color of
an object you are able to recognize the rate of vibration of that ob-
ject, if you understand it. But that is not all, because color, form
and sound is the threefold manifestation of the one and self same s t ate
of vibration; it follows, therefore, that if you form in mind a pic-
ture of a certain color, by the mere mental visualization upon a cer-
t ain color you will, t herefore, form the picture which will set up the
r ate of vibration which corresponds to t hat color. In a word, by vis-
ualizing upon either t he color, form or sound, by making this mental
picture upon your mind, the forces of your aura, will cause this vi-
bration to be set up which will give expression to that form, color
or sound; and visualizing upon the attributes of a given rhythm will
tend to the establishment of that particular rhythm within the human
organism. As a result you may visualize upon the form, color or sound
and you will set up in your aura the rhythm which corresponds to it.
You can understand that as the only difference between health
51
~c cisease is difference in the state of vibration, it therefore, fol-
:cws : cg~cally that any method, no m
atter what it may be, that will lead
:=:o : =e establishment of the proper vibratory rates, states or con-
~~::c=s within the aura will for that reason be beneficial in the
=.:;::est degree.
Because color is related to certain states of vibration, medita-
:~c~ upon a certain color, the formation of a mental picture upon that
~~ : or, will have the tendency of establishing the rate of vibration
~ich corresponds to that color. The thing that we want to do above
e·:erything else is to establish that rate of vibration. What we want to
~c :n this lesson is to ascertain the vibrations and effects in relation
:o health of certain colors, and ascertain how, by meditating upon
:hese colors, in making a mental picture of them, the rate of vibration
cay be established. This is merely the healing of disease through the
effect of color.
Let us begin with the various states of the various colors , and
try to ascertain their activity. We will take, to begin with, the
physical color, the color of the Etheric Double . This is Pink , or more
properly speaking, the color of a fresh blown peach blossoo . Spleen
troubles are really disorders of the Etheric Double, invariably.
The Spleen is the organ through which the Double circula tes; it cir-
culates just as the blood circulates through the heart. Suppose there
is some disorder of the Spleen or disorder of the Etheric Double. You
want to stimulate the Etheric Double, to build up t h e Spleen, to give it
strength, you must increase the strength and po~er of the Etheric vi-
bration . There are various methods of doing that. We a re now studying
Chromopathy. You should, therefore, be there weakness of the Etheric
Double , wear PINK. There should be as much pink in the room as possible,
or fresh blown peach blossoms for a bouquet in the room. Pink should
be kept everlastingly before the eye of the patient, so that he will
see pink, and when he sees this it will thus keep a picture of it in the
mind . That picture will give expression to the v ibratory rhythm cor-
responding to pink.
A patient was suffering from a kind of physical weakness and
she used this color . She had a pink dress made and had the most won-
derful results from it - because it helped to establish this pink color
before her mind, it set up the vibration corresponding to it.
If you have a patient suffering from physical weakness, if the
Etheric principle is deteriorating , you want to increase that, you want
:o build it up, working to that end, to that realization, we must go to
ork and use everything that will call out the expression of that prin-
c:p:e . If there is any spleen trouble (no matter what it is) the
c~o=cpathic cure is PINK.
:his is simply a matter of mental picturing and the picturing
c ~ ?I::~ 'l'ill always produce the true condition for treating the Etheric
52
Double.
Suppose you have a patient with low vitality, his vital force
is very low; we must of necessity, above everything else, remember the
color of Prana. The vital force is Rose, and it is the only part of the
Aura which is rose color. For this reason, instead of using other
methods, simply establish in the mind of your patient a picture of ROSE
color, and keep it perpetually before his mind , where he will always
see it, and always realize that rose color. This will give him the
rhythm of life from his seeing it. You should keep a bouquet of roses
in the room where the patient is all the time. Encourage patient to
wear roses as much as possible, have the room papered in rose color.
If there is a rug of roses in the room, so much the better. Rose colored
quilts, rose colored garments, in fact, any method which will estab-
lish or keep a picture of rose color in his mind will prove itself
effective, will stimul ate vital powers and vitality.
If patient's emotions are weak and you find it necessary to
stimulate the circulation, stimulate the heart, which is under the
control of the Astral Body, if you want to fill him with hope, optimism,
to quicken all things emotional in the proper manner - use BLUE in the
same way. I t depends upon the degree of activity as to the kind of
blue you should use . VIOLET , owing to its high r ate of vibration, I
have found the :::ost powerful to stimulate an intense vibration of the
Astral Body; to sticulate those activities in very high degree use
VIOLET.
Whatever : t be you employ those colors according to the condi-
tion you want to produce , if you want to produce a kind of spiritual
effect, or emotio~al, and feel that patient really requires it, you
should use a pale a=ure blue ; if you would have spiritual emotion , use
LAVENDER.
RED is the pos:tive masculine color, -no matter what it may be,
Red is the positive colo~ and the masculine color, the color of the
Will; and it matters ~ot w:th what it is combined, it aids the voli-
tional positive will. ::- -;o:1 find a patient with a weakened will use
RED for this purpose :~ ~~e sa=e way you would other colors . PURPLE
which is a combination o!' ~ ~d BLUE, is, therefore, the positive Will
applied to emotion .
YELLOW is the color o!' :.;::ellect, :.t :..s tbe intellectual color.
If you want to stimulate i~te::ec:. :.!' yo:1 t~:=k the person needs in-
tellectual activity , use ~~0~ . ::- you Tant to s timulate intellect in
connection with positive 'l>il:::.., use ORP_SGE, in the same way, which like-
wise stimulates intuition. :o st:.:::~ate pure reason GOLD may be used.
If you wa nt to stimulate spi ~ itual activity, if you feel the
spiritual diseased - because be is either too material and has not
sufficient spirituality, or is not sufficiently near the ideal (and
patients have diseases where there is no apparent physical cause) if
53
you want to overcome this state use WHITE, which governs the vibration
of the Spirit . But if you want to approach toward the material, don't
went to get too far from material things, want to establish a connec-
t~on between the spiritual and the material use GRAY, which is a mix-
ture of black and white -as black mixes with white, so will be the
proportion.
Whatever the influence you wish to establish, you simply use
the color that corresponds to it .
Suppose you want to produce an active condition. You have a
patient who is suffering from indisposition, there isn ' t anything the
oatter with him, but he hasn't energy to do anything, has a severe case
of indisposition, apply GREEN. GRE.EN will establish rhythm, the vibra-
tion, which will prompt the person to action. GREEN stimulates in the
direction of action. GREEN should not be used unless the person needs
some stimulation to t heir activity.
BROWN is not advisable. It has a detrimental effect all the way
through. BLACK is always decidedly detrimental - it being the color of
DEATH, the color which governs the rhythm of death. Whenever a patient
is sick, get rid of all the bl ack in the room; don't ever wear anything
black. Get rid of all the BLACK; don't allow anything BLACK in the
place, and according to t he condition of the patient, regulate the
color of everything that comes into contact with him.
It is very important to regulate the rate of vibration. A nervous
patient should never have anything of livid GREEN in the room. SCARLET
will stimulate anger . CRIMSON is a very good color, it being the color
of affection. GREEN is t he best of all colors for stimulating action,
and will be found beneficial in many respects. Some of the GRAY colors
are not good, as they approach a lmost to the death color themselves.
LEAD color is never advisable for the sick person; it is the color of
Saturn, and that is the same as BLACK. Those colors should be left en-
tirely out. LAVENDER is the m
ost spiritual of all emotional colors;
therefore, it produces the most spiritual emotion; wherever spiritual
emotions are desirable use LAVENDER.
The principles of Chromopathy are simple. Use those colors which
will bring the proper mental picture in the mind of the patient, and
therefore , the mental rhythm which will be the outward picture of that
picture. In adapting it to therapeutics we have to bear these rules
and regulations in mind and use them accordingly. But if the proper color
is employed it will have the most wonderful effect for producing that
picture, and will therefore , act upon the state of physical health.
54
L E S S 0 N
0 N
H E R ME T I C ME D I C I N E
The Hermetic System of Therapeutics is best represented in the
works of Par a cel sus . There we have t he clearest presentation that has
ever been given of the system.
The principles of t he Hermet ic Sys tem are, t he Law of Corre-
spondence, the Law of Opposites, and strange as it m
ay seem, these
principles a re at the f oundation of modern medicine . The Doctrine of
Similarities is the theory t hat ther e a re certa in diseased conditions
which must be excited and driven out of t he system. It wa s t he belief
in this principle which led Samuel Hahnemann to the formation of his
Homeopathic System, namely any drug, f or i nstance t hat wi ll cause the
same effect in a well man that is manife sted in a certain sickness, e
drug that will cause the symptoms of a di sease, will cure the d~seese,
and he assumes that it will do this because it wi ll have the ef=ect o=
stimulating that condition , awakening it i nto a ctivity so that it Till
be driven out of the system, will purge it out by means of the eTake3-
ing of that influence . Thus, t he same principles which are c~~=estec in
a disease will help drive i t out . The Law of Si milarities is, t~ere= ore ,
m
ade us e of as a means of eliminating t he condition .
The sys t em on which the Tegul ar School is basec, ~s ~~e ~aw of
Contraries , the view that t h e disease is due to a ~~ep o =ce~a=ce of a
certa in el ement and so the patient must be g~~e= ~~e o:~e~ e:e=e3t, and
right here i s recogniz ed the Law of Oppos~:es : g~ ~ e t~e ot~er element
to res tore t he equilibrium, and ~n th~s way o~erco=e t~at evil
tendency.
If Pa r acelsus had any of t~e sp~~~t of revenge in his nature and
if he coul d be conscious of the prese~t state of the medical world,
he would certa inly be satisf~ed . 3~s revenge has been c omplete . He has
been denounced as a char latan , a mountebank and everything of the kind
by all s chools of medicine , and yet there is not a singl e s chool that
is not literally following s om
e of t he axioms of his system. The reg-
55
ulars in their doctrine of giving the opposite, of overcoming the
disease, are literally following one of his doctrines, and the Homeo-
pathic School follows another law, the Law of Similars; the Eclectics ,
in their system of specific medication are following out his theory
t22t the system requires certain elements and to supply these elements
culd establish health, specific medication being founded upon the as-
s~ption that the system is in need of certain elements and because
of that need, because it is suffering from the lack of those elements,
this pathological condition is established.
The works of Para celsus today rule the System of Medicine from
the Regulars to the Chris tian Scientists; they are all following in his
footsteps .
Now, inasmuch as t here is force enough in his system to dominate
all these antagonistic schools , it becomes of the greatest importance
that we should study those laws carefully and see just what is employed
i n them. The fundamenta l principle of his school is recognition of
two principles, what we now term Electricity and Magnetism. These two
principles are operative in all life in all nature. Everything that
exists is but the manifestation of these two principles. When one of
these principles is t oo prominent in the system, the application of
the other principle will neutralize it and thus restore equilibrium,
and this is the use of the Law of Opposites; we produce an effect op-
posite to that which is present; the system is under certain influences,
is dominated by certain forces; we go to work and restore equilibrium.
Thus we employ the Law of Opposites. Now, any method that will estab-
lish the other pole in the ascendancy, will bring about relief. Some-
times it is not sufficient to put in the opposite principle, but there
is an effect of this principle that must be driven out; that is to say,
there has been formed a substance in the system which must lead to dis-
ease . This must be eliminated . To do this it becomes necessary to
employ the Law of Similari t ies and by establishing this condition in a
high degree, we drive out the influence, forcing it out of the system.
This Law of Correspondence is the foundation of the practical
application of the system, namely, everything that is in you is in
everything else. Man and every part of the Universe is a microcosm of
the whole. Whatever is wa nting in you is present in a small degree .
In order to overcome the condition we must establish a greater per-
centage of this minimum principle. To do this Paracelsus resorted to
~emedies which contained a large quantity of this minimum principle,
~d it was for this reason that he made use of remedies. It should also
be borne in mind that he recognized that any influence which is
~~ought to bear upon a principle contained in a healing agent, will
~=Pa~t the same influence to man, W
ill continue to act in that way
T~e4 ~t ~s contained in the system, because every principle of this
ege=~ is contained in man also. Now, an effect accomplished in the
56
remedy will reproduce itself in man. This is his doctrine a=~ ~: ~~
also preeminently the doctrine of the Spirit of the Drug. 6e coes =::
pay any attention to the crude drug, to the body of the drug, but ~~ ~~
the spirit of the drug that is of vital importance to him. No drug ~s
used merely with reference to its physical effect. It is resorted to
because of its finer principles and those finer principles are not just
what the crude drug would lead one to believe .
Hermetic Chemistry is, therefore, altogether different from
ordinary physical chemistry. The influence of drugs is largely drawn
from the seven principles of nature, as represented by the seven planets
of the Old Alchemists, that is the Sun and Moon, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars,
Venus and Mercury. The Sun represents the principle of gold and also
the masculine principle of nature, and this gold must not be understood
as simply metall ic gold, it is in one sense, the spiritual principle.
The Moon is really the Spirit of Silver, the Soul Spirit and also the
magnetic principle and all the others are the result of the union of
the Sun and the Moon. Venus is the Spirit of Copper - Mars of Iron, -
Mercury of Mercury or Quicksilver, -Jupiter of Tin and Saturn of Lead.
Now in order to get those influences he does not give metallic lead ;
that is the great mistake so many people have made in studying Par-
acelsus ; they have supposed he meant those metals, but he means prin-
ciples of nature. Now, according to Paracelsus, there are certain
plants which embody those principles, also , - the same plants under
certain planetary aspects will embody those principles.
Paracelsus, therefore, considers medicine worthless unless the
herbs are gathered with reference to certain principles, certain plan-
etary conjunctions, etc. It is the principles that he acts upon. This
department more properly belongs under the head of Astrological Med-
icine, but bear in mind that Hermetic Medicine deals with Cosmic
forces and regards the diseases of the body as being the effects of
disastrous combinations of those Cosmic forces. It also regards them
as being spiritual influences acting upon the physical nature. By es-
tablishing conditions in the finer principles of man's organism we
cause them to descend to the physical body.
Each principle being an exact duplicate of the other, according
to Paracelsus, if you can establish a certain state in the Etheric
Double you will, by reason of that fact, cause that state to be estab-
lished in the gross physical body; consequently he endeavors to estab-
lish conditions in the Etheric Principle, and he really treated disease
in this way.
But Paracelsus also makes use of the doctrine of Mumia through
which it is possible to establish the same condition in the Etheric
Double of the patient that you establish in the ether contained within
the Mumia. This merges on the realm of Magic, the doctrine of Mumia
being that an effect produced in the mumia or ether of a patient when
57
separa: ec ~~o~ his body, will produce t he same effect in the ether
co~:a~=ec : :hin the body, and it has been verified to a high degree
t: =~~s~= experiments . It has been found that shortly after amputa-
::c= :~ a : eg, the amputated leg had been removed to another room and
~~; :~:~s~ :nto it ; the patient felt the pain, literally cried out
::~ ;a :~, complaining every time the pins were thrust in. Again
=== :~e cismembered limb was placed very near a fire so that it was
-.·::-:- ar::~, the man felt the heat and complained about it .
: here was one case where a man's leg was cut off and the leg
::a::ec up in a coffin and buried. The man kept kicking and complaining
:~: they had driven a nail into his leg and he felt it. He kept on until
~:3al ly they took the coffin up, opened it and sure enough, found that
:.= :Jailing up the box a nail had been driven into the leg . They took the
=ail out, put the leg back into the box, nailed it up properly and again
buried it and the patient had no more trouble. Another man complained
after his leg had been cut off and buried that they had his toes
crossed and he kept on complaining until they actually had to dig up and
straighten the toes before the patient could get any comfort .
There have been quite a number of cases of this kind, which
show conclusively that there is a consciousness between a leg severed
from a man, and the man and that such consciousness continues for some
time. This is a manifestation of the doctrine that a connection is
maintained between the Etheric Principle contained in a leg or any
other part of the body, after it has been removed from t he body, and the
Etheric Double within the body. Thus a physical amputation does not
sever the etheric principle, it is still one and what it senses, the
man can sense .
This principle of Mumia has been made use of by s orcerers from
time immemorial . They have always resorted to it as a means of accom-
plishing their ends . Paracelsus proposed to use it as a means u.nto
the relief of suffering humanity. If an injury imparted to the mumia
of a person will injure the Etheric Double of the patient, and there-
fore, react upon his body , so will a benefit conferred upon the mumia
result in a benefit to the Etheric Double and, therefore, to the gross
physical body, so Paracelsus applied this principle and the results are
Tonderful . He treated blood poison, for instance , by having a certain
quantity of blood taken from the man' s veins and taken into a vessel.
':his poison blood, after being removed from the patient ' s veins, he
treats and when he has purified and has cured that blood, the blood in
: he patient's veins will be f ound to be pure . In this way he treats
~:cod poi son, through the Law of Correspondences , or the Law of Sym-
;a:o:::es as we term it . In the same way he cures a headache, by treating
a : cc~ of hair cut from the man's head, he cures the man. He cured more
cases o~ headache and blood poison than any of the other doctors.
~ga:= Te find him treating dog bites by treating the dog, not the man.
58
He cured snake bites, when it was possible to capture the snake, by
making the snake take the medicine, and in this way destroying the
poison in the snake and, by the Law of Correspondences it destroyed the
poison in the patient. He treated a wou.nd not by putting medicine in
the wound, not by disinfecting the wound, but by disinfecting the
weapon.
Now, how is this accomplished? Obviously the etheric principle
of the patient is on t h e wea pon to a certain extent a nd by acting upon
this, he acts upon the pat ient. Also the etheric principle of the
weapon has entered into t hat of the patient and disturbance has taken
place, so by this connection he is able to accomplish the change.
Paracelsus treated the garments of people, and everything of that kind,
as a means unto t he curing of disea se in the patients, and the entire
rationale of this system i s the connection which takes place in the
mumia and through sympathy, in the Etheric Double of the patient; if
you can accomplish t his, you can accomplish the cure . Mumia is con-
tained in everything t hat has been severed from the body of the patient
or in any way removed from his body, and contains the Etheric Principle.
The hair, the teeth, the sk in , any part of the body, the bones, every-
thing of that kind of a dead man contain his mumia and by removing this
mumia we can get rid of the di s ease.
Also, sometimes methods are res orted to which are very unjust ,
very unfair. Albertus M
agnus recognizing the same principle, resort ed
to the practice of taking the mumia of a sick person and fixing i t up
in a bundle and then laying the bundle down where some one could pick
it up and open it. The result would be the mumia would come i n con-
tact with that person's etheric principle and if he were at all neg-
ative, would establish the disease and when he contracted t he disease
it would leave the Etheric Principle of the patient, going to this sec-
ond party, this poisonous condition could come to hi m. This, of course,
is not a legit i mate application of the doctrine, yet such application
has been m
ade by quite a num
ber.
Paracelsus places the greates t emphasis upon the :.aw of' Sympa-
thies and upon those methods which make use of correspo::tC.e:.1ces . He says ,
for instance, t hat he has l earned from the professors anC. v;::th this con-
ception, of course, he favors very highly t~ose =etcoC.s which make use
of correspondences . Remeober the funda:::e::-:a~ p:-:..::c:p:e :.:1 this; any
influence set in operation cithin t~e ~tber:.c ~ouble T:..ll influence
the physical body. The heal ing art :.s , therefore, the art of establish-
ing proper vibratory conditions and v:.br atory i nfl uences within the
Etheric Double and every part of ~uoia taken fr om the body of the pa-
tient corresponds to and is one with the Etheric Principle contained
within the double. Any effect produced in t he mumia will act upon the
ether in the double and t hus will give ris e to a corresponding effect;
will become a cause in the work.
59
:o i~part a vibration to the mumia will , therefore, through
sY=pa~~~. !opart the same vibration to the Etheric Double, t herefore,
=e~:.c:..::es given to blood taken from your veins or to a lock of hair cut
!'::-c= :;.::::..'"'head, to the parings of your nails, to your old clothes, or any-
:.:::.:.=!; c!' that kind, to the water in which you have bathed, to the ex-
~~=:o~7 eliminations of the body will have precisely the same effect
~~ :~:.~g the medicine internally will have . In f act, it will act much
==~= ~irec tly , because in this method you impart it to the etheric
;~~c~p le, whereas by taking it internally it has to go through the
;~ys:.cal body. It is less harmful and more effective, therefore, to
=ac:.cate the mumia, than to medicate the physical body direct.
Medicines owe their healing efficacy to the principles contained
T:.thin them, and it is, therefore, that we should have reference to the
seven healing potencies of Nature , namely, Sol, Luna , Mercury, Venus ,
~ars , Jupiter and Saturn, and there are various ways by which this is
to be accomplished; whichever met hod will yield the best results is t o
be resorted to.
Disease and Health are shown by Paracelsus to be relative con-
ditions and to be governed by the Law of Correspondences , the Law of
Sympathies and Antipathies, the Law of Opposites . It is the applica-
tion of those principles that is at the foundation of the Hermetic
Healing Art .
Some other features of this system do not s eem to be quite so
logical as even this. For instance, Paracelsus claims that certain
things, certain flowers, and herbs, owe their healing potency to the
fact that they are Sun colored; that they manifest the color of the
Sun; that it is not because of their chemical colors , but because of
their personal appearance, their color, that they exercise their heal-
ing influence, but if we realize that color itself is the effect of vi-
bration, the effect of certain specific rates of vibration, then it
will be seen that Paracelsus is not so very far wrong after al l . Any-
thing is Sun- Color because it has the sol a r vibrations, therefore , t he
Aura of anything Sun- Colored will bring the Solar vibration. Bl ackness
is due to the influence of Saturn , not of course, to the influence of
the planet Saturn, specifically, but to the Saturnine force, that forc e,
that principle which is the keynote of the Planet Saturn. Chemicals
'l'h!ch are black, therefore, owe their blackness to their Saturnine
p::-:.3ciple and consequently, will exercise Saturnistic influence.
The Sol ar color of Gold and everything of that kind owes its color
:. o ~he Solarian principle and, therefore , will impart that vibration
::: : !:!e system.
':':"!:lite is due to the Lunar principle and will impart tha t lunar
~:.:::-a::.o3 to the system.
- ~~ ­
..,.._...,.._ ,
:;-ec. :.s due to the Martian principle and will impart that vibra-
60
Thus we see when Paracelsus divides herbs in reference to their
color into different chemical groups, he has really found the funda-
mental cause of all chemical differentiation and instead of this being
silly, it is really true, it is fundamental, it is exact science .
Again he assumes that certain things will benefit t he heart , ow-
ing to their heart shape; that because they are shaped like the heart
they exercise a beneficial effect on the heart and you will see that he
is right , when you realize that all form is the effect of vibratory in-
fluence, that the form is evolved as a result of definite rates of
vibration in the ether; that every geometrical figure owes its specific
shape to the vibration of the forces. It will, therefore, be seen that
heart- shaped flowers, leaves , and everything of the kind are in that
shape because they have t hat specific r ate of vibration. The heart is
a symbol, representing t he Desire Principle . It is formed by the ac-
tivity of certain forces, consequently when heart-shaped leaves and
flowers are used as medicine, they transmit to the Astral Body those
Desire vibrations and st i mulate it . The Astral is thus effected and
because it is effected, it strengthens the heart, which is its physical
organ. Thus the use of heart- shaped flowers and leaves as medicines to
stimulate the heart, instead of being superstition, is the most funda-
mental physics . It is the bringing to bear t he deepest principle of
transcendental physics, upon the treatment of the body .
The Law of Correspondences is at the foundation of all existence,
the Law of Sympathy and Antipathy is the cause of all centrifugal and
centripetal force and as all manife station is the expression of thos e
two forces, everything operates through it . Therefore, Para celsus ,
the prince of physicians, was in reality employing the deepest pri n-
ciples of nature in the healing of the body. By healing the Etheric
Double, thus acting upon the Body, he is realizing the const itution
of man and acting through it . When he finds a weakness i n a cer tain
organ , he finds that principle in man ' s Aura which functi ons through
it, he then treats the pri nciple and by reflex action, the organ. He
would, therefore , treat t he spleen by treating t he Et her i c Jouble;
the Solar Plexus and t he ent i re sympat hetic nervous syste= . ~ot by
treating the ner ves at all, but by treating the ?ra:1a : l:e Yould treat
the heart by trea t i ng t he Ast ~al Body; tee :~a:n he wou: c. t ~eat, not
by treating the physical organ, but by t:-eati::g the c :.::c.. Ee v:ould
treat the Pineal Gland by intere st~g the so~:. etc . , etc . , all the way
through he would find t he subt : l e pr:nc:p: e 6hi ch oper ates thr ough a
given organ and then sti~ulate that t o pr oC.uce t he pr oper effects .
The methods of Paracelsus are, therefore, absol ute and exact
science applied to t he treatcent of the body, t hrough the Constitution
of Man. Instead of being superstition and charlatanry they a re the phi-
losophy of philosophies , the onl y scientific medicine, including As-
trological Medic i ne (wh ich is rea l l y another branch of Hermetic Med-
61
icine) .
We may say that Hermetic Medicine embraces three branches, that
"'t:ch we have included under this head,- second Astrological Medicine,
ace third, what might be termed Magnetic or Sacramental Healing, the
3:essing of articles, etc., the use of Holy Water, oil-blessed articles
a=c everything of that kind.
These three branches include one of the greatest features of the
!:ealing Art. Hermetic Medicine in its threefold aspect , really gives us
~!:e best part in fact, the only fundamental efficacy of Materia Medica.
62
L E S S 0 N
0 N
A S T R 0 L 0 G I C A L ME D I C I N E
The foundation of the second division of Hermetic Medicine,
Astrological Medicine, is in the influence emanating from the Sun, the
Moon, the Planets and the different Signs of the Zodiac . There are in
the different Signs of the Zodiac influences that a ct upon different parts
of the body. Each sign corresponds to a certain region and will stimulate
that region in the body, consequently there are organic and functional
diseases that are due to affliction by the Zodiacal Signs and Planets,
each part of the body being stimulated by the activity of that pa rticular
Sign or Planet, powerful state of health will grow out of the stimulation
of the faculty when the stimulation is only normal, but when it reaches
an abnormal degree the equilibrium is overturned and functional dis-
turbance takes place, just the same as the disturbance when the amount
of Prana going to a nerve center has been more than that nerve center
could conveniently deal with.
Again, if one part of the body is over stimulated it may lead to
the under stimulation or s tar ving of the opposite part of t he body ; con-
sequently a ll those disturbances partaking of the nature of functional
diseases may grow out of the over stimulation of certain parts of the
body by Zodiacal influence .
It should a lso be borne in mind that at the tice the Sign of one's
na tivity is a ctive, its influenc e is more tl:an tv:ice as great as the in-
fluence of any other sign would be; that is, o::Je born ~aer the sign Aries
will suffer twice as much from a ffl iction of Aries as o~e born under any
other Sign, as he already bas a powerful developoent of t he Aries quality.
The head is naturally seos:.t:..ve a!ld naturally active owing t o that in-
fluence. Now, an abnormal developcent or acti vity coming from over stim-
ulation from Aries will create a still greater d i sturbance than it would
in one in whom the equilibrium was better maintained . You should re-
a lize, therefore, that the coincidence of the Birth Sign with the bodily
sign must always give a much greater degree of stimulation and when
63
tb:.s co:.ncides also with the same moon sign, it is then a tremendous
!'c:-ce .
A number of diseases are caused by infl iction from the Zodiacal
_:_:::-: ::.e:1ce as well as from the planetary influences and for this reason it
.:.::. be found of great utility to have the Zodiacal and Planetary in-
:.-: :.:.e:tces applied as therapeutic agents. It should be borne in mind that
:.::.a ::aws of Sympathy and Antipathy both operate in this case and some-
-::.=es it is necessary to resort to the Law of Opposites, by opposing a
co:1trary influence to counteract the over stimulation and thus restore
:~e equilibrium. At other times it is found advantageous to employ the
:.c.-.r of Similarities and rather increase the operation of that principle
Thich is causing the disturbance so as to purge out certain influences.
As a general rule where there are poisons it is best to increase
the disturbance so as to drive them out, but where it is simply a func-
t i onal trouble, then it is best to use the Law of Opposites and restore
the equilibrium.
The method of treatment under consideration is, therefore, the
application of Zodiacal a nd Planetary influences as therapeutic agents.
Well, the question then naturally comes up, how are they to be
employed as therapeutic agents? How are we to get those influences so
that we can use them? They a re secured through certain plants, minerals,
etc . Drugs, in fact, embody these principles. They have their nativities
the same as people have , being under the influence of the different
signs of the Zodiac and t he different planets - having embodied those
influences and will transmit them to the patient, when they are taken.
Drugs when used in this way , become the channels for transmitting hea l -
i ng virtues from the Si gns of the Zodiac and t he d i f ferent Planets, to
the body.
There are certain clas ses of plants , spices , etc., which influence
d ifferent parts of t he body beca us e they have those Zodiacal and Plan-
etary influences . Then there are other cla sses of plants that are under
the influence of a certain Sign and ca rry that chemical force.
Again, it will be found that under the different Signs of the
Zodiac and the different planetary influences , a ll plants g athered at
such times will communicate this influence. Before going into this mat-
ter it will be found advantageous to first ascertain the different parts
of the body that the Signs control and consequently, the diseases likely
to c ome from those signs . Remember , these diseases are due to the over
stimulation or affliction of those different parts of the body. Aries
z-ules t he head; its influence, therefore, gives stimulation to the brain,
a::1C. the cerebellum, the medulla oblongata, in fact, all the organs of the
b:-ain, and to the cerebro-spinal nervous system, the special senses, and
go7erns, consequently, the circulation of the life force or nervous
e::e:-gy . Any disease due to over stimulation of any of those functions
~.:. :: be due to the affliction of Aries. Troubles of the eyes, the hear -
64
ing, taste, touch, smell , nervousness, apoplexy, headaches, and all
diseases of that t ype, when not caused by a weakened condition, are due
to affliction. But if any of those senses are weak, if there be a case of
locomotor ataxia or epilepsy, if it be a case of low vitality, if the
nerve force is not strong enough, or if there be failing memory, weak
mindedness, then the condition is due to a lack of the influence of Aries.
All those afflictions controlled by Aries manifest themselves in weak-
ness when there is a lack of this influence, and in over stimulation,
over activity when there is too much of the Aries influence .
In these negative states it will be found, therefore, advantageous
to give Aries, and by giving Aries we mean to give those medicines under
the influence of Aries, which will act as channels for the communication
of that influence, and if there be an over stimul ation it will be found
advantageous to use something that will exercise the corresponding in-
fluence, such, for instance, as ar e under the Sign of Pisces, so as to
change the influence altogether , and this is on the same principle as
the old medical practice of putting a mustard plaster on the stomach to
draw inflammation from the brain. The point is to use some other in-
fluence, that will exercise just the reverse influence, or, it will be
found advantageous to take the other extreme; for instance, those under
the Sign Libra which will counterbalance it, drawing the influence down.
Those medicines governed by Libra are, therefore, better than the ones
governed by any other sign , as modifiers of the Aries influence.
The herb particularly under the influence of Aries is the Sage,
and in order to stimulate the influence of Aries there is nothing so
advantageous as the use of sage . The practice of the old women in
using sage tea is, therefore, really an application of the principle
of Aries . If you want to make use of incense , Myrrh is the greatest
stimulus for Aries in the worl d. Where the Aries influence is weak, in
all those diseases growing out of that condition, there is nothing so
advantageous as burning, say a teaspoonful of Myrrh in a brazier ,
daily. It will do more good for such diseases than all the medicine in
the world, ordinarily employed. However, in using myrrh, only that
which is brought from Arabia, Persia or India should be employed, and
the finest quality , as it has a much stronger force than the ordinary
myrrh .
TAURUS governs the neck and throat . I~. therefore, is the influ-
ence required in tonsilitis, catarrh, sore tr~oat, croup and all
troubles of that description - in all troubles of the neck and throat.
When catarrh , croup, tonsilitis, etc . , are efforts on the part of
nature to purge out inflammation, they are, therefore, due to the in-
fluence of Taurus, but as the inflammation ought to be gotten rid of
as the poison should be eliminated, the way to cure them is not to try
to counterbalance, but to over stimulate them, to continue to add to
the stimulation in order to get rid of the poison. Vervain is the
65
plant pec~liar ly under the influence of Taurus, and will exercise this
i~:~e~ce . Pimpernel is the fumigation to be used .
G7 ?liNI governs the shoulders, arms, chest, consequently all
t~c~~:es of the arms and hands, consumption, bronchitis and all
~~ c~=:es of the chest - everything of that kind, are due to the influ-
e=::e of Gemini . If there is a weakness in these regions it is because
:~e ~~luence of Gemini is wanting; if the trouble is due to over
a~ :~v~ty it indicates over stimulation; consequently, if you want to
~estore equilibrium by placing some other influence there, you should
-:=.e.::t use those influences, or those medicines which are influenced by
Seg~ttarius. But if you want to increase the influence of Gemini,
t:::en, use as a fumigation Mastic, and as the herb, the Vervain is the
~atura l medicine for all chest troubles where you wish to stimulate.
CANCER rules the breasts, mammary glands, stomach and diseases
resulting from over stimulation are due to too much of the influence
of Cancer and should be counterbalanced by the influence of Capricorn.
LEO governs the heart . All palpitation of the heart, every
disease of the heart infection due to over stimulation, is due to too
much of the influence of Leo and should be counterbalanced by the in-
fluence of Aquarius. If the trouble be a weakness of the heart, how-
ever, (and that means, also the entire circulation), if there be
atrophy or fatty degeneration of the heart, anything wrong with the
heart action, a l so with the arteries and veins, the circulatory system
generally , if weak, should be stimulated by the stimulation of Leo.
Sowbread is the medicine and Frankincense the spice for the
fumigation.
VIRGO governs the stomach, the solar plexus and therefore, the
sympathetic nervous system, nutrition and nourishment of the body and
where this is weak it should be s timulated by the influence of Virgo.
Where it is excessive it may be balanced by the influence of Pisces.
The fumigation for Virgo is Sanders and the herb is Calamint.
LIBRA governs the umbilicus, the bowels and the digestive forces
which act within the bowels, such as the pancreas, the liver as it
generates bile, and the kidneys, the eliminative principles and every-
thing connected with that part of the body, and also governs that
section of the entire body corresponding; therefore, the lu.mbar
region, and where those parts of the body are weak, its affinities
should be given. Where they are over stimulated the influence of Aries
s~ould be resorted to. The affinity of Libra is the Mugwort and its
:~gation is Galbanum.
SCORPIO governs the generative organs, the sacral plexus and al~
~~~ part of the body. Sexual impotency and all weakness of the
o-.-a.:-~es, fallopian tubes , the uterus - in fact all weaknesses of the
se~~ ~egion and of the pelvis generally, is due to an insufficient
s~=-=~:.ls from this sign, while venereal diseases, such as gonorrhoea ,
66
gleet, syphilis and other diseases of that type are due to its over
stimulus, but there is a poison there which is being eliminated by the
activity of Scorpio, consequently the cure for these troubles is the
stimulation so that the poisons will be purged out . If we, therefore,
continue to drive out the poison by continuing to stimulate the influ-
ence of Scorpio, we will succeed in accomplishing the cure . Scorpio is
to be used for those diseases, but such diseases as nervousness, a
dried up condition, a terribly spiteful character - those troubles, in
fact growing out of unsatisfied sexual desire , are due to the over
stimulus of Scorpio, and therefore, should be treated by the stimula-
tion of Aries, and Taurus.
It is quite logical that sexual desire should be cured by stimu-
lation of the head, that being the logical remedy for anything of that
kind. The herb particularly embodying the principle of Scorpio is
Scorpion grass, and the spice for the fumigation is Opopanax.
SAGITTARIUS governs the thighs, and all troubles of that region,
whatever they may be, if they be weaknesses, should be treated by the
stimul ation of this influence, by the use of Pimpernel, and the fumi-
gation is Lignum Aloes; while if it be over stimulated, it may be
restrained by the influence of Gemini.
The knees are governed by CAPRICORN, and where a weakness is
present should be treated with Dock and with the fumigation of Ben-
jamin.
The legs are governed by AQUARIUS and all troubles in this
region when weakness is evident, should be treated by a fumigation o~
Euphorbium, and where it is found necessary to restrain this influence
we may employ Leo. In the case of tumors, or sore legs - anything of
that nature, there is a poison which is trying to be eliminated , w~:ch
is being driven out by the influence coming from Aquarius, which
should be stimulated by more of the Aquarian influence . The r.erb for
Aquarius is dragon's-wort.
PISCES governs the feet. All troubles of the feet s~oule be
treated by the stimulation of Pisces; this is true o~ a:: weakened
conditions, such as chilblains and everythi~g o~ t~at ~ature . Feet
that have been frostbitten may be restored i~ t~is Tay . A case of gout
should also be treated by the influe~ce o~ ?isces. =~ it be found
advisable to restrain the ?isces i~lue~ce, t~e~ 7i~go cay be em-
ployed. The influence of ?isces =ay ce secured t£roug_~ Hart's foot.
Red Storax is the spice to be asec ~or fu=igation .
It should also be borne i~ mi~e that the planetary influences
exercise a great therapeutic action.
MARS, being the same as Aries, governs the head and has prac-
tically the same influence on the body that the sign of Aries has .
VENUS is the same as Taurus;- ~ffiRCURY the same as Gemini and ,
therefore, should be used in the same way that the others would be
67
used .
Before taking up t he various planetary influences it will, per-
haps, be well to look a little further into the different Zodiacal
medicines .
The influence of ARIES causes smallpox and fevers . Where animal
medicines are desired to be used, the oil extracted from the wolf will
be found to convey the same influence. Its plants are the briar,
holly , thistle, dock, fern, myrtle, mustard , onion, poppies, radish,
rhubarb and pepper. Part of these may be taken as food ; the others
used as medicine . The wearing of the amethyst will also bring this
influence .
TAURUS may be secured by wearing agates and using beets, colts-
foot , columbine, daisies, dandelions, cresses, myrtle, phlox, mosses,
spinach.
The influence of GEMINI may be secured by wearing the beryl and
by using such plant s as dog- grass, madder , woodbine, tansy and
yarr ow.
The emerald will give the influence of Cancer and it should be
borne in mind that cancer governs the breasts , controls the mammary
gl ands, l actation and everything of that kind. It s influence may be
secured by eating cucumbers, squash, melons and all watery vegetables,
also by taking comfrey and fumigating with camphor.
LEO may be stimulated by wearing the ruby, by the use of
daffodil , dill, celandine, eye bright, fennel, St . John ' s wort,
lavender , poppy, mar igold, mistletoe , parsley and pimpernel .
VIRGO will be attracted by wearing the jasper and by eating
endive, millet, privet, succory, scull cap, by eating wheat, barley,
oats and rye, as they are all under its influence .
LIBRA is attracted by the diamond; also by watercress , white
rose , strawberry, heartsease, palm , thyme and the pansy.
The influence of SCORPIO is ,secured by wearing the topaz and by
using the black thorn, horehound, pine , leeks and wormwood.
SAGITTARIUS is attracted by wearing the carbuncle and by using
agrimony , featherfew.
The influence of CAPRICORN is secured by wearing the chalcedony
and using the hemlock, henbane , holly , nightshade and bl ack poppy .
This also is the house of Saturn and what applies to Saturn will apply
to this .
AQUARIUS, which is the house of Uranus , and therefore governed
by all those under the Uranic influence, is attracted by wearing the
sky- blue sapphire and using spikenard.
PISCES may be attrac t ed by wearing the chrysolite, and as it is
the house of Neptune, sea weeds, ferns and mosses that grow in the
water.
The planetary influences should be adapted to the Signs to which
68
they belong, and the Sun should be understood as being the masculine
principl e , while the Moon is the feminine. They are practically the
same t h i ng, though to a great extent, the l unar i nfluence is similar
to that of Ur anus and the solar influence s imilar t o t hat of Neptune .
In the ancient days when they knew nothing about Uranus and Neptune,
the Sun and Moon were used to represent the principles which we now
represent by Uranus and Neptune .
The Solar influence may be secured by using such stones as the
Eye of the Sun , the carbuncle , the chrysolite, the iris, the helio-
trope and the hyacinth, the pyrophylus, the r uby and the auripigmentum,
the wearing of these stones will attract the solar infl uence. The fol-
lowing named plants will also be found to give its influence; the
marigold, the date- tree and t herefore, the use of dates, the peony,
the bay tree, cedar, pear tree, ash nut, mastic, zedoary, saffron ,
balsam, amber, musk, aloes, cinnamon, pepper, sweet mar joram.
The Lunar influence may be secured through the moonstone, the
pearl, stalactite , beryl, aqua- marine and sil ver. Gold always gives
the solar influence . By the use of such pl ants as the hyssop, rosemary,
and olive , its influence may be secured.
It should be borne in mind that the same plant may embody two
or three influences. Where it does, of cour se, in giving it to secure
one, we must be sure that the other influence is not detrimental.
The influence of Saturn is secured by wearing onyx, using load-
stone, and by the various preparations of lead, if taken as medicine or
having lead ornaments. The plants embodying this principle are daffo-
dils , dragon ' s-wort, mandrake opium, elderberry, black fig tree, and
also black figs as a fruit, the cypress.
The influence of Jupiter may be secured by using the hyacinth,
sapphire, emerald, green jasper and by wearing tin as a metal . : be
plants embodying thi s principle are the sea- green garden basil, oace,
spike, mint, mastic , elecampane, daffodil, henbane, poplar, holly
tree, poplar tree - therefore the use of potash, will be fou.~d ad-
vantageous, the hazel tree, also hazel nuts; service tree, and
service berries; white fig tree and white figs as a d:et, pear tree
and pears as a diet, apple tree and the apple as ~ooc, the vine (that
means the grapevine) plum tree, ash dog tree a::c t~e o::ve tree;
ol ives also contain a certain amount of t~s pr:ncip:e, cereals of all
kinds, raisins, sugar and almonds, pineapp:es, pistachio- nuts ,
rhubarb and storax. These will all be found to give this influence .
For Mars, the loadsto~e. the bloodstone and the jasper will be
found beneficial. Iron CL~d lead are the oetals . The following plants
will be found to give this influence : hellebore, garlic, euphorbium,
radishes, anemone , laurel, wolf's- bane, cardis, nettle, crow- foot,
onions , l eeks, mustard seed.
The influence of Venus , which is the planet governing the neck
69
and throat, is secured by such stones as the beryl, chrysolite,
e=eralc , sapphire and green jasper. The metals are s ilver , and brass
o~ copper ; silver because it is the feminine of magnetic metal and
~aca~se the influence of Venus is much more magnetic than electric .
~enus not only influences the neck, however, but also the love
~~:~c:ple and the sex desire, and therefore, has a great deal of in-
~:~e~ce on Scorpio as well as on Taurus . The plants that draw this
~==:~ence are the violet, maidenhair, red sandalwood , sweet pea, the
~cse of Lucifer, and the myrtle .
Mercury controls the breasts and arms and its influence may be
secured also by the use of emeralds, and glass . The metals are quick-
s::ver, and all such plants as the hazel, cress, the herb mercury,
~:~pernel, marjoram and parsley.
In a gener al way, everything that bears fruit embodies the in-
~luence of Jupiter; everything that bears flowers, flower- bearing
herbs, and flowers of all kinds, embody the influence of Venus; all
seed and bark, Mercury and a ll roots Saturn. All wood is from Mars ,
~bi le all leaves are from the Moon .
If you want to lay out a diet for your patient , the Moon influ-
ence will be secured by the use of vegetables, while the influence of
Saturn , by giving roots that grow under ground - Cereals will, to a
great extent give the influence of Mercury. The use of all kinds of
seeds and a diet of fruits will give the influence of Jupiter. Venus
is secured by the use of flowers. The Japanese system of making salads
from the petals of flowers gives a tremendous quantity of Venus
influence .
The strongest planetary affinities, however, are from Saturn,
the daffodil; from Jupiter, the henbane; from M
ars, the ragwort; from
the Sun, the knutgrass; from Venus, the vervain ; from Mercury, the
cinquefoil ; from the Moon the goosefoot. Aries has asparagus; Scorpio
the garden basil among its greatest forces.
Fumigation for the different planets may be used as follows:
Pepperwort to secure the influence of Saturn; nutmeg for Jupiter;
lignum a loes for Mars; m
astic for the Sun ; saffron for Venus;
cinnamon for Mercury; and the Myrtle for the Moon. These influences
will be found to manifest themselves sometimes in quite a number of
d:fferent plants and al so a number of different influences will be
~ound in the same plant .
Likewise it will be found that the Sun's influence may be secured
~~oo al monds, angelica, camomile , celandine, centaury, corn hornwort ,
eyebright, heart trefoil, juniper, mistletoe, mustard, olive, pimper-
=e: . rosemary, rice, meadow-rue, saffron, St. John ' s wort, St . Peter ' s
... --
...._-,
:ege,
sundew, tormentil, turnsole, Viper ' s bugloss , vine and walnut •
: be Lunar influence may be secured through adder's tongue, cab-
colewort, caltrops, (water ) chickweed, clary, cleavers coral-
70
wort, cuckoo flowers, cucumbers, cress, daisy, dogtooth, Buck's-meat,
iris, lettuce, lilies, loose- strife, mercury, moon-wort, mouse-ear ,
orpine, pearlwort, privet, pumpkin , purslain, rattlegrass, saxifrage
(winter) stonecrop, trefoil, waterflag, wallflowers, (water) arrow-
head, water cress, water lily, water violet, white poppy, white lily,
white rose, whitlow grass, wild wallflower, wintergreen, willows.
The Mercurial influence may be secured through amara-dulcis,
azaleas, calamint, carraway, wild carrots, coraline, cow parsnips,
dill, elecampane, endive, fern, fennel, germander, hare 's foot, hazel
nut, horehound, hound's tongue, lavender, lily of the valley,
liquorice, male fern, mandrake, maidenhair {white), maidenhair
{golden), mulberry, myrtle, nailwort, olive spurge, oats, wild parsley,
pellitory of the wall, soutbernwood, star-wort, scabious, smallage,
valerian, winter savoury.
The Venusian influence for the neck may be secured through the
use of alkanet , alehoof, alder tree, both black and common, arrack,
archangel (wild and stinking) artichokes, beans, birch, bishop ' s - weed,
bramble, blites, bugle, holly , burdock cherry, chestnut, (earth)
chick-pease, cock' s - head, columbines, coltsfoot , couchgrass, cowslip,
cranesbill, cudweed , crabsclaw, crosswort, devil ' s - bit, dropwort,
elder, featherfew, figwort, foxglove, groundsel, ground-ivy, gromel,
goldenrod, gooseberry, herb Robert, kidney wort, ladies' bedstraw,
ladies' mantle, little daisy, marshmallows, mercury, (dog) mercury
(French), mints (various) mint- money-wort, motherwort, mugwort, orchis,
parsley, pennyroyal , pennywort, peppermint, peach tree, pear tree,
plums, poppy, privet, queen of the meadows, ragwort, rose (Damask), red
cherries, sanicle, self-heal , soapwort, sorrel, sowthistle, strawberry ,
spignel , tansy, teasel, thyme, throatwort, vervain, violets, wheat,
yarrow.
The influence of Mars for the head may be secured through all-
heal, aloes, barberry, basil, box- tree, broom, briony, brooklime,
butcher's broom, broomrape, carduus benedictus , civet, cresses
(various) cotton- thistle, capers, catmint , coriander, dove ' s - foot,
dragon's flaxweed, dyer's- weed, furzebush , gentian, hawtcorne, honey-
suckle, hops, horse-tongue, hedge hyssop, horseradish, leeks, oadder,
masterwort, mousetail, mustard, onions, pepperwort, pine, rocket,
rhubarb, starthistle, slavin, tobacco, woroTooe, wake robin, and also
to a great extent by using wheat when the whole wheat grain is usually
indicated.
The influence of Jupiter may be secured through agrimony,
aniseed, asparagus, alexander, avens, balm , balsam , beet (white)
betony, bilberry, borage , bloodwort , chervil, chestnut tree, cinque-
foil, costmary, dandelion, dock, dog- grass , endive, fig tree, gilli-
flowers, hart's tongue, hyssop, houseleek, jessamine, liverwort,
lungwort, lime-wort, maple, myrrh, melitot, nailwort, oak, pinks,
71
(Wild) , roses (red), sage, scurvy-grass , succory (wild), samphire ,
swallow-wort, thistle, thorn apple .
Saturn's influence, governing the knees is secured through the
use of aconite, amaranthus , barley, barren-wort, beech- tree, beet
red ) , black hellebore, bluebottle, bifoil, birdsfoot, bistort, black-
~horn, bucksthorn, plantain, clown ' s woundwort, comfrey, crosswort,
flaxweed, fleawort, fumitory, gladwin, ground moss, goutwort, heart-
ease, hawkweed, hemp, henbane, horsetail, holly, ivy, Jew ' s ear, knap-
~eed, knot- grass, mosses, medlar, navelwort, poplar, quince,
rupture-wort, rushes, rye, service tree, spleenwort, sloes, sciatica-
Yort , Solomon ' s seal, tulsan, thistle .
It should also be borne in mind that at the time a certa in pla net
is ruling the earth all the herbs are governed by that influence and
take it on, so that they are a ll influenced by it. If you will, there-
fore, gather your own medicines - botanic medicines and gather them
at such time as they are under a certain influence, you will find they
will have that influence . It is for this reason that medicines are so
s lightly to be relied upon when bought in a pharmacy, no attention hav-
ing been paid to the planeta ry influence when they were gathered even to
the day and hour as upon what the particular medicine is . The works on
materia medica do not take into consider at ion to any degree whatever
the time at which herbs are gathered, but it is absolutely necessary
to do this in order to get valuable results .
72
L E S S 0 N
0 N
M A G I C A L H E A L I N G
By this term we mean the blessing of articles and thus communi-
cating to them a magnetism which may be imparted to the body of the
patient and thus heal him.
The earliest instance we find of this is the case of Elijah
dropping his mantle to Elisha in order that he might receive a double
portion of his spirit. The mantle, having been thoroughly magnetized
by that Spirit when worn by Elijah had become a vehicle for the commu-
nication of that force to whoever put it on.
The next instance is the case of Elisha sending his servant to
lay his staff upon a person, that he might be healed. The staff had
become magnetized by being carried in the hand of Elisha and curing
was received by it.
Again we find in the New Testament several instances of persons
bringing aprons and other garments to St. Peter that he might touch
them and then they might be placed upon the sick person and thus heal .
All through the New Testament there is a distinct recognitio~ of the
ability of a Saintly person of high development, a person v~th great
magnetic and spiritual power to so impart his power to the a~ticle that
when placed upon a patient it will impart the healing =agnetism.
Previous to the New Testament time this ~as s:=p:y tbe use of
an article magnetized in a causal way, but in the ~ew :estaoent time
we find the distinct practice of cagneti~ing articles for the express
purpose of healing.
Again we find t hat the practice was resorted to by the early
church for the purpose of imparting spiritual powers. The doctrine
of consubstantiation is perfectly true . The blessing of bread and
wine imparts to it a spiritual element which is neither bread nor wine
but when taken into the system it will fill one ' s spirit with that
spiritual force . The use of holy water in certain ceremonies is
another instance . By imparting the blessing to the water it becomes
73
=ag~et~cally charged , receives a certain principle and when used will
co=-~~cate that influence to the inner principles of the being.
~~e entire Jewish rel igion, so far as its ritual is concerned,
:s ~~: :t upon a recognition of this principle. Why does the Jew
~e=~se to eat with unwashen hands? Simply because the ceremonial
as~!~g of the hands imparts a certain magnetic force which removes
:=e :nrluence which he takes on by reason of his contact with the
o~ld . Again, the use of clean water in certain ceremonies is a
~ecognition of this principle. Clean water consisted of water con-
taining a small quantity of the ashes of a red heifer without blemish,
burned by the priest in sacrifice . This would impart ceremonial
cleanliness. It was not simply a ceremony, however, it really drove
out a great deal of unclean magnetic force, cleaning the system. It
also imparted a spiritual influence. When the Jews change the dishes
and everything, the cover, even going over the table with a hot iron,
when they change from a dinner of dairy products, etc., to one of meat,
it is for the same purpose . These ceremonies impart a changed magne-
tism.
We see again in India the recognition of the danger of con-
tracting another's personal magnetism. For this reason high caste
Brahmans always have nine feet square assigned to themselves in the
floor, sit in the middle of it and never allow a person to cross the
line. They will never shake hands With, will never touch one who is
not of their own caste and not even then if they can possibly avoid
it. The Brahman wants to protect himself from the magnetism of others
and in this way he does it.
When the Guru sends forth the Chela , invested with the Brahmanic
degree and carrying a rod in his hand which has been blessed by the
Guru, the Chel a is thus invested with the magnetic power of his
Master. It abides in his rod and may be exercised in that way.
Many of the sacraments of the church were for the same purpose.
Extreme unction and confirmation are for that purpose of imparting
certain powers, certain spiritual forces to the spirit of the com-
municant.
The garments which one wears become charged with his magnetism
and if another one puts them on, they will transmit that force . It is,
therefore, very wrong for people to give their clothes to people who
may be injured by their magnetism. One who is on a higher plane than
you are should not wear your clothes or anything you have had on. You
should not allow a person who is on a lower plane than you, to have
your clothes and you then wear them again unless you intend to practice
a ::ttle self sacrifice of a very high order. On the contrary - you
s=ould never under any consideration lend one of your garments to
c~e Tho is your superior unless you intend to steal his magnetism and
get :-=.d of some of your own meanness . People are continually being
74
influenced in this way; the magnetic force is continually passing out
and exercising its influence. For this reason one should have differ-
ent garments for different purpos es. The Jewish custom of wearing
the prayer scarf at prayers and never putting it on a t any other time,
is ideal . It is from a r ecogni tion of that m
agnetic principle, because
at the time of prayer his whole being is devotional; the devotional
atmosphere is all around him and at that time his prayer scarf is being
saturated with t h i s magnetism of devotion, and when he puts it on again
it reacts upon him and t hus stimulates the devotional side of his
being.
The custom of wear ing a head covering at the synagogue is al so
ceremonial; likewise the custom of wearing the kettle at the Pa ssover
is ceremonial, inasmuch as it stimula tes that feeling which he has
at that particular t ime , that being the most solemn of all the
festivals of the Jewi sh religion .
A person should have a certain costume to wear at church and
should never put it on at a ny other time. Likewise if he can afford
several, it will be found to be quite advantageous so that he m
ay wear
different costumes at different ser vices. The business suit should
never ever be worn at a ny other time because it is in that costume that
one transacts business with the world and the influence he gets at
that time, his thinking, etc ., will influence his being at other times
if he continues to wear it . When he goes into society he should have a
suitable costume, which he should wear on no other occasion. The
custom of wearing the dress suit is most desirable inasmuch as no man
will ever be guilty of putting on a dress suit when he does not have
to put it on, consequently, the wearing of it on social occasions ~ill
draw the bad vibrations of his associates and it will a l so becoce as-
sociated with the white lies that he tells on such occasions ~d as
s oon a s it is removed he will lay aside t hat personality. It s~oU:d
consequently be sufficiently ridiculous that no oan or wo=a~ Till ever
put it on at a t ime when s oc ial usage does not r equire :t. :hen there
should be other suits to wear on other occasio=s . :~e e=~ : ~ o~ent of
a place is built up by the tboug~~. feel:~g . e:c . o~ :~e ~eople who
congregate t here . You will r: =c a c~~c~ ~a s a ~a::~c~ar:7 devotional
atmosphere taking on t he at=osp~e~e o= :~e c~s~:ppe~ s . ~ ~odge room
has an atmosphere peculiar to : : se:= . s~c~ p:aces s~o~: c =ever be
used for a ny other purpose . :~e c~s:o= of ~av :=g r eligio~s ser vices
in temples which ar e never entered fo~ ~Y other purpose, is most de-
sirable. Likewise the Or iental custom of t ak:ng off the shoes a nd
going barefoot in the Templ e is most pr oper, inasmuch as it h elps to
remove the influence of t he outer worl d . If t he people do not go
barefoot in the Temple t hey should don sli ppers such as are used in
the Temple, and these shou l d never be put on anywhere else. It may
even be found advisable to t ake a bath before beginning religious
75
'
ser v:ce, :n fact , where one can conveniently do so, it will be found
a<i7a:::.ageous .
~\ow, it may occur to the student to ask what all this has to
C.c ::!':! nealing. It is simply to show that everything with which we
c:=e ~3 contact becomes magnetized by our magnetism; that everything
e ~ouch is thus magnetized. It is for this reason that the American
c~s:o~ of handshaking is so very undesirable.
Now , inasmuch as everything we touch becomes magnetized by
;eason of our proximity to it and is capable of transmitting this
=a~etism to any one el se who comes in contact with or proximity to
:L, logically it follows that articles may be deliberately magnetized
=or the express purpose of exercising this influence; that we may thus
co~unicate healing virtues to an article so that it may be used in
this way.
The Roman Catholic custom of blessing rosaries, crosses, cru-
cifixes and other articles is, therefore, perfectly right and proper.
The article will impart the influence that is given to it in the cere-
mony of blessing.
The custom of blessing houses, dedicating temples, churches,
etc., is perfectly right and proper for it really and truly imparts an
influence to them at the time of the blessing . The custom of blessing
children is also perfectly right and proper, exercising this influ-
ence. But not only can we impart spiritual blessings, but may also
impart physical blessings. We may i mpart a healing virtue to every-
thing we bless. The habit of blessing food at the table is not an
antiquated proceeding, not something that should be done away with as
soon as possible, but is a custom having the greatest value, a custom
that will exercise the greatest influence toward vitalizing the food,
s piritualizing it and giving it a nutritive quality which does not
naturally exist in it.
The therapeutic use of sacraments is one of the greatest agents
in the healing art . A very good way is to take a napkin and hold it
between the hands; then concentrate the mind in deep concentration ;
give a suggestive treatment to that napkin - just what it is to do,
what influence it is to exercise, the effect it is to have, this treat-
ment of blessing, should last five to ten minutes. In this way it
becomes literally stirred up with the magnetic force, having the
vibration to produce the effects thought into it at the time you are
treating it. Then place the napkin on the patient at the place where
the trouble is located, in pretty much the same manner you use a cloth
saturated with liniment or a plaster or anything of that kind, or
70u ~ay place it over the plexus controll ing that part of the body.
:.et the patient wear it for awhile - fifteen minutes to half an hour;
:t Till do no harm if he puts it on and wears it all night; in that
way the treatment will go on all night. This will answer till the
76
magnetism becomes exhausted. Then, of course, the patient will require
a new napkin; that is one freshly magnetized.
You may magnetize a bandage and with it bandage a wound, and
it will have a thousand times the healing effect that an ordinary
bandage will have.
You may t ake a ring and bless it in the same way, holding it
in your hand and concentrating on the effect it is to have, and then
when it has been placec upon the hand of the patient, so soon as it
is worn it will have the same influence. It should be borne in
mind, also, that a ri~g cay be magnetized so that it will transmit
whatever influence is p~oject ed into it, whatever vibration you give
to it will be transcitted to the body of the patient while wearing it .
You may take a gar~ent and bless it in the same way and then
have the patient wear it and it will transmit that healing force and
heal the body of the patient. One of the greatest agents in this
method is the use of mag~etized water which may be magnetized in two
or three different ways. One ~ethod is to take a rod and hold one end
of it in the water, the other end in your hand and then transmit the
force, give the blessing and allow the magnetism, the vibration to run
into the water, down the rod, then have the patient drink of the water
at different times; just as he would medicine and it will go through
his entire body and exercise the healing force.
Again, you may place your hands over the water in a vessel and
while holding the hands over it, give the blessing and transmit the
healing magnetism through the air, having, of course, only a very
small space between your fingers and the water, charging it in that
way.
Again, you may place the water in a vessel and place your hands
on the sides of the vessel, and while concentrating the mind , bless
the water, imparting to it the healing efficacy. Likewise you ~ay
place a napkin over the water and by imparting the magnetise to the
napkin, it may enter the water in this way.
Another method is simply to look at the water and while gazing
at it, transmit the healing force.
Still another method is to breathe upon the ~ate~ ar.d Thile
doing so transmit to it the magnetic power .
All these methods may be used and then t~e ~ater given the
same as an ordinary medicine, the ~ater receiving its therapeutic
value through the magical incantation said over it .
You may magnetize a piece of cloth by breathing on it as well
as by placing the hands upon it . In that case, you should draw in your
breath, fill your lungs full of air and then, as you breathe out, will
for the cloth to receive certain healing powers and it will certainly
receive them.
Relics, crucifixes, or anything of that kind may be blessed in
77
sue ~ a Tay a s to exercise a healing rather than a spiritualizing
~ == :~e ~ce .
~cu =ay make use of this principle ad infinitum and it will
exe~c ~se ~ts influence to a high degree of perfection.
You may also magnetize a sheet of paper, of parchment . To do
:=:s you should place your hands on it and then make the affirmations
a=~ =:essings. You may also blow your breath over it, imparting the
: : ess:og.
An object may be blessed by certain ceremonies as well as simply
~: a person placing his hands upon it . You may take a bit of parchment
~c bless it in this way or, in f act , by any of these methods, then
~ake a new pen, which has never been used before, and a fresh bottle
of ink , one that has not been opened before, so as to be sure there
:s no other magnetism there, or if you use an old pen, use one that
has never been used for any purpose other than some kind of spiritual
writing , and then write certain words or symbols on the parchment,
such as cause to arouse in your mind the proper affirmat ions , such as
will be in themselves an affirmat i on of what you want to t ake place ,
such as will compel you to affirm those things in the very act of
thinking of them. By doing this you will impart to that a certain
m
agnetic force, and a certain v ibration.
The Jewish custom of wearing Phyl acteries is really a survival
of an understanding of this principle . The phylacteries are used for
the purpose of transmitting the healing force . When a relic is used
for heal ing purposes for a long time , the faith of the devotees
i mparts to it a healing virtue which a ll receive who come in contact
with it and they in turn bless it.
The use of such articles is one of the greatest healing forces
in nature . There is nothing that m
an can do, which is so valuable as
the use of phylacteries , relics, etc.
It may occur to the student to ask why it would not be just as
well to give a treatment. Well , in many instances it is not practical
t o do this . In many instances the patient lives at a vast distance
or is in such condition that he cannot call upon the healer. The
healer may find it difficult to reach the patient. Now, he can bless
an article while he is giving a treatment, and that article will last
quite a while and if worn, will continue to impart the healing virtue
u~t il that virtue has all passed to the body of the patient. The
~os t of the healing virtue received in a treatment is thrown off .
Frequently only a small percentage of it remains with the patient, but
=e3 an article is used , the treatment goes on for hours and days .
~~ e?er, i t should be borne in mind that in sending articles by mail
o~ expr ess , to be used in this way, a great deal of care is necessary.
:~e a~tic l e should be wrapped in at least ten thicknes ses of black
s~:~. thoroughly wrapped s o that there is no possibility of the
78
magnetism escaping, silk acting as a non- conductor. lt should then be
put in a package, carefully sealed and sent . It will be bette~ , how-
ever, if it can be committed to the hands of a person, one of faith
and spirituality. Much care, however , must be exercised in transmit -
ting these articles to see tha t their healing virtue is not sapped by
the one who handles them; l ikewise that his magnetism is not imparted
to them.
If people would learc :o have their clothes ceremonially blessed
before putting them on, to ~~ve every article which they bring into
their homes blessed, havi~g everything they come in contact with, be
thoroughly magnetized, t~ey would find it would lead to their
spiritual, mental, emotio=a: a.nd physical health in a much greater
degree than they have ~Y :aea.
This principle =ay be resorted to in a systematic manner as a
means of relieving pract:cally every disease to which flesh is heir.
As a matter of f act , ~ag~et:c Healing, Psychical, Spiritual and Divine
Healing may all be icpartec through those magnetized objects.
Also, the same method as used by the high potency homeopath may
be used in this way. All the power of suggestion may also be trans-
mitted. Haven ' t you ever realized that as soon as you touch certain
objects, whether you know anything about their past history, or not,
thoughts which have been foreign to you, come to you. Sometimes they
are good and sometimes bad . Well, it is because of the magnetism
existing within the article. Objects may be used as a means of
suggestion. Whenever they are looked upon or approached they will
transmit this suggestive influence to the consciousness of the
patient, and it may in this way be employed as a means of transmitting
therapeutic influences to the organism of the patient .
Magical Therapeutics is, therefore, not imagination, not guess
work, but is an exact science, based upon the fundamental principles
of Magnetism , based upon the great truth that everything we touch
is magnetized whether or not we will it, that, therefore, when our
minds are concentrated we shall be able to transmit the healing cur-
rent with a hundredfold greater strength than would ordinarily take
place, and this current being imparted to the organism of every one
who comes in contact with it , may thus be utilized as a means of
healing .
The Rituals of all religions and of all fraternities, etc . ,
admit this principle. It was employed by the early Christians , and
is employed today by many healers and spiritualists . For this reason
it is of great importance that it should be made use of systematically
and intelligently by those who understand the reason why it exercises
these influences .
The foregoing will give the student a perfectly accurate compre-
hension of the principle involved, a realization of the laws underlying
79
tbe operations of magnetism through these objects . As a result he will
~e a:: e to systematically employ it in the healing of disease.
80
L E S S 0 N
0 N
? S Y C H I C D I A G N 0 S I S
It is of the greatest importance to the Healer to always be able
to diagnose the case of a patient . If he does not know the nature of the
trouble he will not be in a proper position to treat the patient.
Physical diagnosis is not always satisfactory owing to the fact
that the trouble which must be dealt with is very often more deep
seated t han the physical being, as we have seen. It may be a disorder
of the Mental Body, the As tral Body, the Vital Foree or Etheric Double
and quite often an improper condition in the soul and physical diag-
nosis, of course, will never manifest a trouble of this kind . We must
look deeper in order to find the source of the trouble, and in order
to apply Metaphysical Methods of Healing, it is necessary to know the
cause back of the physical manifestation, therefore , a Metaphysical
method of diagnosis is necessary to the ascertaining of the Metaphysical
source of the trouble, in order that we may apply metaphysical methods
of treatment.
Another difficulty in ordinary diagnosis is the fact that the
cause of disease given in the medical books are of little value in
metaphysica l treatment. We do not regard disease as an entity or as
an original trouble. Disease is really an effort on the part of Nature
to purge out a poison accumulated in t he syste::1 a!lc in i ts very nature
it is also a m
anifestation of a disturbance. ~e cust get at the root
of the matter in order to know just ho•
r to go about t!!e treatment and
in order to get a t the root of the ~atter we oust have sooe purely
psychical method of diagnosis . ~e ~ast kno~ just what the trouble is,
and we fortunately have a method of psychical diagnosis that perfectly
informs us of the trouble, wit b t he cause of the disease so that we may
be enabled to apply proper methods of treatment .
Inasmuch as the cause of all states of h ealth and disease is
specifically a state of vibration, harmonious if it produces health,
discordant if producing disease, it follows that in order to ascertain
81
the ulticate cause of the symptoms, we must know just what that state
of vibration is. In Psychometry we have a perfect method. The
Psychocetr~c sensitive really takes on the condition of the patient
f o:- t!:e tice being and by taking on the patient's condition, the very
vic:-at~on that is operative in the patient 's aura is brought into his
o~ . ~e senses the patient's condition for the simple reason that he
~s s~:jec t to that condition himself for the time being . For the time
:e~=;, he has the disease, therefore, he feels just as the patient
:"ee:s. He is not diagnosing objectively, but subjectively. In this way
~e is able to feel just where the trouble is in the patient . He does
=ot treat names of diseases, but he does treat the pathological condi-
t.:.on which is the effect of a disturbed vibratory state, and he knows
That this disturbed vibratory state is because he feels it. He is in the
same position as the patient, therefore, he is able, by a process of
self diagnosis, to ascertain with perfect accuracy, the trouble . Know-
ing now, where the patient suffers, knowing what his condition is, he
knows intellectually just what the trouble is with the patient, and
is a ble to go to work and relieve it . However, this method is very
dangerous for the reason that you actually have those vibrations
operating in your system, you have the cause, the very germ of the
patient's trouble, established in your own Aura, and if you are not
careful to throw it off as soon as the diagnosis is completed, if you
a llow this disturbed vibration to remain with you, it is only a ques-
tion of time before it will develop the corresponding disease. It is in
this way that many healing mediums also many Christian Scientists have
contracted the diseases of their patients at the same time curing the
patients. The patient gets well; the disease passes to the healer be-
cause in diagnosis he has taken on the condition of the patient, and
failed to throw it off. The proper method for psychical diagnosis is
to remain perfectly negative, drawing on to yourself the condition of
the patient, drawing his Aura into your own and remain two or three
minutes in this condition- five minutes will not harm seriously, and
t hen, having realized the trouble, knowing what you want to know, be-
come intensely positive, cause a wave to pass outward from the center
of your being, with an outward projection of the will, so that the con-
dition is entirely thrown off and your Aura is cleaned from i t. In this
way you will be able to protect yourself, to purge yourself of the in-
fluence and will be safe.
It is not always necessary, however, to take on the condition.
By sensing it you may be able to know what the condition is, by re-
sponding to the vibration, without altogether t aking on the condition.
Of course , this will not be quite so reliable as taking on the pa-
tient ' s condition. A very good way to diagnose psychometrically is to
take the patient by the ha nd, even by both hands and by concentrating
negatively for a few seconds, cease all thought and try to feel what
82
comes to you. When you give way to this feeling that comes upon you,
receiving whatever impressions you get at this time, it must be relied
upon. If you take on the condition you will feel in that part of your
body the trouble, otherwise, you will only get an impress~on of what
the trouble may be.
A good way to diagnose psychometrically is to go through the
good old dodge of feeling the patient ' s pulse, examining his tongue ,
etc . , take hold of the patient by the wrist with the fingers; then, be-
coming negative as possible, count his pulse beat and after you have
put in about as much time as you can safely at that, still holding his
hand, a sk to see his tongue and then ask about how regularly his bowels
move and all those hackneyed questions about diagnosis, but really pay
no attention to the answers which he gives. You may take his tempera-
ture while you are going through the "Rig-ama-role" - but sense the
vibr ation , note the impressions that come to you. You may take on his
condition or you may simply get certain ideas, but the ideas that oc-
cur to you, or impressions, must be relied on absolutely. There is
nothing quite so reliable as the impressions received in this psychical
diagnosis.
Another very good way to diagnose is to use an article, the
same as in psychometric reading . Take a handkerchief or a ring that
the patient has carried, or worn, a collar, a necktie, if it be a gen-
tleman, or a lady's f an, a piece of jewelry- anything of the kind, a
lock of hair, anything that the patient has handled a great deal and
something which others have not handled. Simply hold the article in
the hand as you would in giving a psychometric reading, and note t he
impressions that come to you. You m
ay either take on the condition of
the person or else simply give expression to the thoughts that come to
you. In either case, however, you proceed exactly as in giving a
psychometric reading, in fact, it is a psychometric reading you a re
giving. You pay no attention to the impressions you receive of a
spiritual character, nothing of that k ind or the ordinary fortune-
telling impressions . You simply note those relating to the patient 's
state of health; then you know what the trouble ~ sand can act accord-
ingly.
One great advantage o~ ~t~s s:7:e c~ c:ag~os : s is the fact that
you can diagnose without ~he pa~ie=~'s ~o~~=g ~ytbing about it . His
friends may come to you and b~:~g ~ a~~:c:e a,d you oay psychometrize
it and thus know his cond:t:o= . :~en when he coces to you , instead
of asking him any quest:o~s o~ psycho~etrizing an article, or any-
thing, you can simply tel::. :::= w~t is the matter with him and there is
nothing in the world that so :nsp~res confidence in the healer on the
part of the patient, as t~e aoi : i~y to look into the heart of the pa-
t ient and tell him what the ~~ o:::::e is , and t here is nothing so im-
portant as the credulity o~ ~he ?a::ent, in f act you may employ this
83
psychometric dodge without the agency of his relatives. When a gentle-
~an comes into your office, politely ask him to let you have his hat
and :.n a very polite manner, hang it up on a rack, do not allow him to
co .:t himself , and while you are hanging it up, be intensely negative
aJd catch the vibrat ions. When you have had sufficient practice, you
can diagnose his case while you are hanging his hat up. Then tell him
spec i fically what the matter is, tell him you do not want him to say a
Tord , but tell him his trouble, and do not spare him, tell him all
about it . If it be a case of syphilis tell him he has it and if he deny
:.t , tell him he is a liar and not to try to fool you, give him dis-
tinctly to understand that you know just what you are talking about ,
that you see into his life ; he concludes then that he has found his
prophet, and it is very important as a means of suggestion. Nothing
establishes confidence in your ability to cure disease like the ability
to know WHAT IT IS.
Again if one of your lady patients comes into your office, in-
s ist upon hanging up her cloak for her , or something of the kind, or
use some bit of gallantry, if nothing more than giving her a glass of
wine, or a glass of water, or something of the kind, anything to come
in contact with her in some way, and the moment you do, drink in the con-
dition and then you know how to proceed.
Not only, however, is it possible to diagnose in this way, but
with practice, you can get so you can diagnose while shaking hands
with a person. When a person comes in, rise and in a very polite man-
ner , give the good hearty, free and easy American handshake and while
doing it, be negative, but draw on his magnetism whatever you do . If a
child comes in , it is advisable to l ay your hands on his head in a real
fatherly way and ask how he is feeling, etc., and while you are doing
this , diagnose his case and then deal with the case accordingly.
Also, by becoming negative the moment a patient comes into your
office, i t is possible to diagnose a case without touching the patient,
even when entirely across the room. You can draw the Aura into you,
respond to it until you feel the vibration and in this way you can
sense the condition being enabled to tell just what the trouble is
and then you can act accordingly. Whatever impression you get while
in this negative state, should be relied upon, onl y you may possibly
catch the thought he has, if it come in the form of an intellectual
impression , but this will not be the case if you take on the condition
so as to feel the trouble, as he feels it .
Psychometry is always more reliable than any other form of diag-
~osis because you can feel as the patient feels. However, it is not
the only form of psychical diagnosis. By developing Clairolfacious-
=ess, you can diagnose the patient ' s trouble by means of the odor
e=~ating from him. You can smell out his disease , in other words .
3ear in mind that each disease has a particular odor peculiar to itself.
84
Owing to the fact that all disease is a manifestation of a certain form
of discordant vibration always ~anifesting in odor as well as in form,
color, sound, etc., you are able by developing this sense sufficiently,
to smell the different odors anc with practice , you can associate those
different odors with differe3t c~seases . This, however, cannot be fol-
lowed intuitively. It requires ~ractic e . You must know what the odors
will be . Generally speaking ve~? offensive odors, everything in the
form of a stench, is a manifes~ation of disease , while the perfumes
represent health and the f !.:1e::- perfumes much more than a normal state
of health. Take, for inst~ce, venereal diseases. There is nothing
in the world so abominably s~:~ing as the odor emanating from the Aura
of a person who has abusec t~e sex organs and has contracted venereal
disease and particularly :~e form manifested as syphilis, gonorrhoea ,
etc . The syphilitic odor is a kind of sour stench. On the other hand,
one who has not abused t~e sex principle, a virgin, in fact, who has a
well developed sexual orga=ism, and no disease bothering in any way,
but who is strongly sexec. e~anates the most wonderful perfume con-
ceiveable. As a matter o~ fact , the use of perfume by women is in-
variably resorted to as a =eans of counteracting the odor from the
sexual Aura. The woman whose sexual system is in proper shape, will
never resort to perf~es. She does not have to. These odors a re very
often sensed by the p~ysical sense of smell , though the finer odors,
those finer differentiations , can be sensed only through the psychical
senses . In t ime, however, you will be able to classify the diverse
states by means of sensing the odors emanating from them.
Again, by developing Cl a irgustience, you can diagnose psy-
chically, through the t aste . This is particularly va luable in as-
certaining the chemical condition of the being and discovering the
Astral, Etheric and Mental Chem~stry of the system. When you are diag-
nosing a case psychically and ths~e comes into your mouth a taste ex-
actly corresponding to the taste of crude chemical , a taste which re-
minds you of that chemical, be sure you are sensing the presence of that
chemical in the system of s ome of the higher principles .
Thus , by tasting of the Aura, you are able to tell of the Chem-
icals that are in the system. While diagnosing a case if your teeth
become gritty, just as if taking iron, know that there is a super-
abundance of iron in the system and if you have a bitter taste in the
mouth, know that some bitter cbeoical is present . You have to develop
this power until you can distingu:sh the different bitterness and
whatever it may be . You can recognize too much sugar, trace sugar
poisoning in the system by an extremely sweet t aste . You can recognize
too much acid when you have a very tart taste, particularly if suf-
ficient to set your teeth on edge . In time, you will be able to diag-
nose almost any condition in this way, but you do not have to depend
on these methods either , for you will develop Clairvoyance, by prac-
85
tice, so that you can look into the Aura of your patient and see the
colors present in the Aura. You can thus diagnose the disease of your
patient providing you know how to interpret those colors . The colors,
of course, symbolize different states of health and you must be able
to diagnose the states by interpreting the meaning of those colors ;
likewise, you can develop the power to see the figures that appear in
the Aura as it vibrates; the forms that play back and forth in it and
in this way you will be enabled to ascertain the vibration. Of course,
to do this you must have a knowledge of the forms that will appear.
In regard to color diagnosis, it may be briefly stated that dull colors
indicate a slugglish condition of the system - the activity is low,
there is a sinking, as it were, a lack of activity; while a bright
color indicates extreme a ctivity. Again, rose being the color of
Prana, the presence of rose color in the Aura will, of course indicate
vital force while total absence of the rose color will indicate a very
low state of vitality. Again, pink will indicate a good physical con-
dition, while physical degeneracy will be indicated by absence of the
pink color . Likewise, it may be stated that lead poison will make the
color of the Aura very dark, approaching black, and in fact, the dif-
ferent metals will give their corresponding colors. Iron will make a
color approaching very nearly a rubY tint, a red approaching the color
of the ruby.
Mercury will produce usually a green cast as it comes in the Aura
because it is not a physical mercury that we are now dealing with,
that is not what manifests, but the higher forms; it will be very oft en
green perhaps, in certain conditions approaching yellow. A negative
condition of the Aura, that is a magnetic condition, will be indicated
by the absence of red, and the presence of blue, if it be in the Astral
Body, and in the Etheric Double also by a pale color or approaching
green , and where the life force instead of having the bright color,
has a color approaching green. White will also indicate a magnetic
state while red or gold will indicate the electrical condition in a
general sense.
By making use of these methods of diagnosis you will be able to
ascertain the condition of your patient in reference to vibration.
Having realized his vibratory state you can then proceed to restore the
condition of his system to what it should be . It should here be rec-
ognized, however, that we are not treating names of diseases . We are
treating states of vibration. In order, therefore, to apply psychical
diagnosis properly to the healing of diseases we must know the vi-
br a tory state and know how to correct it, and by resorting to this psy-
chlca l method we will be enabled to ascertain that vibratory state and
! 3 time, to apply the proper remedy and bring about the desired state
o!' harmony.
As disease is discord and health is harmony, disease can be cured
86
only by replacing discord with harmony. Likewise we must know the par-
ticular phase of discord in order to restore harmony. In order to know
this, we must be able to sense it . We can not approach it by any signs
or evidences through any system of physical diagnosis, but must sense
that particular vibration by psychical diagnosis . In this way we can
proceed with absolute accuracy. Psychical Diagnosis is well nigh in-
fallible, while physical diagnosis is far from such.
87
RALEI(;H BOOKS AND
LESSONS
Complete list of the Hermetic works by Dr. A. S. Raleigh, published in book form
and which will be sent postpaid at prices listed:
The Central Spiritual Sun and
The Virgin of the World ...............................$ 1.00
The Lakshmi Avatar, Lakshmi and the Gopis............... 1.00
The Law of Karma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
The Two Paths or the Parting of the Ways . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
Woman and Super-Woman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.00
Shepherd of Men . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.50
Stanzas of Dzjn (Theogenesis) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.00
Philosophia Hermetica . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Scientifica Hermetica . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Hermetic Art . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Philosophy of Alchemy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Science of Alchemy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Speculative Art of Alchemy ............................... 10.00
Hermetic Science of Motion and Number .................. 10.00
Hermetic Fundamentals Revealed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Hermetic Consciousness Unveiled ......................... 10.00
Magic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Occult Geometry ................................. . ....... 10.00
Phrenogarten Course (explains the brain) .................. 10.00
Metaphysical Healing, Volume I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.50
Metaphysical Healing, Volume II . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.50
Interpretation to Rudyard Kipling's Story, Brushwood Boy
and the Map . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.50
Interpretation to Rudyard Kipling's Story, They . . . . . . . . . . . 7.50
Manuscript Lessons, nicely typed and bound
The Secret Sermon on the Mount or the Way of Rebirth ..... 10.00
Interpretation to Henry Van Dyke's Story, The Other Wise
Man ................................................... 5.00
We also make a specialty of rare, out-of-print books along the line of Occultism,
Mysticism, the Kaballa, the Tarot, Magic, Alchemy, Symbolism, Mythology, Rosicru-
cianism, Hermeticism and kindred subjects. A circular showing titles and prices of
our list of rare, out-of-print books will be sent free of cost upon request.
H ERMETIC PUBLISHING COMPANY
3006 Lake Park Ave. Chicago, ill., U. S. A.
