{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1847__dods___six_lectures_on_the_philosophy_of_mesmerism.pdf","mytitle":"Six Lectures On The Philosophy Of Mesmerism","mylang":"de"}
SIX LEC'fURES
OK THII:
PHILOSOPHY OF MESMERISM,
DI:Ll\"Kai:D IN THJt
.
MARLBORO' CHAPEL, BOSTON.
BY JOHN BOVEE DODS.
llEPOilTED BY . A BEA&E&.
8TERitOTTPED EDITION'.
NEW YORK:
F 0 W L E R S A N D W E L L S,
PHRENOLOGICAL CABINET, 131 NASSAU STREET.
AI'CD HT BOOKSV.r~I~ ERS OiOiV.RAI.f~T .
ltl47.
•
o;9, ized byGoogle
~•---· .. l .
-
+
Entered, according to Act of Coogreaa, iu the year 1847,
BT FOWLERS & WELLS,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the Southem Disttict of
New York.
ST>:Itf.OTTP>:O DT BURSS &< DASJtR,
11 SPIICCF. STRitF.T
o;9,tized byGoogle
~ . ... ·..
__!-:'j ~·'.., ~'
·.:c ~··\·
ADVERTISEMENT
TO TBB Il!U'B.OVBD AND STEB.EOTYPED EDITION.
WITHIN ONE MONTH after these highly popular
lectures were first delivered, an edition of THREE
THOUSAND COPIES was published and sold, and a
second edition called for, which has also been
exhausted, and the demand is still increasing.•
Under these circumstances the author was pre-
vailed On to REVISE, ENLARGE, and SO IMPROVE
the work as to render it, if possible, even much
more desirable.
The MERITS of the work may be inferred from
this fact: an audience of OVER TWO THOUSAND
PEOPLE, composed of the most intelligent citizens
of New England, was held six evenings in suc-
cession, chained in the most profound silence,
listening to these truly philosophical lectures, and
• This work hu recently been re-published in England, and hu
been mvorably received by the moat scientific men of Europe.
;9 tized by Google
I
iv ADVEitTISEMENT.
witnessing surgical operations without pain ; and
other experiments, at once convincing, and full
of great practical utility to every human being.
The author, Dr. Dods, is a man of extensive
experience and general information. He first
qualified himself for the medical profession, then
engaged in the study of theology, and has been
in the ministry for more than twenty years, and
is favorably known as a lecturer on many of the
natural sciences.
S. R. WELLS.
o;9,tized byGoogle
CONTENTS.
LECTURE I.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, INTRODUCTORY LECTURE ON • • • • page 7-lT
Iuntatlon b;r Membera of the LeplatDre to lecture on the Science of ADlmal Mag·
netilln-Wreot!Dg the Science from the honda of iglloraDt and deaigllillg lndind·
1lllli-Siteptlcilm-The cr;r of Humbug and CoUuaion anppliolt the place of ao11nd
argumeut-Oalileo, Harre;r, Pultou-The Science of Phrenolog;r-1'tulh Clll
never di&-Denounclug before iuveatlgatlou-Meameritm embraced b;r men whoae
IUIDle8 will live alwa;ra-Aulmal Magnetism an Inappropriate Nam&-lllilld, IIDd
Ill powera-The Lnw of Equilibrium-The Earth not Eternal-Mountaina-Wa.
trr-Experlmen-Eiectrlcal Sclene&-CaUka of Thunder and Lightning-The
l'ie"o-vltal Fluid paaaing from one Bod;r to another-The Nervoua S;ratcm-
81ood-BraiD-InaenlibUit;r-Who can and who ought to be Meamerized-Ph:r--
lcal Energ:r-Procaaa of Uqnetizing.
LECTURE II.
KENTAL ELECTRICITY, OR SPIRITUALISM • . • 18-11
The Wh:r and Wherefore of Meameritm-Experlment-Faet-Ph;raleal, Mental. &lid
Moral Power-A Leaaer Power ma:r Meamerlze a Greater Power-Galvanic BU.
ter;r-Colorlng of the Blcod-VolUDtar;r and Iuvoluntar;r Motion-Power of tho
Will-Execution of Crlminala-Experlmenll OD the Bod;r after death-The
Corpae made to mov&-Atl:raction and B4palalou-IDaaul1J-Time requilita to
produce lnaeutlbiii!J-A Chlld can Meamerlze ita Fathez--lmportance of beiq
Meamarized.
LECTURE ITI.
AN APPEAL IN BEHALF OP THE SCIENCE • 110-44
The Power of the Creator-Tbe Origin of Matter-John ll(j)tou-The World DOl
created out of Nothlng-The Eternal Elliltence of Eleetrlcl!J-Splrlt and Motter
-Tbe Gradual Creation of Plan-The Sun pure Eleetrlcl!J-Worlda ElectriCIIIIJ
and Magnetlcall;r napended-Experimenll with the Electrlf:riDI Machlno-TIIa
~Tbe Bean!J, Order, and Harmony of Ill the .Lawt of Nalllro.
o;9,tized byGoogle
6 CONTENTS.
LECTURE IV.
THE PIDLOSOPBY OF CLA.lllVOYANCE •••• • • •.• •. • 4'-lfS
M!Dd-MotioD-The Bnlll-The Espuo81ora 1111d Contraetlon of Bodies by Bed
and Cold-Vision without the Natnnl Orpn.-Soamambullom-Dreamlng-
Catalepoy-Dr. Patteraoa-WeD-autbenllcated fae-An Appeal to Medico! Gen-
tlemen-Grea& Fealll of CUmblng 1111d Walldng on Houae-IDJM In the Dark wblle
In a S- of UncODiclo,__Palnting In the Dark-A Remarkable Faei--Beelng,
Bearing, Tuting, 1111d Smelling-The Tran.lpvency of Objec-Magnetic or Gal-
nnic Lit!h&-DIIIIngnlabed ClalrroTUIIII In the United Stateo-Addltiooal Ex·
perlmen-Phllooophy ol Hear!ng-Ampntated Llmi>-Bon. T. G. Greenwood
-A.Faet.
LECTURE V.
THE NUMBER OF DEGREES IN MESJIERISM • • • • • • • • • • 60-71
The Fint De~Attraction by the Magnetizer-Second De~Tblrd Degree-
FoiiJ'Ih De~Fiftb Degree-Ciain'o,....ce-Communlcation~Experlment­
Wby Ia not Magndl.nn more generaJly nnderatood-Objectiono UIIWered-
Demoatbeneo-Cicero-The Medlodlaiii-IIUC'IIIar Power-Concenlntlon-The
Dugero GJid Abuoe of Meomerlam-ETerJ bleaolng alllued-Crlme-Ca-
Magnetizing a piU't. and DOt the whole body-A Svg!eol OperatioD-A Brokeu
Arm-A Tumor eztrocled without PaiD-ReY. John Pierpont teotllleo publicly to
the Truth 1111d Utility of Meomerlam-The Wonclerfal Power to Charm aD PaiD.
LECTURE VI.
OUR SAVIOUR AND THE APOSTLES • • • • • • • • • • • • • '7!1-a
The rltlht to think for ouraeiYeo-lteatrictio-The COIIIJIWid of·Chrlat to hW
Apoatieo to Beol lhe Sick, aa weD aa to Preach-Miraelea--Pallled Arm-Tiut
Sanour and the Wom.-The Apoatollc Power-John the ReYelator-Trane·
flguration-Moaea and Ellaa-The Crnell!xiOJI of Chrlat-Bia lleo1Jrrectiola &c.
-Dr. CbUining on Dying 'lrilhout Poln.
o;g,tized byGoogle
=- -
ANIMAL MAGNET~SM.
LECTURE I.
LADIEs AND GENTLEMEN : It is with much pleasure
that I present myself before you this evening, to lecture
upon the science of Animal Magnetism. I do this by
special invitation from several distinguished members
of both branches of our legislature, now in session in
this city ; and this thronged congregation of more than
two thousand hearers speak the interest which is awak-
ened in the bosoms of our citizens in relation to this
subject. This dense and anxious crowd too plainly
manifest the high expectations which are entertained
of the feeble abilities of the speaker to do it justice-
expectations which I am fully sensible I shall be unable
to answer. Leaning, however, upon the solid grandeur
of truth, and believing THAT to be stirring eloquence
and living power, I have, therefore, even as things now
are, with all your roused expectations crowding upon
me, but little to hazard, for I am fully sensible that I
am standing before a learned and an intelligent congre-
gation. And when I inform you that I have never
written any thing upon this subject, and am, therefore,
obliged to speak from the fortuitous suggestions of the
o;9,tized byGoogle
8 LECTURES ON
moment, I am conscious that you will do me justice,
by making every reasonable allowance.
It is not my profession to lecture upon this subject.
I have other means for my subsistence, and for that
of those who depend upon me. Circumstances have
called me into the field. Many, very many ignorant
individuals, who know nothing of the human system,
nor of the common principles of any science, have gone
into the field as lecturers on Animal Magnetism, and
by making it a mere puppet-show, have brought it into
degradation in the public mind. Such persons are
doing the cause, which is one of benevolence and mercy,
an irreparable injury. They had better qualify them-
selves for the work, or else retire from the field. In
this state of things, I was urged, by several scientific
gentlemen, to step forward in defence of the cause of
righteousness and truth, and to lend my aid in raising
it from the dust, in wiping off the sneers of men, and in
placing it on a foundation where it should command not
only the attention, but the respect and admiration which
are justly due to it from men of science and talents.
In this city, I find but one noble spirit laboring and
toiling, who is well qualified for the work, and who is
deserving a better patronage than he receives.• As
these are the circumstances under which I have en-
tered the field, so, of course, I visit those places only
where I am invited to lecture upon this science.
I have had the subject of Mesmerism under consider-
ation for about seven years, reading all that came in
my way for and against it. Five of thf:'se years Ire-
mained a stubborn; a most confirmed sceptic, and
• Dr. Gilbert.
o;9,tized byGoogle
- ·~
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 9
refused even to attend a lecture, or to Witness an ex-
periment, until I was persuaded by a particular friend
of mine to accompany him, and see and hear for myself.
I am, therefore, prepared to make all due allowance for
honest sceptics ; and, in their opposition to me during
this course of lectures, I shall maintain an entire em-
pire over my feelings ; and being fully sensible of
their condition, I well know how to sympathize with
them. But there is yet another class of sceptics, who
have witnessed experiments which they cannot resist,
and still cry, "HUMBUG AND COLLUSION !" Of these,
there are two kinds. First, those who never investi-
gate anything for themselves, and who do not know
the definitions of the words, "humbug and collusion ;"
but who, nevertheless, use them very freely, because
they have heard their minister, their doctor, or, per-
chance, their schoolmaster, use them. They do it by
imitation, on the same principle that the parrot imitates
the sound of the human voice, and they do it just about
as understandingly. Second, those who are talented,
and desire to keep on the wings of the popular breeze,
and catch the breath of fame. These may be known by
the ridicule, wit, and sarcasm they employ, through the
press and otherwise. But, "humbug and collusion" have
become stereotyped words, and their use costs but little
labor ; and they answer most admirably to supply the
place of sound argument and common sense in the most
of minds. If my hearers will please tum their atten-
tion to all the talented writers, who have, in various
ages, vehemently opposed those now well-established
sciences which, in their infancy, appeared incredible,
and who assailed them with the bitterest invective and
sarcasm, they will learn that they were men who were
o;9,tized byGoogle
10 LECTURES ON
always studying what was popular, and who had a
large share of self-esteem, and of the love of approba-
tion. This test will hold good from the opposers of the
earth's revolution on its axis, discovered by Galileo;
from the scoffers at the science of the circulation of the
human blood, discovered by Harvey, step by step,
down to the scoffers at Fulton's application of steam-
power,-yes, even down to the opposers of, and scoffers
at, the brilliant science of Phrenology, which is now
spreading with a power that can never be successfully
resisted, a zeal that eannot be quenched, and a liv-
ing energy that can never die. · True, a candid man, as
well as any other, may doubt a new science; yet, how-
ever strange or incomprehensible it may appear, he will
not denounce till be has given the subject a candid in-
vestigation. I am speaking of those only who denounce
without investigation, and who can assign no other
reason for so doing, but th~ir own willing ignorance,
or because the popular voice is against it.
I am, however, proud in the reflection that the science
of Mesmerism is embraced by men of the first talents
and science in both continents, and whose names will
Jive in the republic of letters, and shine with lustre long
after those of fawning sycophants shall have been lost
in unremembered nothingness. It is embraced here
among us by a Pierpont, the Fowlers, a Gilbert, a Neal,
and a Wayland. It is embraced by men who have
forgotten more than those who cry " humbug and col-
lusion" ever knew.
I have been in the field as an occasional lecturer ever
since October, 1841, and have uniformly advocated the
same principles which I am now about to advance and
tustain in the course of lectures I am pledged to deliver
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 11
in this city. This fact, many now present well know,
·who have heard me in other sections, or who have
seen the substance of what I have now to offer on
Mesmerism, reported by the editor of the Yarmouth-
port Register, in March, 1842. I shall here contend
for the same principles, and endeavor to sustain them
by fair experiments, in electricity. galvanism, and com-
mon magnetism.
There is one .apolog~, ho:wever, to be offered in fav~\
·of honest scepttcs. It 1s this: Those who have lectured l
upon Mesmerism have not pretended to give any I
1
cause for the wonderful phenomena produced-have 1·
held them in mystery, and perhaps pronounced them I
inscrutable to the human intellect. Hence, it is not '
strange that thousands, under such an impression;
should refuse to investigate a subject which its advo- i
cates held in mystery. That there are mysteries in /
Mesmerism I readily admit ; but that there are more(
than in any other science, I deny. We may, for in-\
stance, tell the chemical properties of earth, water, and I
air, and the degree of warmth necessary to produce \
vegetation. But still no one can solve the mystery \
how an acorn becomes an oak, or a seed becomes a \
plant. There is no science in the universe, but what has i
some incomprehensibilities resting upon its face ; but '..
this circumstance is considered no objection to the truth 1
of any science. Hence there is no reason why Mes-
merism should be rejected on this ground. Yet thou-
l!ands do reject it, because they contend that it is
incomprehensibly strange ! They know nothing but
what is strange, and yet what is strange they cannot
believe ! All the operations of nature going on around
ps are 11trange, and the only reason '{le have cea8ed to
DigitiZed byGoogle
12 LECTURES ON
wonder is, because they are common. All such ob-
jections are therefore futile. '
Before I proceed any further, I would remark that I
consider "ANIMAL MAGNETisM" a very inappropriate
name. It should be called SPIRITUALisM, or MENTAL
ELECTRICITY, because it is the direct impulse of mind
upon the minds and bodies of others. As it is the science
of MIND AND ITS POWEllS, SO it is the highest and most
sublime science in the whole realms of nature, and as
far transcends all others as godlike mind transcends
matter.
Having made these introductory remarks, I now
proceed more directly to the consideration of the sub-
ject before me. In presenting before you "the WHY
and the WHEREFORE" of these interesting phenomena,
and, in order to make them plain to the humblest ca-
pacity, it will be necessary to associate the subject with
other principles in philosophy which are well under-
stood by all, and thus rise from the consideration of the
more gross and dense particles of matter, step by step,
up to those which are the most rarified and subtil of
which we can form any conception. In doing this, I
shall not take into consideration every possible grade
or species of matter, but those substances only which
belong to the great classifications of nature's empire,
and which are the most obvious to every observer.
In the first place, then, I contend that there is but
one common LAw pervading the whole universe of God,
which is the law of EQUILIBRIUM. In perfect accord-
ance with this Jaw there is kept up a constant ACTION
and JtEACTION throughout every department of nature.
It is true there has been much written, and still more
said, nbout the multiplicity and variety of the laws of
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL l'tlAGNE'TlSM. 13
ture. But this is, at least to me, wholly unintelligible.
While, however, I contend for but one coMMON LAw, it
is still conceded that this law is so varied as to be
perfectly adapted to all the variety of substances in
being. On ·this principle the earth is certainly not
eternal, for were it so, the hills and mountains would
long ago have been washed to a level by the storms of
heaven; yes, it would have been done by the gentle
descending dews. Indeed, I hazard nothing in saying,
that even the mountains of solid granite would have
been crumbled into atoms ages ago, by the very opera-
tion of the particles of air-" the fingers of Time ;"
because every thing in nature is tending to an equi-
librium.
Having begun at the grossest particles of matter, let
us now rise gradually in our contemplations, step by
step, up to those that are the most rarified and subtil of
which we can form any conception. WATER is a body
lighter than earth. Let a canal be dug of one hundred
feet in depth, one hundred in width, and a thousand
feet in length. Let a strong lock be constructed across
its centre, and one half filled with water. Let the gate
be hoisted, and the water in the one division will fall,
and in the other rise, until an equilibrium of height is
attained. Nature, having gained her end, is then at
rest. And the action of this element will be great in
proportion as it was thrown out of balance. The
rush will be at first tremendous, but continue gradu-
ally to lessen until it finds its perfect slumber in equnl
height.
The same is true in relation to our atmosphere, a sub-
stance lighter than water. The air in this room is now
rarified by heat, and is thus thrown out of balance with
2
o;9,tized byGoogle
14 LECTURES ON
the circumambient air, which is more cold and dense.
Hence, through every key-hole and crevice there is a
rush of this element into the room, which will continue
until the equilibrium of density is attained. Then, and
not before, nature, having gained her end, will be at
rest. The air in one section of the globe is more rari-
fied by heat than in another ; and hence the gentle
zephyrs of heaven are continually fanning the human
brow with a touch of delight, and carrying health to
human habitations. If this element be thrown still
farther out of balance, we witness the stirring gale ;
and if carried, in this respect, to its extreme, we wit..
ness the sweeping hurricane, or the roaring tornado,
which prostrates human habitations in its mighty course,
and bows the mountain forest to the earth.
The same is true in relation to electricity, a substance
more rarified and light than air. If two clouds are
equally charged with this subtil fluid, they may pass
and repass each other, or mingle into one, yet not a
flash of lightning will be seen. But if they are une-
qually charged, or what is called in electrical science,
"positively and negatively charged," then the heavens
will stream with forked lightning, till both clouds are
equally charged. By long drought and heat, el<'ctricity
becomes very unequally diffused throughout the atmos-
phere. One portion of air contains a much. greater
quantity than another, and when thus thrown out of
balance to a certain extreme, nature can hold out no
longer. A reaction must take place. Convolving
clouds roll the heavens in darkness-the lightnings
flash, the thunders roll, and the war of elements con-
tinues until the electric fluid is equally diffused through-
out the atmosphere, and also equalized with the earth,
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 16
Nature, having thus gained her end in the equilibrium
produced, is at rest-all is calm.
If we pass on from inert matter to animated nature,
we shall find that the same law there also holds its em-
pire. If, for instance, a healthy child, three or four
years of age, be permitted to sleep every night for a
year or two between twovery old, decrepit grandparents,
it will pine away, and if not removed, perchance it may
die. There is, perhaps, not one under the sound of my
voice, but what has heard the remark, that "it is very
unhealthy for young children to sleep with very old, in-
firm people." It is even so, and parents should beware•
.The child is full of animal life, and its nervous system
is charged with the vital fluid, secreted by the brain.
This gives that suppleness to the limbs, and that buoy-
ancy to the heart which we witness in the young. The
grandparents Jack the proper quantity oi this ncrvo-
vital fluid, which occasions that rigidity of the limbs
we witness in the aged. The same common law of
equilibrium that pervades the universe, is here also in
operation. The nervo-vital fluid passes from this child
to the two aged persons in conjunction. The child
loses, and they continue to revive, and as this little one
can never bring those infirm persons up to an equilib-
rium with itself, so it must go down to them. Nature
will have her equilibrium, if she has it in death.
Once more; there is in the nervous system no blood.
By the NERvous sYSTEM I mean the brain and all its
ramifications. The blood belongs exclusively to the
circulating system, which embraces the veins and arte-
ries. I grant that the blood-vessels pass round the
convolutions of the brain; but in the nerve itself there is
no blood, and the whole mass of brain is but a congeries
o;9,tized byGoogle
16 LECTURES ON
of nerves. These are charged with a nervo-vital fluid,
which is manufactured from electricity. Hence, the
circulating system containing the blood, and the nervous
system containing the magnetic fluid, are not to be
blended, but distinctly considered. Now, as a human
being may lack the proper quantity of blood in his cir-
culating system, so he may Jack the proper quantum of
the nervo-vital fluid in his nervous system. This is
certainly rational. And, moreover, it may be easily
known when such is the case. \Vhen we see persons,
who, on hearing suddenly some good or bad news,
are thrown into great excitement, tremor, and agitation,
we may be certain that their nervous systems lack the
due measure of the nervo-vital fluid. Now let a person
whose brain is fully charged, come in contact with one
whose brain is greatly wanting in its due measure of
this fluid, and let the person possessing the full brain
gently and unchangeably hold his mind upon the other,
and by the action of the WILL, the fluid will pass from
dre full brain to the other, until the equilibrium between
the fluids in the two brains is attained. The sudden
change in the receiving brain produces a coolness and a
singular state of insensibility. This is MAGNETISM; and
it is in perfect accordance with all the principles of
philosophy in the known realms of nature. If any one
denies the operation of the law of equilibrium in this case,
then he here makes a chasm, amidst the immensity of
God's works, which he can nowhere else discover.
I have clearly shown him that, from the grossest matter
in the universe, step by step, through every grade, up to
electricity, the same law holds its empire, and matter is
continually equalizing itself with matter.
On this principle, it will be readily perceived that, if
Digitized by GoogIe
-
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 17
a person has a great deficiency of the nervo-vital fluid,
he can be mesmerized the first sitting, and probably in
an hour's time, or a much less period. These we call
easy subjects. But if the deficiency be less, it will take
a longer period in proportion, and if the brain have
nearly its proper quantity of fluid, then the effect pro-
duced, at the first sitting, will be small, yet still it
will be visible.
From the premises laid down, and in accordance with
the law of equilibrium, it will probably be said, that only
few persons can be mesmerized. This, however, is not
correct. ·I contend that every person in existence CAN
be, and indeed OUGHT to be thrown into the mesmeric
state. This, I am well aware, is contrary to the opinion
of the advocates of this science. The most liberal cal-
culation I have as yet heard, is that about one in nine of
the human family can be mesmerized. But every one
can be, and that, too, in perfect accordance with the
principles laid down. Let two persons of equal brains,
both in size and fluid, sit down. Let one of these in-
dividuals remain perfectly passive, and let the other ex-
ercise his mental and physical energies according to the
true principles of mesmerizing, and he will displace
some of the nervo-vital fluid from the passive brain and
deposit his own in its stead. The next day let them sit
another hour, and so on, day after day, until the acting
brain shall have displaced the major part of the nervo-
vital fluid from the passive brain and filled up that space
with his own nervous force, and the person will yield to
the magnetic power, and sweetly slumber in its inexpres-
sible quietude.
o;9,tized byGoogle
LECTURE II.
LADIEs AND GENTLEMEN : On the last evening, I had
the pleasure to deliver before you my introductory lec-
ture on the science of SPIRITUALisM, and to explain
" the waY and the wszaEroaz" of the effect produced.
I clearly showed that Mesmerism was in perfect ac-
cordance with the universal law of nature, which I call
the .law of Equilibrium; and, as I, in concluding my lec-
ture, contended that every person in the world could
be mesmerized, some, as I suspected would be the case,
have to-day argued that, according to the principle laid
down by the speaker, two brains of equal power can no
more mesmerize each other, than one of a less power
can mesmerize a greater; and hence, that the argu-
ments ofthe lecturer are contradictory and irreconcila-
ble. But this objection is by no means valid. It is
readily conceded that two brains equally full and
healthy cannot affect each other, admitting both persons
to be equal in muscular energy, and to make at the same
time the same mental and physical effort. But, if one
person sit down and passively resign himself, and an-
other even of less power and less nervo-vital fluid exert
all his energies, then the Jaw of equilibrium requires
th~t there shall be an effect produced in the ussru
object equal to all the power exerted by the ACTIVE.
agent. Hence, a weaker person can mesmerize one of
superior pt)wer, and the same persons may alternately
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, 19
throw eacb other into the mesmeric state. I have
known the instance where a small girl, only nine years
of age, mesmerized a young man twenty years old, and
of uncommon strength. Though it is a well known
law, that two bodies of water will seek a level when a
communication is made between them, yet it is equally
true that, by a pump, water ·may- be thrown from a
lower to a higher cistern ; and who will deny that it is
in perfect accordance with the law of equilibrium 1
Surely, no one. It is by physical energy that the air is
removed from the pump, and the circumambient air
pressing upon the water in the cistern, causes it to rise
t:.U an equilibrium of height is attained-e~actly equal
to all the powers employed. But so far as the mes-
meric state is concerned, it will be remembered, that
man, in acting on his fellow-man, exerts not only a
PHYSICAL, but a MENTAL, and MORAL power. These
must all be taken into consideration, and duly weighed,
in order to form a correct idea of the law of equilib-
rium in the employment of the magnetic forces. Ifthis
common law in nature extended no farther than merely
to bring substances that are out of balance down to a
common level, then all action in the various elements·
would soon cease.
It will be remembered that no one kindred element ever
disturbs itself, or ever throws itself out of balance. It
requires another element to do this. The water would
always keep on a perfect level with itself, throughout
the globe, if air and heat never disturbed it. By heat
it is rarified into vapors; carried over the globe in
aerial conductors, condensed by cold into drops, and
rained upon the mountains and more elevated portions
of the globe, and· then again seeks its level with the
o;9,tized byGoogle
20 LECTURE~ ON
parent ocean. So there is a power that rarities the air,
and the denser portions rush to its aid, and the winds
are in action to keep up a perfect balance in its own
empire, while air, abstractly, could never disturb itself.
Hence it is even the law of equilibrium by which one
portion of water is thrown out of balance with itself;
and the same is also true in relation to the atmosphere.
If heat, which is but the action of electricity, rarities the
water so as to cause it in subtility to approximate itself,
then surely it is according to the law of equilibrium
that water is thrown out of balance with itself by for-
cing it into a partial equilibrium with some more rarified
substance•. Carrying out this principle, and applying it
to Mesmerism, it will be readily understood not only
how two persons of equal power may mesmerize each
other, but even how one of less physical power may
mesmerize a greater, and yet the whole be effected in
perfect accordance with the law of equilibrium.
Having made these remarks, which the occasion
seems to demand, I will now proceed to a direct consi-
deration of the nervo-vital fluid in the human brain.
It is admitted, that the air we breathe is composed of
two sub!!tances, namely, oxYGEN and NITROGEN. Their
relative qualities are about one-fifth oxygen and four-
fifths nitrogen. But these are not all. It is evident,
that hydrogen and electricity are aleo component parts
of air. Oxygen and electricity are the principles of
flame and of animal life, while nitrogen extinguishes
both. There is not a single square inoh of air but what
contains more or less electrkity. The air in its com-
pound state is drawn into the lungs. The oxygen and
electricity are communicated to the blood, which is
charged with iron, while the nitrogen is disengaged
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, 21
and expired. This iron, which gives color to the blood,
is instantly rendered magnetic under the influence of
electricity, analogous to the needles in the galvanic bat-
tery, which become magnets merely by induction. The
blood itself is, at the same time, oxydized by the oxygen
of the air, and instantly becomes cherry red. This
oxygen generates an acidity in the blood, in some de-
gree answering to the solution of the sulphate of copper
in the galvanic battery. The blood, thus magnetically
prepared at the lungs, is thrown upon the heart, and
forced into the arteries. Hence, arterial blood is red.
It is propelled to the extremities, driven into every pos-
sible ramification, and is collected and carried back in
the veins, through the other ventricle of the heart, to
the lungs, for a fresh supply of the electro-magnetic
power. Hence, venous blood is dark, and is unfit to
be thrown into the arterial system a second time till it
has again come in contact with the oxygen and electri-
city of the air. The blood, thus discharged, is pro-
pelled through its living channels, and this friction
causes the electro-magnetic power to escape from the
circulating system into the nervous system, for which
it has a-atrong affinity, and, being secreted by the brain,
it becomes the nervo-vital fluid, or animal galvanism.
It is important here to remark, that the blood, in its
friction through the arteries, has given off its electro-
magnetic power into the nervous system. The blood,
thus freed, assumes a dark appearance in the veins, and
becomes entirely NEGATIVE. The lungs, being charged
with a fresh supply of electricity, become POSITIVE.
Hence the blood is drawn from the veins to the lungs
on the same principle that the negative and the positive
in electricity rush together.
o;9,tized byGoogle
L&OTU&U Ol'f
From the above observations, it will be perceived
that every muscle of the hurrian body, every organ and.
gland, is polar, and by the negative and positive prin-
ciples, as above noticed, animal life is sustained and
perpetuated through the action of the lungs and blood.
We thus perceive that the nervo-vital fluid is manu-
factured out of electricity, taken into the lungs at every
inspiration. It completely charges the whole brain,
when that organ is in a healthy state. The nerves
composing the brain, are of three kinds, namely: the
nerves of sensation, the nerves of VOLUNTARY motion,
and the nerves of INVOLUNTART motion. I make these
three divisions, so that I may be the more readily under:
stood when speaking of nervous action. I desire you
to bear in mind that these three classes of nerves are
all charged with the nervo.vital fluid, which is exactly
prepared to come in contact with mind.
We put forth a WILL. That WILL stirs the nervo-
vital fluid in the voluntary nerves. This fluid causes
the voluntary nerves to vibrate. The galvanic vibra-
tion of these nerves contracts the muscles. The mus-
cles, contracting, raise the arm, and that arm raises
foreign matter. So we perceive that it is through this
concatenation, or chain, that the mind comes in contact
with the grossest matter in the universe.
It is evident that there is no direct contact between
mind and gross matter. There is no direct contact
between the length of a thought and the breadth of that
door. Nor is there any more direct contaet between
my mind and hand, than there is between my mind and
the stage upon which I stand. Thought cannot touch
my hand; yet it must he true that mind can come
in contact with matter; otherwise, I could not raise my
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL MAGNETI'BM. 23
hand at all by the energies of my will. Hence, it must
be true, that the highest and most subtil of inert mat-
ter in the universe, being the ne:tt step to spirit, can
come in contact with the mind. And electricity,
changed into nervo-vital fluid, (which is living galvan-
ism,) is certainly the highest and most etherial inert
substance of which we can form any conception. ·
Hence, as before remarked, it must be true, that we
put forth a will. By the energies of that will this gal-
vanic substance, or nervous fluid, is proudly stirred;
that stirring vibrates the nerves ; this vibrates and'
contracts the muscles; the muscles raise the arm, and
that arm moves dead matter. ·
Notwithstanding the plausibility of this argument, it
will yet be said that, as physiologists contend that no
one can explain through what medium the mind comes
in contact with matter, nor even how a muscle is made
to contract, and raise the arm, and as the lecturer has
undertaken to explain it, we have a right to demand
POSITIVE proof. This demand being rational, I will en·
deavor to meet it. I am, then, to prove that the nervo-
vital fluid, (which is perfect galvanism,) is indeed the
agent by which we contract the muscles and raise the
arm. That being done, my point is gained, and the
medium through which mind comes in contact with
matter is established.
I would first remark, that it is common when crimi-
nals are executed, that their bodies are delivered over
to medical men for dissection. Now take a human
body, and let it be conveyed from the gallows to the
charnel-house, and laid upon the dissecting-table. Let a
continuous shock from a strong galvanic battery be
given, and the muscles of the dead man will contract,
o;9,tized byGoogle
LECTUKES ON
and exhibit many frightful contortions. Many interest
ing experiments of this character have been published.
The dead man has been known to spring upon his knees,
jolt them upon the floor, make violent gesticulations
with his hands, move his head, roll his eyes, and chatter
his teeth. The student, unused to such ghastly exhibi-
tions, has left the room, or fainted away; and even the
experience(.:l physician has started back with horror at
the frightful contortions which he himself had made.
Now, what was it that contracted the muscles of this
dead man 1 There is but one answer to the question.
It was galvanism. And what is galvanism, but electri-
city in a changed form ; so that, instead of giving the
system a sudden shock, like electricity, it merely pro-
duces a singular vibrating sensation upon the nerves,
which causes the muscles to contract 1 It is nothing
else. Electricity, galvanism, magnetism, or attraction
and repulsion, are but different dispositions of the same
common fluid. Now, as galvanism contracts the mus-
cles of a dead man, and is the only power known that,
when artificially applied, can contract the muscles of
the living, so it must be the agent employed by the will
to contract the muscles, and enable us to perform all
the voluntary motions of life. Whatever may be the
opinions of others, I consider this argument irresistible,
and shall hold it as such, until it be fairly refuted.
It must now appear plain to every candid mind, that
by the action of the will, and the exercise of all the men-
tal powers, the nervo-vital fluid, this living galvanism,
is continually thrown off from the voluntary nerves, and
through the respiratory organs is again supplied. There
is still, however, a greater waste. The involuntary
nerves throw off another large portion through the action
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
of the heart and lungs, and the digestive apparatus.
And the nerves of sensation, also, do their part in throw..
ing off this fluid. Let me here particularize. The
nerves of sensation are those by which feeling is con..
veyed to the mind. The voluntary nerves are those
through which the mind gives motion to those parts of
th~ body that are under the control of the wiH. The
involuntary nerves are those that give motion to such
parts of our system as are not under the control of the
will. None but the involuntary nerves pass to the heurt.
stomach, and liver. So the heart will throb, the stomach
digest its food, and the liver secrete its gall, when we
are awake or asleep, whether we will it or not. But to
the lungs go both the voluntary and involuntary nerves.
The involuntary ones are, however, the most numerous,
so that though a man may hold his breath and keep the
lungs in suspension till he faints, yet the involuntary
nerves will get the mastery, and restore him. Through
these three sets of nerves the galvanic fluid is continu..
ally wasting and passing from the whole system.
That I am correct. as to the nature of this nervous
fluid, is certain. Tnke an animal, and tie off the invol..
untary nerves that lead to the stomach, and digestion
will instantly cease. Then pour a moderate current of
galvanism from the battery into the stomach, and digea..
tion will immediat~ly commence. Hence, I have clearly
proved that the nervo-vital fluid, secreted by the brain•
is of a galvanic natllre, and is manufactured from elec>
tricity which we breathe into the lungs every inspira..
tion we take. And I have, moreover, proved that tW.
electro-magnetic power is the only matter that can come
in contact with mind, and is the only agent by which
the will contracts the muscle& ·He11ce, the conclulitoll
o;9,tized byGoogle
LBOTUaU OK
is absolutely unavoidable, that, by the concentration of
the mind upon aD individual, ud by the action of the
will, this fluid CaD be thrown upon uother person till
his nervous system is fully charged. This is Mesmer-
ism.
Having these important facts before us, we perceive
that the subject is one of momentous interest. The n.er-
vous system, embracing the brain ud all its ramifica-
tions, when:once diseased, seems to baftle all medical aid
and skill. Hence, those uponwhom fits of deraJU!ement
are permanently settled, are abandoned as hopeless; and
of both of these states, we are all more or Jess in danger.
Those persons, particularly, who, on hearing the least
good or bad news, are thrown into tremor and agitation,
are in danger. Their brains lack the proper quantity
of the nervo-vital Jluid. It will be remembered that ill
the·nerves of the b~in there is no blood. The blood is
exclusively confined to the veins and arteries, while the
nerves are chargedwith this nervo-vital fluid-a galvanic
substance. Now if the veins and arteries are filled with
blood, and if the nerves are fully charged with the gal-
vanic fluid ; in one word, if the circulating system and
the nervous system are in perfect balance, health and
firmness are the result. But if the circulating system
lack its proper quantity of blood, then languor and de-
bility of body are the result. But if, bn the other hand,
the nervous system lack its proper quantity of galvanic
fluid, then nervous excitability is the result, and the per-
son is in danger of fits, derangement, and all the nervous
diseases that attend the human race. This is evident
·&om the following facts : Take a person who has a suf..
ficiency of blood in the circulating system, but who, at
tU- 1ame time. baa not enough of the galvanic fluid in
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
his nervous system. By some circumstanee the biood
is suddenly thrown to his head, and the veins and arte-
ries which pass round among the convolutions of the
brain are swelled with this pressure. The nerves com-
posing the brain not being sufficiently filled and braced
with the galvanic ftuid, spasmodically collapse, and a fit
is the result. How often do persons, who suppose they
are well, suddenly drop down dead iD the streets! How
often has a father or mother retired -to rest, and appa.-
rently in health, let in the morning the children found
one or the other a corpse I Here, through eating too
much, or some other cause, the blood was suddenly pro-
pelled to the brain, and the nerves, not being sufficiently
braced with the galYanic·ftuid; collapsed, and by apo-
plexy, instant death ensued. Even the bosom compa&.
ion, slumbering upon the same pillow, never felt a mo-
tion.
Now if these persons had been mesmerized, no such
calamity would have ensued. Their nervous system,
by which I mean the whole brain and all its ramifica-
tions, would have been charged from a full and healthy
brain, and having been thus charged, it would have
stood the war of internal elements, and outrode the rush-
ing storm.
In the light our subject now stands, we perceive how
vastly important it is that every person while at ease, or
even in health, should be operated upon until the brain
is magnetically subdued. As stated in my first lecture,
one person can be mesmerized in an hour or less, anoth-
er in two hours, and so on up to thirty hours. Let a
healthy friend of yours sit down, one hour each day,
until he subdues your brain. No person should mes-
merize more than one ·hour in tWenty-four. The exeP.
;9 tized by Google
LJ:CTU&:U Olf
tion is so great, he will injure himself if he do. But ·
here is the glory of this science. Though you may la-
bor an hour each day for twenty or thirty days in suc-
ression, yet what you gain, you hold, until the work is
accomplished. And not only so, but after the brain is
once magnetically subdued, you can then throw the per-
son into the state in five minutes. Yes, a child ten years
old can then mesmerize a giant father. Your brain be-
ing magnetically subdued, it is worth hundreds of dollars
to you. You are then ready for the day of distress.
Come what may-toothache, headache, tic doloreux,
neuralgia, or any pain of which you can conceive; let
some one mesmerize you and then wake you up, and the
pain is gone. The whole process need not occupy more
than ten minutes. Should you fall and break your arm,
then let some person mesmerize the arm only, whichcan
be done in one minute. You are free from pain, and
though in your wakeful state, yet you can look quietly
on, and see the bones put to their places. Your arm
can then be kept in the mesmeric state, and thoroughly
and rapidly healed without having ever experienced one
single throb of pain. Or by simply mesmerizing ym..
"l'
arm or leg, you can sit in the wakeful state and see them
amputated, and feel no pain. But if you neglect to have
your brain magnetically subdued, then when the day of
distress comes upon you, as it might require several .
hours to put you into this state, it will then be too late
to avail yourself of the b~ssings this science is calcula-
ted to bestow.
It is not only a preventati•1e of fits, insanity, and of
~he most frightful nervous diseases, and a safeguard
against pain, but it will cure fits, if no congestion of the
brain has taken place. It never fails to remove the..
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL MAGNBTISM.
ague and fever, however long it may have been upon
the individual, and will prevent any fevers prevalent in
northern climates, if the individual be mesmerized aa
soon as taken.
Here, then, are opening before us new fields of action,
where those who have hearts of benevolence may freely
roam at large, and find ample scope for the full gratifi-
cation of all their sympathetic and Christian feelings,
,and those who scoff and sneer at this science, do scoff
and sneer at human wo and human pain, and know not
what they do.
o;9,tized byGoogle
80 r..onrau ow
LECTURE III.
LAmEs AND GaNTLBIIBN : The two lectures I have
had the pleasure to deliver, and the successful experi-
ments I have, during the last two evenings, performed
in your presence, have awakened opposition, and the
excitement has truly become tremendous. Hundreds
cannot gain admittance into this capacious chapel, and
the breathless anxiety and stillness of this crowded
congregation, show the deep and stirring interest which
you feel in the science of Mesmerism, wh~ch is the sci-
ence of mind and its godlike powers. For many ages
men have turned their attention to matter, and confined
all their investigations to the realms of material philoso-
phy. It is true, that here and there a noble spirit has
turned his attention to scan the nature and powers of
the human mind itself. But she seemed to close her
laboratory against their entrance, and forbid them to
lay their hands upon her sacred shrine. In this condi-
tion,there was no alternative but to judge of mind itself
from its vast and complicated operations, both mental
and moral. But that the mind itself could directly pro-
duce a physical rsult by its own living energies, seems
never to have entered their hearts. But new fields of
thought are opened to the human soul, and the mysteri-
ous and wonderful powers of the living mind are now
seen and felt. Circumstances require me to say that I
regard not the opposition or the scepticism of men. I
challenge investigation both as to the experiments I per-
form, or the arguments I offer. I stand mailed with im-
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL KAQNJIITISM. 8l
mutable truth ; and hence, on this subject, am invulner-
able to every attack. Truth is immutable, cannot bend.
to circumstances, and must stand independent of the
belief or unbelief of men. It must soar on towering
wing far above the reach of scorn, and sooner or later
triumph over all opposition.
I now come to speak of mind and its powers. I have
clearly shown that the WILL raises the arm through the
agency of electricity. Perhaps I should not call it
electricity, but NEB.VQ-VITAL FLUID, or GA.LVANIC FLUID,
manufactured from electricity taken in at the lungs.
The WILL is not an attribute of the mind, but the result
of all the attributes brought into council and action.
It is the executive of the mind. The question now
comes up in proper order before us : .ls there any power
in mind to produce a result by simply wn.t.ING it 1 I con-
tend that there is, while the opposers of Mesmerism COD•
tend that there is not. Mesmerism, then, must stand or
fall on the existence or non-existence of such a power.
Anq first, let me appeal to you as Christians. If you
deny that mind, or spirit, bas any power to produce a
physical result, then bow does the Creator govern the
universe 1 How can his Spirit come in contact with
matter so as to produce any physical results 1 The
creation and government of the world are represented
in scripture as the result of the divine will. " He doeth
according to his will in the army of heaven, and among
the inhabitants of earth." The ·creation of the world
and all its appendages is represented as the effect of
his will. " He said, let there be light, and there was
light." "He spake, and it was done; He com8landed.
and it stood fast." If, then, the infinite Spirit, by holding
his will unchangeably upon all the multifarious object1
o;9,tized byGoogle
LECTUBES OJif
of creation, moves unnumbered worlds, and governs
the universe, then there is also an energy and power in
the human spirit proportionate to its greatness. If you
grant that the infinite Spirit, by putting forth an infinite
will, can produce infinite results, then surely a feeble
finite spirit, by putting forth a feeble finite will, c.an pro-
duce a feeble finite result. I only ask you, as Christian
philosophers, the admission that the same CAUSE shall
produce the same EFFECT.
If, however, you deny the correctness of this conclu-
sion, then I have only to say, that you furnish the
.atheist with a weapon by which he is sure to defeat
you. Argue as long as you please, and even drive the
honest atheist from any other ground, he will at last
say: "Well, admit ~here is a God, yet he can do nothing."
Your Bible says, "God is a spirit." Hence, be has no
bands, feet, nor physical body, as we have. He may,
therefore, WILL and WILL to all eternity ; yet be cnn do
nothing, because spirit, by its mere mental action, can:-
not come in contact with, nor in the least affect matter.
We know this, says the atheist, from observation and
1lxperience. " And what can we reason but from what
we know 1" A human being, for instance, may sit down
and exercise all his mental energies. He may WILL
and WILL to endless ages, yet he can do nothing-can-
not produce the least physical result, unless he qses his
hands or comes in bodily contact. I now ask those
Christians who deny that the mind has such power as
we are contending for, how can they answer this argu-
ment of the atheist 1 I contend that they are not able
to meet it. There is no human ingenuity beneath these
heavens that the Christian opposers of the mesmeric
,power, can summon to their aid adequate to the task.
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 83
Indeed, it implies a contradiction in terms, and involves
them in the following compound dilemma : If the infi-
nite Spirit, by the energies of his will, can produce
infinite results, then a finite spirit, by its will, can pro-
duce a finite result. But a finite spirit, by its will, can-
not produce any result, so an infinite spirit, by its will,
cannot produce any result ! Of this dilemma, they may
take either hom. Now for the consistency of these
sapient opposers. They admit that the infinite Spirit,
by its will, governs the universe, and produces infinite
effects, and yet deny that a finite spirit, by its will, can
produce the least physical effect; which is most philo-
sophically absurd I But, if a finite spirit, by its living
energies, can produce a finite result, then there is a God,
and the heavens do rule. I am willing to meet any in-
telligent clergyman in controversy who denies the truth
of Mesmerism ; and before this enlightened congrega-
tion, who shall be our jurors, I will either make him
acknowledge the mesmeric power, or drive him to
atheism. I will leave him no other alternative.
We have, thus far, confined our inquiries to the fact,
whether there was ANY power at all in mind to produce
results independent of bodily contact. I now take a still
higher stand, and deny, in total, that there is any POWER
or MOTION whatever, in the whole immeasurable uni-
verse, except in mind. There can be no power without
motion, nor can there be motion except it originate in
mind. I care not through how many concatenations
of cause and effect you may trace motion, it is after all
'but secondary, and must be traced back to mind as its
starting point. For instance : suppose a ball should lie
at rest upon this floor. It would never stir unless mo-
tion were communicated to it by IIOQ'I~ e~tran~us power.
o;9,tized byGoogle
LBOTU&BS ON
If another ball entered that door, and came in contact
with the ball at rest, it would communicate motion to it
by impulse, losing just as much as it communicated.
But here is no beginning of motion, and every one would
look around for the cause. If, while gazing, you should
see another ball enter the door, struck by a bat, you
might not yet be satisfied whether that bat was held in
a man's hand, or whether it was fastened in some ma-
chinery prepared, and put in motion by human ingenu-
ity. But you see a third J>all enter the door, and not
only discover the bat but the hand that grasps it. You
are now satisfied. You know that the hand is connected
with a body, and thatbody with a brain and mind.
Now, in these three instances, there is no beginning of
motion. The•man's hand, the bat, and first ball, are
but the three instruments through which motion was
communicated to the ball at rest, and the man's mind
was sole mover.
As the subject l)f Mesmerism is directly connected
with the powers of mind, and as this is·the pivot on
which the question be~ween its advocates and opposers
must eventually turn, you will permit me to take a wider
range in this extensive field•...There must be some me-
dium through which the eternal mind comes in contact
with gross matter, moves unnumbered worlds .accord-
ing to nature's law, and sustains and governs the un-
bounded universe. That medium must be the finest,
the most rarified, and subtil of inert matter in being. It
must be the last link in the material chain of inert sub-
stances that fastens on the mind. This is electricity. '
Hence, it is through electricity that the Great Spirit
comes in .contact with his universe. This is evident,
J>ecause it is elMtrici~y. as it exists in the human sys-
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANlMAL MAGNETISlJ•
.tern, through which our spirits come. in contact with
matter. We are but an epitome·of God's universe, and
in us is contained every variety ofmatter and substance
in being. " The proper study of mankind is man ;" and
in this study, the most unbounded fields are opened to
the range of human thought.
It may now be asked, if electricity is···that substance
through which the Creator comes in oontact with mat-
ter, how then could he act when that splendid substance
had no existence 1 or, in other words~ how could he
create "all things out of nothing 1" I deny the asser-
tion, that God· created all things out!of nothing, and
challenge the proof. Space and duration exist of neces-
sity, and that space was eternally filled with primal
matter, which I contend is electricity. The scripture•
do not inform us that God created all things out of
nothing, and surely philosophy cannot inform us how
many nothings it will take to make the least conceivn..
ble something I Though it is the commonly received
opinion that all things were created out of nothing, yet
in all ages of· the .Christian church, ·there have been
1ome eminent men of all denominations, who have re-
jected this idea, and contended that aU things were ere-
. ated out of some substance. l have not time to refer
to those persons this evening, yet permit me to name
one. A more orthodox man than John Milton never
Jived, as all know who have ever read that astonishing
production of the human intellect, his" Paradise Lost."
He was at war with the idea that all things-were cre-
ated out of nothing. I will present you with an extract
from his " Treatise on Christian Doctrine," volume 1,
pages 236 and 237. As I quote from memory, I ma7
not be correct in every word. ·
o;9,tized byGoogle
86 LECTU&.U ON
He says : .. It is clear, then, that the world waa
framed out of matter of some kind or other. .For, since
.action and passion are relative terms, and since, conse-
quently, no agent can act externally, unless there be
some patient such as matter, it appears impossible that
God could have created this world out of nothing; not
from any defect of power on his part, but because it
was necessary that something should previously have
.existed capable of receiving passively the exertion of
~e divine efficacy. Since, therefore, both scripture
and reason concur in pronouncing that all these thinga
were made, not out of nothing, but out of matter, it
necessarily follows that matter must always have ex-
isted independent of God, or have originated from God
~t some particular point of time."
So you perceive, Milton contends that both scripture
and reason teach that all things were made out of mat-
ter. I am under no obligations to prove that all things
were not made out of nothing, for no man is bound by
the rules of Iogie to prove a negative. But I will, for a
moment, depart from this established rule of schoolmen,
and undertake to prove that all things were not made
out of nothing. To this end, I will call into my se.
rvice
the following argument: '
We raise an axe, and at a single blow cut in two •
piece of wood one inch in diameter. Now it is certain
that this wood was not severed instantly in all its parts.
If it were, then the lower part would have been cut at
the same ipstapt that the upper part was, which is per-
fectly absur~, awl therefore impossible. The axe
certainly passed gr~ually through that wood, and pro-
~ressively separated one grain after another. This you
Jlll perceive. By IN&TAlii'TLY, we ~re to understand,
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 87
·that no time shall elapse between the accomplishment
of any two objects. ~.It may, however, be said, that
there are bodies that move with greater velocity than
this axe. I will, then, take another. There is nothing
with which we are acquainted, that moves with greater
velocity than light; its motion being about twelve mil-
.lion miles in a minute. Hence, the passage of a ray of
light from the sun to the ear~h, would be about eight
minutes. It is, therefore, absurd to say that a ray of
light could be at the sun and at the earth at the same
instant, as it would allow no time for its passage. I
will now apply the above argument to the subject be-
fore us.
If SOMETHING were created OUt of NOTHING, it could
.not, in the nature of things, have been done PROGREs-
SIVELY or GRADUALLY, because the instant it became the
least possible remove from nothing it would be some-
thing. It must, in the very nature of things, remain
nothing till it becomes something, because there is no
.possible process by which it can be gradually brought
forward into something, for there is no existing medium
.between something.and nothing. Now, if nothing were
created into something; it must have been done instantly;
afld if instantly, then it must have been something and
nothing at the same instant, which is the climax of
absurdity. It is just as absurd as to contend that the
.piece of wood before mentioned was severed at the
bottom at the same time that it was at the top, or.that
a ray of light could be at the sun and the earth at the
same instant. I shall hold this argument sound until
some one is able to refute it.
Hence, I contend for the _eternal existence of PJtiMAL
matter, which is electricity. But even this primnl mat·
4
o;9,tized byGoogle
38 LJ:OTUJLES ON
ter does not exist independent of Deity. It is the natu-
ral atmosphere or substance elll&Dating from Him. It
is evident that every substance in being has its atmos-
pheric emanation, by which it may be detected before
we arrive at the body. I say ATMOSPHEaiO EMANATlOW,
because I know of no other more convenient term, by
which I can express my ideas. For instance, the rose,
and every species of the Bower tribe, have their emaaa-
tions, which like an atmosphere surround them, and by
which we detect their existence before we come in con-
tact with them. For the sake of perspicuity, suffer me
to. call it atmospheric emanation, which in the above
cases is detected by smell. The same is true of every
species of trees and plants in being. The same is true
of every species of earth, and rock, and mineral, in exist-
ence. Each substance has an atmospherie emanation
peculiar to itself, and by which it can be discovered by
man, or by some other living creature. The camel on
the desert will detect water. twenty miles distant. The
same is true in relation to all the races and tribee of ani-
mated beings. Each has its own peculiar atmospheric
emanation, by which it may be detected by some other
creature, by some instinctive sense of which we have
little or no conception. As, then, every substance ·in
being has its own peculiar emanation, so the atmospheric
emanation of the self-existent Spirit, is electricity, which,
proceeding forth from Him, does not therefore exist in-
dependent of him;
It will now be said that, on this principle of reasoning,
the speaker will make it out that SPIB.IT itself is MATTEa.
If by SPIB.IT you mean that which has neither length,
breadth, nor thickness, nor occupies any space, then I
have only to say that it is a mere chimera of the hum~
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 39
brain, a nonentity,a nothing l Does Deity fill all space t
Then he is of course a substance, a real, living, acting
and thinking being ; otherwise, as .Christians, we use
words without knowledge, when we say that he fills im-
mensity with his presence. But it may be said that
KIND is THOUGHT, REASON, and UNDEJlSTANDING, and then
be asked, whether thought, reason,,understanding, etc.,
occupy any space 1 But I deny that these are mind.
Thought, reason, and understanding are not mind, but
the EPFECTs of mind. Mind is something supremely
higher than all these. I yet ask what is that which
thinks, reasons, and understands? It is the mind. Then
mind is something distinct from those effects by which
it is made manifest. What, then, it may ·be asked, is
mind 1 I answer, it is that substance which has innate
or living motion; and the result of that motion is
thought, reason, understanding, and, therefore, power.
As electricity is ·the highest and most subtil of INEilT
substances, as it fastens on mind, and is, therefore, more
easily moved than any other inert substance in being, so
mind is the next step above electricity, is the crowning
perfection of all other substances in immensity-is liv-
ing motion ; and the result of that motion is thought and
power. It is the living Spirit from whom emanates
electricity, and who, out of that electricity, has created
all worlds. Hence, the Creator i!J a real substance or
being, possessing personal identity, and is infinite in
every perfection of his adorable character.
Electricity, which is an atmospheric emanation from
God, and which is moved by his will, is that substance
out of which all worlds and their splendid appendages
were made. Hence, it will be perceived, that electricity
contains all the original properties of all the various
o;9,tized byGoogle
LECTU.ES ON
lsubstances in being. All the varieties of the universe
around us-all the beauties and glories of creation upon
which we look with so many thrilling emotions of de-
light, were produced from electricity, which is the inex-
haustible fountain of primal matter. By the living ener- ,
gies of the Divine Mind, electricity was condensed into
globes; not instantly, but gradually. The heaviest par-
ticles took the lowest point, or common centre, of our
globe, and so on, step by step, lighter and lighter, till we
reach the surface, which is a vegetable mould. On this
we find water, a substance still lighter than earth; next
air, which is lighter than water, and so on till we reach
the sun, which is the highest point in relation to our sys- 1
tern, because it is the common centre. The sun is.
therefore, pure electricity. Hence, the twenty-nine
globes, belonging to our system, are electrically, geolo-
gically, and magnetically made. They are but twenty-
nine magnets revolving around our sun as a common
centre.
The sun, being pure electricity or primal matter, is
but an emanation from the Deity. It is, consequentJy,
in a positive state. Hence, electricity is continually
passing from the sun, as a common centre, to the twen-
ty-nine surrounding worlds; on the same principle that
it passes from a positive to a negative cloud. Having
done its duty in giving light, heat, and vegetation, as
well as magiletic power to globes, it is returned by re-
action to the sun, and these two motions form the vor-
tices that roll worlds around him. It is impossible that
there can be any inherent attraction and repulsion in
matter. Attraction and repulsion are but different dis-
positions of electricity. The best magnets are now
made from the galvanic ,battery. Hence, electricity,
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL lfAGNETISH, 41
galvanism,·and magnetism are but in substance 'one and
the same fluid, and as this is primal matter, an emana~
~ion from the Eternal Mind, so all the powers of attrac-
tion and repulsion originate in Deity. His will comes
in contact with electricity, and through that subtil agent
he moves the whole immeasurable universe in accor-
dance with nature's law. All worlds are in motion.
"hey roll rapid as the lightning's blaze, and in the most .
apparent confusion; yet all is calm, regular, and harmo-
nious. God is, therefore, connected with his universe,
and superintends allits multifarious operations. Though
he is thus intimately united to inert matter, yet he is dis-
tinct from the whole.
" Thou apart,
Above, beyond; 0 tell me, mighty Mind,
Where art thou'I Shall I dive into the deep 'I
Call to the sun1 or ask the roaring winda
For their Creator1 Shall I qneation loud
The thunder, if in that the Almighty dwella 1
Or holds he furious storms in etraitened roine,
And bida fierce whirlwind• wheel hia rapid car'!
The namele88 He! whose nod ia nature'• birth;
And nature'• shield the shadow of hie hand;
Her di110lution hie suspended smile!
The great Firat Laat! pavilioned high he aita
In darkneu, from exceiBive aplendor borne,
By gods unaeen, unle88 through lustre lost.
Hie glory, to created glory, bright,
Aa that to central horrors; he looke down
On all that soars, B!ld Sp8118 immensity."
Worlds are not only electrically, geologically, and
magnetically made, but they are electrically and mag-
netically suspended and moved by the immediate ener-
gies of the Divine Mind. Here is an image in paper
costume. I will attach it to this electrizing machine and
charge it. SeeI those papers are now all suspended,
and being equally charged, they repel each other. J
4•
o;9,tized byGoogle
will now put my fingers near them. See I how they
are attracted by my hand. They touch me, give oft'
their electricity, become equalized with my fingers, and
then fall. Here, then, is suspension, attraction, and re-
pulsion, by electricity. It may, however, be said, that
if worlds are moved by electricity, that they must ne-
cessarily move as quick as lightning. This does not
follow. Here is nn orrery, with which the most of you
are acquainted. I attach it to the electrical machine,
and charge. You see it is moved by giving off electri-
city at its points. But though electrically moved, yet it
does not move as quick as lightning. The magnet I
hold in my hand was charged from the galvanic battery,
and by one single stroke of the battery from the prongs
of this magnet towards the bow, I can destroy all its
magnetic powers, and by reversing the action, I can just
as suddenly restore them.
I have now clearly shown that all motion and power
originate in mind, and as the human spirit, through an
electro-magneti~ medium, comes in contact with matter,
so the infinite Spirit does .the same, and through this
medium he governs the universe. Hence, those who
deny the mesmeric power, must, to be consistent with
themselves, deny that there is any medium through
which mind can come in contact with matter, or else
deny that mind, abstractly considered, has any power
to produce results. But the denjal of either of these is
a denial of an all-powerful, self-existent Spirit, the Cre-
ator and Governor of the universe. But, on the other
hand, how sublime the idea, that God is electrically and
magnetically connected with his universe; that, by the
energies of his own will, he has condensed and formed
worlds from electricity, which is but the atmospheric
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL IIAQRBTISM.
emanation of his own spirit, and that by electricity he
sustains, rolls, and governs them from age to age. And
how sublime the idea, that he has " poured spirit from
spirit's awful fountain, and kindled into existence a
world of rationals." He has poured himself through all
his works, and stamped upon them BEAUTY, oaou, nnd
&AilMORY, which are but the reflected impressions of his
OWD IPLENDOL
;9 tized by Google
L&CTI1&EB Off
LECTURE IV.
LAon:s AND G&NTLEHBN : It is a source of gratifica-
tion to me that public attention, in Boston and vicinity,
is completely awakened to the interests of Spiritualism,
and that they are giving this subject that investigation
which its importance demands. We live emphatically
in an age of investigation and improvement, when light
seems to be pouring in oceans on our world ; and he who
shuts his eyes, and then scoff's and sneers because others
open theirs and see, is not only recreant to duty, but does
society an irreparable wrong. But those who remain in
11cepticism much longer on the subject of Mesmerism,
will be suspected either of ignorance or dishonesty. I
make this remark, because there is no possible apology
that any man of common sense should remain in scepti-
cism another day. He can go home and try it upon his
children or friends, and test its power, and know its
truth, and this every man is bound to do who desires to
mitigate human pain, and assuage human woes. The
subject is one of paramount consideration, and is wor-
thy of your best affections, your most ardent zeal, and
your warmest hopes.
In my last lecture, I took into consideration MIND AND
ITS POWERS, and the medium through which it comes in
contact with matter. This medium is electricity, and is
that eternal, PRIMAL matter out of which all other sub.
stances were made. It fills immensity of space ; and
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIJIAL MAGABTISM. 46
worlds are successively and continually formed by the
condensation of electricity under the living and ever-act-
ing energies of the Eternal Mind. We are floating in
an immensity of space that knows no bounds, like the
mote in the sunbeam. This is peopled with swarming
worlds, in number beyond an angel's computation; and
the residue, which has not yet become the abodes of life,
order, and beauty, is filled up with primal matter still in
its electrical state. Hence, the work of creation has
been going on from eternity, and will continue to pro-
gress so long as the throne of the self-existent Jehovah
endures, without ever arriving at an end in the sublime
career of creation. New brother creations are, there-
fore, every moment rolling from his omnific hanrl, and
that creating fiat will never, never cease. All this is
effected by the energies of mind.
In my last lecture, I stated, and, as I thought, conclu-
sively proved, that thought, reason, understanding, etc.,
were not mind, but merely the results of mind, and gave
what I considered conclusive evidence. I, moreover,
stated that mind was a substance that occupied space,
that it possessed living motion, and that the result of
that motion was thought, reason, and power, and gave
what I considered proof. But it seems that both of
these positions have been disputed, and hence I will
once more touch these two points.
If thought, reason, and understanding are mind, then
our minds are annihilated every night in sleep. Be-
cause, if all the organs of the brain are wrapped in
profound slumber, then there is not a single thought
stirring in the whole intellectual realm. It will not an-
swer to parry the force of this argument, by saying that
the action of blood upon the brain produces thought,
o;9,tized byGoogle
and that this action is suspended in slumber, becauee
the blood flows and acts upon the brain in sleep as well
as when we are aw:tke ; and hence we should, on this
principle, think and reason when asleep nearly as well
as when awake. This, however, is not the case. If,
then, thought and reason are mind, I must insist that, in
profound slumber, the mind ia annihilated, for thought
is gone. Hence it is plain, that thought, reason, and
understanding are not mind, but the effects of mind.
I will now take a different argument from the one
offered in my last lecture, to pro\•e that mind ·is a sub-
stance that baa innate motion, and that this motion·
produces thought. It is admitted on all hands, that the
mind resides in the brain, not in the blood-vessels, but
in the nerves themselves. Now, if the nerves are very
much expanded by beat, it is impossible to sleep. By
lying perfectly still upon our beds, there is a coolness
steals over the brain. The nerves, by coolness, are
made to contract. They continue gently to shrink until
they press upon the living substance that they contain,
and stop its motion. That moment all thought ceases.
Recollect, HIND is that substance whose nature is motion,
and the result of that motion is thought. By pressure,
by roacz, it is stopped, and thought is gone. The mo-
ment our rest is complete, a nervous warmth comes
over the brain. The nerves expand, leave the mind
disengaged, it resumes its motion, and thought is the
result. As cold shrinks, and heat expands the nervous
system, so that we alternately sleep and wake under
this double action, so the mind is a living, self-moving,
and invisible substance, which is capable of being com-
. pressed sufficient, at least, to prevent its motion•
. Having made these remarks, which the circumstances
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 47
'>f the occasion seemed to require at my hands, I now
invite your attention to what is called by sceptics the in-
comprehensibility and marvellousness ofmagnetic sleep ;
and who, on this account, openly avow the impossibility
and inconsistency of any one being thrown into such a ·
state ; and who, whenever they witness experiments to
test it, freely u.se the stereotyped words, "HUMBUG AND
OOLLusaon," and that, too, with great emphasis, without
being able, however, to detect this great, this wonderful
imposition on public credulity I
The greatest objection to the truth of the science
ofMesmerism arises from the circumstance, that the sub-
ject can see in a manner different from the ordinary
mode of vision. That any person can see out of the
templar region, or out of the top, or back part of the
skull, and through solid walls, and in the darkest night,
they contend is too preposterous to be believed. I deeply
regret to say that medical men not only give counte-
nance to such declarations made by the common mass,
bnt are engaged in making the same themselves. But I
seriously appeal to them whether they have never seen
any patients in a certain state ofthe nervous system, in-
duced by disease, where they could thus see, and·when
sensation was so perfectly extinct that amputation might
have taken place without pain? Have they never seen a
case ofcatalepsy 1 Ifnot, have they never seen in med-
ical works well-authenticated cases ofthis disease report-
ed 1 Surely they will n~t deny these things.· I·furth&r in-
quire, have they neverseen a casenor heard one reported;
where patients iri a state of catalepsy have been entirely
clairvoyant? where they have seen, as no person in the
ordinary way of vision can see 1 I am conscious that
they will not hazard th~ir medical reputation by giving
Digitized byGoogle
48 LECTURES ON
these interrogatories an unqualified denial. Of all per-
sons beneath these heavens, medical gentlemen should be
the last to sneer at the idea of clairvoyance, or even to-
tal insensibility of a person in the magnetic state.
Catalepsy is 11 sudden suppression of motion,nnd sen-
sation; a kind of apoplexy, in which the patient is in a
fixed posture. If the case be an aggravated one, the pa-
tient is sometimes senseless and even speechless. To
bring this subject directly and plainly before you, I will
relate to you an incident which was stated to me about
six months ago by Dr. Patterson, an eminent physician
of Lynchburg, Virginia. A young lady was taken sick.
Her physician, who lived some eight or ten miles distant,
was sent for. He found her in a state of -catalepsy.
Though there was no sensation in her body, yet she had
occasional fits of talking. He prescribed, stated that he
should be there the next evening, and left. The evening
came, and a most tremendous storm of rain; with high
winds, set in. The darkness was profound. As the fam-
ily were seated in silence and anxiety in the same room
where the patient lay, some one said," Well, our doctor
will not be here to-night." The sick lady answered:
" Yes he will ; he is coming now ; he is riding on horse-
back, and is all drenched with rain." the family suppos-
ing this to be a mere reverie of the brain, a touch of de-
lirium, made no reply. Nearly an hour passed on; and
the storm continuing with unabating violence, one of the
pensive group again broke the silence, and exclaimed
with a feeling of regret, " Well, it is certain our doctor
will not be here this dark stormy night !'' The sufferer
again answered, " Yes he will ; he is most here now ;.
there he is hitching his horse; be is coming to the door."
They hea,rd the raps ; the door was opened. and in camo·
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL MAGXETIS'&I. 49
the doctor. I nuw ask, bow did,thislady in a state ofcat-
alepsy see the physician several miles distant, through
the walls of her house, and in so dark a night 1
This report was given in a medical journal and well
authenticated. And moreover, there are many ofa sim-
ilar character ; and of these facts medical men are well
aware. Now I appeal to them, who are present on this
occasion, that ifit is possible to throw the nervous system
into a condition by disease, so that the patient can see in
a manner entirely distinct from the ordinary mode of vis-
ion, THEW, how can they, without presumption, affirm
that a person cannot be thrown into a similar state by
Mesmerism 1 It is proved by medical works that such a
state of the brain is possible ; and who will take upon
himself to affirm, that it can be induced by no other
means than disease 1 As a state ofcatalepsy is thus fre-
quently attended with clairvoyance, and with total insen·
sibility, so that amputation could be performed without
pain, then why should we marvel when we see the same
identical phenom~na clustering around Mesmerism 1 I
have only to say that our surprise is wholly gratuitous.
I appeal to medical gentlemen present. Have you
never seen a case of natural somnambulism 1 There
are hundreds of them occur in this city ; and, in every
town there are those who rise in their sleep. perform
labors, and return to their beds without knowing it. In
this state they have gone to the top of house-frames,
walked on the ridgepoles, and safely descended. They
have, in the darkest nights, walked over dangerous and
rapid streams on a mere scantling in safety, where a
slight loss of balance would have been death, and
where it would be impossible for them to have crossed
in their wakeful state. Women have arisen, and in
5
o;9,tized byGoogle
60 LECTURER OK
this state have done the nicest needle-work. And how
did these see? Surely not with the natural organ of
vision. A young lady at boarding-school, learning to
paint miniatures, and on preparing one for examination-
day, found that she could be excelled by the other
pupils. It worried her much, and to her suprise she
found in the morning, that her picture had greatly ad-
vanced under the delicate touch of some experienced
hand. She charged the deed upon her teacher, who
disclaimed all knowledge of the fact. But on the next
morning the picture was nearly finished, but the trans-
gressor could not be found. The Preceptress being
strongly suspected, secretly sat up and watched. In
the dead of night, when aU was still, the young lady
arose, and in a dark room arranged her work, mixed her
colors, and began to paint. Her Preceptress lit a lamp,
entered the room, and saw that lady finish her picture.
She then awakened her. How did she see how to mix
her colors, and to give the nicest touch with her pencil
where no human eye in the wakeful state could discern
an object ? Such facts as these, and even more won-
derful, are well known to medical gentlemen. Now, if
persons can by some cause be thrown into somnambu-
lism upon their beds, then reason teaches that they may
be thrown into the same state and even a much deeper
sleep by the magnetic power.
We will now take into consideration the philosophy
of Clairvoyance. It is evident that SEEING, HEARING,
FEELING, TASTING, and SMELLING, belong exclusively tO
the mind. And as we have already clearly proved that
electricity is the only substance that can come in con-
tact with mind, so it is through the agency of this fluid
that sensations are transmitted to the mind. Hence, it
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL MAGNETJSH, 51
is through the medium of electricity that we see, hear,
feel, taste, and smell.
The power of sight being in the mind, it is evident
that we never saw anything out of our eyes. The whole
of this congregation, with all their different costumes,
their various complexions and different appearances, and
all their relative distances from each other, are struck·
upon the retina of the speaker's eye, on about the bigness
of a quarter of an inch. By the agency of electricity,
it is conveyed through the optic nerve to the mind
where it is seen. Hence, we never saw a piece of mat-
ter, but only its shadow, the same as when you look in-
to a mirror, it is not yourself, but your image that you
1:1ee. Electricity is that substance that passes through
all other substances. Air cannot pass through your
cranium, nor through these walls, nor metallic substan-
ces. But as all these have countless millions of pores,
electricity can pass through them. Now if our nervous
system could be charged with the nervo-vital fluid, so
as to render the brain positive, and thus bring it into an
exact equilibrium or balance with external electricity,
then we should be clairvoyant. Because the nervous
system being duly charged, and even surcharged, the
great quantity of this fluid passing in right lines from
the mind, as 11 common centre, and in every direction
through the pores of the skull, renders it transparent.
Uniting with external electricity which passes through
these walls and all substances, which are also trans-
parent, the image of the whole. universe, as it were, in
this transparent form, is thrown upon the mind, and is
there seen, and seen, too, independent of the retina. On
this principle, the whole of those objects which are
opaque to natural vision, are rendered transparent to
Digitized by GoogIe
62 LBcrU.BS ON
the clairvoyant, and be sees through walls in succes-
sion, and takes cognizance of their relative distances, on
the same principle that we in a wakeful state could look
through said walls if they were thin, transparent glass.
On this principle, if the subject be charged too much or
.too little, he cannot see clearly. Or if the night be
rainy, or even damp, and unfavorable to electricity, then
experiments in clairvoyance must fail, or be very im-
perfect. The subject must be magnetically charged
exactly to that degree which will bring him into mag-
netic equilibrium with external electricity. Then, if the
night be favorable, the experiments will most likely
prove successful.
For the sake of perspicuity, I will take another posi-
tion. Why can you see through that window 1 You
answer, because the glass is transparent. But why is it
transparent ·? You again answer, because upon every
square inch of its surface there are several thousand
pores, and the glass is of that chemical property that it
will admit the rays of atmospheric light to pass through
them. This is philosophically correct. But remember,
it is not the WINIIOW that BEES, but it i& the INHABITANT
in the house that looks out of the window. The ques-
tion now arises, why can you not see through that wall?
If you answer, because it is opaque, yet the query arises,
why is it opaque 1 The wall has certainly as many
pores upon the square inch as that glass. The answer
is, because the wall is of that chemical property that
resists the rays of atmospheric light ; ll!ld where no light
passes through the pores of a substance, that substance
must be opaque. This is so far philosophically correct.
We are now ready to ask, why can you see through
the eye 1 Because it is formed on the transparent prin-
I
o;9,tizedbyGoogle I
______.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 53
ciple, has a certain number of pores upon the square
inch, and, by the skill of the Creator, it is so constituted
. as to chemically receive the rays of atmospheric light.
. But you will please to bear in mind that it is not those
translucent oa.Bs that see, but it is the INHABITANT in the
earthly house that looks out of those windows of the
sout Even the good book says, when speaking of the
faded Vision Of the aged,-" AND THOSE THAT LOOK OUT
OF THE WINDOWS SHALL BE D.AB.KENED"-thus calling
these eyes but the windows of the soul. It is the spirit
only that sees-that alon.e possesses the inward living
eye ; for take the spirit from its earthly house, and what
can these eyes-these windows of the fleshly tabernacle
-see 1 They can see just as much as the hands or
feet, but no more. Let another question be here pro-
posed. Why can you not see through the skull? You
will again answer----:because it .is opaque. But I .again
ask, why is it opaque 1 You reply-because it chemi-
cally resists the rays of atmospheric light, and will not
allow them to pass through its pores, even though they
are as numerous as the pores of the eye. This answer
is also philosophically correct ; and in this wonderful
constitution of the human cranium is made manifest the
wisdom of the Creator. For were light admitted through
it upon every portion of the brain, it would stimulate its
organs to such an unnatural degree as to render the
mind incapable of manifesting itself through them in a
harmonious and rational manner. Indeed; it would be
inconsistent with the continuance of life itself.
As the remarks now made are perfectly simple, and
can be comprehended by all, I will now ask-if there
were a light so much finer than atmospheric light, and
of that peculiar property that it could be made to pass
~·
o;9,tized byGoogle
LECTURES ON
through all substances in existence, could you not then
see through that wall as easily as through that glass 1
Certainly ; because the wall would be rendered trans-
parent through the action of that light, and wherever
light passes, there must exist the possibility to see ob-
jects. The question then naturalfy presents itself to the
mind-is there such a light 1 I answer-there is, and
it is MAGNETIC, Or GALVANIC LIGHT. It exists not onJy
around, but within us. Go into a dungeon of total dark-
ness, and strike your head a sudden blow, and you will
see a flash of light. From whence comes that light 1
It is within you : it is the nervous fluid-the living light
of the brain, which is of a galvanic nature. By this
concussion it was thrown into confusion, forced from its
accustomed channels, and laid suddenly at the footstool
of the living mind ; and the mind saw the flash. Hence,
it is electrically that we SEE, and HEAR, and FEEL, and
TASTE, and SMELL. All mesmeric subjects cannot, how-
ever, see with tha same brilliancy in clairvoyance, when
the brain is surcharged with this light. The most dis-
tinguished clairvoyants now in the United States, are
Jackson Davis, Lucius E. Burkmar, and WalterS. Tar-
box, who have astonished thousands; and by their ex-
aminations of the diseased, and saving the lives of many,
have rendered themselves the benefactors of suffering
humanity. This galvanic light can be conveyed to the
brain independent of the natural eye--the outward
organ of vision.
That the above principles are correct, and that TASTE,
sEEING, etc., are electrically conveyed to the mind, try
the following experiments. Take a half dollar, and a
piece of zinc of the same size : touch them separately to
the tongue, and you will not perceive any taste ; but
Digitized by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, 66
put the tongue between them, and, in this position, touch
the edges of the two pieces together over the end of the
tongue, and you will taste a pungent acid. This taste
is produced electrically. Zinc contains a greater por-
tion of electricity than the silver, and when they come
in contact it gives it oft' io the silver, and conveys the
sensation of taste through the glands to the mind. In
further proof of this being electricity, put the half dol-
lar against the gums under the upper lip ; open the
mouth, and lay the zinc upon the tongue : by moving
the tongue up and down, you will touch the pieces to-
gether, and every time they come in contact you will
not only perceive the same taste before described, but
you will see a flash of lightning. Now that this light-
ning is seen directly by the mind, and independent of
the natural organ of the eye, you may enter a dark
room, and in the darkest night--close your eyes, and
even bandage them,-and yet when you touch those
pieces, as described, you will see the flash, even when
one from the heavens could not be seen. This flash is
conveyed through the nervous system directly to the
mind, where alone exists the power of vision. This is
not only proof that taste and sight are electrically con-
veyed to the mind, but also that electricity is that sub-
stance which alone comes in contact with mind.
It is the same in relation to the other senses. Even
HEARING is not produced by the concussion of the par- .
ticles of our air, but by the vibration of the particles of
·elec~ricity conveyed to the mind, and in that tremulous
manner through the organ of the ear coming in direct
contact with mind. It is impossible, in the nature of
things, that so gross a substance as air can pass the
barriers of the car and enter the brain to produce any
o;9,tized byGoogle
LECTt;JlE:S ON
sound. But it may be said, that though the particles of
air do not enter the brain, yet with a vibrating motion
they strike the drum of the ear and convey sound to the
mind. This cannot be, because there is no air in the
brain itself; and hence, there is no internal aerial me-
dium through which sound could be transmitted to the
mind, even if we admit that the concussion of the par-
ticles of external air conveyed it to the drum. I yet ask,
what is the internal medium beyond, through which that
sound is conveyed to the mind? There is no air there;
and if it be a vacuum, then no sound whatever can be
conveyed. The truth is, that the same substance in
tremulous motion, which conveys sound to the drum of
the ear, also passes through it into the nervous system,
and conveys its oracle to the very throne of the living
mind. This is electricity, w.hich is the only correspond-
ent or mediator between mind and matter, laying its
brilliant hand upon both parties, and bringing them into
communication.
The sense of smell exists in the mind, and from sur-
rounding substances the sensation is electrically con-
veyed to it. But as smell is.so nearly related to taste,
the same argument may be applied to both. I will
therefore proceed to notice the sense of feeling.
It is generally said that the sense of feeling is in the
nerves. But I contend that it belongs exclusively to
the mind, the nerves being the mere medium through
which it is electrically conveyed to the mind. Indeed,
all our sensations, whether ·of tJeeing, hearing, feeling,
tasting, or smelling, are conveyed to the mind, through
the nervous system, from their correspondent organs,
. which are but the mere starting points, or inlets of sen-
sation. And as the nervo-,·ital fluid, which is of an
o;9,tized byGoogle
"
--
ANIMAL lii4GNJ:TISJII• 67
. electric nature, is the only substance that acts through
the nerves, so electricity is the agent which conveys all
our sensations to the mind. Though it is said that feel-
ing is diffused over the whole system• yet, strictly
speaking, this is not true. All feeling is in the mind.
It is evident that the mind resides in the brain. It is
not diffused over the whole nervous system, for when
we might be as sensible that thought proceeded from
the hand or foot, as from the head. In this case, the
loss of a hand or foot would be the loss of some portion
of our minds. The spinal marrow is but a continuation
of the brain. Branches shoot out, and from these, oth-
er branches in infinite variety, until they are spread out
over the whole system ten thousand times finer than the
finest hair-sieve,-so fine that you cannot put down the
point of a cambric needle without feeling it, and you
cannot feel unless you touch a nerve. Hence you per-
ceive how very fine the nervous system must be ! Of
this system, the brain is the fountain, and is the local
habitation of the mind.
Now touch the finger to any object, and that touch
produces a corresponding action upon the brain, and
through the agency of the electro-magnetic fluid, that
sensation is conveyed to the mind. It is the mind that
feels it, and by habit we associate the feeling with the
end of the finger. .But amputate the arm, and then
touch the correspondent nerve at the end of the stump
and he will yet associate the feeling with the end of the
finger. But the feeling is not even in the end of the
stump. It is in the mind whieh has its residence in the
brain.
I knew a blacksmith who had his leg amputated
above the knee. When h~aleq, he put on a wooden le~
o;9,tized byGoogle
LECTURES 0111
and resumed his labors in the shop. He could feel his .
leg and toes as usual, and many times in a day, he
would, without reflection, put down his hand to scratch
his wooden leg. Being unlearned and superstitious, he
supposed that his leg was buried in an uncomfortable
position, and therefore, haunted its wooden substitute.
He dug it up, placed under it a soft cotton bed, andre-
buried it ; but all to no purpose. He made the circum-
stance known to his physician, who told him to find the
corresponding nerve on the stump, and he could cause
the itching sensation to cease. He did so, and the diffi-
culties were at once overcome.
A gentleman called upon me, in October, 1842, at the
house of the Hon. T. J. Greenwood, in Marlboro'. He
stated, that he injured his arm, the cords contracted
and drew up his fingers, so as perfectly to clench the
hand. It gave him great pain, and the arm was ampu-
tated just above the elbow. And though three years
had passed away, he said there was yet a constant pain
as though the fingers were drawn up ; and from that
contraction the pttin seemed to proceed. Now the
whole of this difficulty was felt in the brain. If I may
be allowed the expression, the brain has its legs and
arms, and toes, and fingers. Or allow me to go entire-
ly back. It is the mind which has its limbs and all its
lineaments of form, and from which all form, proportion,
and beauty emanate.
I observed a moment ago, that the spinal cord was
but the brain continued. Now let a knife be inserted
between the joints of the spine, and let this cord be sev-
ered, and all the parts of the body, below the incision,
will be paraly~ed. You may now cut or burn the legs,
but all feeling is gone , neither can they be moved by the
o;9,tized byGoogle
I
I
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
will. The will cannot come in contact with flesh and
blood, only through the electro-magnetic fluid. The
mind is in the brain, and as the spinal marrow is severed,
so the lower parts are separated from the fountain offeel-
ing. The communication of the electrical influence is
destroyed between the extremities and the mind, and
hence, the extremities can convey sensations to the mind
no more.
I might continue the argument to an indefinite extent
to prove that all our senses (seeing, hearing, feeling, tast-
ing, and smelling) are in the mind, and that these sensa-
tions, through their corresponding organs, are electrical-
ly conveyed to the mind, through the nervous system, but
I forbear, aud proceed, as usual, to the anticipated exper·
iments of the evening.
o;9,tized byGoogle
ucruass oN
LECTURE V.
LADIEs AND GENTLEMEN: We are again assembled to
take into consideration the subject of Mesmerism. Its
growing interest in the public mind is manifest, by the
increasing throngs that assemble in this chapel, to inves-
tigate its claims to truth and science, and the multitudes
that are obliged to retire, unable to gain admittance.
As several notes, since my entrance in~ this house,
have beenhanded me, I shall be obliged to omit intro-
ductory remarks, and attend to two or three important
requests.
An inquiry is made as to the number of degrees or
states into which a subject may be thrown. In reply to
this, I would say, that there are but PIVE degrees which
have, as yet, come under my observation. The FIRST
degree is, when the hands or even the whole body of the
subject can be attracted by the conjoint action of the
mental and physical energies of the magnetizer. The
BEOOND degree is, when the hands, or body of the subject,
can be attracted by the ~ental energies alone, or by the
physical energies independent of any mental effort. The
T:SIRD degree is, when the subject can neither hear nor
answer any person but the magnetizer and those who
are in communication. The FOURTH degree is, when the
subject can taste what the magnetizer tastes, and smell
what he smells. The FIFTH degree is clairvoyance. I
would not be understood that these five de&rees always
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 61
occur in the order I have now stated them ; but I mean
that there are these five different degrees. Some never
seem to go further than the third degree, and no surgical
operation should be performed, unless the subject be put
completely into this third state, so that no voice but the
magnetizer's can be heard. It can then be performed
without any pain.
Another inquiry is made, whether any person can put
himself into communication with the subject without the
magnetizer's consent 1 I answer, yes. Any person may
put himself into communication by ardently fixing his
attention upon the subject while another is magnetizing
him, especially if he sits near him. Or he may do it
by touching, or too freely handling him. He may do
it by violently throwing his hands towards him, and
within a foot of his body. Or, lastly, he may take two
or three electric shocks from a charged Leyden jar,
within eight or ten feet of the subject, being careful to
fix his eyes firmly upon him while taking the shock.
The second or third shock, the subject will start with
him who receives it-and when he starts he is in com-
munication.
A third inquiry is made, whether any one but the
magnetizer can awaken the subject 1 Certainly, any per-
son who is put in communication with him can take him
out of the state. Or by a firm determination, he can
awaken himself. In fact, he may be put in bed, and in
a few hours, say from eight to fourteen, he will come
out of it the natural way.
A fourth, and last inquiry is made, if magnetism be
true, why has not more of it been seen, at least in some
small degree, in different ages 1 I answer, that its his-·
tory dates back to a very early age which I cannot now
6
o;9,tized byGoogle
62 LBOTUJlBS ON
pursue, but would refer to ." FASCINATION, or the Philos-
ophy of Charming, illustrating the principles of life in
connection with spirit and matter," published iD New
York city by Fowlers & Wells ; also to the AMEaiCAN
PaaBNOLOGICAL JouaNAL. They are conducted with
great ability, and should be in possession ofevery familf.
But the inquirer asks, "why has not more of it been
seen, at least in some small degree, in different ages 1"
I answer, it has been seen and felt. Have you never
read the bold, lofty, and full-gushing eloquence of De-
mosthenes, whose thunders roused Greece into action,
and moved her sons as the wind in its rushing majesty
moves the sublime magnificence often thousand forests 1
This was but the magnetic principle, the lightning of
the mind, by which they were electrified, and made to
act as one man against the powers of Philip. The same
is true of Cicero, who shook the Roman senate with his
voice, and beneath the electric glance of whose awful
eye, even Cataline quailed. I am well aware that you
will call this sympathy. But what is sympathy 1 It is
the nervo-vital fluid thrown from a full, energetic brain,
upon another of kindred feeling. That brain being
roused affects another, and·that still another, till the whole
assembly are brought into magnetic sympathy with the
speaker, and by him are moved as the soul of one man.
As a further answer to this question, I will notice one
fact more; and in doing this, I sllall remove what has
long been considered as a stigma on a la.r&e and respect-
able denomination. I mean the Methodists. Ever since
that class of Christians had a religious existence in the
United States, persons have fallen down into a species
of trance. Other denominations call this delusion, and
many call it deception, because,such things never occur
o;9,tized byGoogle
_0\NJMAL MAGNETISM. 63
in their meetings. But there is no deception in this-it
is really the magnetic stat~r more properly the spi-
ritual state. Every preacher cannot do it, and as it is
done without contact, comparatively few are subjects
of it·
But take a preacher of strong muscular powers ; one
who has large concentrativeness, and eye of lightning,
and a warm, a sincere, and ardent soul. He enters a
tent at camp-meeting, where there are fift-een or twenty
persons. He kneels down and prays most fervently;
he rises and sings most devotionally. He is in close
contact with his little group. He begins to exhort most
sincerely; and soon the deep fountains of his soul are
broken up. A female, perchance, is moved to tears.
His concentration being large, he keeps his eye steadily
fixed upon her, and he wills and desires, that she shall
feel as he feels, and be converted to God. At length
she falls into this singular state. She has gone there in
the preacher's feelings, and in his feelings she will come
out of it. Now, if he would follow my directions, he
could restore her in two minutes. I will pledge myself
to arouse any one from this magnetic state in five
minutes. Dr. Cannon, of this city, took a lady out of
this state .a few weeks ago, in Provincetown, who was
thrown into it in a religious meeting, and who appeared
nearly lifeless. A report of this was published in the
"Christian Freeman." Now all these are really mag-
netic effects that we have seen, and for many years in
succession. So the inquiries are all answered, and I
hope, to the satisfaction of the inquirers and the congre-
gation.
I must now proceed to notice the dangers and abuses
of Mesmerism. It is often said by its opposers, that
o;9,tized byGoogle
64 LECTUB.E8 ON
even if it be true, yet it is dangerous, because it can be
abused, and therefore ought not to be practised. But
do you know of any blessing beneath these heavens but
what has been, and still continues to be abused 1 No,
you do not. Do you know of a more common blessing
than taste1 yet to gratify their taste, millions on millions
have gone down to a drunkard's tomb! Mothers have
been more than widowed, and children more than or-
phanized. They have been beaten and abused, and
suffered cold, and hunger, and nakedness. Under it,
crimes have been committed, and the state prisons filled
with Wretched men. Human beings have also by mil-
lions gone down to their graves through excess in eating.
But is taste a curse because men abuse it1 and must it,
therefore, be struck from the catalogue of Heaven's
mercies? All answer, no. Acquisitiveness, benevo-
lence, and comb• tiveness can be abused, and so can all
the organs of the human brain. But ought they not on
that account to be indulged1
Once more : there is not a greater blessing than the
Gospel of Christ. It teaches us to love and forgive our
enemies ; to resist not evil, and to do unto others as we
would that they should do unto us. . It is calculated to
moderate our feelings in prosperity-to comfort us in
the day of adversity-and to sustain us under all the
troubles and disappointments incident to mortal life.
When our parents, friends and children are on their
dying bed, we ·can shake the farewell hand of mortal
separation, with t'he hope of meeting them again in future
realms. And not only so, but when we lie down upon
the bed of death, and the embers of life feebly gl.immer
in the socket of existence1 then the Gospel of Christ
points us to brighter scenes-Bcenes beyond the tomb.
Digitized by GoogIe
iI
I
ANIJlAL .MAGNETISM. 66
Yet men have abused that gospel, and one denomination
has risen up against another, and doomed each other to
the stake. Rivers of human blood have flowed in the
holy wars. But is the gospel a curse, and should it be
struck from existence merely because men abuse it ?
No, is the answer of every Christian heart. Then the •
objection fails. One thing must settle this point. There
is nothing that God has established as a law in our na-
ture, but what was designed to be a blessing to his
creatures. The magnetic principle is not of man, but
one the Creator has established, and is, therefore, a
blessing. And if it could not be abused, it would differ
from all other blessings he has bestowed on man.
But it is said, that a man upon the high-way may be
thrown into the state and robbed. But I deny that any
person can be thrown into the state against his will, if
he will at the same time use physical resistance. And
when in the magnetic state, he has twice the strength to
resist, and defend himself, that he has when out of it.
We generally know with whom we have to deal, and
surely we would not suffer an enemy, nor the unprinci-
pled, to put us into the mesmeric slumber. But if you
wish to be safe, and are really fearful of consequences,
I will give you a rule of action. It is this : never allow
any one to magnetize you unless it be in the presence of
a third person. Observe this rule, and no danger arising
from this source will ever cross your path.
Having answered these objections, I will now show
you where there are real dangers. In the first place,
though every person can be mesmerized, yet there are
but few who can be easily thrown into this state. The
greater proportion, by far, would require several hours
of hard labor. Hence, when one is found who is easy
6•
;9 tized by Google
66 LBCTU&BS ON
to mesmerize, curiosity is awakened, and every one
wishes to make the trial of his power and skill. One
mesmerizes this individual in the morning, another in the
evening, and a new set of operators perform the same
task on the next day, and so on. Now, in such cases,
there is that mixing and crossing of all these different
fluids in the subject's brain, which, if persisted in too
long, will prove injurious, even if all these magnetizers
are healthy persons. If you mesmerize a person, and
thoroughly wake him, yet the whole of that fluid does
not completely pass from his brain short of a week.
Select one healthy magnetizer, and continue him. If
you change to another, then wait a fortnight before you
allow him to operate. Too much care in this respect
cannot be taken. But I point out to you a still more se-
rious danger.
There are persons who undertake to mesmerize others,
who have some local disease, or are in feeble health.
By so doing, they injure themselves, and also the sub-
ject. Such persons have no nervo-vital fluid to spare,
and what little they have is in a diseased state, and unfit
to be thrown upon the nervous system of another. I
care not what the disease may be, by long persisting in
mesmerizing a person, that disease will be, at length,
communicated to the subject. Great caution, in this re-
spect, should be observed by both parties, if they would
not impair their health. Weakness of lungs, and even
consumption. may be, by thirty or forty magnetizings,
brought upon an individual, and send him to his grave.
I therefore seriously admonish yon to beware of this
common danger. Never allow any person of a poor
constitution to put you into this state ; and I also warn
those who are diseased, or even in delicate health, never
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 6?
to mesmerize others, for they will, by so doing, inflict
upon themselves a serious injury.
But, on the other hand, there is no danger in a healthy
person magnetizing those who are diseased. As the
operator imparts the nervo-vital fluid, and does not re-
ceive any in return, he is in no danger of taking the dis-
ease of his patient. Caution is, however, to be observed
in taking the patient out of this state. He should not
make the upward passes in such a manner as to throw
the fluid on himself. If he do, he is in some danger of
contracting the disease. An ~ experienced magnetizer
will understand how to avail himself of this caution.
' Once more : there are persons who undertake to mag-
netize others who are entirely ignorant as to the mode
of operatiop, and frequently bring persons into serious
difficulty by getting alarmed, or otherwise thrown out
of bias in their feelings. Several cases of this kind I
have been called to attend to, in various sections, and
some of a very serious character. No persons should
undertake to mesmerize others until they shall have
learned of some experienced magnetizer how to perform
it, and made themselves acquainted with all the difficul-
ties that may cluster around it.
Having attended to these important points, I will now
turn your attention to local magnetism. By local mag-
netism, I mean the magnetizing of some part of the
human body without charging the whole brain. Hence,
the finger, the hand, the arm, the leg, yes, even the eye-
lid, the lip, or the tongue, may be mesmerized while the
person is in the wakeful state, and so may be anyof the
phrenological organs. It is true, that this cannot be so
easily done on persons who have never been mesmerized
at all, as on those who have been thrown into the state.
o;9,tized byGoogle
68 l,oiiCTU.E!I ON
If the brain has been once magnetically subdued, then
there is no occasion, even if the amputation of a limb is
to he performed, to magnetize any other part than the
one to be subjected to the operation. If a person be
very bard to mesmerize, then it will be proportionally
difficult to mesmerize any limb. Butit will be borne in
mind, that however long it may takein successive sit-
tings to magnetically subdue the brain, yet after that is
once accomplished,.then the person can, in future, be
wholly mesmerized at any time in five minutes, and
locally so in a much less period. Hence, should an arm
be broken or mutilated, it will only be necessary to put
that limb into the magnetic state, and it can be set or
amputated without pain; and thus, by occasionally re-
newing the mesmeric action, it can be kept in this state
and healed, without ever experiencing any suffering
whatever.
I perceive that some smile in view of these state-
ments. They are truly so wonderful, that incredulity
adjures us to reject them. But they are, nevertheless,
Heaven's unchanging truths, which cannot bend to cir-
cumstances, nor shape themselves to the belief cr scep-
ticism of men. They stand out in bold relief, and bid
defiance to the sneers and scorns of mankind. A surgi-
cal operation has just been performed in Lowell on a
lady while in the mesmeric state. A tumor was ex-
tracted from the shoulder, where it was necessary to
cut to the depth of two inches. Dr. Shattuck was the
magnetizer; and in the presence of several medical men
of Lowell, one of whom was the operator, this tumor
was removed without the slightest sensation of pain.
This was not done in a corner, but publicly, and in the
presence of several hundred spectators. It is too late
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 69
in the day to cry "HUMBUG AND COLLUSION," for the bat-
tle is fought, and the victory is won, and the scale has
turned in favor of truth, and turned with most prepon-
derating weight, and on the stereotyped argument
"HUMBUG AND COLLUSION," is Written " TEKEL."
Well authenticated facts, and medical reports of ope-
rations in surgery and dentistry, performed under the
energies of Mesmerism, in both continents, and without
pain, are continually reaching us. And with this flood
of light pouring upon the world, and when men of the
first talents and science in the republic of letters, and
out of all the various professions and denominations, are
among its advocates, scepticism is not only waning, but
justly losing its popularity. Those men have seriously
investigated and weighed the matter, and they severally
declare, as did the Rev. Mr. Pierpont, on the last eve-
ning, before two thousand hearers, in this house," I have
no BELIEF nor UNBELIEF on this subject. I KNow, I
KNOW it to be so!" And now I ask, what ought the
MERE OPINION, or the expressed UNBELIEF of even an
honest sceptic, to weigh against the absolute and certain
KNOWLEDGE of an equally honest, intelligent, and scienti-
fic man, whose character is above suspicion 1 I leave
the candid to judge, and have only to say, that in the
face of modesty, they h:~.ve no right to call this science
"HUMBUG AND COLLUSION."
Others pretend that the science of Animal Magnetism
was condemned by the French Committee in Paris,
among whom our illustrious Franklin was numbered.
And·as it received its condemnation under the scrutiny
of such minds, therefore they conclude that it has no
foundation in truth. There always have been, and still
are, men who dare not think for themselves, but wholly
o;9,tized byGoogle
'70 LECTU&E8 ON
Jean upon the opinions of others. Their father, their
doctor, their lawyer, and their minister, thought thus and
so, and they think just so, too. Their fathers put down
a central stake, gave them their length of line, and bid
them travel round in that circle of revolving thought
till the day of their death ! All beyond that circle is
darkness ! Their field of thought is as exactly measured
off to them, and just as legally bequeathed to them, as
their farms. They received them both by inheritance.
For the one they never LABORED, an~ for the other they
never THOUGHT ! And they never questioned the TRUTH
of the one, any more than they did their title to the
other!
But surely the French Committee did not deny the
truth of the experiments produced, nor pronounce them
"HUMBUG AND COLLUSION." They simply decided that the
evidence adduced was not sufficient to prove that the
magnetic state was caused by a FLUID proceeding from
the magnetizer. They attributed the singular effects
they witnessed to the power of the imagination. But it
will also be remembered, that this committee were not
all agreed, and hence appeared the remonstrance of the
minority, which it would be well for modem sceptics to
read, side by side with the report.
Many sceptics have been obliged, like the French
Committee, to admit certain results as being truly won-
derful, and, like them, attribute it to the force of the
imagination. But to believe that the imagination can
bring human beings into a state where limbs can be am-
putated, tumors cut out, teeth extracted, and braken
bones set, and the whole healed without experiencing
one throb of pain-to believe, I say, that the imagina-
tion can do all these wonders, in giving such boundless
;9 tized by Google
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 71
r; triumph over pain, requires a far greater stretch of ere-
~ • dulity than to believe in the magnetic power ! And
n surely ifthe imagination possesses the wonderful charm
to bring the nervous system into a condition where we
can bid defiance to pain, and gain a complete victory
over the whole frightful army of human woes, then surely
the science is equally important, possesses the same
transcendent claims upon our benevolence, and the man
who discovered that the imagination possessed this
·:I charm is worthy of the united thanks of all human-kind ;
J1 and being dead, his bones are worthy to repose with the
great .men of the universe. In this case, it will only be
necessary to change its name, and call it-ToE SCIENCE
OF TBE WONDERFUL POWEll OF TBB HUMAN IMAGINATION
TO CBAllM ALL PAIN.
I
I
j
•
r
o;9,tized byGoogle
LECTURES ON
LECTURE VI.
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN : In the first four lectures I
delivered of the present course, I brought forward the
philosophy of Mesmerism, and flatter myself that I have
not only succeeded in establishing it as a science, but
have shown it to be one of transcendent interest to the
human race. Here love and benevolence stretch out a
healing hand over a world groaning and travailing in
pain. Those groans, by that silken hand, shall be
hushed, and those pains be removed. There is a powe1
basined up in the fountains of the soul, that has long
been dormant. But it is rousing up and. stirring itself for
some mighty action, and is already beginning to gush
forth in healing streams on the world. This science is
in its infancy, is imperfectly understood, but yet it
breathes the breath of mercy as a sovereign cure for
all human woes.
In my last lecture, I answered several notes of
inquiry, pointed out the dangers of Magnetism, refuted
several common objections in relation to its abuses,
noticed the utility of the science in performing painful
surgical operations, and took a friendly glance at the
conduct of men in justifying their scepticism by pleading
the general issue of the Report of the French Com-
mittee, and concluded by touching lightly upon the
power of the human imagination.
I now stand before you in the confident conviction
izodbyGoogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 73
that much good will result from my labors to the cause
of benevolence and mercy. I am urged to repeat my
course of lectures next week,.but it will be out of my
power to comply with this request at that time, but have
consented to do so, week after next. As this will be
my closing lecture for the present, I can render you no
greater service than to show what connection this sub-
ject has with divine revelation. I am well aware that
many will call me an enthusiast, and sneer at, and con-
demn, me for thinking independently. But when the
path of duty is plain, and when I am once satisfied of
truth, I then go on, and reason, fearless of all conse-
quences. Under such circumstances, I have nothing to
do with the inquiry, what will men think of me 1 I care
not what they think, and much less do I care what they
say. I suffer no man to invade the sanctuary of my
civil and religious rights, and dictate to me how I shall
think, or what I shall believe, or what I shall proclaim.
I therefore hold no one responsible for what I shall
advance in this lecture, nor do I know as there is one,
with whom I am connected, who will endorse my ideas.
I believe the doctrine of our Saviour to be a perfect
doctrine, and exactly adapted to the bodies as well as
to the souls of men. I believe that he is our example to
follow, and as he went about doing good, healing sick-
ness, and relieving distress of body, as well as preaching
the gospel to heal the moral maladies of the soul, so it
is our duty to do the same. It is, moreover, most evi-
dent that his doctrine, to the full extent he commanded
his apostles to preach it, was to go down to all subse-
quent ages, so long as human beings should have a
habitation on earth. And our Saviour just as much com-
manded his apostles to heal the sick, as he did to preach
7
o;9,tized byGoogle
74 LBOTUKBI ON
the gospel. Now I cannot believe that one half ·of the
power and mercy of his doctrine should cease with the
ministry' of his apostles, and the other half continue. I
cannot believe that its -healing efficacy, so far as the
body is concerned, should cease, and what was applica-
ble to the soul should continue. ·If this be so, then what
a favored generation of Christians existed in that day,
so far, at least, a:s healing the body was concerned. It
was said, in the apostolic age, " Is any man sick, let him
send for the elders of the church, and let them lay their
hands upon him and pray, and the sick shall recover."
I believe this now, and so far as we have power and
fuith, it can be accomplished now as well as ever.
There is a difference between a miracle and a gift of
healing. If an arm be palsied, we know that the diffi-
culty exists in the brain, and that nothing more is neces-
sary than to throw upon it a sufficient quantity of the
nervous fluid to bring it into healthy action. The
moment this is accomplished, the difficulty existing in
the arm, which is but secondary, will be relieved. To
restore this, would be a gift of healing, but not a
miracle. What, then, would be a miracle ? Answer :
amputate an arm, and then cause a new one to grow
out. Though healing diseases is sometimes called a
miracle, yet when speaking of them specifically, they
are not so denominated. Paul says, ''God hath set some
in the church ; first, apostles ; secondarily, prophets ;
thirdly, teachers; after that, miracles, then gifts of heal-
ings, helps, governments," etc. And there is not a
scrap of evidence that these things were ever to cease
while _the generations of men endured.
Now if our Saviour restored a palsied arm, then there
must something have passed from him to the person
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
healed, in perfect accordance with the principles of ani-
mal life. It must, therefore, in this case, have been the
nervous fluid, as this was the only substance that could
have restored this arm.
It is undeniably true, that there was always some-
thing passed from our Saviour, when he exercised the
gift of healing, to the person whom he restored. In
evidence of this, you will recollect, that on one occasion,
when he was called to visit a sick person, a multitude
followed after, and thronged him. As he passed by, a
woman, who had been afflicted with an issue of blood
for twelve years, touched the hem of his garment, and
was made whole. He turned·himself around, and said,
"Who touched me 1" His disciples exclaimed," Master,
the multitude · throng thee, and sayest thou, 'Who
touched me 1' But he perceived that virtue had ~one
out of him." The word VIRTUE, in this instance, does
not mean moral goodness. It means FORcE, POWER,
EFFicAcY; the same as when we say a medicine has
great VIRTUE in it.
Our Saviour so lived, and breathed, and moved in the
divine Being, that he became one in communication
with him ; so that when the Father WILLED, he felt that
will-He himself then willed, and it was accomplished.
So, if any one bowed in reconciliation to God, he
became one with the Saviour, so that the Redeemer,
also, felt that one's will. Such was the case of this
woman. She willed in faith to be healed. The Saviour
felt that will-He willed, and it was done. Now every
being has power in proportion to the energy of his own
will ; but the energy of the will, depends upon the
intrinsic greatness of that being's mind. And as a
miracle is a thing performed by the energy of the will,
o;9,tized byGoogle
76 LECTUJlES ON
so THAT mind must be great in power and goodness,
that is capable of performing a miracle. We sit down,
and put forth the energy of a thousand wills, and at last
produce but a small result.
The apostolic power was far greater, and in the same
ratio, their results were more splendid and glorious.
But still they had not the power of Christ. The leper
said, " Lord, if thou WILT, thou canst make me clean.
Jesus stretched forth his hand, and touched him, and
said, I WILL, be thou clean, and his leprosy was
cleansed." By a word, he put to right disabled limbs,
and drew back life and warm gushing health to their
abode. He put forth a greater energy-and said to the
winds and waves, Peace I be still ! His will fastened
upon electricity in the heavens, eqnalized that fluid,
hushed the windt1, and calmed the waves. He opened
the blind eye to the splendor of the noon-tide blaze, and
instantly penciled on its retina, the universe. He
opened the deaf ear, and poured into its once silent, but
now vocal chambers, the harmony of rejoicing nature.
He spoke, and the dead stirred in their graves, and rose
up from their icy beds before ~im, and walked. That
same dread voice shall speak with a living energy, that .
the very heavens shall hear, and the dead shall rise to
die no more, and tum their eyes from the dark, ruinable
tomb on the scenes of eternity I Mind and will in the
Creator, still more .increased, move unnumbered worlds.
That same will, now infinite and immutable, puts forth
creative energy. He spake, and it was done; He com-
manded, and it stood fast ; laid the measures thereof.
and stretched the line upon it when the morning stars
sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy.
Hence, every grade of mind, from the humblest up to
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANUUL MAGNETISM. 77
apostolic greatness; up to angel and archangel, cheru-
bim and seraphim; up to Jesus Christ, till it reach the
infinite Jehovah, has power proportionate to its great-
ness and goodness. Hence, it will be readily under-
stood, that a miracle is nothing more than a result pro-
duced by mind itself, independent of all physical energy,
except that one substance which is put into motion by ·
the Jiving mind.
It may perhaps be said, that the apostles were inspired
to heal, and as we are not inspired, therefore we do not
possess the gift to heal. On this principle I might
reply, that the apostles were inspired to preach, and as
we are not inspired, therefore, we have no gift to
preach I I grant that the apostles were inspired to
preach and to heal, because it was not possible, that at
the starting point, they had any other means for pre-
paration. But now men preach, not by inspiration, but
because they feel it to be their duty. So men must now
heal because they feel it to be their duty,
It is by no means to be expected that we can come
up, at once, to apostolic power. No; our faith is too
weak. But let us bring up our children in the faith as
we ought, and they will learn to mesmerize as naturally
as they learn to walk. Their concentrativeness will
become largely developed. Their children will be born
with more favorably developed heads, and become
greater in goodness, until at length the whole apostolic
power will return to the earth in all its primitive splen-
dor. It is SPIRITUALisM, because it is the innate power
of the living mind, executed through the agency of the
will. It is that power which created worlds, for this
was done by the will of God. It ia that power by which
worlds. are governed, and. c~lltP.re!J 111led, for this ~"
-7•
o;9,tized byGoogle
78 LECTURES ON
also done by the will of God. It is that power by
which we make impressions reciprocally upon each
other, for this is done by the will of man. And lastly,
it is "that power which shall awake the dead from
dreamless slumber into thoughts of heaven," for this will
be done by the will of God, and there is no medium,
only electricity, through which he can come in contact
with his creatures.
I will now bring forward a few cases from Scripture,
to show that the living have been thrown into a singular .
slumber by the very presence of immortal beings. In-
deed, there is scarcely an instance where angels have
appeared to men, but what it has had this effect. I will
bring forward those that first strike my mind, regardless
of their arrangement.
It will be remembered, that when John the Revelator
was in the isle of Patmos, he had this vision : " And
being turned, I saw seven golden candlesticb, and in
the midst of the seven candlesticks, one like unto the
Son of man, clothed with a garment down to the foot,
and girt about the paps with a golden girdle. His head
and his hair were white like wool ; as white as snow;
and his eyes were as a flame of fire ; and his feet like
unto fine brass as if they had been burned in a furnace,
and his voice as the somid of many waters. And he
had in his right hand seven stars, and out of his mouth
went a sharp two-edged sword, and his countenance
was as the sun shineth in his strength. And when I
'
saw him I fell down at his feet as one that is dead."
Here then, is a singular slumber approximating death.
Our Saviour, when he was transfigured on Mount
Tabor, took Peter, James, and John with him. For a
moment he waa changed into his resurrection splendor,
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL IIIAGNBTISM. 79
and met Moses and Elias in glory. The sacred his-
torian, in describing the scene, says, " And his face did
shine as the sun, and his raiment became shining, ex-
ceeding white as snow, white as the light, so as no fuller
on earth can white them, and there appeared unto them
Moses and Elias talking with him. And Peter and them
that were with him were heavy with sleep ; and Peter
said, Lord, it is good for us to be here. Let us build
here three tabernacles ; one for thee, one for Moses,
and one for Elias; not knowing what he said." That is,
when he came out of this sleep he did not recollect
what he had said. They were thrown into this state by
the very presence of these minds.
Do you remember that after our Lord had eaten his
valedictory supper with his disciples, he went into the
garden of Gethsemane, and commanded them to watch?
He went a few steps from them and prayed in agony,
and sweat as it were drops of blood falling to the
ground. The guardian angel of Jesus Christ appeared
from heaven strengthening him. The apostles fell into
a deep sleep. Though this was a scene of great interest
to them, yet it seems that the presence of this angel
thus affected them.
He was nailed to the cross between two malefactors,
to darken his glory and blot his name. The Jews were
nis accusers, and the Romans his executioners. Hence,
the world was combined against him, while his own
disciples forsook him in that dark hour of peril. The
universe thus combined against him, mocking and de-
riding him, and covering him with disgrace, even nature
herself stepped forward as it were, and with a mighty
hand wiped off that disgrace, and sustained him in his
majesty. The sun withdrew hi11 light, rolled back his
;9 tized by Google
80 LBC.:Tl1REil ON
chanot, midnight darkness spread her robe of sack.
cloth upon his brilliant disc, and hung the world in the
dark shroud of mourning. Earthquakes awoke from
their tartarean dens and thundered. The earth shook,
the rocks rent, the graves opened, all nature roused up
and there brought to a centre all that is grand, awful, and
sublime in her realms, as the magnanimous sufferer ex-
pired ! He was conveyed to his tomb, and Roman sol-
diers were there stationed to guard it. Soldiera whoJe
business it was to die,-who had been brought up in
tented fields of war, and who had from childhood en-
countered hardships and toils, fatigues and dangers.
They were men, who had often bared their bosoms to
the shafts of battle, and undismayed listened to its stormy
voice, and who knew not what it was to quail beneath
the glance of a mortal eye. Such men as these, were
stationed to guard that tomb, and hold the Prince of Life
in death. But-
"An angel's arm can't snatch him from the grave;
Legiona ofangela can't confine him there."
On the morning of the third day, the last grand scene
in this interesting drama was opened. The guardian
angel of Jesus Christ was once more dispatched from
the eternal throne. He descended from heaven, and an
earthquake shook creation. He approached the tomb
of the Holy Sleeper, and stood before it. "He rolled
back the stone from the door of the sepulchre and sat
upon it. His countenance was like the lightning, and
his raiment white as snow; and for fear of him, the
keepers did shake, and become as dead men l"
What, I ask, was it that threw them into this slumber,
with feelings of a cold shuddering fear, ~o nigh ap-
proaching the dead 1 I an1wer, it waa the WILL of this
o;9,tized byGoogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 81
angel, whose countenance was like the lightning, that
sunk them into a motionless sleep. It was his WILL
which struck the vibrations of terror through the dark
chambers of their souls, and withered them to the earth.
I should like to notice the circumstance of Paul being
caught up into the third heavens-whether out of the
body or in the body, he could not tell-of Peter falling
into a trance when he went upon the house-top to pray,
and of Zacharias being struck dumb in the temple; but
time will not permit.
I close, by returning my sincere thanks to the Modera-
tors, for the good order they have preserved ; to the
various Committees, for their patient examinations and
impartial reports of the experiments performed ; and to
the ladies and gentlemen, for their faithful attendance
and respectful attention, and also for the good feelings
they have uniformly manifested towards the lecturer
during the entire course, which is now brought to a
termination.
o;9,tized byGoogle
THE SOUL TBE BEAT OP l'AIN. 82
NOTB.-FB.OM CHANNING.
"WE are created with a susceptibility of pain, and
severe pain. This is a part of our nature, as truly as
our susceptibility of enjoyment. God has implanted it,
and has thus opened in the very centre of our being a
fountain of suffering. We carry it within us, and can
no more escape it than we can our power of thought.
We are apt to throw our pains on outward things as
their causes. It is the fire, the sea, the sword, or human
enmity, which gives us pain. But there is no pain in the
fire or the sword, which passes thence into our souls.
The pain begins and ends in the soul itself. Outward
things are only the occasions. Even the body has no
pain in it, which it infuses into the mind. Of itself, it is
incapable of suffering. This hand may be cracked,
crushed in the rack of the inquisitor, and that burnt in a
slow fire ; but in these cases it is not the fibres, the
blood-vessels, the bones of the hand which endure pain.
These are merely connected, by the will of the Creator,
with the springs of pain in the soul. Here, here is the
only origin and seat of suffering. If God so willed, the
gashing of the flesh with a knife, the piercing of the
heart with a dagger, might be the occasion of exquisite
delight.. We know that, in the heat of battle, a wound
is not felt, and that men, dying for their faith by instru-
ments of torture, have expired with triumph on their lips.
In these cases, the spring of suffering in the mind is not
touched by the lacerations of the body, in consequence.
of the absorbing action of other principles of the soul.
All suffering is to be traced to the susceptibility, the ca-
pacity of pain, which belongs to our nature, and which
the Creator has implanted ineradicably within us."
o;9,tized byGoogle
