{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1847__fowler___self-culture_and_perfection_of_character.pdf","mytitle":"Self-culture And Perfection Of Character","mylang":"de"}
Iff T. 'B1. n TT T. T TT 'R. IB . 4'J
SELF-CULTURE,
AND 9^ ^
NFw v
PERFECTION OF CHARACTER
INCLUDING TBI
MANAGEMENT OF YOUTH.
BY O. S. FOWi
mr-aiDi on itim ami.
SEVENTH THOUSAND—STEREOTYPED KDiriOlf.
NEW YORK:
FOWLERS AND WELLS, PUBLISHERS
No. 808 BROADWAY.
London : 142 Strand
Boston : I
No, 142 Washington St '
)'
+
j Pni la DELPniA :
' No. 281 Arch Street
'4 -e »'
THE NEW Y-jRK'
PUBLIC LIBRARY
490456
ASTOR, LENOX AN9
TILDEN Fo:i'-niTnN«.
R id;o L
\". •' ':
Entered, according tj Act of Congress, in the year 1847,
Bt O. S. FOWLEE,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the Southern District
of New York
'.'
-.
8ELF-1MPROYFMENT DIRECTORY TAALK
Functions. Cultivation. RcvtnJnt.
1. Amativeuesa 217 218
3 Parental Lore 219 220-1-2
3. Adhesiveness , 225 *226-8-9 227
4 Inhabitiveness 231 232
5. Continuity . 233 234
A. Vitativeneas 236 236 237
6. Combativeness 238 339 240
7. Destructiveness 241 242 243
8. Alimentiveness 244 245 246
Aquativeness 247
9. Acquisitiveness 248 . 249 250
10. Secretiveness 251 252 253
11. Cautiousness 254 255 256
12. Approbativeness 257 ' 258 259
13. Self-Esteem . 260 261 262-3
14. Firmness . s 2.64 265 256-301-3
15. Conscientiousness' 267 268-9 270
16. Hope r' 271 272-4 273
17. Spirituality < 275 276 277
18. Veneration \f / 278 279 280
19. Benevolence 281 282 283
20. Constructiveness 284 285 286
21. Ideality 287 288 289
B. Sublimity. 289 290 29i
22. Imitation v" 292 293 294
23. Mirthfulness 295 296 297
D. Agreeableness \^< 298 1 299 | 300
A dot. or any other mark, with the pen, will be placed in the square
containing the number of the paragraphs which give the required direc
tions. But where several persons are marked on the same table, a hori-
zonta. stroke, or dash, — will be used for the first; a perpendicular
erected on it, thus J., for the second ; this perpendicular continued below
the horizontal, making a cross, thus -f-, for the third ; a horizontal curve
over this «ross, thus +, for the fourth ; under for the fifth ; to the righ.
hand for the sixth ; and the left hand for the seventh : so that the follow
ing mark (-f-) stands for all seven
SELF-IMPROVEMENT DIREC'IORY TABLE.
•
Functions Cultivation. Restraint.
1. Amativeness 217 21!
2. Parental Love . . 219 220-1-2
3. Adhesiveness •. 225 226-8-9 227
1. Inhabitiveness 231 232
5. Continuity . 233 234
A. Vitativeness 236 236 237
6. Combativeness 238 239 240
7 Destructiveness 241 242 243
8. Alimentiveness 244 245 246
Aquativeness . 247
9. Acquisitiveness 248 249 250
10. Secretiveness . 251 252 253
11. Cautiousness 254 255 256
12. Approbativeness 257 258 259
13. Self-Esteem . 260 261 262-3
14. Firmness . 264 265 266-301-3
15. Conscientiousness 267 268-9 270
16. Hope 271 272-4 273
17. Spirituality . 275 276 277
18 Veneration 278 279 280
19. Benevolence 281 282 283
20. Constructivenese 284 285 286
21. Ideality 287 288 289
B. Sublimity. 289 290 291
22 Imitation 292 293 294
2i Mirthfulness . 295 296 297
D. Agreeableness 298 299 300
A dot, or any other mark, with the pen, will be placed in the square
containing the number of the paragraphs which give the required direc
tions. But where several persons are marked on the same table, a hori- 1
xonta. stroke, or dash, — will be used for the first; a perpendicular 1
erected on it, thus J-, ft: the second ; this perpendicular continued below 1
the horizontal, making a cross, thus -4., for the third ; a horizontal curve 1
over this cross, thus +, for the fourth ; under for the fifth ; to the right 1
hand for the sixth ; and the left hand for the seventh : so that the follow 1
ing mark (+) stands for all seven
PRE
TO THE FIRST EDITION,
improvement is the practical watch-word of the age
Since the Revolution, men have probably made more
numerous and valuable inventions and discoveries in
machinery, agriculture, and the means of human com
fort and luxury, than ever before since the Creation.
Yet, while they are straining every nerve to its utmos*
tension to devise some shorter and still shorter road to
augment wealth, and the facilities for promoting merely
animal gratifications, and those mostly artificial, how
few care or attempt to improve their intellectual or
moral faculties. If they can but amass riches, live in
splendid palaces and princely style, and procure the
means of indulging the selfish propensities, they exult in
having attained " the highest good," though intellect lie
waste, and moral pleasures are unknown. And even
the few who attempt to improve their higher faculties
know neither where to begin nor how to proceed.
Is this right ? Does it comport with the great end of
our creation? Is it even our true interest? Does it
secure our highest happiness ? Neither, as man's sad
experience abundantly attests. His intellectual ano
moral faculties constitute the great fountain of human
enjoyment, while physical gratifications are only inci
dental—mere tributaries. He must be happy in the
moral deportment of hw nature, or be for ever misera.
PREFACE TO TI1S FIRST EDITION.
ble. With this settled ordinance of his natuie he must
•omply, or else suffer the penalty affixed to the breach
of this cardinal law of his moral constitution.
To expound, in view of these principles, the laws ol
virtue, and develop nature's method of cultivating the
higher and holier capabilities of our nature ; to guide
(he young into the paths of goodness, and consequent
happiness ; to show parents and teachers how to con
duct the moral training and government of children-
and to disclose to all asp'rants after self-improvement
the means of securing "the highest good" by expounding
the laws of our moral being and inciting to their obedi
ence—objects the most exalted which can possibly en
gage human attention or effort—is this work laid before
the public. It discloses the true sources of human en
joyment, and will conduct inquirers, especially youthful,
to the fountain-head of all pleasure, where they may
drink deep and perpetually of those delicious and soul-
renovating waters of moral enjoyment, which our Crea
tor proffers without stint to all who will accept this
God-conferred and Heaven-tending boon. It will show
all how to guide and regulate their feelings and conduct ;
how to restrain and subdue their "easily besetting
sins" ; improve theik moral characters ; and exercise
all their faculties in harmony with their primitive con
stitution, and thereby render their action always vir
tuous, so as thus to secure that one end of their being
—happiness.
To give a more specific aspect of its object and adap
tation : Applicants for phrenological examinations are
daily and earnestly inquiring—" How can I remedy my
defects ? By what means can 1 increase my deficient
orgs'ns and diminish or regulate those that are too
large? Man naturahv longs for higher and still higher
FREFACE .0 THE FIKST iOITIOM.
intellectual and moral attainments. The scale or range
of self.improvement is illimitable. However high a
point we may reach, we naturally desire to rise higher
and still higher, till w 3 become " perfect, as God is per
fect." And the higher we rise, the stronger our desire
to press forward and upward into a state still more ex
alted. At no previous point of time, probably, has this
desire equalled its present point of intensity. Parents,
in particular, are inquiring with deep solicitude—" How
can I make my children better ? That new and most
powerful mental stimulant furnished by our republican
institutions, has waked up a mighty hungering and thirst
ing, especially in parents and the young, after moral
excellence. These important inquiries—How can I
render myself, and how make my children better ?
this work answers scientifically. It bases every di
rection in those laws of mind developed by Phrenolo
gy—that exponent of all the moral laws of our being,
that epitome of all mental knowledge, that great director
of the constituent elements of perfection, and how to
attain it. This science of mind not only teaches us oui
characters, but also, what is infinitely more important,
how to improve them. It shows us in what perfection
consists, and how to form character and mould mind in
accordance with its conditions. Self.knowledge must
precede st-If.improvement, but never supersede it. For
merly, phrenologists were content with reading them
selves and others through this mirror of human nature,
but they now seek earnestly to apply it to their own in
tellectual and moral progression, and that of the rising
generation—an application which, practically made, will
more effectually subserve human advancement and hap
piness, than all the discoveries and inventions, all the
metaphysical and even theological speculations, together
n PREFACE Tl THE FIRST EDITiOlf.
with all the educational efforts of the age and of all ages
combined ; because this discloses the true philosophy
of mind, and shows how to perfect it ; while they apper
tain to physics, or enter the department of mind only to
becloud it. Tc the elucidation of these momentous
truths these pages are devoted.
131 Nassau Strut. New Yolk, July 1843.
PREFACE #
TO THE IMPROVED EDITION.
More than two-thirds of the time since this work was
first published, it has been out of print, because the
author was unwilling to re-publish till he could improve
it more to his liking. But its subject matter is
deemed too important to allow minor defects to with
hold it from the public. To^o good by disclosing the
only true method of conducting self-improvement, and,
above all, to put juvenile education upon the basis of the
nature of man—these transcendently important consid
erations urged its immediate re-publication ; and those
who prefer utility of matter to beauty of style, will ex
cuse its defects while they profit by its suggestions.
Its principles are all true. They are not hastily put
forth. Every idea advanced has been thoroughly scru
tinized in all its aspects. Its subject matter needs no
apology, only its authorship. Probably no ten pages
of it can be carefully perused without essential benefit.
Parents will find it a text-book by which to mould the
characters of their dear children. All can learn from it
how to live—how to become good—how to render
themselves happy.
PBEFACW*
TO THE STEREOTYPE &DlTia
Of the five years since this work was. first published,
it has been on sale less than two, because each edition
was bought up before the author could command time
to effect the improvements he desired. Though it is
now far from being perfect, yet every portion of it has
been re-written. The matter of the former volume has
been condensed from three hundred and fifty pages oc
tavo to less than two hundred duodecimo, besides having
been every way improved, and over six hundred pages
of new matter added—though this addition appertains in
part to Vol. L, or " Physiology, Animal and Mental," and
to " Memory," or Intellectual Education, which consti
tutes Vol. III., as well as to this work, which constitutes
Vol. II.
Our subject naturally divides itself into three depart
ments : Physical improvement, or the preservation and
restoration ofhealth ; Moral improvement, or the proper
cultivation and regulation of the feelings and moral at
lections ; and Intelectual improvement, or mental dis
cipline. This order we have followed by allotting a
volume to each ; so that those who wish to prosecute
either separate y, can do so, or all can be had bound to
gether ; yet it is to be hoped that whoe\ er reads one
will be incited thereby to read them all. To facilitate
references from all parts of each volume to all parts of
Jt PREFACE To THE STEREOTYPE EDITION.
the others, each distinct idea advanced has received an
appropriate head and number, to which reference is had
by those small and elevated figures, called superiors
found interspersed through the volumes.
Tables have also been prepared, in which those who
secure the requisite examinations, are referred to those
passages in each volume, which direct them how to im
prove those faculties more especially defective, md
restrain those most liable to perversion.
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER I.
eOHSTHUENT ELEMENTS OR CONDITIONS >F PERFECTION
OF CHARACTER.
SECTION I.
PROGRESSION A LAW OF THINGS—ITS APPLICA HC N TO HUMAN AND
PERSONAL IMPROVEMENT.
PAGE.
201. The earth progressive.—202. The multiplication of all that
grows.—203. Increase of population.—204. Improving their quali
ties.—205. Human perfectibility.—206. Individual progression. 19—34
SECTION II.
CONDITIONS OF PERFECTION AND ENJOYMl'NT.
S07. The harmonious action of all the faculties.—208. Normality of
function.—209. Cerebral diseases causing depravity. - 34—43
SECTION III.
THE INTER-RELATION EXISTING BETWEEN THE BODY AND THB
PROPENSITIES.
210. Existence of this reciprocity of condition.—211. Governing the
propensities by the intellectual and moral faculties. 44—68
SECTION IV.
THE EVENLY-BALANCED, A PROPORTIONATE ACTION CF THE FAC
ULTIES A CONDITION OF PERFECTION ITS FEASIBILITY, AND
THE MODE OF SECURING IT.
812. Proportion a condition of perfection.—213. Proof that the or
gans can be enlarged and diminished.—214. The personal exercise
oftho faculties.—215. Means ofexciting the faculties.—216. "Know
our own selves." 68—lit
Ill CONTENTS.
CHAPTER II.
ANALYS.S AND MEANS OF STRENGTHENING THE FACULTIES.
1. AMATIVENESS.
PAGE
217. Definition, location, and adaptation.—218. Perversion and re
straint. ... . . n9— |>o
2. PHILOPBOGENITIVENESS.
219. Definition and location—large and small.—220. Adaptation and
cultivation.—221. Duty and mode of its cultivation.—222. Mater
nal love and luty.—223. Cultivation in the unmarried and
children. - ..... 12(1—136
3. ADHESIVENESS.
224. Definition, location, and function.—225. Large and small.—
226. Adaptation and cultivation.—227. Due regulation and re
straint.—228. Cultivation iu children.—229. Choosing associates
for children—schoot" ..... 136—1 46
UNION FOB LIFE.
230. Definition, location, adaptation, and cultivation. - 146— 14?
4. INHABITIVENESS.
231. Definition, location, and effects on character.—232. Adaptation
and cultivation. ..... 147—I4p
5. CONTINUITY, OR CONCENTRATIVENESS.
233. Definition and location—large and smatl.—234. Adaptation, cul
tivation, and restraint. ... . 149- -150
A. VITATIVENESS.
235. Definition, location, and adaptation.—236. Its cultivation—dread
of death.—237. The dead and their interment—mourners. 151—159
6. COMBATIVENESS.
238. Definition and location—large and small.—239. Adaptation and
cultivation.—240. Its abases and due regulation. - 159—165
7. DESTRUCTIVENESS, OR EXECUTIVENESS.
341. Definition and location—large and small.—242. Adaptation and
cultivation —243. Due regulation and restraint—swearing. 166— 172
8. ALIMENTIVENESS.
244 Definition and location—large and small.—245. Adaptation and
means of cultivation.—246. Restraint and right direction. 173— 178
AQUATIVENESS, OB BIBATIVENESS.
947. Definition, location, adaptation, and cultivation. 17 9—181
CONTENTS. Xiil
9. ACQUISITIVENESS.
248. Definitiub and location —large aud small.—249 Adaptation and
cultivation.—250. Due regulation and restraint. - - 181— 195
10. SECEETIVENES3.
651. Definition and ocation—large and small. —252. Adaptation and
cultivation.—253. Restraint and due regulation. - - 196—208
11. CAUTIOUSNESS.
254. Definition, function, and location.—255. Adaptation and culti
vation —256. Restraint and due regulation. - - 20*3—208
12. APPROBAT1VENESS.
257. Definition, function, and location.—258. Adaptation and cultiva
tion. 259. Due regulation and restraint. - - - 208—218
13. 8ELE-ESTEEM.
260. Definition, function, and location.—261. Adaptation and cultiva
tion.—262. Self-government, or the training of the will.—263. Re
straint and due regulation of Self-Esteem. - - 217—228
14. FIRMNESS.
264. Definition, function, and location.—265. Adaptation and cul
tivation.—266. Restraint and right direction. - - 229—232
15. CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.
267. Definition, function, and location.—268. Adaptation and culti-
' vation.—269. Human accountability and guilt.—270. Right di
rection of Conscientiousness. .... 232—246
16. HOPE.
271. Dofinition, location, and function.—272. Adaptation and cul
tivation.—273. Due regulation and restraint.—274. A future
state. ------- 247—252
17. SPIRITUALITY—MARVELLOUSNESS.
375. Definition, location, and function.—276. Adaptation and cultiva
tion.—277. Due regulation.- .... 253—261
18. VENERATION.
B78. Definition, location, and function.—279. Adaptation and cultiva-
. tion.—280. Restraint and due regulation. - - 262—278
19. BENEVOLENCE.
feSl. Definition, location, and function.—282. Adaptation and cultiva
tion.—283. Restraint and due regulation. - - 270—279
20. CONSTRUCTIVENESS.
284. Definition and location—large and small.—285. Adaptation and
cultivation—286 Restraint and due regulation. - - 279—284
XIV CONTENTS.
21. IDEALITY
287. Definition, auction, and location.—288. .- dap1atou and cultiva
tion.—289. Due regulation. ... 284—289
B. SUBLIMITY.
i'JO. Definition, location, and function.—291. Adaptation and cultiva
tion.—292. Regulation. - 289—291
22. IMITATION.
203. Definition and location—large and small.—294. Adaptation and
cutivation.—295. Due regulation—theatricals. - - 290—295
23. MIRTHFULNESS.
296. Definition and location—large and small.—297. Adaptation and
cultivation.—298. Restraint and due regulation. - - 295—299
C. AGREEABLENESS.
299. Definition, location, and function.—300. Adaptation and cultiva
tion. .....-- 299—300
SUMMARY APPLICATION TO JUVENILE MANAGEMENT AND
PERSONAL IMPROVEMENT.
S01. The punishment of children.—302. Governing by intellect and
will —303. Arraying the moral faculty against the animal 301— -313
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
n ri.lt
I Structure of the Brain and Nervous System 15
2. Zigomatic Arch S'J
3. Young Franklin 93
4. Old Franklin 94
5. Mrs. Smith 120
6. Mr. J. Johnson 121
7. Gotfried 166
8. Eustache 166
9. The Emperor Vitellius . : 173
fO. Teller 182
11. Gosse 182
12. Aaron Burr 193
13. Dr. Samuel Thompson 197
14. Vendovi, a Feejee Chief. ..' 203
15. DianaWaters 203
16. Judge Brocchus Livingston 218
17. The Conceited Simpleton 227
18. John Ordinaux 229
19. Conscientiousness Large 233
20. Conscientiousness Small 233
21. Negro Murderer 262
23 DianaWaters 263
22. Father Oberlin 263
24. Gosse .271
25. Gotfried J71
26. ClaraFisher 291
27. Jacob Jarvis 291
28. JosephC Neal 296
SELF-IMPIU VEMENT.
CHAPTER I.
CONSTITUENT ELEMENTS OR CONDITIONS OF PERFECTION
OF CHARACTER.
SECTION I.
PROGRESSION A LAW OF THINGS ITS APPLICATION TO HUMAN
AND PERSONAL IMPROVEMENT.
201. THIS KARTII FROORESSITK.
Improvement is written in living characters upon every
department of nature. The earth herself, once probaly only
a gaseous formation, during the lapse of infinite ages, con
densed and cooled till a crust formed upon her surface, and
she became ultimately fitted for the abode of life. But her
earlier productions, as evinced by the petrifactions found in
her lowest strata of organic deposit, were coarse in structure
and every way exceedingly inferior. Yet every successive
epoch, compared with preceding ones, and even the latter as
compared with the previous portions of each era, brought forth
vegetables and animals of a higher and still higher order, in
the exact date of the world's age, doubtless because, as she
grew older, her elements became prepared to produce and sus
tain a higher and still higher order of life, till, at the epoch
just preceding the creation of man. a lower order of th»
monkey tribe made ita appearance ; and finally, when this law
of progression had fitted the earth for the habitation of man.
the " lord of creation"—this last and most perfect work ot
God—was ushered into being.
2C PROGRESSION A LA W OF THIN-S.
Nor did her progress stop heie. Her fertility is still be
coming constantly re-augmented. All her mountains, hills,
and even rocks, as well as all those materials of which she is
formed, are only so many stoie-houses of manure, and consist
of materials for making and enriching soil. By slow degrees
the outside and fissures of rocks decay, and ultimately form
soil, which wind and water transport to her valleys, and thus
both supply the waste effected by growth, and perpetually
enhance her fertility. Of this the rich mould in the seams of
rocks and around stones, and the strength of stony land, a3
well as the fact that lime, pulverized rock, and some kinds of
sand, re-fertilize the earth, furnishes both proofs and examples.
Nor will this process cease, or our world be destroyed, till all
her mountains, all her depths, are converted by surface decay
into soil, vegetable formations, animal fabrics, and the materials
for the manifestation of mind. Our world was not created
yesterday, and will not grow old or be destroyed to-morrow.
These exhaustless stores, capable of being converted into vege
table and animal life, were not created in vain, and will not
be destroyed, but, during countless millions of centuries to
come, will go on illimitably to re-augment the earth's fertility,
and minister to human happiness. Indeed, every successive
ige will render her more and still more a paradise, and fit her
.to enhance, more and more, the happiness of all sentient life !
This conclusion is supported by the fact that vegetable and
animal offal decay, re-enrich the soil, and re-augment the
earth's productiveness. In fact, this enriching process cannot
be prevented. Hence a given piece of land, tilled in the
best possible manner, if re-enriched only with the manure
made from the cast-off portion of its own products, and espe
cially if chemistry and electricity be brought into requisition,
will support human life, and yet become richer and more pro
ductive illimitably, and forever !
202. THE MULTIPLICATION OP ALL THAT GROWS
Furnishes another illustration of this principle of progres
sion. No nut, grain, or seed whatever, is content to re-place
itself but every vegetable, every animal, is constituted tc
INCREASE SF rOPl'LATIO.1 . i\
" multipi y." A single elm-nut produces a tree which often
re-produces many millions of nuts pek year, for centuries,
enough, if all were properly planted and tended, to cover a
large area of the earth's surface. The seeds borne by a single
apple or cherry tree furnish another example. This multi
plying law, appertains equally, to the seeds of all vegetables,
of all fruits, of all grains, of universal vegetable life. Behold
throughout the whole earth the perpetual workings of this pro
lific principle, not only in filling her gradually but effectually
with all manner of products, but also in furnishing a vast sur
plus for waste and the sustenance of life !
This law of universal increase, except when thwarted by
art, is perpetually multiplying the entire animal kingdom,
and may possibly be multiplying suns and worlds from age to
age ! In general, the more inferior the animal, the more fruit
ful. This prolific law, applied to man, is also perpetually
effecting an
203. INCREASE OP POPULATION.
The inhabitants of given nations and districts unravaged by
war, are reputed to double every twenty-five years. Our own
population redoubles every twenty-three years. How astonish
ing our increase vithin the memory of us all. At this rate,
what will it become in a hundred years ? Over three hundred
millions—sixteen then, to one now ! And in two hundred years,
-ver five thousand millions—twenty-five hundred then, to one
now ! Nor is 2046 so far off either, but that some of our great
grand-children will see it ! And in a thousand years, above
five and a half billions of millions to one now ! ! Other
civilized nations will meanwhile also increase. A thousand
years will crowd every mountain and crevice, and every isle
of the sea on the whole earth, yet this numerical p-ogres.
sion of man will not cease in a thousand years, nor in a hun
dred thousand. Its ultimate destiny, man's finite mind cannot
conceive. Yet this is certain, that it will both crowd land and
water with human beings to the utmost capacity of room and
sustenance, after plying every possible means of augmenting
her productiveness on the one hand, and observing the utmost
economy of the means of subsistence on the other, and then
22 PROGRESSION A ^l\V OF THINGS.
keep them as full as the highest happiness of the greatest
number will allow, probably countless millions of years ; for
to nature, " a thousand years are as one day." Though this
multiplying principle, doubtless, has its natural check by
which to prevent over population, yet God alone knows the
prospective number of his children !
Nor does this prolific law multiply vegetables, animal, anc
human life merely. It is also perpetually
204. IMPROVING THKIK QUALITIES.
Take an illustration from the kingdom of fruits. The tree
which grows from an apple seed rarely bears ah apple like
that in which its seed grew ; because it must be impregnated
with some foreign pollin in order to, its fructification. Sup
pose, then, that a blossom on a tree which bears sweet apples
is impregnated by the pollin—transported by wind, or bee, or
insect—of a sour apple-tree, the tree which grows frorr 'his
seed will bear an apple unlike its sweet or sour parentage, but
between the two, a blending of the qualities of both, and per
haps better than either ; and thus of the seeds of all other
apples, cherries, peaches, pears, plums, and fruits of all kinds.
This very principle is now at work over the whole earth, to
improve and re-improve from age to age every species of fruit
which grows. It is constantly reproducing new and superior
kinds of apples, and varieties of the plum, peach, and grape
more and still more fair and delicious as time rolls on. Our
forefathers were not permitted to feast themselves on fruits any
where near as rich or various as those which delight our taste ;
and our descendants will regale their palates both with new
varieties, and those almost incalculably more delicious than
any we now enjoy. Let those who question this, recount the
improvements in fruits which have taken place since they can
remember, or compare the fruits of old orchards with those
of new. None but those who have eaten the new Flemish,
and other varieties of the pear, can either appreciate this
improvement or realize what delicious fruits this very prin
ciple has recently brought forth. And may we not safely
predicate what will be from what has been, especially when
IMPROVEMENT OF BEHB AND ANIMAL. . 23
our own eyes see the aclual workings of that very law whicn
is effecting such improvement ? Is nature's ingenuity or
means exhausted ? Scarcely commenced. Barely reached
a fail beginning. All our splendid varieties of the pear
doubtless spring from an austere, hard, astringent variety,
and this parented by the little, insipid thorn-pear. All
those large, beautiful, productive, rich, and delicious varieties
of the apple, adapted to all tastes, which regale our palates,
doubtless sprung from the hard, austere, astringent crab-apple,
and this was probably parented by the little, bitter thorn-
apple.
All those magnificent varieties of peaches which delight
our appetite, and moisten the parched mouth in oppressive
August, were parented by a small, nurly, bitter, and even
poisonous product of the Persian desert.
Of the potato this is equally true—true of universal nature.
Nor is the end yet, only the beginning. If from such materials
for a commencement, this improving law has wrought out such
magnificent edibles, what, with those luscious fruits on which
to start anew, will it not produce in ages to come ! And since
every new variety can be disseminated and perpetuated il-
limitably, by grafting, it is not possible for the most exalted
imaginings to depict upon what luxurious varieties of all
kinds of fruits, if not of new varieties, our descendants will
regale themselves a thousand years hence !
Nor does this progressive principle improve fruit merely,
but applies equally to animals. From the inter-propagation
of different breeds of horses, cattle, sheep, etc., new, and often
superior, kinds are produced. And thus of all that grows.
In short, this all-perfecting principle must necessarily con
tinue, throughout all time, to carry forward and upward every
department of nature to higher and still higher degrees of
perfection, inconceivably and inimitably ! Our eyes behold
only the mere beginnings of those incalculably glorious re
sults which this progressiva law inust ultimately woik out to
all sentient beings!
24 PROGRESSION A LAW F THINGS.
205. HUMAN PIRFECTIBILITT.
But much as this law of progression should awaken emo
;ions of gratitude and admiration for improving soil, fruit,
animals, and nature in general, shall we not rejoice that it
applies also to our race, and in a degree as much higher as it
is their superior ? How should we literally exult in the pro
spect, aye, certainty, that man is not always to remain that low,
stupid, degraded, ignorant, senseless, gross, sensual, glutton
ous, lustful, deceitful, selfish, cruel, tyrannical, rapacious,
blood-thirsty, depraved animal thing he now is, and always
has been. He commenced his career under the dominion of
the organs located in the back and lower portion of the head—
the social. For three thousand years he cared and lived
mainly for offspring and sodomy ; of which the exultation of
Eve over the birth of every child, the desire of Abraham,
Sarah, Leah, Rachel, Tamar, the daughters of Lot, and all
the ancients for issue ; the vauntings of the fabled Niobe on
account of her having seven sons and seven daughters, the
grossest sensuality of the cities of the plain, the unbridled
licentiousness of Babylon, the number and devotedness of
the worshippers of Venus throughout the old world, and much
more to this eflect, bears ample testimony. But the power of
these passions evidently diminished as time rolled on, and has
finally yielded its sway to Combativeness and Destructiveness,
the organs of which are located higher up and farther for
ward than the social. War succeeded love, first uniting with
it in chivalry, and the world has run mad, almost down to
our own times, after martial glory. Those who have won
battles have been the earth's idols.
Alimentiveness—still farther forward—united with war,
and Bacchus revelled with Venus and Mars. But within the
last three centuries a new divinity—a god of gold and goods—
has become a joint partner with sensuality, war, and feasting,
and is now fast usurping universal dominion. Wealth is now
man's master passion. Its organ is located still higher up,
and farther forward, and this shows that man is advancing
towards that ascendency of the intellectual and moral facul
HUMAN IMPROVEMENT 2ft
ties which constitu'es virtue and happiness91 . But within the
last fifty years, Coustructiveness—located still faither forward
and upward—has ascended the throne, and is now ruling
man in conjunction with Acquisitiveness, of which modern
mechanical inventions, manufactures, and the like, furnish
examples.
That man is rapidly progressing is equally evinced in
those successive governmental improvements which have
taken place. Compare our own government and institutions
with those of any previous epoch, and behold the change for
the better. Contrast the tyranny of the kings of Babylon,
Nineveh, Egypt, Tyre, the Caesars, Nero, and even ancient
England—of all antiquity—with the far greater leniency of
all modern thrones, and especially of all old governments with
the comparative liberality and justice of the last and infinitely
the best government on earth, and the improvement of gov-
ernments is no longer problematical.
Similar advances have been made in religion. How sensual
and debased the religion of -the Egyptians, Parthians, and the
mythology of Greece and Rome. A god for every deprav
ed propensity ; and the more disgusting the god the more
numerous and zealous its devotees, of which the numerous
temples and thronged courts of the goddess of shameless pub
lic prostitution furnish us pertinent examples. Judaism, with
its interdiction of idol worship, was a great advance on all
previous religions, and the pure and peaceable doctrines of
Jesus Christ on the Mosaic dispensation.
But men, as a whole, were not yet prepared to appreciate
these heaven-born and heaven-tending doctrines, and conse
quently perverted them. Yet every new sect of professing
Christians has made more or less advance on the religion of
its predecessors. And a mighty reform is now in progress
before our own eyes, and a great and glorious change is be
coming more and more developed as time progresses. Nor
is the end yet.
Bad as the world still is, it has been much worse. Many
as are the evils and abuses under which we groan, they are
greatly diminishing, compared with those of any former age.
3
20 PHOGRESSIO& A LAW CF THINGS.
Nor a: i the kinds of existing evil anything like as grievous
now as formerly. The burglaries, drinking, swindting, and
shark-like rapacity of the present age, bear no comparison
with the robberies, extortions, murders, and warlike couragfl
of feudal times, and especially of barbarous antiquity. Who
would not infinitely rather live in our speculating, money,
grasping age than in former ones of clannish hatred and mur-
der, or knight-errant foolery and carnage? Are not our edu
cational facilities annually improving, and the means of hu.
man comfort, and even luxury, multiplying apace ? Let me
live now in preference to any former age, and, for personal
enjoyment, centuries hence rather than now. Man is destined
to become almost infinitely more elevated in the scale of in
tellectual and moral excellence than he now is. - This pro
gressive law which has brought mankind measurably out of
the ignorance, superstition, idolatry, tyranny, and bloodshed of
past ages, will go on to make diem terrestrial angels, and to
render our earth a perfect paradise. Yes, the predicted mil
lennium is not a fancy sketch, but a prospective reality, and
things are "now shaping preparatory to its dawn. This all-
perfecting principle is now rapidly ushering it in ; nor can any
thing whatever arrest its advent or long postpone its blessed
approach. It has already incalculably diminished sensuality
in all its forms, especially lust and cruelty. It is fast banish,
ing war and all its bloody horrors. It will soon " beat swords
into ploughshares and spears into pruning-hooks," demolish
the gallows, and convert prisons into mansions of happiness.
It will increase knowledge inimitably, and diffuse it through
out the whole earth. It will promote health by teaching and
enforcing its laws, till " no one shall say I am sick," till "as
the days of a tree shall be the days of my people," and till i».
banishes sin and suffering, augments man's talents and capa
bilities for enjoyment a hundred-fold, and renders him as per.
fectly happy as it s possible for his nature to become o»
endure !
Is tne sciENi'inc waurant for all this incredulously re.
quired ? The following fundamental truths render it abso.
lutely certain. First, this universal tendency of all nature,
E"MAN IMrROVEMI.NT. 17
Animate and .tianimate, to perfection ; and shall van be iti
only exception ? Shall he not rather constitute its highest
subject—the grand c'.imax of this all-pervading principle?
Secondly, man's inventing capabilities are perpetually devis-
ing inventions without end, and making improvements innum.
orable, which his imitation is copying, extending, and perpe.
tuating inimitably. If he invented merely, the improvements
made by every individual would die with their author; or if
a copyist merely, he would have no new discovery to copy ;
whereas this union of both in his primitive constitution, com
pels him to progress forever in machinery, agriculture, scien
tific discoveries, and every conceivable species of improvement.
Thirdly, an effectual and all-pervading hereditary instrumen
tality is perpetually at work throughout all ages and nations,
for perfecting mankind physically,* intellectually, and moral
ly .f Fourthly, the past history of our race shows a continual
diminution, from age to age, of propensity, and a progression
onward and upward, from predominant Amativeness, through
Philoprogenitiveness, Combativeness, Destructiveness, Alimen-
tiveness, and Secretiveness, to Acquisitiveness, its present
governing passion, a recent rapid advancement of Construc-
tiveness, and a present waking up of Intellectuality. Every
succeeding age has advanced him from the predominance of
Amativeness, his lowest and posterior cerebral organ, up
through one propensity after another, each higher up and far
ther forward than its predecessor, to Acquisitiveness, the last
of the animal group, which is now powerfully exciting both
Constructiveness and Intellect. Man is just beginning to
think—is just learning the great truth that laws govern all
things, and commencing to investigate and apply them, so as
to promote virtue and happiness. Nor can he retrograde, ex
cept temporarily. He is now under the reign of the last of
the propensities. Backward this progressive principle will
never let him go. His next step wiU dethrone propensity, and
give the dominion to his higher faculties. Then shall all
know the Lord from the least even unto the greatest ; every
' " Heretltarj Descent," conc.usioi t " Love and I'artn age," page 138.
28 PROGRESSION A LAW C# THINSS.
species of sin and buffering be done away, and all mankind
rendered perfectly holy and happy !*
206. INDIVIDUAL PROGRESSION
Is equally an ordinance of nature. Man is not brought
forth, like the fabled Minerva from the brain of Jupiter, in the
full possession of every physical power and mental faculty,
but a helpless infant, yet grows by slow but sure gradation in
strength and stature to ultimate maturity. Mind, too, is gov
erned by the same progressive development, from idiotic
infancy, which does not know enough to feed itself or keep
out of the fire, up through all the mental sprightliness and
memory of youth, to all the clearness and power of intel
lectual and moral maturity. Youth is passionate, age delib
erative. The pleasures of youth are trifles, and mainly
appertain to animal gratifications, but rise with age to objects
higher and still higher through life. When the distinctive
characteristics of manhood or womanhood appear, intellect
proper expands. Thoughts flow more abundantly, ambition
to be and to do something worthy is enkindled, thirst after
information increases, a.i'I every succeeding day adds to know
ledge and mental capacity. These two instrumentalities—
our being obliged to lea n something daily, and to remember.
what we learn—literacy compel that mental progression,
which is written in tL< very constitution of mind. Hence
"old men for counsel.'
Happiness being the summing up of all the ordinances of
our nature, if our capabilities of enjoyment are constitu-
tutionally progressive, of course we improve by nature in all
that renders life desirable—in "the chief end of man." Our
mental and all our other powers increase, and as these are
but the " raw material " of enjoyment, why should not the
latter proportionably increase ? Experience also greatly fa
cilitates happiness by warning us to avoid causes of unhap.
* Those who would see this most interesting subject carried out more
fully, can do so by referring to the American Phrenological Journal, edi t-
ed by the author, in a sen«s of articles, entitled ' Progression I law o|
Nature," etc vols, vii., viii , and ix.
INDIVIDUAL PROGRESSION. 28
piness, and constituting a sure guide to success an 1 pleasure.
This great teacher of the most valuable lessons of life if
weak in childhood, but " grows with our growth." Shall not,
then, the happiness it confers? Our knowledge, another
powerful auxiliary of enjoyment, also augments daily. Why
then should not the vast range of pleasures it confers ? As
friendship is perpetually enlarging its circle and strengthening
its ties continually from childhood to old age, why should we
not become more and more happy every successive friend we
make, and friendly expression reciprocate ?
About our twentieth year we find a partner of all our
pleasures, a powerful augmentation of all the joys of life in
a " friend that sticketh closer than a brother." Love opens
the seal of a new and incalculably delightful fountain of hap
piness, as well in anticipation as fruition, which increases as
love strengthens, till it ripens into the tenderest emotions and
the sweetest pleasures of our natures. Though the course of
true love rarely does run smoothly, yet it always might, and
though marriage often diminishes love and its sweets, yet that
its constitutional tendency is vastly to enhance them, has been
fully established in " Love and Parentage," the causes of
this decline explained, and directions given for becoming more
and more affectionate and happy every succeeding day of
married life. The " honey-moon " barely ushers in those
hymeneal pleasures for the perpetual augmentation of which
through life nature has amply provided. Ask any who have
lived in affectionate wedlock forty years, whether they would
exchange a week or year of present connubial pleasure with
that of any previous week since they first loved, and learn as
well as heed, in their prompt negative, the great practical
truth that love and all its exalted delights are governed equally
by this great law of progression.
Marriage also unseals still another source of pleasure in the
transports of parental love. Every successive heir is consti
tutionally adapted to increase parental endearments and do
mestic enjoyment. When it does not, ours is the fault, no*
nature's. " But its death often renders us most wretched."
It need not die"4 * ". " But the family increases our cares
80 PROGRESSION A LAW OF TH!NGS.
and trouble?," objects one. Does, but never need to. Yet
of this, in " Matrimony." Nature has also ordained the in
crease of properly and the comforts of life with years, and of
course all the pleasures they yield. And thus of honor, self-
reliance, discretion, manual skill, taste, the application of cau.
sation, and, indeed, all that we do, know, and are.
"All this, and much more, is indeed true of a comparison
of adolescence with maturity ; but as advanced age diminishes
physical and mental action, it of course enfeebles our capabil
ities of enjoyment," objects another. This is plausible, but
superficial. " Can then decrepit old age enjoy muscular ex
ercise equally with sprightly youth?" It relishes quiet better,
and what it does do tells far more than the mettlesome, ill-
directed exertions of the young. The older we grow the
more we husband our steps and strength, make every blow
tell, and do more with less labor. Healthy old age, too, is
generally sprightly. " But appetite certainly diminishes,"
says another. Is it not a law of appetite to relish favorite
dishes more and more, the more we indulge in them ? " At
all events," it is farther objected, " youth is free from those
pains and diseases contracted through life, to which age is
generally subject." That age might be as free as youth, is
fully shown in "Physiology." "But the Bible expressly ascribes
'trouble and sorrow' to those who exceed seventy," rejoin
its believers. Rather says it is so, yet not that it is their
fated destiny. This usually is the case, because men gen
erally violate the physical and mental laws through life, and
must, of course, abide the consequences in old age ; yet
neither such violations nor their penalties are necessary. Those
who become more and more diseased do so because they vio
late the physical laws more and more as they grow older,
and of course become more and more wretched ; yet we speak
of those who through life fulfil the ordinances of their nature,
rot violate nature's requisitions and thus inour her penalties—
of what might and should be, instead of what is.
" But look at facts," objects still another. " See how much
more happy, sportive, and gay, childhood and youth than mid
dle and old age. Ignorant of the world's wickedness, unre-
\
INDIVIDUAL PROGRESSION. 31
strained by its customs, unconscious of its troubles, yet their
morning sun always does go into a cloud of sorrow or a storm
of adversity. Does and must are two things. Our capabili-
tie. of being happy increase with years, why then should not
*ur happiness ? It would, as invariably as it now declines, if
nnen only knew how to live. Nature has done her part to
ward rendering us all more and still more happy every suc
ceeding year and day of life from birth to death, and he who
foes not become so, does not live up to his glorious privileges
^r destiny ; nor should any be content unless they do. Yet
^.hose who still reject this progressive doctrine are quite wel
come to its down-hill converse, and their own consequent
"growth in misery" instead of " good."
But this doctrine is set completely at rest, and all caviling
silenced, by that constitutional increase of the intellectual and
moral faculties secured by age—their predominance being
the great condition of all enjoyment. We shall soon demon
strate the principle, that the ascendency of the intellectual and
moral faculties over the propensities constitutes virtue and
happiness, while that of the propensities causes sin and mis
ery su. Now children and youth are constitutionally more
animal and impulsive than matured or advanced age. Their
passions are relatively stronger, and intellectuals and morals
weaker, and hence their enjoyments less. Intellectual and
moral excellence is the great cause and condition of happi
ness, and as this constitutionally increases with age, of course
that happiness which it always and necessarily induces, pro
portionally increases. Age is as much better adapted to both
reading and reflection—those great means of intellectual ad
vancement—than youth. The latter is too restless to endure
he confinement requisite for reading or study, while age seeks
.hat "old armed chair," which facilitates both. Healthy old
men of eighty, who have cultivated their minds through life,
and can get books, literally feast on them. Catechise them
Dn this point, as the author has, and learn in their answer how
to render your own descent to the grave the happiest period
of life. Listen to their stores of anecdotes and information,
and heed their ripened wisdom and sound judgment, and you
83 PROGRESSION A LAW OF THLtSS.
may well wish to be like them. Even up to the last day of
life, nature ordains that they retain these transcendent gifts.
Age, too, when nature has her perfect work, constitutionally
augments moral excellence2"—that crowning feature of hu
manity—and ripens all the moral virtues, besides facilitating
the control of the passions—and thus secures, by a natural
process, that very ascendency of the moral faculties which
mainly constitutes happiness. Moral excellence does not con
sist in isolated goodness, but in a long succession, every addi
tion to which augments both it and its consequent enjoyment.
It is like the morning light which grows gradually into the
perfect day. Hence it is impossible for the young to become
as good, and consequently as happy, as the old. Age consti
tutionally purifies the moral virtues and their delights. The
young Christian may be more fervent, yet cannot be as holy.
Though he may evince more rapture, yet for close communion
with God, and desire to see and be like Him, the aged saint
;s as much the senior as in years. Age loves to meditate on
" heaven and heavenly things," and by having breathed forth
holy longings and aspirations for so many successive years
has become " the shock of corn fully ripe" for heaven, and
just ready to be gathered into its anticipated " rest." Would
ye, who have so long panted after perfect holiness, return to
the zeal and the temptations of your earlier religious life ? On
your verdict rests this the ultimate issue of our glorious doc
trine. Moral excellence being the great instrumentality of
all enjoyment,—which age constitutionally augments ; nature
has provided that we become better and better, and therefore,
more and more happy, every succeeding day of life.
Even its very closing is its happiest period. As sunset and
evening twilight are the most beautiful portions of the natural
day, so departing life sheds a holy calm and sweetness over
the soul unknown before, and as, when the last rays of day
invite that rest which is now more welcome than all waking
pleasures, so when life dies away by slow degrees, it welcomes
nothing equally with that eternal rest which awaits ihe chil.
Jren of God. Nature's thus weaning us from earth preparatory
to our leaving it, and her thus ripening us, as wo approach
INDIVIDUAL PROGRESSION. 33
ihe grave, by this natural decay of propensity and growth of
moral feeling, for the joys of heaven, is one of her most
beautiful provisions. Nor is even death itself, when occuring
after the ordinance of nature, that grim, horrid monster gen
erally represented, but a real blessing, even the crowning
blessing of life, not merely as the usher of heaven, but in and
of itself, as we shall show under vitativeness.
Man was then ordained by nature to become more and
more happy every succeeding year and day of life, up to its
very close ; and this life itself is but a preparation for an order
and amount of happiness infinitely higher than our limited
faculties can conceive. Behold that literally infinite scale
of progression in happiness and goodness thus placed within
our reach !
But this scale descends as well as ascends. We can de
teriorate as well as improve, and become more and still more
miserable, instead of happy. Indeed, one or the other we
must become. Stationary we can never remain, in this matter,
any more than in age. Progress we must, if not in goodness
and happiness, in sinfulness and misery, which, depends
mainly on our own selves. And how many grow in wretch
edness as they grow in age—so many that nearly all think
they, too, must descend in this mighty current with the mass !
Such know neither their glorious privileges, nor how to secure
them. But shall we thus retrograde and suffer ? " God for
bid." Shall we not rather strive to attain the highest possible
measure of perfection and happiness ? Shall the pursuit or
possession of riches drag us down from this soaring destiny
of our natures ? He is richest who is most happy1. Or shall
anything whatever ? No, not everything combined ! We
can be happy, and we will. This, the one destiny of our
being, shall become the paramount employment of our entire
lives. What else is desirable ?
But we have something to do. Though nature has created
tnese capabilities of perpetually increasing enjoyment, yet their
productiveness will be only in proportion to their right cultiva
tion. She treats, us as voluntary, not as passive beings ; and
having furnished us with tin means of render:^ ourselves
34 CONDITIONS OT PERFECTION.
happy, leaves us to use or neglect them, and take ihe conse
quences. As soil, however rich is productive in proportion
as it is tilled, so, having planted the seeds of onjoyment in tho
rich soil of human capability, she leaves us to perfect their
fruit by culture, or to choke their growth by sin, and embitter
their fruit by violated law. Ye who are careless of happiness,
idle or trifle on ; but let us who would render ourselves, by
self-improvement, what God has capacitated us to become,
turn from vanities, bury no talent, but redouble all while we
live, and, by studying and improving all our natural gifts, fit
ourselves for that high and holy destiny hereafter secured to
such by this great principle of illimitable progression ! And
to this end let us proceed to investigate its conditions that we
may fulfil them.
SECTION II.
CONDITIONS OF PERFECTION AND ENJOYMEN'*
207. THE HARMONIOUS ACTION OF ALL THE FACULTIES
Constitutes a fundamental condition alike of perfection of
character and happiness of life ; whereas contention among
the faculties is both destructive of all enjoyment and the cause
of intense mental agony. A few illustrations.
During the revival which transpired in New York in 1842,
a gay and volatile young lady oecame seriously impressed,
but loved the pleasures of the world too well to yield to hei
religious convictions. Yet so firmly had they fastened upon
her, that her resistance only increased them. This state of
mind lasted several weeks ; and in describing the feelings con.
sequent on this conflict of her moral with her worldly facul
ties, she expressed herself to this effect. " I could never have
believed, unless I had experienced it, what extreme agony of
mind one can endure, and yet live,"—all because her facul
ties conflicted with each other. A young woman who be
came thoroughly enamored of a young man, whom she at first
supposed every way worthy of I;©' confiding and tender love,
HARMONY VF ACTIC «. 35
fihe.i tlnally convinced that he was sensual, depraved, and
every way unworthy of her, could not, however, cease to love
him. Her high moral feelings forbad her marrying him, yet
her social affections still clung to him with all the yearnings
of a woman's first and only love ; and this contention between
misplaced but deep-rooted affection on the one hand, and her
high intellectual and moral faculties on the other, broke down
one of the very best of constitutions, rendered one every way
capable of being exquisitely happy in the domestic relations
most wretched, and continued, in spite of long separation, the
entreaties and remonstrances of friends, and in opposition to
her own convictions of interest and duty, till it made a com
plete wreck of a truly magnificent woman. This internal
warring of the affections with the other faculties is like pull
ing one limb one way and another the other, till the ligaments
which united them are torn asunder. Many female readers
have doubtless experienced, in their own souls, the indescriba
ble anguish caused by this clinging of their affections to those
who were repulsive to their other faculties ; and how many
others will be able to call to mind pitiable victims of the phys
ical and mental disasters consequent on this internal warfare.
How many men, likewise, who, while deciding whether they
should crown their love by marriage, have had their pride
wounded by being required to demean or humble themselves
more than their proud spirits would bear, yet were unable to
tear their gushing affections from their loved one, although
rendered most miserable by this contention between their pride
and their love.
Let any young man who loves his independence, and yet
loves money, go into business where he is made a menial;
with the certain prosnect of becoming a partner and getting
rich, if he will submit for a while to dictation. He wants the
place, but he hates the service ; and this struggle between
liberty and interest is perfect torment to his troubled soul.
Have not many readers had experience in this, or some other
kindred illustration ?
Pardon a personal allusion. A godly clergyman who
preached where 1 was brought up, and to whom I looked up
36 CONDITIONS CF PERFhCTION.
as a model of perfection, was rarely ever see. to smile, and
frequently remarked that the Saviour was often known to
weep, but never to laugh. From this, joined with a very
rigid religious education, I imbibed the notion that it was
wicked to laugh or joke. Still, Mirthfulness would out.
Conscientiousness would then upbraid till a promise of reform
gave a truce. But traitorous Mirthfulness often broke the
armistice, and again and continually embroiled the contend
ing armies in civil war. Year after year did this internal
warfare go on without cessation, till Phrenology separated the
combatants, and restored peace by telling Conscientiousness
that it was not wrong to laugh, but was right, because Mirth
fulness is a primitive faculty of the mind, and should there
fore be exercised, besides being every way promotive of health
and enjoyment. I have suffered from a broken limb, and have
endured a dislocated joint, and suffered much from other
causes ; but the like of this civil war I never experienced be
fore or since. And all from this warring of the faculties.
And this from ignorance and superstition. The exercise oi
every primitive fuculty is right, is necessary, provided it be
in conjunction with all the others, and upon its legitimate
object208.
A man whose Combativeness is subject to quick and power,
ful excitement, yet whose large Conscientiousness condemns
him therefor, endures more than the pains of purgatory by
" this quarrelling of Conscientiousness with Combativeness. Or
perhaps appetite and duty quarrel—the former insisting on
eating more than, the latter will allow—so that a guilty con
science continually upbraids him for his continual violation
of what he knows to be right. Reader, does not this illustra
tion come home to your own experience ? Do not conscience
and appetite struggle for victory, each at the same time in
flicting deep wounds upon the other, and thus lacerate your
guilty soul with more than ten thousand stripes ? Or, per
haps thy kindness and justice, or thy justice and love of mo
ney, or thy devotion and propensities, are at swords' points,
each thrusting daggers through thy soul more dreadful than
death itself, or, at least, sufficient to mar all the pleasures of
CONCERT OF IcriOIf. 37
life t A house divided against itself cannot stand. He who
condemns himself for what he does, or any of whose faculties
act in opposition to each other, is thereby rendered inconceiv
ably wretched. Well has the Bible said, " Happy is that
man wno condemneth himself in that which he alloweth, '
and, it might have added, miserable those who do.
Yet happy he, whose faculties work together in the silkei
coris of harmony. Happy he whose conscience approves what
his appetite craves, and thereby sweetens his rich repast—
whose love of family and of money each redouble the energy
and augment the happiness of the other ; whose parental feel
ings are gratified by seeing his children grow up in the fear
of the Lord, and walk in the ways of wisdom ; who loves the
wife of his bosom without alloy, and sees no blemish in her,
but every perfection to heighten the action and the pleasure
of all his other faculties; whose love of justice and of money
delight to acquire it, in order to discharge all his pecuniary
obligations ; whose hopes and fears never oscillate ; whose
intellectual convictions of truth never clash, but always blend
with all his feelings and conduct ; whose tastes are all grati
fied by his occupation and associations ; whose friends have
every quality he likes, and none which mars his pleasure in
them ; in short, all of whose faculties move on in harmonious
concert to attain one common end, desired by all, delightful
to all, and who is completely at peace with himself. He is
happy. His cup of pleasure is full to its brim, unmingled
with a single drop of bitterness or atom of pain. He is holy.
He is perfect. May every reader see this law, apply this law,
enjoy this law, and your children and household along with
you!
Let me not, however, be misunderstood. I shall elsewhere
show that one way, and that the most effectual, of subduing
dominant propensities, is to array the moral sentiments against
them. Whenever they become perverted, pitt the moral senti
ments and intellect against them in mortal combat. This will re
form them if they can be reformed, besides being the severest
punishment mankind can possibly endure. Yet this clashing
ihould not occur except as a means of reform ; and when i*
4
88 CONDITIONS OP PERFECTION.
does, its cause should be ferreted jut and corrected, VVhe*
all the faculties co-operate in harmony with their legitimate
functions, none of this clashing can occur ; and when it does,
let the guilty sufferer—even his suffering implies that he is
guilty—ferret out the cause. Let him see which faculty has
broken from its normal function, or whether both have strayed
from the fold of virtue, and restore the wanderer. In other
words, let no faculty be found arrayed against the legitimate
function of any others, but only against their abnormal or
vicious manifestation, and then for the express purpose of
affecting reform.
An additional advantage derived from this concert of ac
tion is the increased power imparted to all the faculties by
this co-operation. Thus, when Cautiousnessness and Com-
bativeness oppose each other, they produce that mental uncer
tainty, and consequent irresolution, which palsy every effort
and blast success ; but when they blend together, they give
that energy and prudence combined which render success well
nigh certain. Let Causality lay hold of the same measure,
and devise a well-concerted plan for this combined prudence and
energy to execute ; let Benevolence draw in the same trace ;
jlet this well-concerted and efficiently-executed plan seek the
happiness of mankind ; let Conscientiousness sanction it, and
urge on every other faculty to labor for its accomplishment ; let
Hope cheerthem on with bright prospects of abundant success ;
let Language and all the other faculties contribute their re
sources, and find ample employment in furthering this labor of
love ; let Firmness keep them stable to their work, and prose
cute this well-laid scheme till it is completely effected ; let
ambition, piety, and all other powers of soul and body combine
together to carry on and carry out the noble purpose, and each,
besides contributing its quota of help, also increases the action
of all the others. Union is strength : division is weakness.
How vast the augmentation of power derived from this harmo
nious co-operation of all the faculties. If any faculty refuse
to come up to the work, besides the absolute loss of its own
power, its absence weakens the hands of all the others. This
Concert is like concord in music, while conflict is double dis-
NORMALITY OF FFNCTION. 89
cord. Frequently a single faculty will completely nullify
the combined efforts of all the others. But enough. The
principle involved is clear, is forcible. Let every mother
apply it. Let every child be trained in view of it. Espe
cially let all those faculties which the business or the pleasure
of any require should act in concert, be trained accordingly,
and a vast augmentation of success and happiness will be the
delightful result.
208. NORMALITY OF FUNCTION.
Every physical, every mental function of man, is capable
f.f a two-fold action, the one natural or normal, and therefore
pleasurable,—the other unnatural or abnormal, and therefore
painful. The normal action of the various physical faculties
constitutes health, and bestows its pleasures ; their abnormal
action causes disease in all its fo.ms, and occasions all its pains.
Each of the mental faculties is equally capable of this dual
action. The natural, and therefore pleasurable, exercise oi
Conscientiousness confers that happy state of mind conse
quent on the consciousness of having done right, or the ap
probation of a clear conscience ; while its abnormal or pain
ful action begets the upbraidings and compunctions of a guilty
conscience, or the goadings, self-reproaches, and self-con
demnations occasioned by the convictions that we have done
wrong. The natural or primitive function of Ideality is the
pleasure experienced in beholding or contemplating the beau
tiful in nature, art, and sentiment, and in exercising those re
fined, elevating feelings which this faculty inspires ; while
its reversed action causes those painful feelings of disgust
and loathsomeness with which this organ regards vulgarity
and grossness. The normal function of Approbativeness is
that delight which we experience when commended for truly
praiseworthy, honorable conduct, while its abnormal, or re-
versed action, causes that feeling of mortification and shame
which we experience when rebuked for what we know to bo
disgraceful. The normal function of Adhesiveness is that un
alloyed pleasure taken by cordial, sincere, intimate friends
in the society of each other, but its reversed, urnatural funo
40 CONDITIONS C'F PERFECTION.
tion is the pain felt, the lacerations of friendship produced by
the loss, death, removal, or separation of friends, or by their
traitorously turning enemies. The natural function of Philo.
progenitiveness gives the pleasure parents take in their chil
dren, when they see them growing up healthy, talented, and
good ; while their sickness, depravity, or wretchedness, wound,
pain, reverse this faculty. The normal function of Combat
ivenessis resistance, resolution, self-defence, protection, energy
of character ; 2W its unnatural or vicious action is anger,
violence of temper, irritability, peevishness, faultfinding, and
abusiveness. The natural function of Alimentiveness is ap
petite for those kinds of food best calculated to sustain
nature33, and improve health; its sinful exercise is gorman
dizing, gluttony, sensuality, intemperance, tobacco chewing,
tea and coffee hankering and drinking, etc. The natural
function of Causality is to investigate truth, and expose error,
as well as to adapt lawful means to the attainment of proper
ends ; its perverted function consists in either employing wrong
means, or effecting wicked ends, or reasoning against truth,
or in defence of wrong, that is, in putting this power to an
improper use. The natural function of Language is to express
correct and useful ideas, in a proper and beautiful manner ;
its perversion consists in retailing petty slander, or using it to
excite improper, injurious feelings, or to communicate what
will do harm. Similar remarks will apply to Mirthfulness,
Individuality, Time, Calculation, Secretiveness, Acquisitive
ness, and indeed to every mental power. In other words, every
function of our complicated nature takes on a natural and
therefore pleasurable action whenever the laws of its con
stitution are fulfilled—whenever it is rightly applied to the
promotion of the end to secure which it was created ; but ex.
periences a painful action whenever exercised out of the pale
of its primitive constitution. To exercise any faculty in
harmony with its primitive function renders its action neces
sarily pleasurable ; to exercise it in contrariety therewith,
always, and by a law of things, causes pain. And one of the
first great steps to be taken in securing that improvement and
nappiness, the conditions of which constitute our present
CEREBRAI DISEASE. 41
inquiry, is to learn and fulfil this normal function of all ou.
faculties. Hence, to be happy is not, after all, so very diffi
cult provided we know how, and this work will, therefore,
give both the natural, and also the perverted, or painful, or
sinful—all the same—action of all the faculties—the normal,
under the head of adaptation, and the other, under that of
PERVERSION or ABUSE.
It deserves more specific remark that this normal action of
the various faculties constitutes virtue, and their abnormal or
perverted action, sin, vice, or depravity ; so that, by following
their natural direction, we shall avoid sin and its penalties,
and render ourselves virtuous, and therefore happy,—a prin
ciple too intrinsically and practically important to be thus cur
sorily dismissed, and therefore laid over for re-consideration.
Simple as it is, it discloses one of the first and most funda
mental conditions of morality and happiness, as well as causes
of sinfulness and suffering, which exists. Let all, therefore,
to whom pain is painful and enjoyment desirable, study out
this normality of all the functions, and fulfil it. Nor can too
much pains be taken to give the faculties of children this
natural action, or, rather, to retain that normal action which
unperverted nature imparts at first, and does so much to
perpetuate.
209. CEREBRAL DISEASE AS CAUSING DEPRAVITY.
This abnormal or depraved action of the faculties is caused,
among other things, by disease of brain and nerve ; and such
disease always produces their abnormal, and therefore more
or less painful and depraved manifestation. By a law ot
things, sickly organs can never produce healthy functions,
nor healthy organs sickly functions. As is the state of any
organ at the time it executes its function, so will be that func
tion. As like parents like children, so like organs like func
tions. Can a diseased heart execute a healthy function, or a
healthy heart disease of function ? Does not ston.atic disease
necessarily disorder the digestive process—and its inflamma
tion or debility inflame or debilitate its product ? Can a dis
eased liver possibly produce healthy bile, or a healthy livei
4*
,12 CONDITIONS OF TE1CEPTION.
disordered bile ? Or diseased eyes correct vision ? Or in
flamed nerves normal or pleasurable sensations 1 'iS This law
pervades hearing, taste, smell, intellect, morals, and every
other organ and function of body and mind. All sickness
consists simply, solely, in functional derangement caused by
organic disease, and all remedial efforts pre-suppose that organ
ic restoration secures functional health. As a corrupt stream
cannot send forth clear water, so a diseased brain must produce
an abnormal, painful, depraved function. This is the necessart
consequence of that fixed relation which exists between all or
gans and their functions. The intimacy which exists between
'.hem was demonstrated in Physiology to be perfect ls '6 ". The
perfection of this reciprocity is what constitutes an organ an or
gan. How is it possible to disorder the brain without similarly
deranging the mentality ? The diseased, that is, the abnormal
condition of the brain, mjst produce a similarly diseased 01
abnormal action of the mental functions. And what is ab-
•jormal mental action but a departure from the natural or con
stitutional, and therefore right action ? The natural or nor
mal function alone is right, is virtuous, is happy ; all depar
tures therefrom are sinful 208.
If this new doctrine require proof it has it in the fact that
all normal action is necessarily pleasurable because it fulfils
law ' 6, whereas all abnormal action is therefore painful, be
cause it violates law 6 7. The simple fact that normal action,
physical and mental, causes happiness, and abnormal action
misery, is proof absolute that all abnormal action is sinful—
for how can there be suffering except in consequence of sin ?—
and by converse, that all normal action is virtuous because it
is pleasurable—for how can happiness be secured except by
fulfilled law ? All cerebral disease violates the laws of mind,
and breaks the moral and well as physical laws ; and this is
sinful. All normal exercise of mind is virtuous, because it
fulfils the laws of mind, and therefore occasions happiness.
But all abnormal action of mind violates its laws, and this oc
casions pain 6 7, and is of course sinful. Now all diseased
action is painful, and, by consequence, sinful ; for how can
pain exist unless caused by violated law, and what is such
CEREBRAL DISEASE. 43
violah n but sin 1 The fact that anything is painful, proves
that it is sinful 6 7. Since, then, cerebral and nervous disease is
painful '" 1ss ls6, therefore it causes sin. The fact is, mind is as
capable of being sick as body, and this mental sickness is sin.
That is, the mental functions performed by diseased brain are
diseased, that is, depart from nature's institutes, and such depart
ure constitutes depravity. Other things also occasion depravity,
yet so does this. The idea may be new, yet is true, that Appro-
bativeness, Combativeness, Appetite, Acquisitiveness, and eveir
Devotion, Conscientiousness, Hope, Reason—all the mental fa
culties—are capable of becoming sick, as much so as the stom
ach, liver, lungs, eyes, or any of the other organs, and when
sick, their products are depraved, sinful. Not that all sin and
consequent misery has this physical origin, but that much of it
nas is a matter of observation and experience. Do not chil
dren become ill-natured, that is, depraved, in proportion as they
are unwell, and more sweet and good when perfectly healthy ?
Much of the wickedness of mankind is on a par with insanity.
It is the offspring of physical disease. It is caused by the
sickness of the organs of the erring faculties, not by deprav
ity of purpose.
Those, therefore, whose propensities clamor for unlawful
gratification, may find the cause in cerebral or nervous in
flammation, which must be restored before normal and virtu
ous action can take the place of the erring propensity. Will
may aid such restoration, yet the cause—disease—must be
obviated before the evil can be removed. In short, all who
would improve their intellects and morals must begin by keep
ing their brains and bodies in a healthy and vigorous state.
But the full power and importance of this principle will be
•till fartler established an; enforced by—
44 THE PROPENSITIES AS AFFECTED BT
SECTION III.
TOB NTER-RELAUSN EXISTING BETWEEN THE BODI AND
THE PROPENSITIES.
210. IXISTENCX OF THIS RECIPROCITY Or CONDITION
Thuugh the reciprocal inter-relation of the brain as a whole
to the whole mind, and alst? between the various states oi
brain and mind, that is, between body and mind, has already
. been shown to be complete M 15 16 '7 18 1ss lxy yet this recipro
city of condition is more especially intimate between the
body and the base of the brain, and of course between all
the various conditions of the body and the propensities—a
principle which Phrenology first disclosed, and which lies at
the very threshhold of all self-improvement, all human reform,
and all educational efforts. Though all physical irritation
preternaturally excites the brain, and of course the mind l8,
and all bodily debility enfeebles brain and mind, yet these
and all other kindred influences of the physiology upon the
mentality, affect the base of the brain and the animal pro
pensities much more, relatively, than the higher organs and
faculties.
Anatomy demonstrates this law. All those nerves already
shown to connect the body with the brain m l55 "*, originate in
its base, none in its coronal region, as seen in engraving
No. 19 of "Physiology" "°, and also in the accompanying one
of the structure of the brain and nervous system. This ana-
tomical fact alone completely establishes this principle.
The functions of the animal organs still moie fully estab
lishes this law. To serve the bodv, and execute the animal
functions of our nature, is their exclusive office. Alimen-
tiveness feeds the body, Acquisitiveness stores up food, cloth,
ing, property, and, with Constructiveness, builds houses and
provides other means of physical comfort. Combativeness and
Destructiveness defend and protect the body first, and especial
ly life, while Amativeness, parental love, and all the othei
THE STAISS OF Ti-E BODY. 45
»rgans in tne base of the brain, have
special reference to the functions and
demands of our animal niture. Hence
they are appropriately located close to
the body which they serve, and whose
wants they supply, so that the inter-com
munication between the two may be as
direct as possible, and be facilitated by
their juxtaposition—a principle else
where explained. Hence also, the con
ditions of each exert a more direct and
powerful influence upon the other, than
the body exerts upon the moral senti
ments, or the moral sentiments upon the
body. The moral organs—those of the
higher, religious, god-like sentiments,
and also the reasoning elements, occupy
the upper portion of the head, as far re
moved as possible from the body, so as
to be disturbed as little as possible by
its morbid excitement.
Facts, not isolated, but in ranges and
classes, in which one fact represents
millions, also place this law beyond
all cavil and doubt. Thus, why do
not colds and fevers enhance bene
volence, devotion, justice, and goodness, and render us holy
and heavenly-minded ? Why do they actually enfeeble these
higher elements while they greatly enhance the propensities ?
Why does being unwell, that is, bodily irritability, render all
children so cross and peevish, that they fret at every little
thing ? Do and forbear as much as you will, nothing pleases
but everything irritates. But restore them, and how cheer.
fill, happy, and good-dispositioned you render them. Hence
many children are ill-natured because unwell, and yet pun
ished because cross ; that is, are punished in consequence of
their being sick. Rather punish their mothers or nurses for not
rendering them good by keeping them well. Sickly childirtt!,
»6 RELAT10H BETWEEN THE 3C W
however good-dispositioned by nature, are necessarily irritable,
and by far the most effectual means of rendering the n sweet-
dispositioned, is to keep them in excellent health.
But let them become so very sick as to prostrate instead ot
inflame their bodies, and their passions are prostrated more,
relatively, than their higher faculties. Obedient, sweet-dia.
positioned, they submit to their fate with almost angelic re.
conciliation ; and if they die, mark that benignant, almost an
gelic expression stamped on their countenances by the moral
sentiments, which, dying last in accordance with our law, be
cause iess effected by bodily disease, leave their benign im
press, whereas, if the propensities were last to die, they would
leave their animal impress on the expression. If both classes
of faculties were equally affected by the states of the body, both
would become irritated and debilitated and also die simulta
neously, whereas the moral elements die last, because less in
timately inter-related with the body.
But let them not quite die, and what is the first sign of re
turning health ? A mad snarl, reviving appetite, re-irritated
propensities, so much so as to cause the speak-word " O, you
are better, because you are getting cross—the best sign of it
in the world." Why does dyspepsia render its unhappy vic
tims fault-finding, irritable, and peevish m. Why do disor
dered nerves excite mainly the bad passions, and render even
the amiable fretful?"6 Why are the sick generally so ill-
natured, ungrateful, unseasonable in their anger, and cross-
grained throughout ? Why do not diseases promote kindness,
forbearance, talents, and practical goodness ? Because the
irritated state of their bodies, and consequently of their ani
mal nature, caused by physical disease, affects the base of the
brain more, relatively, than the top.
The mode in which death transpires, also, corresponds per
fectly with this principle. The extremities die first ; sensa
tion and nervous energy rapidly decrease ; the animal passion*
follow in quick succession ; and connubial and parental love,
appetite, anger, revenge, love of the world, etc., are all dead
ened before the moral or intellectual faculties become stupe
fied. Love of life, also an animal organ, situated ; tho
AND TH3 PROPB fSlTIES. 47
lowest part of the base of the brain, lets go its hold on life
before the moral faculties give up, and hence the dying man
is willing to depart, because his love of life and of sensual
joys has been subdued by the grim messenger before his
higher faculties are prostrated.* Dying persons often attempt
to speak, but cannot, because the organs of Language and
Memory, situated low down in the forehead, near the body,
fall before the approach of death sooner than the still opera
ting organs of reason, which are situated higher up. Every
one must have noticed that the dying bid the last earthly adieu
to their friends, and even to their companions and children,
whom, through life, they have loved most enthusiastically,
with as much coolness and indifference as if they were to be
gone but a day, and yet their still vigorous intellect gives wise
directions as to their future conduct. Those who die in the
triumphs of faith, that is, in the vigorous exercise of the moral
faculties after the death of their animal nature, also practically
illustrate this law, as do those who die in the reversed or
painful action of these organs. After presenting this prin
ciple in a lecture at Smithville, New York, an elderly deacon
stated that he had experienced fts truth in his own person.
lie said that he had been once so very sick that he and all his
friends expected every breath to be his last ; yet that he had
no desire to live, and no regard for his wife and children,
although, both before and since, they were particularly strong ;
nor the least ill-will against any one, though before he had
felt hard toward several ; no regard at all for property, and
not a worldly feeling left, although in the entire possession of
his intellectual and moral faculties, and perfectly conscious
of everything that occurred. He was also able to reason
" How beautiful this principle, how wise this provision, merely as a
tn"(nis of rendering death less painful than otherwise it would be! If
*iedied during the full vigor of love of life, property, family, ambition, and
other worldly desires, how much harder would it be to be torn forcibly
from them than after the weakening of the body has deadened our love
of lite, unclasped our hold ci wealth, palsied connubial and parental love,
and destroyed nearly all our earthly desires ? This principle will render
dying less painful than the living suppose, especially to those who die a
nuturul death, that is, by the gradual wearing out of the body395.
48 RELATION BETWEEN THE BODY
and think, trough unable to speak. On the return of health,
nis domestic and other animal feelings returned. He said it
had always been a matter of surprise to him that, just as he
was, to all appearances, about to bid a final adieu to his fam
ily, whom he dearly loved, he should have regarded them
with such perfect indifference, and yet that both before and
after his sickness he should have loved them so devotedly.
Dr. Vanderburgh, of New York, relates the following. A
patient had taken, by mistake, a preparation of potash, which
gradually, in about eighteen months, terminated his life.
It first neutralized his love of his wife and child, before very
enthusiastic ; his anger, before ungovernable, next fell a prey
to its ravages, and his ambition next ; while his still vigorous
intellect noted, and often commented on, this gradual decay of
his animal nature—all in perfect accordance with this law.
The proverb, " old men for counsel, young men for action,"
embodies this same principle. "Action" and force of char
acter are given by the vigorous exercise of the animal propen
sities, which are stronger in young persons than in old, only
because their bodies are more vigorous. During childhood
and youth, while the body is vigorous, the propensities and
perceptive organs are extraordinarily active, but the higher
sentiments less so ; in middle life, the passions and intellect
are both powerful ; but the talents attain their maximum of
power after age begins to enfeeble the body m. Milton com
menced his " Paradise Lost " after he was fifty-seven years
old, and decrepit and enfeebled by age. The most splendid
intellectual efforts ever put forth, have been made by men in
the decline of life. In harmony with this principle it is, that
many young men, who, between the ages of twenty and thirty,
were wild, dissipated, and given to animal indulgence, after
thirty become excellent members of society. Probably most
leaders can bear witness to the fact that, as age advances,
the energy of their propensities declines, while while that of
their intellectual and moral powers increases. Observe your
tastes, the tone and cast of your intellects, your likes, studies,
and all those mental operations which furnish a test of this law,
an* you will doubtless perceive a permanent augmentation
-**"' AMI> THE PROPENSITIES. 40
of the power of your intellectual and moral elements, and de
cline of vour propensities.
This principle is still farther established by one great law
of both Physiology and Phrenology. At first the base of the
brain is alone developed. In infants, but little brain is found
in the top head, while the basilar region, and especially the
occiput, is much larger, relatively, than in adults. As youth
progresses, or, rather, as the brain grows, it expands, not nro-
portionably in all its parts, but forward and upward—in the
moral and intellectual region, more, relatively, than in the,
basilar—and this change goes on till the body is fully matured,
and begins to decline, when the propensities become enfeebled,
yet the intellect is augmented in power ; love of reading
increases ; the thinking powers branch out into new regions of
thought ; the judgment becomes more sound ; and the higher
elements of our nature ripen up to their full maturity and
power208. How beautifully, also, does this principle explain
the fact that old men are more cautious than when young.
The organs of Cautiousness and Causality are located higher
up than the propensities, and therefore age weakening the
latter, yet augments the former, and increases prudence, pro
tection, provision for the future, and the like, but diminishes
recklessness.
Sometimes age increases irritability, selfishness, and all the
animal passions ; but this is the case only when the body is in
an inflamed condition, the physiology morbidly active, and of
course the propensities likewise preternaturally excited.
So also the memories of children and youth are astonishingly
retentive and vigorous, while those of aged persons usually be
come enfeebled ; but the judgment of the latter grows strong,
while that of the former declines ; because the organs of mem-
ory, being in the base of the forehead, are vigorous when the
body is vigorous, and become enfeebled by age ; but, those of
the judgment are in the upper portion of the forehead, and
therefore partake less of the weakened state of the body. A
severe fit of sickness, when it leaves the body in an enfeebled
state, is sure to weaken most kinds of memory, while it seldom
impairs the 'udgment. Not long since, a Mexican called to
5
50 RELATION BETWEEN THE BOD/
deliver a letter from a friend in Mexico. In oonversing on
Phrenology, he wished to recall the name of an ild schooln ute
and friend of his, who is an arden- student jf Phrenoloyy,
and physician to the present king of France, but was unable
to do so, though perfectly familiar with it. For fifteen minutes
he labored to recall it, but failed,-*and then said, that " since
his suffocation by the burning of charcoal in his sleeping-room,
which came near killing him, he had been unable to remembei
names." This, of course, weakened his body, and, by thf
action of this principle, also his memory, but not his judgment
Probably half of my readers have had their memories enfeebled
by sickntss ; ariii scores of cases could be narrated in which
improved health has strengthened memory. Were I to give
a recipe for improving this power, its first and most important
item would be, " improve the tone and vigor of the body."
Again : hunger causes anger and peevishness. Wives and
daughters will bear me witness, that when their husbands and
fathers come home hungry, they are cross, irritable, and dis
pleased with everybody and everything, till a hearty meal
restores them again to a pleasant humor. If you wish to breaK
inpleasant news to a man without offending him, or to obtain
a special favor, approach him after dinner has thrown his
body, and thereby his propensities, into a comfortable state.
Those in England who solicit donations for charitable objects,
never once think of applying to the rich or great till after din-
ner. When well fed, ferocious animals are tame and harm
less, but when hungry, their ferocity becomes ungovernable,
and their Destructiveness lashed up to the highest pitch of fury.
So the ferocious Indian, when he wishes to kindle his thirst
for war and blood to the very climax of rage and revenge,
fasts a week. Why should the irritated state of the stomach,
and thereby of the body in general, excite to morbid action
the animal propensities mainly? Why does rot hunger in-
urease the flow of kind, of conscientious, and of devotional
feeling, instead of anger, revenge, and ferocity ? This prin
ciple contains the answer.
The laboring classes, contrasted with those who are above
work, furnish another striking illustration of this principle
4.NI THE PROI ENSITIES. 51
The former are fai more virtuous, sensible, and intelligent
than the latter. Laborers rarely commit robbery, theft, coun
terfeit, assault and battery, murder, or other glaring crimes,
unless intoxicated ; while most of our pickpockets, debauchees,
prison-birds, etc., disdain to work. " Idleness is the parent of
vice," while labor is a great cause of moral purity. The
reason is, that labor consumes those energies created by food,
breath, etc., which must be expended on something, in mus.
cular action ; but when this door of escape is closed by fashion
able idleness, its next egress is through—not the sentiments
or intellect, for idleness never makes men better or more
talented—but through the propensities. Consequently, vice
is vastly more prevalent and aggravated in the upper circles
of society than among the industrious. Hence, since virtue
is above wealth, and since the industrial classes are more vir
tuous and talented than the "higher," of course the "upper
tens " are at the bottom in the scale of true worth ; and there
let our practical estimation place them. Those who live with
out some useful occupation should be despised, not honored.
The industrious are nature's aristocracy.
The influence of alcoholic drinks furnish another conclu
sive proof, and forcible as well as varied illustration of the law
under discussion. Their one distinctive effect is to excite the
brain and nervous system. Hence, if the body be more inti
mately related to the base of the brain than to the coronal
region, these drinks will of course stimulate the propensi
ties more, relatively, than the moral and reasoning organs ;
otherwise they will excite all equally. What, then, is the
fact ?
That they powerfully excite Amativeness—located at the
lowest point in the base of the brain—is attested by the fact
that they always enhance sensuality. The vulgarity and
licentiousness they occasion are proverbial. Do they not in
cline all drinking parties to indecent allusions, the narration
of obscene stories, and the singing oflewd songs, ifnot to carnal
indulgence itself! The introduction of wine after dliner ad
monishes modest woman to retire, because she knows her
delicacy is liable to be shocked if she remain.
62 PHYSICAL DISEASE
Wine or ardent spirit of some kind is ind.spensable to any
and every debauch. Why do abandoned females always
drink to intoxication ? This principle answers, Because
these drinks drown the voice of conscience, blunt modesty, stifle
the claims of morality, intellect, and virtue, and whirl their
guilty victims on in their sensual career of merely animal in
dulgence. Men and women, be they ever so moral and vir.
tuous, under the influence of intoxicating drinks, are not safe.
Before the first advantage can be taken of a virtuous woman,
without force, she must be partly intoxicated ; and intoxication
will render most females unchaste in feeling, if not in ac
tion. And if this be true of virtuous woman, what is the fact
of less virtuous man ? How can a woman of delicate feelings
tend bar, go to balls or parties where wine or spirits are freely
drank, or consent to be for a moment in the company of men
who are surcharged with wine, porter, or any other kind of
spirituous liquors, or on any account drink with them ? Does
she not know that she thereby renders herself liable to say or
hear what it would make her blush to reflect upon ?
These drinks also excite the combative or contending pro
pensity. So combustible is the anger of the intoxicated, that
they take fire at every little thity, and even seek occasions to
quairel; and more bickerings, broils, fights, and duels are
engendered by ardent spirits than by all other causes united.
How rarely do men fight unless when excited by liquor ?
How easily and powerfully provoked, how " all fit for a fight,"
do even well-disposed men become when intoxicated? Byron
said that stimulants always rendered him "savage and suspi
cious."
Alcoholic drinks also stimulate Destructiveness, or the bit-
tor, hating, revengeful feeling; and hence drinkers will caress
.heir wives and children one minute, but beat them the next.
More murders are caused by ardent spirit than by all other
causes combined. Let the calendars of crime decide this
point. Hence, also, intoxicated men not only rail, curse,
break, destroy, vociferate, and threaten vengeance, more than
when sober, but it is then that an old grudge, otherwise lone
pinro buried, i. raked up, and dire vengeance sought and
a cause ;f depravity. 58
sbtained ; and generally a human being can screw up his
Destructiveness to the sticking point of murde.-, and depress
his Benevolence and Conscientiousness below the remonstrat
ing point only, or at least most effectually, by ardent spirit
Gibbs, the inhuman pirate who committed so many cold
blooded murders, confessed to his clergyman before his death,
that when about to perpetrate his most atrocious murders, his
courage often failed, till he had taken several potent draughts
of strong liquor, which enabled him to commit any act of
qruelty, however horrible, upon even defenceless females. Fie-
schi, the attempted regicide, who fired the infernal machine at
the present king of France, on his trial, testified that when he
saw the procession coming, his courage failed him, but was
revived by a dram of brandy; that it failed him a second
time, but was restored by a second dram, but that he could not
bring himself to do the fatal deed till he had taken a third,
and still more potent draught, and then he did it with a
relish.
Nothing but animal propensity subjects criminals to the
penalties of violated civil law. Let, then, our intelligent law
yers, judges, sheriffs, justices, and observers, answer the ques
tion, "Does not most, if not nearly all your criminal business
have its origin in drinking?" But unless alcoholic drinks
excite these propensities more, relatively, than the higher
faculties, especially if they stimulate the moral sentiments,
this state of things would be reversed, and drinking would
render mankind more virtuous instead of most vicious.
In olden time, a man who had committed some heinous crime,
and deserved punishment, was allowed to choose between the
three crimes of drunkenness, incest, and patricide. He choose
the former, but while drunk committed both the others. The
fact stands out in bold relief, that drunkenness and vice go
hand in hand. Intoxication is indeed the parent of all ihe
vices, and this principle shows why, namely, because this re
ciprocal connection between the body and the base of the
brain causes stimulants to excite the propensities more, rela
tively, than the moral or intellectual organs, and this inducea
vice and wickedness.
5*
54 PHYSICAL DISEASE
This law also shows why intoxication often renders good
men real demons incarnate. As long as the moral and intel
lectual faculties predominate, no matter if the propensities be
vigorous. Duly governed, the more the better, because they
impart force. When the two are about equal, with the moral
in the ascendency, and the animal not stimulated, all goes
right; but a little stimulant will often give the ascendency to
the propensities, and thus render truly good men very bad.
But mark well the converse : it never renders bad men good,
nor the immoral virtuous ; because it never stimulates the
moral and intellectual faculties more than the animal feelings.
This principle also shows why men drink grog with friends,
instead of drinking or doing anything else. . As Adhesiveness
is located in the base of the brain, ardent spirits warm it up
to vigorous action, and thus augment the flow and intensity '
of friendly feeling, and hence those who are half-intoxicated
often hug and caress each other. If alcohol excited friend
ship alone, it would do little injury—perhaps good—but since
it inflames the other animal passions also, drinkers will be the
warmest of friends one minute, and the bitterest enemies the
next, and then make up over another glass.
Parental love is also located in the lower portion of the hind
head ; and hence the half-intoxicated father will foolishly fon
dle his boy and laud him to the skies one minute, but beat
him almost to death the next. Liquor excites conversation,
because Language is in the lowest part of the forehead ; but as
the reasoning organs, which originate ideas, are in the upper
portion of the forehead, and therefore not only not stimulated,
but actually weakened by it, drinkers talk, talk, talk, but say
nothing—talk words, not ideas. Nor can the intoxicated rea
son. How almost impossible to convince them, however ab
surd their positions, or self-evident yours. They cannot see
the point at issue ; they argue at random, and seem callous to
reasons, however clear or forcible. Yet their Combativeness
and all their prejudices are enhanced. How destitute of sense,
thought, and refinement, the conversation both of drunkards
and of those who stimulate only moderately ! Witness bar
room conversation!—full of stories, t; be sure, but what kind
A CAUsE OF DEPRAVITY. 5ft
»f stories ? The more animal, the better. A Byron, half-
intoxicated, may indeed write Don Juan, and like productions,
and compose poetry mostly addressed to the passions; but
none in this state ever wrote Paradise Lost, Thomson's Sea
sons, Locke on the Human Understanding, Brown's Mental
Philosophy, or Edwards on the Will. Pitt, Fox, Sheridan, and
others, may be eloquent when partially intoxicated, yet their
eloquence will be characterized by sarcasm, invective, denun
ciation, declamation, hyperbole, narration, and a remarkable
flow of words, instead of by argument, profundity, or clear
deductions from first principles ; nor will it be freighted with
rich ideas. But before drinkers can become even eloquent—
a power far below reason—they require a peculiarity of tem
perament and phrenological developments not found in one
man in millions ; while it will destroy that of all the others,
by overcharging some with excitement, and rendering others
foolish, others bombastic, etc.
Alcoholic drinks, besides exciting the lower organs more,
relatively, than the higher, also subsequently deaden them pro
portionally. After having surcharged Amativeness, they pros
trate it, and hence quench connubial love and all the domestic
virtues. Hence drunkards generally neglect if not abuse
their families—a fact as notorious as this explanation of its
cause is clear. While the exhilaration lasts, it surcharges
Combativeness and Destructiveness, only to palsy them after it
subsides. Hence its subjects lose all spirit and efficiency, and
rarely take their own part or that even of their families when
abused, so that boys may impose on them with impunity, and
are irresolute and inefficient.
This principle shows why the ambition of inebriates de
scends to propensity instead of ascending to the higher facul
ties, and thus renders them doubly sinful and miserable.*
* Since the religion of Christ consists in the ascendency of the moral
and intellectual over th= animal, and the subjugation of the propensities,
and since all stimulating drinks morbidly excite propensity, and of course
violate this cardinal requisition of the gospel, therefore wine and spirit-
drinking Christians are as perfect anomalies as hot ice or cold fire. Aa
well have wicked Christians as spirit-drinking Christians.
BO PHYSICAL DISEASE.
It also sl.jws why intemperance enfeebles self-control,
They know the right. Their less debilitated, because pre.
viously less stimulated, intellects know the right, yet they
have not sufficient self-government left to stem the downward
current. Conscientiousness remonstrates, but with little avail
and the moral powers lift up their warning and persuasive
voice without effect, because located far from the body
Hence, notning but dragging them into the kingdom of tem
perance by that inimitable principle of Washingtonian kind-
ness, and then removing temptation till self-control revives,
can save them. And if they fall, forbear—not condemn
and put them once more upon their feet.
Again : ambition always combines with those faculties which
are the most active. Combined with Conscientiousness, it gives
regard for moral character and correct motives ; with' Intel-
lect, desire to be reputed learned and talented ; with Ideality,
for good taste, good manners, etc. ; but combined with Com-
bativeness, for being the greatest wrestler, fighter, etc. ; and
with the other animal propensities, for being first in their in
dulgence. Hence, since intemperance stimulates both am
bition and propensity, it renders its victims emulous to be the
greatest libertine, wrestler, fighter, drinker, and _ the like, but
never to excel in talents or goodness. Two inebriates in
Easton, Md., iii 1840, vied with each other, on a wager, as to
which could drink the other drunk. The next morning one
of them was dead drunk.
The half-intoxicated find their Acquisitiveness excited, and
hence continually ask, " how much will you give ?" " what
will you take ?" " how will you swap 1" etc., or suddenly
become very rich, or bet, or else seek the gambling or bil
liard-table in quest of fcrtunes at once ; yet, as their intellec.
tual organs are not equally excited, they generally make bad
bargains ; but, under the reaction which follows, they have
little or no regard for property, and little industry, economy,
or forethought about laying up for the future, but squander
their all for liquor, even to the bread out of the mouths of their
hungry children, and to the clothes from off their wives'
backs, Hence they are universally poor, ragged, and desti.
A CAUSK OK 1 El'RAVlTV. 57
tute. If Johr. Jacob Astor should become a drunkard, even
his immense estate would become scattered to the winds.
During the exhilaration produced by strong drink, self-esteem
and love of approbation become unduly excited, and occasion
boasting, bragging, swaggering, egotism, and a disposition to
swell and dash out in gaudy style, assume airs, attract notice,
etc. ; yet, during the subsequent reaction, regard for charac
ter and reputation is annulled, and with it one of the strongest
incentives to virtuous and praiseworthy actions, as well as
restraints upon vice and self-degradation. At first they are
mortified beyond description if seen intoxicated, but after
ward care naught for credit, honor, promises, respectability,
or even the disgrace of family; are destitute of shame, dead
to dignity and manly feeling, and associate with those tc
whom they would before have scorned even to speak.
Why do not alcoholic drinks render the pious more devou
and the literary ten times more intellectual ? Why not deept 1
and widen the channels of thought? Why not render ordi
nary men Websters, Franklins, Broughams, and Herscheis,
and these intellectual giants actual Gabriels in intellect ? Oi
why not excite the moral faculties instead of the animal ?
Why not make infidels, Enochs ? deists, Wesleys ? skeptics,
Paysons ? Why are not all spirit-drinkers patterns of piety
and good morals, and also stars in the firmanent of intellectual
greatness ? The law in question answers. Not only do they
not augment talent and enhance literary attainments or make
the profane pious, but they actually diminish them all. They
prostrate intellect, bedim reason, darken counsel, render the
ideas muddy, and before their approach, literary attainments,
intellectual greatness, and moral purity, all vanish like the
dew before the rising sun. They sometimes, though rarely,
increase a certain kind of eloquence, yet are sworn enemies
of greatness and goodness.
How overwhelming the proof, therefore, how powerful and
absolutely inevitable the conclusion, not only tl at all alcoholic
drinks, but also that whatever morbidly excites the brain and
nervous system, thereby kindle the animal propensities mainly,
but weaken the moral and intellectual powers. No more
58 PHYSICAL DISEASE
can any human being take either alcoholic liquors in any
form or degree, or opium, tea, coffee, mustard, spices, or any
other stimulant, without thereby proportionably inducing this
result—without brutalizing his nature, degrading his manhood
below his beasthood, and subjugating intellect and moral feel-
ing to the sway of passion—than he can " carry coals of fire
in his bosom and not be burned." As soon will any other
law of nature fail as this. As soon will the deadly poisons
become harmless, or water run up the inclined plane of itself,
or the sun rise in the west, as any kind of morbid physical
action fail to produce animality. Nor does any middle ground
remain. Every item of artificial stimulant produces this ani
mal result as its legitimate, its constitutional effect.*
Behold, then, ye who would subdue your " easily besetting"
propensities, and elevate the moral above the animal, an easy
yet efficacious means of obtaining so exalted an end, namely,
by keeping the body in a healthy state. Behold, moreover,
the great procuring cause of most of man's depravity, and
consequent wretchedness, namely, a morbid physiology.
Since an irritated or abnormal state of the body morbidly
excites the brain, and thereby vitiates its functions U6 21°, espe
cially those of the propensities310, and since such abnormal
action causes abnormal and depraved mental desires '209, there
fore that physiological inflammation caused by intemper
ance210, gormandizing65, tea, coffee, and tobacco175, condi
ments'0, colds108, flesh-eating*4, sedentary habits141, and the per
petual violation, by nearly all mankind, of the laws of health,
must of necessity deprave the feelings by deranging the phys
iology, and of course the mentality. Nor is it certain that
the forbidden fruit did not usher in moral depravity by occa
sioning an obnoxious state of the physiology. Both human
and personal reform and improvement must begin with restor-
mg normality of function to body and brain, and be mainly
* In a small treatise on Intemperance, founded on Phrenology ana
Physiology, the author brings the preceding principle and train of re
marks to bear upon alcoholic drinks, and shows that every identical glass
stimulates the propensities proportionably, and produces vice and misery—
s most powerful appeal and argument in behalf of total abstinence.
A CAUSE Or DEPRAVITY. 59
effected by physical regimen. Nor is it to possible to effect
moral reform without physical, aay more than it is possible for
inflamed brain and nerves to produce normal manifestations.
This doctrine may find opponents, but no refuters. It is new,
but true. To be "temperate in all things" is the first
great condition of goodness and talents. To " present our
boiiies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, is our
spiritual sacrifice;"* whereas to disorder the body by any vio
lation of the laws of health whatever is to deprave the mind.
Moral purity is as utterly incompatible with physical impurity
as intellectual power with physical weakness. O that all
were duly impressed with the power and sweep of these phys-
ico-mental principles ! Ministers may preach, and revivals be
multiplied to any extent, without laying the ax at the root
of the tree of vice S6 37 88 39 4! **. Mankind must abandon
flesh, condiments, narcotics, gluttony, and fermented liquors,
and substitute farinaceous food50, cold water168, and a light
diet—must learn bow to eat and live before they can expect
to attain the exalted destinies and powers of which human
nature is capable. The pious yet ignorant Christian cannot
grow better by praying to God to enable him to resist tempta
tion on one hand, while on the other he is adding new fuel
to the fierce fires of animal passions by fevering his body,
and thereby his propensities, but must govern vicious and
promote virtuous tendencies, in part, by physiological pre
scriptions.
Parents weep and pray over the waywardness and depravity
Df their children, and strive to reform them in vain, while
they morbidly excite their Combativeness, Destructiveness,
and Selfishness, by ignorantly keeping their bodies, and con
sequently animal organs, in an inflamed and abnormal con
dition by meats and drinks, heating in kind5658, excessive in
quantity 65, ill-timed ", and otherwise pernicious ; or by allow
ing them to contract colds and sickness, and, in short, by not
keeping their bodies in a calm and healthy state. Morbid,
* 1 Cor. xii. 1. The word translated " reasonable" should have bee*
rendered "•piritua! '
80 GOVERNING PROPENSITY
nervous excitement can produce nothing but 1i ature and
general depravity xa, which physical chastisement only in-
creases, because it enhances their cause. Rather punish those
ignorant nurses or parents who unintentionally yet effectually
occasion much of this depravity by deranging their physiology.
As their petulance and crying are mainly expressions of that
depravity consequent on the irritated state of their propensities,
and as this is mostly consequent on physical disease, of coursi)
keeping them in perfect health, which is easily done by obey,
ing the laws of health M ", will obviate most of their ugliness,
and substitute the sweet and lovely for the hating and hateful.
Nor can the latter possibly be accomplished till the former is
effected. Infants cry little till bad nursing has disordered
their bodies, but then they cry spitefully, and evince much
wrath. Children cry when unwell, and because sick ; but
keeping them in perfect health will generally render them
olacid and lovely. Those who doubt this great practical
truth have only to compare the sweetness of children when
perfectly well, with the tartness and snappishness of those same
children when' unwell, of themselves or others when dyspeptic,
nervous, or suffering from physical indisposition, with the
same persons when digestion is good and health excellent.
In short, this and previous sections have placed these mo
mentous truths beyond all manner of doubt and cavil—have
established them by an order, variety, and amount of proo/
completely demonstrative. Let those who would be good 01
great hear and practice, and those who cavil remember that
"-'this is truth, though at enmity with the teachings o)
tges."
Bll GOVERNING THE PROPENSITIES BY THE INTELLECTUAL AND HCfU,
FACULTIES.
Though the truth and paramount importance of preceding
conclusions are absolute in and of themselves, yet they receive
additional importance from the fundamental law of virtue and
condition of enjoyment that the action of the propensities can
be virtuous and pleasurable only when guided by intellect,
and sanctioned by the moral sentiments. It so is that, to pro-
2Y THE HIGHER FACULTIES. 01
duce happifitss, every action, feeling, and sentirr.mt of human
nature must be sanctified by intellect and governed by en.
lightened moral sentiment. Without rendering obedience to
this law, no emotion, no action of life, is either virtuous in
character oi can result in enjoyment. Our own happiness
ana that of our fellow-mei require that we exercise our pro
pensities only " by and with the consent," and under the di
rection, of the intellectual and moral faculties, and that all
we say, do, and are, not thus governed, is sinful in character,
and eventuates in suffering to the actor and all affected thereby.
To illustrate. Appetite, indulged for the mere pleasures
of .the plate, without intellect to select food of the right kinds
and beet qualities, or moral sentiment to restrain it from gor
mandizing, will eat unwholesome kinds of food, and in exces
sive quantities, drink alcoholic liquors and other injurious bev
erages, chew or smoke tobacco, and so break the dietetic laws
as to disorder the stomach, undermine the health, blunt the
moral sensibilities, benumb intellect, abridge all the physical
moral pleasures, or else convert them into suffering, and create
vicious inclinations210, and weaken, pervert, and poison our en
tire nature, besides curtailing the very gustatory pleasures
sought. But exercised under the control of intellect to choose
the best kinds, and direct the proper quantity of food, coupled
with predominant moral sentiment to secure moderation, it fur
nishes abundant sustenance to all the other functions, and fits
us, as far as possible, for our other duties and enjoyments,
'besides yielding the greatest gustatory pleasure attainable.
Combativeness, exercised by itself, unsanctified by moral sen
timent, and undirected by reason—that is, without adequate
cause, or in opposition to the dictates of Causality—becomes
mere brute force, and quarrels without occasion, perhaps
in an unjust cause ; whereas, exercised under the control of
enlightened moral sentiment, it becomes moral courage, de
fends right and truth, prosecutes moral objects with fearless
energy, and opposes whatever is wrong or injurious539—than
which no element of our nature is more virtuous in character,
or yields more pleasure to its possessor and to all concerneu.
Acquisitiveness, exercised independently of moral sentiment—
6
62 GOVERNINS PROPENSITY
indulged dishonestly, a3 the thief, knave, gambler, robber,
and the ike, exercise it, that is, irrespective of justice and
humanity, but getting money by foul means equally with
fair—renders its possessor miserable, and those whom he
wrongs unhappy, simply because this propensity is not gov.
erned by the moral sentiments and intellect ; but, exercised in
conjunction with enlightened conscience, so as to acquire and
pay honestly, and subject to Benevolence, so as to prevent
injury in others or oppressing the poor, it renders him happy
in the acquisition of property, and all around him happy in its
proper expenditure. Ill-gotten gain curses all, and benefits
none. Honesty alone is policy.
Let a mother be ever so fond of her darling boy, but let her
not guide and govern her maternal love by the dictates of the
intellectual and the moral faculties combined, and she will not
know how to keep her child healthy, and therefore will suffer
a world of anxiety on account of his being sick, and still more
if he should die. She will not know how to operate on his
intellect or moral feelings, and thus, unable to govern him,
will be rendered miserable for life on account of his mischie
vous, wicked propensities and conduct. Or she will spoil hei
child by over indulgence—an occurrence as lamentable as it
is common—and thereby cause unutterable anguish to mother,
child, father, society, all in any way capable of being affected
by the child or the man. But let intellect tell her what phys
ical laws she must obey to keep her child always well, and
all the suffering of mother, of boy, of all concerned, on ac
count of sickness or premature death, can be avoided, and, in
their stead, his perfect health, sprightliness, happiness, beauty,
and growing maturity, will fill the boy himself, will swell
the bosom of the mother with joy unspeakable and always
increasing, enable the boy himself to become a boon, a bless
ing to his fellow-men ; and the more so, if the mother's intel-
'ect enable her to cultivate and develop his intellect in the
best possible manner, and pour a continual stream of useful
knowledge and sage maxims into his young mind, to guide
his conduct, to call out and develop all the powers of his mind,
and to con luct the objeitof her deep-roo'.ed and well-guided
BY THE HIGHEK FACULTIES. 68
maternal affection into the paths of wisdom, learning, and in
fluence, till, standing on a commanding intellectual eminence,
he controls the opinions and moulds the characters of thou-
sands of his fellow-men ; while he himself enjoys all that
mind can confer ; his mother is happy beyond description in
her son ; and societv owes and pays a tribute of praise for the
happiness spread abroad by this well-educated sen of intel
lect and morality.
Still more will these results be heightened, if she add high-
toned moral frying to this powerful and well-directed intellec
tual education. Unless thus governed, she will not train him
up in the paths of virtue, but will tolerate, perhaps even foster,
his depraved inclinations, and thus ruin the darling object
of her tender but misguided love. But when moral senti
ment, in conjunction with intellect, rules her maternal love,
she will educate him morally, as well as intellectually and
physically. She will " train him up in the wa" he should go,
and when he is old he will not depart therefrom." She will
imbue him early and thoroughly with the principles of virtue
and morality. She will elevate all his aims, will chasten all
his feelings, and write as with the point of a diamond upon
the tablet of his yet plastic and susceptible soul, in living,
burning characters, never to be erased : " My son, walk thou
in the paths of virtue. Turn thou away from every.sinful in
dulgence :" and he will obey her. Not only will his moral
character be unblemished, and he live in accordance with the
principle we are presenting, and therefore be happy himself,
but he will dedicate all those talents already presupposed to
the cause of humanity, and thus do an incalculable amount of
good. All this rich harvest of happiness to him, to herself, to
mankind, will be the legitimate, the necessary product of the
intellectual and moral seed sown by his mother. It will all
(low naturally from the mother's following the law we are
urging, of governing her Philoprogenitiveness by the dictates
of intellectual and moral feeling. And these fruits will be
still farther sweetened and augmented, if parents go still far
ther back, and apply the laws of hereditary descent so as to
secure a good orignal physical, moral, and intellectual fouo
04 GOVERNING PROPENSITY
dation in their child, on which to erect this gbuous super
structure.
The importance of this principle can be measured only by
the heaven-wide contrast between the effects, on the happiness
of the parent, of the goodness and badness, the health and
sickness, the life and death, of their dear children. If this
law were observed, we should have no premature sickness or
death, no ebullitions of passion, no waywardness, disobedience,
or immorality in children, to wring the hearts of parents with
anguish Vinutterable, and to carry them down to their graves
mourning. Even if the parent love his child morally, and
seek to make him better, but, unguided by intellect, actually
makes him worse, a course very common, his child becomes
a torment to himself, his parents, and all concerned. We
must love our children intellectually and morally, if we would
either have them enjoy life, or we enjoy our children.
Those who exercise friendship without the governing influ
ences of intellect and the sanctions of the moral sentiments,
wili choose ignorant, degraded, and immoral associates, who
will lower down the tone of their moral feelings, and lead
them into the paths of sin, and thus make them unhappy. But
he who exercises his friendship under the sanction of the
moral faculties, will choose intellectual and moral companions,
who will expand his intellect and strengthen his virtuous feel
ings, and this will make him and them the more happy.
Friendship, founded on intellect and virtuous feeling, is far
more exalted in its character, and beneficial in its influence,
than when founded on any other considerations, while friend
ship, founded on the propensities, will increase the depravity
and misery of all concerned.
Associates chosen without reference to their moral charac
ters, and especially in violation of the higher faculties, wilj
increase the depravity and consequent misery of each other.
0 youth, hear tnis one piece of advice :—mingle only with
the intellectual and the good, and you will thus almost imper.
ceptibly, yet effectually, become like them226237.
Arprobativeness, or love of the good opinion of others, sanc
tified by the moral sentiments, begets ambition to excel in
BY THE HIGHER 1 CULTIES. 05
works of philanthropy, seeks to keep the moral character pure
and spotless, and inspires that noble emulation which prompts
' to beneficial deeds; and guided by intellect, becomes intellec
tual ambition, and seeks eminence in the walks of literature
or the fields of science ; but when not thus governed, it de
generates into a low, animal, grovelling, sensual ambition, to
become the greatest eater, or fighter, or duellist, or dandy,
or coquette—a strife which causes unhappiness to its possessor
and to all concerned. Self-Esteem, governed by intellect and
moral feeling, imparts that nobleness and elevation to charac
ter and conduct, which shed a beam of exalted pleasure on its
possessor and all around him ; but when not thus governed, it
degenerates into egotism, self-conceit, imperativeness, and su
perciliousness, which occasion pain to himself and to all af
fected by this quality in him.
Cautiousness exercised without intellect, that is, when there
is no reason for being afraid, produces evil only ; but let in
tellect govern it, so that it is exercised only when there is real
danger to be avoided, or let it be exercised with Benevolence,
or Justice, so as to render us fearful lest we do wrong, or care
ful not to injure others, and its product is most beneficial.
This principle might be illustrated and enforced by Amative-
tiveness, and indeed by every one of the lower faculties, and
completely demonstrated by showing how superlatively happv
those who fulfil this cardinal law of morality and happiness.
But does a law thus clear and universal in its application re
quire additional proof or illustration ? Is not man constituted
to be governed throughout all he does, says, and feels by en
lightened moral sentiment ? Are not those aggravated mise
ries and the multiform wretchedness of mankind which appal u»
wherever we turn our eyes, caused mainly by the almost uni
versal infraction of this law ? And does not this principle, har
monize perfectly with the universal fact that nineteen twen-
tienths of all the time, desires, pursuits—everything—of man
kind" consist in gratifying animal propensity in some of its
forms—in scrambling after property, or office, or power—in
procuring food, drinks., raiment, houses, fashionable equipage,
attire, etc.—in famil -, cares contentions, backbiting, sensuality
66 A FUNtAMENTAL CONItTIOH
and other animal gratifications ? War, lust, money, display
propensity, and consequent misery, sum up the history of
nan ; nor, in the nature of things, is it possible for him to be '
lappy any farther than he is holy, that is, obeys this law.
Before he can enjoy life, and in order to such enjoyment,
nan as a whole, and as individuals, must take time from the
fashionable world, the money-grasping world, the sensual
world, and this hot pursuit of animal gratification, to bestow
upon the cultivation of the moral and intellectual faculties.
To be happy, he must become wrsE and religious—must sub-
ject his animal nature to his higher powers ; and he is most
happy, other things being the same, who does this the most
habitually and effectually. Oh ! if mankind would but do
this, no tongue can tell, no finite mind conceive, what happi
ness would be the delightful result ! All those spiritual con
solations conferred by that religion which is " pure and unde-
filed, and that fadeth not away," would flow thtrefrom. Hu
man sin and suffering would be comparatively banished from
our world, and this earth become again a perfect Paradise !
It deserves additional remark, that even when the moral
and animal faculties combine in action, if the animal rule the
moral, misery is the inevitable consequence. What produced
the Holy Wars—? holy wickedness—but this combination ?
Yet the propensities ruled the morals, and an indescribable
amount of misery was the natural consequence. The sacri
fice of human life upon the altar of religious fanaticism, to
gether with all the abominations of paganism, originate in
this same ascendency of propensity. Nor need we go thuj
far from home to find kindred examples both of a breach of
this law, and its painful consequences. Indeed, our own souls
bear this sad testimony every time propensity governs intellect
Behold, reader, in this law an additional and most powerful
motive for " preserving your bodies holy, acceptable unto God."
Since you can neither be good nor happy without subjecting
the lower faculties to the higher m, and since a morbid state
of the physiology prevents such subjugation by inflaming the
passions210, how all-important that correct physical regimen
which shall allay propensity ati develop moralitf <»nd intel-
CF VIRTUE AND HAPPINESS. 67
lect, so as to place the latter upon the throne over the for
mer? M And by converse, how wicked those abuses of the
laws of health which occasion depravity, first by rendering the
action of the propensities morbid, or abnormal "*, and, second,
ly, by perpetually irritating them, and thus both strengthen
ing them, and enthroning them on the conquered necks of the
angelic elements of our nature ! Readers, ye who would un.
dersiand the full force of these momentous conclusions, re-can
vass tho«> principles on which they are founded. Go over
our preceding points, especially'2082092102", carefully with par
ticular reference to their consecutive bearing on this grand
focus of them all, and then say, not in the light of pre-enter-
tained notions of sin and its causes, but in that of the laws of
nature, whether we overrate this cause of human sin and
wo. At least say whether all others have not underrated it
or else overlooked it wholly. Above all, put it in rigid and
long-continued practice, and then decide its claims.
In view of these truths, how comparatively ineffectual in
its reclaiming power most of the preaching of the present day.
Does it urge the preservation of health as a means of promo
ting moral excellence and intellectual power? Does it even
recognize, except incidentally, the existence of physical laws,
or the duty of obeying or sin of violating them ? Yet should
it not warn with all the thunders of Sinai, and entreat with all
the persuasive power of Jesus, the observance of the physical
as a means of obeying the moral ? Is not this glaring omission
one great cause of its inertness ? Can this partial view of
duty be expected to convince or control conduct? Does not
this silence in reference to the physical laws imply that they
are insignificant, and may be violated with impunity ? Is
suicide so very little a sin ?—and abuse of health is sui-
cide 2\ As Christ's " new commandment—That ye love one
another," superseded, because it embraced, the Decalogue, so
nature's great command, obey my physical laws, embodies
even this law of love, because, as already seen, physical irri
tability causes hatred, lust, and selfishness, in all their hydra
forms, while holy, acceptable bodies subdue raging passion,
promote brotherly love, and develop all the higher aspirations
68 WELL-BALANCED FACULTIES
and i.Dlier emotions of our nature. Narrow-souled eligionists
will cavil at this superesding of their contracted isms by this
view of one of the causes and remedies of human depravity ;
but yo who would learn and do your whole duty, will heed
and strive to fulfil these fundamental conditions of virtue and
happiness. And wo to those who ignorantly or wantonly vio
late them. God will in no wise let him go unpunished who
thus breaks this law6. " The soul that sinneth, it shall die."
This is one of Heaven's highest laws, and its penalties corres
pondingly aggravated. Reader, let us make its study and
obedience our daily, hourly, and paramount business, and the
solemn, imperious duty of life. And whenever we sin
against it, let us most humbly repent and reform. Put your
physiology into the right state first, and then keep it right,
and you will improve apace in this world, and ripen rapidly
for a better.
SECTION IV.
THE EVENLY-BALANCED OR PROPORTIONATE ACTION OF TIIK
FACULTIES A CONDITION OF PERFECTION ITS FEASIBILITY,
AND THE MODE OF SECUSING IT.
212. PROPORTION A CONDITION OF PERFECTION.
The previous volume on " Physiology," and the antecedent
sections of this volume, have shown what constitute a perfect
body ; that is, what physiological conditions are most promo
tive of the highest order and power of mind. We come now
to the momentous inquiries: What constitutes perfection of
head and character? And how can it be promoted? Phre-
nology answers. Let its answer be duly heeded and reduced
to practice.
That the proportionate development and exercise of all
the parts which compose a given thing is a law of nature, was
fully shown in " Physiology"162, and this law proved to embody
a fundamental condition of health, while its infraction wai
A CONDITION OF PERRECTIOIN. 69
shown to be a prolific cause of disease. Can a small heart
serve a large body as well as a large heart ? Can a small or
weak stomach digest for an athletic and powerful frame ?
Would small lungs work in connection with a powerful stotn.
ach any better than an elephant yoked up with a sheep ? Since
a given amount of oxygen inhaled through the lung3 can
combine with and burn up only its fixed equivalent of the
carbon evolved by the stomach88, and since a surplus of either
is hostile to life164, of course perfect health requires that both
be equally large and powerful. As the supply of vitality
must equal its expenditure, or exhaustion take place '65, and
its exhaustion equal its supply, else corpulency and obesity
ensue161—as breathing, eating, sleep, etc., must be in propor
tion to muscular and mental action, and it to them, and thus
of all the other physical functions, so pre-eminently of the
mental powers. Perfect balance must exist between them
all, or imperfection in feeling, opinion, and conduct, must en
sue. Hence, whenever in my professional examinations I
find an unevenly developed head—some organs projecting far
out, and others retiring far in—I predict an equally uneven
character. Such are liable to have marked excesses and
deficiencies; to take partial and one-sided views of things ;
and are subject to extremes, which is only another name for
imperfection, excesses, and tendencies to evil. But an even
head, in which all the organs are equally developed, and the
faculties harmoniously exercised, facilitates correct judgment,
consistent conduct, perfection of character, and a virtuous,
happy life. Indeed, the very definition of virtue, according
to Phrenology, is the harmonious exercise of all the faculties
in due proportion, upon their legitimate objects, controlled by
the moral sentiments and directed by intellect2" ; but vice and
sin consist in the excessive, defective, or perverted208 action
of the faculties, and especially of the animal propensities, not
thus directed.
This principle applies equally to the individual faculties,
and to their classes. Thus, when the propensities predomi
nate in action, they demoralize and debase reason and moral
feeling—the highest, noblest gifts oi* God to man— and while,
70 WEIL-BALANCED FACULTIES
in one sense, they assimilate the " lord of crea'ini''' ..o the
" beasts that perish," in another they render him far worse,
because of his greater susceptibilities of enjoyment and suf
fering. Selfishness, the product of excess of propensity over
the higher faculties, punishes its possessor. The selfish or
vicious are of necessity miserable, for their selfishness anc
vice naturally render them so. On the other hand, feeble,
ness of propensity constitutes imperfection ; for one with weak
animal and selfish organs has too little force to carry forward
any important plan, or even to take care of himself. He
must, therefore, be taken care of by others, and of course
poorly ; for to depend upon others for support or protection is
to depend upon a broken reed23". So, too, those in whom the
moral faculties are very large, and the animal weak, are in
deed good, moral, virtuous : but they are too good—so very
good as to be good for nothing, because they have too little
force or energy to carry fheir good feelings into execution. A
man with weak propensities and great intellectual organs will
never effect much with his intellect. One with weaker intel
lect and strong propensities will effect much more, yet it is
liable to be only for evil.
A predominance of the propensities and intellect over the
moral faculties leads to most disastrous consequences ; for
powerful animal desires will then employ a powerful intellect
to effect purely selfish, wicked ends, and stop at no means of
attaining them. This was the organization of Patty Cannon,
that most wicked woman and desperate murderer; of Nero,
that human fiend—and of most of the scourges of mankind.
Nor is the predominance of the moral faculties with the pro
pensities, but without intellect, scarcely less injurious, because,
though it may give zeal, yet if will be without knowledge ;
and this it was which lit the fires of Smithfield, devastated the
world by the " Holy Wars," caused the "Salem Witchcraft,"
and has instigated religious persecutions, and created pious
sinfulness. But where each of these three great classes of
faculties are equally developed, the propensities give force,
daring, energy, and eager desires ; the moral conveit the
anuria into a philanthropic and religious channel, and intel-
A CONDITION OF PERFECTION. 71
lent guides them both, by the light of reason, to happiness—
that great end of our being. The propensities require to be
strong, but should be checked, and made subservient to high
moral ends ; the moral sentiments require to be predominant
but raus-. have the helping hand of the propensities to carrj
them out ; and both require knowledge to enlighten, and judg
ment to conduct them to the best results.
This same principle of balance or proportionate action ap
plies with equal, if not still greater force to the individual
faculties. The predominance or deficiency of either is inju
rious; but their proportionate action is a leading condition of
perfection and enjoyment. Thus Amativeness, fairly devel
oped and governed by the moral sentiments, produces connu
bial love, than which there is not a more virtuous or pleasura
ble feeling in man ; but its deficiency causes the proportion,
ate absence of this virtue, while its excessive action produces
one of the worst and most painful forms of vice. Very
large Philoprogenitiveness spoils children by over-indulgence
and excessive tenderness ; while its deficiency annuls the
joys of parents, and renders children intolerable and bur
densome, instead of their being the greatest of pleasures ; but
its due development experiences all the joys of parental love,
and, if governed by enlightened intellect and high moral feel
ing, secures the best good of both parent and child. Exces
sive Combativeness, acting alone, engenders contention, causes
physical fighting, and creates a sour, ugly temper, which are
highly vicious, and thereby incur the penalty attached to the
iolation of this mental law ; whereas this faculty, when it acts
in obedience to Conscientiousness and Benevolence, becomes
moral courage, defence of rights, and of the oppressed—a
highly virtuous emotion. The proportionate exercise of Ali-
mentiveness, that is, eating as much as we require, but no
more, by strengthening the body, and thereby the moral and
intellectual faculties, is virtuous, and brings with it its own
reward; while its excessive indulgence, *iy overloading the
itomach, and thus clouding the intellect, and blunting the
moral sensibilities, becomes a cause of patn and sin. Aver.
age Secretiveness, goverred by Conscientiousness, employs
72 BALANCE OF FACULTIES
policy in a good cause ; while its excessive action, unchecked
by the higher faculties, leads to lying and duplicity, but its
deficiency oocasions too great openness and bluntness, and
want of tact. Acquisitiveness, or love of property, duly exor
cisrd, promotes industry and sobriety, gathers around us thu
comforts of life, and, aided by Conscientiousness, produces
even-handed justice; but its predominance leads to cheat
ing, extortion, and miserly selfishness, while its deficiency
causes prodigality. Excessive Cautiousness begets irresolu
tion, procrastination, and timidity, and is unfavorable both to
virtue and efficiency ; but, duly balanced, it gives that dis
cretion which is the better part of valor, while its deficiency
occasions recklessness. Self-esteem, when it predominates,
unchecked by Conscientiousness or intellect, inflates, almost to
bursting, with pride, self-sufficiency, haughtiness, and egotism ;
whereas its due development, controlled by the moral and in
tellectual faculties, imparts dignity, and that self-respect which
elevates one above meanness and trifling, and causes him fully
to appreciate and fulfil the great objects of life. But if it be
smaller than his other organs, he underrates himself, is there
fore underrated by others, and feels too diffident and insufficient
to attempt or accomplish great things. Predominant Firm
ness, uncontrolled, renders one obstinate, impervious to con
viction, and blindly tenacious of his opinions, whether right
or wrong, merely because of his will ; but those in whom it
is small are too fickle to accomplish much—sow, but have no
perseverance to wait for the harvest, and are " blown about
by every wind of doctrine," every new notion, every novel
scheme ; but, fairly developed and balanced, no element of
character is more valuable. Prominent Ideality renders one
fastidious, and too delicate and refined ; its deficiency leads
t:> coarseness and vulgarity, but its fair development blends
the serviceable with the perfect, and combines utility with
beauty.
This same principle, that balance of faculties is indispen
sable to perfection of character, applies with s*;ll greater
force to the moral faculties, and also explains that diversity
which characterizes the religious opinions and practices of
A CONDITION OF PERFECTION. 78
mankind. F?w think alike, even in the fundamentals of reli
gion, and fewer still in its details, because of the difference n:
their phrenological developments.
Every phrenological faculty constitutes the medium, or, as
it were, the colbred glass through which the mind looks at all
objects. As, when we look at objects through green glasses,
•hey look green, when through yellow glasses, they look yel
low, when through dark shaded or smoky glasses, they look
dark, gloomy, or smoky, when through glasses that are light
shaded, they look light, when through red glasses, everything
assumes a red aspect, and that, too, whatever may be their
actual color—so the phrenological faculties constitute the men
tal glasses through which we look at mental and moral objects.
Thus, those in whom Acquisitiveness, or love of money, pre
vails, look at everything, whether matters of science, religion,
politics, business, etc., not in the light of philosophy, or the
welfare of man, or of right and moral obligation, but in
that of dollars and cents alone. But he in whom Benevo
lence predominates, looks at all matters, not in the light of
their effects on his pockets, but of their bearing on the happi
ness of man. He in whom Conscientiousness predominates,
inspects and judges of things, neither in the aspect of expe-
diency, nor of their pecuniary advantages, nor self-interest, or
popularity, but in that of right and duty, and abstract justice.
But he in whom Approbativeness prevails, seeks popular favor,
and when any new thing is presented to his consideration, say
Phrenology, or Magnetism, asks, as the first and main ques
tion, not, " la it true V nor, " Is it philosophical ?" but, "What
will ihe folks say about it, and about me for embracing it I"
The man in whom reason predominates asks, " It it reason
able ? What are its laws ? Is it consistent with itself and
with nature ?" and looks at everything through the glasses of
philosophy.
To apply this fundamental law of mind to the religious
opinions of mankind. The moral faculties constitute the
colored glasses through which we look at the Deity and his
moral government, as well as at the moral relations of man
*n man. and to his Maker. Veneration -worships God, yet the
7
74 BALANCE OP FACULTIES
other organs color our view3 of his character and attributes.
Thus the ancient Greeks anj Romans had large Veneration,
and were very religious, tut their other moral organs were
small, and their animal propensities were powerful. Hence
they worshipped gods of various animal passions. Their
large Veneration, combining with their very large Amative,
ness, worshipped Venus, the goddess of love and beauty ;
combining with their very large Combativeness and Destruc-
tiveness, worshipped Mars, the god of war, carnage, and
blood ; with their powerful Alimentiveness, worshipped Bac
chus, the god of feasting, revelry, and wine ; with their
large Acquisitiveness, worshipped the god Terminus, who
guarded their boundaries, and protected their goods from pil
lage ; with large Secretiveness, worshipped Mercury, the god
of cunning, finesse, duplicity, and theft ; and thus of their
other divinities. But they had fair intellectual organs, as
well as unbridled passions. Hence they worshipped Jupiter,
the great director and manager of the universe, and the gov
ernor of the gods, but a god full of most disgusting amours,
most vindictive and revengeful, without moral principle, and
swayed by a power of animal passiflns as much above that of
mortals as he himself was rated superior to them.
This fully established law of mind shows sectarians why
they differ and quarrel about religion. Their organs differ,
and this diversifies and distracts their religious views and
feelings. One sect has one set of organs, or looks through
glasses of one color, and another sect wears glasses of another
color, and both are looking at the same object and quarrelling
about its color. Accordingly each sect has its own peculiar
set of phrenological developments, which harmonizes per
fectly with the peculiarities if its creed. To show minutely
what characterize each, and their departures from the only
true standard of religious faith and practice involved in this
principle, would be to thrust the face into a hornet:s nest
of the worst character, which is unnecessary ; yet we will
give a few illustrations. Universalists almost invariably have
large Veneration, combiner with Benevolence and Adhesive
ness in predominance ovei Conscientiousness, with moderate)
A lOKDn.OJ DF PERPECTIOA. 75
Destruetiveness, and hence adore God for his goodness mainly,
and dwell in glowing colors upon his love but the old-fash
ioned Calvinists usually have large Veneration, with full Self.
Esteem, predominant Firmness, large Conscientiousness, and
full or large Combativeness or Destruetiveness, or both, and
accordingly adore the Sovereignty and unbending justice of
God. Has not the reader observed that the heads of stiff ortho
dox deacons often rise rapidly from the intellectual organs to
Firmness and Self-Esteem, which indicates more Reverence
than Benevolence, and more Conscientiousness than either,
with a tolerably wide head ? But do Methodists, or Univer-
salists, or Unitarians, or Episcopalians, often have this form
of head ? These remarks do not apply to Congregational ists,
nor to believers in the "New-School" doctrines, whose Con
scientiousness is usually predominant, but Self-Esteem mod
erate, and Destruetiveness only full, and whose high-toned,
or rather ultra-Calvinistic notions are materially softened
down. In them, Amativeness is usually moderate, and ac
cordingly they abhor no sin more than its perversion. Epis
copalians usually have large Veneration, with predominant
Benevolence and large Ideality, Firmness, Self-Esteem, and
Social organs, with Conscientiousness not always large, though
often full ; and hence they place their religion in works of
charity, and in attending " the church," rather than in pen
itence. They are not as strict and rigid as the orthodox ;
yet they are always genteel, rather exclusive, and eminently
social. Nearly all their women have superior heads, are
remarkable for devotion, gcod sense, the domestic virtues,
and especially for Benevolence. The Quakf-rs have no char
acteristic moral developments, and accordingly allow their
members to hold any and every belief, provided they ro thus
and so. Infidels, deists, etc., usually have moderate Hope,
small Veneration, scarcely the least Spirituality, large Benev
olence, and Conscientiousness variable. I never saw one of
infidel sentimen's who had not a poorly-balanced mo~al <iead.
Those who have Conscientiousness predominent, w th smal1
Veneration and Spirituality, place their religion in doing
right, or i»: honesty and morality, but disregard the externals
T8 BALiNCE OF FACULTIES
of religion ; while those in whom these orga. js are reversed
attend to its outward forms and ceremonies ; but though they
are devout, yet they are sometimes unjust and immoral.
Those in whom Benevolence predominates place their religion
in doing good, to the neglect of other Christian duties; those
in whom Spirituality is great, regard religion as consisting in
faith, and implicit reliance uoon Divine providence ; but
those in whom this organ is small do not feel that awe of God,
that sense of the Divine presence which this faculty inspires,
but attribute all events to cause and effect. But those in whom
all these organs are fully and evenly developed " put on the
whole armor of righteousness." They do good, do right,
worship their God, and trust in his goodness ; which, united,
constitute the very perfection of the Christian character. Such
live a blameless life, worthy of admiration and imitation ;
while imperfect religious faith and practice are the natural
fruits of unevenly developed moral organs.
In harmony with this principle, that each phrenological fac
ulty stamps its impress upon the religious opinions of its pos
sessor, it follows that those in whom all the moral organs are
proportionally developed will entertain consistent and cor
rect religious opinions, and view the character and attributes
of the Deity as they are. Since, as already seer;, Venera
tion, with predominant Benevolence, worships a God of kind
ness; with predominant Conscientiousness, a God of unbend
ing justice ; with large Causality, as the great first Cause of
ull things ; with large Self-Esteem and Firmness, as the great
Sovereign of the universe, immutable, omnipotent, unchanging,
and unchangeable, clothed with authority, and doing his own
will and pleasure in the armies of heaven above, and among
the inhabitants of the earth beneath, etc. ; those, of course, in
whom Benevolence is large will worship him for his great
goodness to the children of men; in whom Benevo'enoe and
Conscientiousness are both equally large, as kind, nut just;
and with equal Firmness, Combativeness, Destructiveness,
and Self-Esteem added, as "a God merciful and gracious,
long-suffering, and abundant in goodness and truth, yet who
will by no means clear the gu'lty;" as perfectly holy hint
A CONDITION OF 1SRFECTION. 77
Bel., and requir.ng holiness in all his creatures ; as creating
and governing them with a vise reference to their greatest
ultimate good ; and in doing this, as rewarding those who
obey his laws, but as punishing those who disobey ; or rather,
as infinitely benevolent, yet as a God who will "not let the
wicked go unpunished ;" with large Cautiousness and Philo
progenitiveness, as exercising a fatherly care over his chil
dren, and providing a bountiful supply for all their wants,
etc. Hence, those who have all these organs fully developed
and evenly balanced will take all the characteristics of the
Deity into account, and give each their due proportion ; be
cause the moral constitution of things must necessarily har
monize with the moral character and attributes of God, and
man's moral character, as far as it goes, must coincide with
the attributes of the Deity. Consequently, those who possess
*rell-balanced and,perfectly developed phrenological organiza-
tions, or have all the faculties vigorous and unperverted408,
will take consistent and correct views of the character, attri
butes, and government of God. And the nearer our heads
approach to this phrenological standard of perfection, the more
correct will be our moral feelings and conduct, as well as
religious opinions and worship. But the farther they depart
from this standard, that is, the more uneven they are, and the
more imperfectly balanced the organs, the more orroneous
will be our religious opinions, and proportionally imperfect
our moral conduct and worship. By the application of this
principle to our own heads, all of us can see at a glance the
departures of our own religious opinions and practices from
this the true standard of our nature, pointed out by Phrenol
ogy. Those in whom Veneration is moderate or small, think
too little of divine things, and should cultivate the sentimeni
of devotion; in whom Firmness, Self-Esteem, Combativeness,
and Conscientiousness, predominate over Benevolence, that in,
whose heads rise higher on the back part of the top than on
the fore part of the top, and form a kind of apex near the
crown, entertain too austere notions of the character and gov
ernment of God. But, on the other hand, those in whom Be
nevolence rises high, while Conscientiousness, Cautiousness,
7*
T8 BAIANCE OF FACULTIES
and Destruotiveness, are only moderately developed, take the
other extreme, and regard God as all kindness, but not retri.
butive. Those in whom Causality and Conscientiousness
predominate, and Veneration and Marvellousness are only
moderate or small, are too radical, ultra, irreverent, specula
tive, and hypothetical, and more moral than pious. Let such
pray more, and theorize less. Those whose Veneration is
larger than Reason should remember that they are too apt to
believe as they are told, and require to exercise more intellect
along with their religious -feelings. But the principle is- be
fore the reader. Let each apply it accordingly as his develop
ments may require, and let all profit by the great lesson here
taught. By this standard—this moral formula—any and
every one of us should test our religion, and then should both
cultivate the deficient moral organs, and also put intellect over
against our warped and contracted feelings. By analyzing
the phrenological faculties, intellect can and should inform us
what is the true or normal standard of religious belief and
practice, and to this standard let all conform. Then will sec
tarianism hide its many heads, and "all see eye to eye."
Then will all embrace the same doctrines of truth, and " do
works meet for repentance." " He that is wise is wise for
himself."
This same principle of balance applies equally to the intel
lectual faculties. When they are all large, the judgment is
good in regard to all subjects, but deficiency in any of them
impairs it in regard to the functions of those that are feeble.
Thus, let a picture be hung up for inspection, those who have
Size large, and all the other intellectuals small, though they
will judge accurately of its proportions, and derive pleasure
from admiring them, yet all its other qualities will be unseen,
unadmired, and their pleasure in beholding it proportionably
restricted. But those who have Form also large, will observe
and admire its likeness as well as its proportions, and thus
be doubly delighted ; and those who have large Color added,
will also be delighted with the beauty of its colors, and the
richness and de icacy of its tints and shades, which will triple
their pleasure. Add large Idcali.y, and they will discovei
A CONDITION OF PERFECTION. 79
what without it tiey would not have seen, tie beauty, rich
ness, and those other qualities of the picture which appeal to
this faculty.
The proverb that we judge others by ourselves, is jn har.
mony with this principle, and illustrates it. Thousands of
times in my professional practice, when I have ascribed to a
man some strong, ruling passion, say love of praise, and de
scribed him as excessively sensitive to praise and reproach,
" And so is every one," is the usual reply. Perhaps the next
subject has small Approbativeness and large Self-Esteem, and
of course is described as not caring a straw for the opinions of
others ; " Well, who does ? for I am sure I don't," or " He's
a fool who does," is apt to be the response. What we love,
desire, hate, etc., we are almost sure to think others love, de
sire, or hate.
Those who have large Eventuality only, will learn and re
member events, including history, news, and the like, yet little
else ; those who have only Locality large, will learn geo
graphy, and recollect places, but nothing else ; those who
have Form large, the shape of things; Calculation alone large,
will excel in mental arithmetic, but be poor in everything
else ; those whose Causality predominates will think much,
and investigate first principles, yet be poor in other things.
Those whose perceptive powers, which give the various
kinds of memory and the ability to collect and retain knowl
edge, greatly predominate over their reflectives, though they
may be very apt as scholars and talkers, yet they will be
superficial, lack thcught, judgment, and contrivance, and be
incapable of ascending from facts up to the first principles
which govern them ; and, on the other hand, those whose per-
ceptives are small, but reflectives predominate, will have
wretched memories, be unable to command their knowledge,
or bring their talents to bear upon practical matters ; be given
merely to speculative, scholastic, abstract, therefore-and-where-
fore, metaphysical theorizing, which is valueless ; and though
they may know how to reason, yet their knowledge of facts
will be too limited to furnish data sufficient to form correct
inductions. But where both classes of faculties are powerful
80 AI.ANCE IT FACULTIES
and equlli balanced, the former will collect abundant ma
terials, which the latter will work up into correct arguments
and sound conclusions, possess versatility of talents, sound
common sense, great strength combined with great correctness
of intellect, and be endowed with well-balanced and truly philo
sophicat minds, and gifted with the true Baconian, inductive
method of studying nature, by ascending from facts up to first
principles—the most conclusive and correct means of arriving
at truth 43°. This cast of development is not only perfectly
adapted to the laws of nature, and harmonizes with the con
stitution of the human mind, but it also imparts what is called
sound and correct judgment, and takes enlarged views of
subjects ; while its absence causes the intellectual lameness,
tvarped views, and fallacious and diversified opinions which
jxist among mankind.
Those who have large Language, with weak reasoning facul
ties, talk much but say little ; have words in great abundance
and variety, but few ideas ; and therefore experience and
communicate but little pleasure ; for who wishes to listen to
senseless prattle ? On the other hand, those who have Lan
guage small, with strong reasoning powers, will have excel
lent ideas and much valuable matter to communicate, yet be
barren in expression; their rich mines of thought will remain
buried for want of Language in which to express them, and
the pleasure and profit of listening to them be proportionally
abridged. But those who have Language and the reflectives
both large, will experience double pleasure, both in thinking
and in communicating their glowing thoughts in rich, expres
sive language, and thereby administer much pleasure and
profit to their delighted listeners.
But the power and importance of this principle of balance
are greatly augmented when applied to the various combina
tions of the faculties. Thus, to have predominant Cautious
ness is bad, but to have it combined with small Hope, is much
worse ; because it causes the most gloomy apprehensions and
fearful forebodings, and shuts out every ray of expectation
ivhich large Hope would throw in upon perpetual darkness.
Excessive Approbativeness added, creates the strongest desire
A CONDITION Of fERFECTIOJf. Bl
for approval mingled with a constant dread of incurring cen
sure, and no hope of obtaining that commendation so much
desired—a most unhappy state of mind. Large Veneration,
and small Self-Esteem and Coinbativeness, added to this com
bination, produce the most oppressive diffidence, acccrr panied
with that confusion and utter want of self-possession which
prevent any one, however talented or deserving, from accom.
plishing much, o- even from enjoying intercourse with men,
and also cause pusillanimity, and even cowardice. R»'
when these faculties are equally balanced, large Approba-
tiveness, will aspire to distinction ; strong Hope, expect that
praise which Approbativeness desires ; large Self-Esteem,
will impart enough, but not too much, of that " modest assur
ance" requisite to push its possessor forward ; and large Com-
bativeness nerve him for contest with every difficulty, and
give vigor and efficiency to all he says and does. And when
this balance is still farther perfected by large intellectual or.
gans, they give the requisite talents and high moral character
which impart moral worth, and sanctify ambition, elevate
motives, and ennoble the whole character; so that such will
be every way calculated to enjoy life themselves, and to be
come blessings to mankind. But let either of these faculties
be much stronger or weaker than the others, and their enjoy
ment will be proportionally marred, and usefulness dimin
ished.
Though predominant Acquisitiveness, which predisposes to
dishonesty, covetousness, and a miserly selfishness and mean
ness, and also its deficiency, which allows extravagance and
diminishes industry, are each adverse to virtue and happiness,
yet the evil is greatly magnified by its combinations. Thus,
those who have small Acquisitiveness combined with large
Benevolence will give away so lavishly to every apparently
needy sufferer as to leave nothing for themselves, and no cap
ital with which to make more to enable them to aid future
sufferers, or even to live. Large Adhesiveness increases the
evil, by causing them to ruin themselves by helping their
friends, and by exciting commiseration for those whom they
desire, but are unable, to relieve ; whereas, if Acquisitiveness
83 BALANCE OF FACULTIES
had been as large as Benevolence and Adi.esiveness, Juy
would have gratified the former by acquiring property, yet
have retained enough to live comfortably, and continue busi
ness in order to make more ; and the latter, by giving the
balance to relieve friends and sufferers. This would have
more than doubled their pleasures, besides preventing that
distress occasioned by bestowing their all, and that pe:naps
upon unworthy objects. But those in whom Acquisitiveness
predominates over Benevolence may, indeed, experience a
sordid pleasure in making money, but are strangers to the
exquisite satisfaction which accompanies works of charity,
because predominant Acquisitiveness holds in its iron grasp
the means of gratifying Benevolence by giving, prevents Ad
hesiveness from entertaining friends ; Ideality from having
nice things, and indulging refined taste ; the Intellectual Fac
ulties from purchasing books, and taking time to think and
study; Phlloprogenitiveness from spending money in educa-
ting and improving children; Locality and Sublimity from
travelling ; Conscientiousness from paying debts, and freely
discharging all pecuniary obligations ; Hope from investing
capital in what promises pieasure to the other faculties;
A.limentiveness from indulging in table luxuries ; and thus
abridges most of the enjoyments of life, besides preying ulti
mately upon itself by grudging every farthing expended, and
giving its possessor a world of trouble for fear of losing his
possessions. A few facts as examples.
About twenty miles from Raleigh, North Carolina, there
lived an old miser, worth twenty thousand dollars, who al
lowed his only daughter to live destitute of every comfort,
dressed only in clothes coarse and shabby, almost starved,
and, finally, even to go to the poor-house, because he was too
miserly too support her. The combination of very large
Acquisitiveness and Cautiousness with large Hope produces
a state of mind truly deplorable. We were brought up near
an old miser, named George Rogers, who had this combina
tion, and who, besides burying his money in different places,
watched it the whole of dark and stormy nights, and suffered
everything from the fear of being robbed. Mr. Green, a car.
A CONDITION OF PERFECTION. 88
.pentei, in Norfolk, Va., has Acquisitiveness so strong tha he
lives upon spoiled meat, cold victuals, and such ends of the
table as he can get for nothing, and is an old bachelor, be
cause too stingy to marry, though worth some twenty thousand
dollars.
A miser in Philadelphia, worth almost half a million, hires
his children, whenever he can, to go t.'» bed supperless for a
penny a-piece, which he steals from them when asleep. He
seldom provides decent edibles for the other meals, and used
to give his children the old watermelons left over of his sales
till they had become stale.
The combination of predominant Acquisitiveness with small
Cautiousness, by speculating too largely and grasping at enor
mous profits, often loses all, as by speculating in village lots,
mulberry trees, etc. ; besides often contracting debts beyond
the means of payment, inducing a perpetual series of difficul
ties, and, if Conscientiousness be also small, prompting to dis
honest and unprincipled conduct. Moderate Causality added-
tries a variety of ill-advised ways and means to get rich, but
fails in all, and is tantalized with improper desires, which
cannot be gratified, and so grasps at one straw after another,
only to sink into deeper poverty and more hopeless disappoint
ment.
But when these organs are equally developed, Acquisitive
ness desires property, and prompts energetic efforts to acquire
it; Hope creates due enterprise, and feasts, but not to excess,
upon unfolding prospects ; Conscientiousness is gratified by the
payment of all clues; and Cautiousness and Causality combine
foresight and prudence with that judicious application of ap
propriate means to the end desired, which crown effort with
success. This combination secures the harmonious exercise
and unalloyed gratification, not only of all these faculties, but
also of all the others if similarly balanced.
Those who have predominant Self-Esteem, combined with
large Firmness, Combativeness, and Destructiveness, and only
moderate Conscientiousness, Approbativeness, and intellectual
faculties, will be self-sufficient, proud, haughty, imperative,
over waring, dictatorial, rvHstinatP insolent, supremely selfish
84 HA.ANCK OK FA .'CITIES.
and revengeful toward all who do not obey their umeasonable
demands and submit to become their servants, ani yet they will
have too feeble intellects to support these high-sounding preten
sions ; but those who have all these organs equally developed
—large Self-Esteem, to impart dignity and nobleness of char
acter, so that they cannot be trifled with, combined with large
intellectual organs, to impart the strength of mind requisite
fully to sustain their high claims, of which Dr. Caldwell fur
nishes a good example ; large Conscientiousness, to add moral
worth to intellectual greatness ; and large Firmness and Com-
bativeness, to impart perseverance, moral courage, and energy
of character—will duly respect themselves for their moral and
intellectual qualities alone, and combine the man and the
gentleman with superior intellectual abilities and high-toned
moral principles, and thus enjoy life themselves, and promote
the happiness of all around.
Other still more striking illustrations of the importance of this
balance of the faculties might be drawn from the social fac
ulties ; and others still from every phrenological and phys
ical element of man. But why enlarge upon a principle,
the necessity and value of which are so self-evident—a prin
ciple thus clearly shown to be so powerful and universal in
its application as to be inseparably interwoven with the nature
and happiness of every human being ? Have we not already
shown why and how well-balanced intellect is so superior to
the same amount of intellect unbalanced—how the moral fac
ulties, when harmoniously developed and exercised, produce
that moral feeling, that true piety, which constitute the grace
of graces—the crowning excellence of man, and espee;nllyof
woman—as well as that this endless diversity in the religious
failh and practice of mankind which disgraces modern Chris
tianity, and makes so many infidels, is caused by a want of
this balance ? Indeed, words cannot express its value and im
portance. Hence, should not parents and teachers, iu edu
cating the young and moulding their characters, physical,
intellectual, and moral, and, indeed, all who seek health, long
life, happiness, or self-improvement, be guided by it as their
polar star, ard make it the nucleus around which all their
ENLARGEMENT 4NL» D1MINUT.ON OF THE ORGANS. 85
efforts to remedy defects and cultivate virtues should clus
ter?
213. PROOF THAT THE ORGANS CAN BE ENLARGED or. DIMINISHED.
When Phrenology first came up before the author's mind
for examination, he saw at a glance that in case its organs
were capable of being enlarged and diminished, it disclosed
the greatest discovery of this age or any other—the means of
improving the mind and perfecting the soul. Consequently,
this single point engrossed much of his early as well as recent
inquiries ; and all his subsequent observations have tended to
confirm the glorious truth, that small organs can be enlarged
and excessive ones diminished, even in adults. No : man
is not compelled to carry all his faults, excesses, and defects
to his grave. Though the tendency of the large organs is to
become larger, and of the small ones to become still more di
minutive, on the principle that "to him that hath shall be
given, and he shall have more abundantly, but from him that
hath not shall be taken away even that he hath"—though the
larger an organ the greater the pleasure taken in its exercise,
and therefore the more spontaneous and continual that exer
cise, which naturally re-increases its size and activit) while
the smaller an organ the less pleasure is taken in its action,
and hence the less it is exercised, so that it becomes diminished
by inaction—yet this tendency can be counteracted, and the
power of any required faculty be increased or diminished at
pleasure. That great changes often take place in the charac
ter is a matter of daily observation and experience. But can
the phrenological organs also be increased and diminished ?
Can so soft a substance as the brain enlarge and contract so
hard a substance as the skull ? " Impossible," says one. " I
must see that point proved before I believe it, much as I am
inclined to such belief," say others. To this important point,
then, we address our first inquiry—the possibility and evi
dences of such enlargement.
To show that the enlargement of the skull is not impossible,
that it is even not so very difficult as its cursory observation
leads us to suppose is first in order. The skull is not thai
86 ENLARGEMENT AND DIMINUTION
hard, unimpressible substance in the living subject which it is
found to be in the dried skeleton. Nor is the matter of which
it is composed stationary, but, like that of all the other por.
tions of the system, it is undergoing constant change from the
cradle to the grave. Its old and useless matter is perpetually
taken up and carried off, while new deposits are continually
going on, so as to allow all the latitude and opportunity for a
change of skull required by any amount of cerebral dimiuu
tion or increase.
Besides, is not its office to serve the brain 1 Which is the
subject, which the lord ? To subserve the purposes of the
brain, and through it of the mind, was every organ of the en
tire body created 19 ; and shall the skull form the only excep
tion ? Is it not rather the highest confirmation of this law 1
We may rest fully assured that nature will never allow the
skull to interfere with any required development or function
of the brain or mind, but rather that it promotes both. Shall
the shells of the oyster, lobster, turtle, alligator, and all the
crustacse, allow the perfect development and easy growth of
the mass within, and shall not a similar provision be made fot
the unimpeded growth of an organ as much more important as
the brain ? This enlargement is not effected by the mechani
cal pressure of the brain upon the skull, any more than the
bark of trees, but by the natural process of growth and forma
tion. As the skins of growing animals do not become larger
by being stretched by the mechanical pressure of the flesh
upon all parts—for this would require an immensely powerful
force—but grow and shrink with the growth and diminution
of the inclosed mass, so the skull yields and shrinks in ac
cordance with the increase and diminution of the brain within.
Another means by which nature allows this cerebral en
largement wherever it is required, is, by rendering the skull
rniN above that portion or organ of the brain enlarged, while
the diminution of the latter thickens the former. Our phre
nological collection contains twenty or more skulls which
establish this fact, and none 'known to militate against it. A
physician in Weschester co., Pa., kindly presented the skull
of a female respecfably connected, who, in spite of the en-
Ct THE ORGANS. 87
treaties of her friends, had voluntarily abandoned herself to
the unrestrained indulgence of Alimentiveness and Amative-
ness, and whose skull is so very thin as to be transparent
where those organs are located, but not elsewhere. That of
John Earl, who murdered his wife, and who was given to the
unrestrained and habitual indulgence of both these passions, is
also thin in the same places. So is that of Burley—presented
by Mr. Harris, treasurer of the London District, U. C-—a
volunteer in the burning of the Caroline. This Burley armed
himself for the purpose, and deliberately shot the sheriff who
arrested him for stealing a young bullock and killing it for
food. He was an habitual drunkard, and excessively licen
tious, and yet by turns extremely given to prayer and religious
exercise ; an explanation of the seeming anomaly of which
Phrenology alone gives. One of his religious seasons imme
diately preceded his execution. When swung off, ther rope
broke. During the consequent delay he proposed to have a
season of prayer, and was himself earnestly engaged in sup
plicating the Divine blessing when the sheriff interrupted him
to re-adjust the rope.
L. N. Fowler has the skull of a slave, so notorious for his
propensity to steal, that after he had been repeatedly whipped
almost o death for stealing, but to no purpose, on the perpe
tration of a new theft, his master seized an axe and struck it
through his skull into the brain, exclaiming : " I will break
you of stealing, if I have to kill you." He lived, but still
continued to steal ; and his skull is remarkably thin and
transparent at Acquisitiveness and Secretiveness. The skull
of another slave, noted for kindness, is thin where Benevolence
is located.
He has also the skull of a woman, who, from being a moral
and virtuous member of society, and a consistent and exem
plary professor of religion, became a self-abandoned outcast,
and grossly immoral, yet was passionately fond of music. It
is thin where Amativeness, Combativeness, and Tune are
located, but thickened upon the top in the region of the moral
organs. We will gladly show those of our readers who visij
us, these and many other similar proofs and illustrations of
88 ENLARGEMENT AND DIMINUTION
the fact tha. the exercise of organs absorbs the po tions of the
skull which covers them, so as to render them; hin; while
inaction, and also excessive action, reduce thei size, and
allow the skull to become thick. Indeed, this piint has be-
come fully established, and although it prevents our observing
he whole of this increase caused by the exercise of organs,
atill it shows how such increase and decrease can take place.
Again, does not the whole head continue to enlarge till
*after thirty? Is not this an admitted fact? Then is not the
inference conclusive that, since the resistance of the skull
does not prevent the enlargement of the brain as a whole, it
will surely allow any part of it to become enlarged ?
Phrenology, moreover, demonstrates the fact that the brain
is composed of particular organs, each of which exercises a
special function. Hence, since the exercise of every organ
causes a flow of blood to that organ in proportion to the vigor
and continuance of that exercise82, therefore, the vigorous
and continuous action of any faculty, as of Benevolence,
Causality, or Combativeness, causes a proportional flow of
blood to its particular organ, which blood is freighted with
matter which it deposits wherever it goes, and in proportion
to its abundance. This causes each organ to enlarge in pro
portion to the exercise of its faculty. This law of increase,
by and in proportion to action, and of decrease by inaction, is
familiar in its application to the hands of sailors and laborers,
to the feet of dancers and pedestrians, to the chests of rowers,
she muscles of the laboring classes compared with those of the
puny "upper tens," the right hand as compared with the
left, and, indeed, to every portion of the body. Does, then,
the brain form the only exception to this law ? Is it not a
part of the body, and therefore governed by all those, physio
logical laws which govern the physiology ? How unphilo-
sophical and absurd such supposed exception ! Besides, it ia
an established fact that the heads of the literary classes are
larger than those of laborers, because exercised more. Then
since the exercise of the brain, as a whole, causes its g.oss
enlargement, why should not the exercise of any of its parts
cause the enlargement of it? particular organ in proportion
F THE OKUA.NS. 89
to that exercise ? Why should not that flow of blood to the
several organs exercised cause the deposit of those materials
with which it is freighted, and so occasion their enlargement
in proportion as they are exercised? At least, it is for the
disputants of this doctrine to show that this law does not apply
to the brain, since we know it does to all the other portions of
the body. It is, therefore, possible to enlarge and to diminish
the size of the phrenological organs, both by the skull becom
ing thin, and by the actual protrusion of the skull itself.
That the skull retires as the organs decrease may also bs
doubted ; but let it be remembered that the pressure of the
external atmosphere is sufficiently great to depress anything
in the least flexible, and of course the skull whenever the in
ternal pressure is removed by the decline of the organs within.
Such retiring is true of the other bones of which that of the
»ccompanying zigomatic arch is an example. That arch,
rocated just forward of the
ears, binds the masticatory
muscles. One of these arches
in the accompanying engra
ving is shrunk in, while the
other is full, and the teeth
on the side of the mouth on
which the arch is depressed
were all gone in both jaws,
but good on the opposite side
in which the arch is full.
On dissection, the masticato
ry muscle, on the side where
there were no teeth, was
small, on *.he other side larger,
evidently because the for
mer hac. little action, and
the latter a double share of
it. And since the brain is
governed by the sane laws, why should not its bones advance,
and retire ir. acco:2ance with the demands of the organa
beneath ?
No. 2. Zigomatic Arch.
90 ENLARGEMENT AND DIMINUTION
Having shown both the possibility of an enlargement of the
organs, and also how it can take place, we next proceed to
demonstrate this point by facts. In 1835, Mr. Bailey, of
Manchester, England, took from life a bust of the Rev. John
Pierpont, of Boston. In 1941, we took from life a bust of the
same head. The latter shows a decided increase of the whole
intellectual lobe over the former. This increase, an accurate
eye detects instantly, because the latter is deeper, broader,
higher, and every way more ample than the former. Bene"
olence and Combativeness are larger, while Cautiousness is
smaller in the latter bust. The cause of this increase of some
organs, and decrease of others, is to be found in the vigorous
and almost continual exercise of his intellectual faculties in
the composition of poetry, for which he has become justly cel
ebrated ; in lectures in the cause of temperance, truth, and
freedom ; as well as in his severe and protracted intellectual
and moral contest with the rum-sellers of his congregation.
When odes and poems are wanted on occasions like the death
: of Spurzheim, or Harrison, or any national or local jubilee,
Rev. John Pierpont furnishes the best. His unremitted labors
in the temperance cause ; the number, power, and eloquence
of his lectures on various subjects ; the logical clearness and
cogency of his letters to his vestry, evince a powerful and con
tinuous exercise of his intellectual faculties sufficient to cause
and account for the increase of his intellectual organs, as well
as of Benevolence and Combativeness, and the decrease of
Cautiousness.
This case establishes our position beyond a doubt. Both
busts were taken when he was upwards of forty-five, and so
taken that the manner of taking could cause none of this strik
ing difference. This case is clear and unequivocal, and sub
ject to the inspection of all who wish to examine copies.
J. G. Forman, a phrenologist, took a mask of a woman in
Sing Sing prison, #who, from a child had seen with the right
eye only, and whose perceptive organs on the left side were
much larger than those on the right. My first glance at the
mask disappointed me, for Calculation and Order were equal
on both sides. But a seconc glance actually electrified me
OF THE ORGANS. 01
with delight, because it revealed the fact that Individuality,
Form, Size, and Locality, the functions of which are exercised
mainly by means of the i ye, were much larger on the side
opposite the seeing eye than the same organs over the seeing
eye ; while the organs of Order, Calculation, and Weight,
which can act as well without the aid of the eye as with it, 01
at least, as well with one eye as both, were alike on both sides.
This difference is most striking. Locality rises nearly half
an' inch on the left side, above the same organ on the right.
Size, on the left side, has both elevated and protruded the inner
portion ofthe left eyebrow about half an inch, while Language,
Comparison, and Causality are equal in both. This mask can
also be inspected. The principle of crossing involved in this
case is established, by a great amount and variety of evidence,
to be a physiological ordinance of nature, and might have been
easily foretold.
In our collection may be seen two masks of Oldham, ma
chinist to the Bank of England, taken by Spurzheim twenty
years apart. The last, after he became celebrated through
out Europe for his mechanical and inventive powers, shows a
breadth at Constructiveness greater than the first by nearly an
inch, while the other organs remained nearly stationary.
Spurzheim exhibited these masks in Boston to prove the possi
bility of enlarging the organs—a favorite doctrine with him.
On this point this truly great man, in that most excellent
work on " Education founded on the Nature of Man,"* re
marks as follows :—
" It may be asked, whether exercising the affective and intellec
tual powers makes the respective organs increase. Each part of
the body, being properly exercised, increases and acquires more
strength. The fact is known to be so with respect to the muscles
of woodcutters, smiths, runners, etc. Now the brain and its parts
are subject to all the lows of organization; they are nourished like
the arms and legs. Cerebral activity, therefore, determines the
blood toward the head, in the same way as the blood is carried to
any other part when irritated, and this law of the organization may
enablo us to account for the development of certain parts of the
brain of whole naf.ons, and to explain national characters, if indi.
* For sale by Fowlers & Wells, 131 Nassau-street, New York. Prie*
ri cents. Mailable
92 K.tl. IRGEMENT AND DIMINUTION
vidunl powers are cultivated during successive generations. 1 can
speak with certainty from repented observations. The changes of
cerebral development, when the individual powers are exercised,
or kept quiet, are astonishing. In the former case individual organs
increase, and in the latter they not only stand still in growth, but
sometimes become absolutely smaller."
The bearing of these facts is positive and direct. They
prove, beyond all dispute, the possibility of enlarging the size
of organs by exercising their faculties, as well as of the re
quired protrusion of the skull, and hence prepare the way for
evidence less positive in its character, which, without this as
an entering wedge, would be comparatively valueless. They
demonstrate the point now under consideration, which, once
established, may now be illustrated and enforced by an order
of evidence too low in itself, satisfactorily to prove it.
Deville's cabinet in London, contains about seventy busts
which establish and illustrate this point. Caldwell brought
over with him some fourteen of them, and says that this in
crease of organs is placed beyond a doubt by these and other
specimens. Dr. Carpenter, of Pottsville, Pa., and Prof. Bry
ant, of Philadelphia, and many others who have seen these
casts, bring a similar report of them. One of these changes
occurred in the head of Herschel, the great astronomer. The
likeness of him copied into " Memory," from an English en
graving, said to be the best ever taken, shows enormous per
ceptive organs in the length and arching of his eyebrows 4M,
and bears evidence of its having been taken when he was
about seventy ; whereas, a mask of him now in our collection,
evidently taken when about forty, shows only a fair develop,
ment of these organs.
Some time ago we wrote to M. B. Sampson, our London
correspondent, to forward us copies of Deville's specimens
illustrating this point, and hoped to have received them before
we republished this work. The following, while it explains
the cause of their delay, gives encouragement of their recep-
ion :—
" Bank of England, Feb. 3, 1842.
" In the course of a week or two, I shall procure from Mr
Devil e the casts which you require, and will send them to yos
OF THE ORGANS. 9a
without delay. You would have received them ere this, but Mr.
Deville has been confined by indisposition."*
Changes, similar to those already described, took place in
the head of Franklin, except that his reflectives increased, but
pcrceptives diminished. The accompanying engraving of
him copW from a portrait taken when he was a young man,
No. 3. Young Franklin.
found m his life published by Hillard & Grey, Boston, rep-
reseatn the perceptives as very large, and Causality retir
ing, so as to leave his forehead narrow and sloping at the
* These casts were received, but, not being aware of their reception,
they were sold at the custom-house to pay charges. lc this should meil
the «ye >f their purchaser, we should be most happy to see him.
94 SNLARGi-MENT AND DIMINUTION
top, but evinces prodigious Individuality, Form, Size, Lo
cality, and Eventuality, and large Comparison, with only fair
Causality.
The author has also a plaster bust of him, cast from a mar
ble bust made in France by Houdon, whose accuracy in
sculpturing is too well known to require comment. In this
bust, chiselled after a mask taken from Franklin's face, and
said to be a perfect likeness of him at that time,* his percep-
tives and reflectives are both large, the perceptives rather
predominating, but reflectives prominent. But in the statue
CAUSALITY VERT LARGE.
No. 4. Old Franklin.
taken of him wnen old, and placed in a niche in the Franklin
Library in Fifth-street, near Chesnut, Philadelphia, Causality
and Comparison stand out in tj)e boldest relief, while Indiviiiu.
ality and Eventuality are small. Most of the busts and en.
gravings of this great philosopher found in shops, hooks, etc.,
* This original marble bust was recently purchased by some scientific
body in Philadelphia, and the original mask taken from his lace was
recently sold in France, among other effects of Hondon, for about two
dollars, and taken to Italy. Will not some American artist or travellnr ht
Italy procure this original, or a copy ?
OF THE OKttANS. WS
represent him as air, ».d evince predominant reflective organs,
out deficient perceptives, as seen in the accompanying en
graving. See also the portrait of him in Peale's museum.
Our next inquiry relates to the existence or absence of a
corresponding change in his intellectual character. Of this,
all are allowed to judge for themselves; but was not young
Franklin remarkable for observation, memory in general,
desire to acquire knowledge, especially of an experimental
character, and facility of communication ; while oi,d Frank-
lin was all reason and philosophy, rich in ideas, full of pithy,
sententious proverbs, which are only the condensation of
Causality, and always tracing everything up to its causes and
laws, but less inclined to observe and remember facts as such f
This conclusion is endorsed by the natural language of
ni3 organs—an unfailing index of the true character. Young
Franklin is represented as throwing the lower or perceptive
rortion of his forehead forward, which evinces their predomi
nance ; while old Franklin, as seen in cut No. 4, throws
ihe reflective organs forward, as if in the attitude of deep
thought. This shows young Franklin to have been what
his portrait, taken when he was young, evinces, namely, a
great observer; but old Franklin to have been a profound
reasoner, a characteristic just shown to appertain to his later
busts and portraits.
The likenesses of Bonaparte, as stamped upon coins of dif
ferent dates, show a decided enla-gement of his forehead,
especially of his reflective organs, as he advanced in years.
This difference is eery great ; and, if exercise enlarges the
organs, surely those of no other man cou1d be enlarged faster.
Let us now enter another field of inquiry, to see if we ob-
tain similar results from another class of observations still
more general. Stone-cutting, and especially lettering, requires
a vigorous and intense exercise of Form, Size, and Locality ;
and, accordingly, stone-cutters all have these organs large.
For the correctness of these remarks, appeal is made to
observation.
Not one farmer, merchant, or business-man in fifty, is fcund
to possess Weight abore moderate, while nearly all the sea
WS ENLARGEMENT AND DIMINUTION
faring men I have ever examined, have had this organ fully
developed, along with large Form and Locality, and usually
large Order and Calculation. The reason is obvious. This
organ keeps the balance iis ; and, since the perpetual motion
of a ship is continually destroying this balance, Weight is kept
unceasingly active to regain and preserve it, especially when
in the rigging. Their Form is brought into frequent and
vigorous action by looking for, and watching, ships, land, etc.,
in the distance ; and Locality, by remembering the beds o.
rivers, the navigable parts of harbors, the localities of rocks,
shoals, and the position of things, and by remembering the
looks of various parts, as well as by practical geography in
general. In machinists, engineers, and those who work about
machinery, this organ is usually large, and also in billiard
players, expert marksmen, good riders, and the like, while or
dinary mechanics, not connected with machinery, usually have
it small, except those whose occupation requires climbing. In
females, Weight is seldom developed ; yet, in factory girls it
is unusually large. Constructiveness is found to be large in
nearly all weavers.
At Adams, Mass., in 1834, I was struck with the fact that
all the weavers examined had large Continuity m, an organ
below par in ninety American females in every hundred. The
same results have been observed in every factory I have since
visited. At Young's factory, in Delaware, in 1839, 1 selected
some fifty weavers from those employed in other occupations,
with but a single failure, and that on a subject of thirty
five, who had been weaving only fifteen months—too short a
period, at this age, fully to develop this organ. The reason
is obvious ; namely, that weaving keeps the whole mind ex
clusively occupied upon one and the same thing, day after
day, and year after year. This will serve as a valuable hint
to those who wish to improve this organ m. Englishmen and
Germans generally have this organ large, while it is small
in most Americans, which corresponds with their national
habits. The former usually devote themselves exclusively to
one study or occupation, and can make a living at no other,
while the versatile talents of the latter enable them to turr
OF THE ORGANS. 07
their hands to almost any and every thing ^ ith success. So
strongly marked is this national characteristic that it is a great
national fault, and renders us as a class next to superficial ;
nor have I ever seen it as small in the heads of any other
nation as in our own.
Inhabitiveness is almost universally large in those who hate
lived in one house till fifteen years old, but small in those who
moved during childhood. In thousands of instances, when ex
amining the heads of children, I have said to their parents, " I
perceive you have moved since the birth of this child, or else
il has lived from home ;" and do not remember ever to have
failed more than a few times, in which cases hereditary in
fluences prevailed over the exercise of the organ. The rea
son is this : Inhabitiveness becomes attached to the homestead
where one has lived—to the domicil in which we are reared,
and the surrounding trees, stones, etc. ; but removing disturbs
this attachment, and weakens the organ m.
I have examined many blind persons without finding one
in whom Color is even fairly developed. As this faculty is
exercised by means of the eye, it is not surprising that its not
being exercised keeps its organ small.
The deaf and dumb converse mainly by signs, or by act
ing out what they want, that is, by imitating. They are the
best actors of pantomime, and the best mimics, to be found.
This continual exercise of Imitation doubtless causes this
universal predominance of this organ in them.
In nearly every Scotchman, Causality and Conscientious
ness will be found to be large, which is in keeping with their
reasoning so much upon moral and doctrinal subjects. For
additional facts of this class, see the chapter on this subject in
"Fowler's Phrenology," p. 365.
Probably not one New York city lady in twenty has Ac
quisitiveness above moderate ; while a large proportion of Yan.
kee women have this organ full or large. The latter are taught
industry from the cradle ; but whether this is true of the for-
mer, we leave others to judge. In southern ladies, also, this
organ is usually small. Construedveness is much larger at
the north than at the south, and in manufacturing towns than
9
99 ENLARGFMBNT AND DIMINUHCN
in those classes that are too good to work141. Aflfci examin
ing ten heads in any place, I can usually tell the general
character of its inhabitants ; whether they are proud, secre
tive, acquisitive, moral, ingenious, or whatever other dominant
characteristic they may possess. Every community has a
distinctive character as much as every person. This is easily
solved by supposing that their original founders had certaii
mculties predominant, which, by being continually exercised
excited the same in all new comers, and thus developed th»
corresponding organs, and thereby stamped the impress ol
their own minds upon all around them. Other causes, how
ever, doubtless aid in bringing about this result.
This principle explains in part, and corresponds with, the
fact that lawyers and politicians have large Language, Com-
bativeness, and Comparison, namely, because their vocation
brings these faculties into constant action ; and also shows
why the religious denominations have each a characteristic
set of developments3", etc., though this is doubtless caused in
part by hereditary descent.
Granted that these and similar facts, if weighed by them
selves -in the scales of inductive reason, would be light, and
might not even cause it to preponderate in their favor, yet,
thrown into the same balance with those drawn from the busts,
they add much weight to a scale already weighed down with
more conclusive proof.
But another class of facts, more unequivocal, is found in
examinations of the same head, made at different periods. As
the public have given the author some credit for correct
examinations, they will doubtless place some reliance upon
the summary result of his observation, .vhich is that every
3 car's practice increases his astonishment at the number and
extent of these changes—a few of which he will narrate.
In 1836 I examined a subject whose Veneration was only
three, at the same time putting his finger into the marked depres.
sion between Firmness and Benevolence, and exhorting him to
be more religious. He was examined again, unknown to me,
in 1842, and his Veneration marked large, the depression to
which his attention was called in 1836 being entirely filled
OF THE ORGANS. 95»
or. He then stated that he became a praying maa soon after
the first examination, and had continued so ever since. He
calted mainly to inquire if becoming religious could i.ave
caused the change in his developments, which he had ob.
served for the last two years.
The head of Mr. S., of R., was examined in 1835, and
he described as so eminently religious that the whole ox-
amination turned upon this point. In 1841, I re-examined
him without knowing him, and the moment I touched his head,
exclaimed : " Infidel, irreligious, utterly destitute of belief,"
etc. At the first examination he was a very consistent pro
fessor of religion, and zealously engaged in promoting revi
vals; but, soon after, he became a disbeliever, and at length
a confirmed infidel, so that he was expelled from the church,
not for immoral conduct, but solely on the ground of his
infidelity.
In 1836, a young man of considerable intelligence stated
that, when a boy, he had a schoolmate, exactly his age, size,
and height, so that their clothes and hats perfectly fitted each
other ; that his young friend went to West Point, and he to a
mechanical trade ; that when his friend had graduated, they
met, and again changed hats ; that his friend's hat, instead
of fitting his head as before, was too large in the forehead ana
too small over the temples, while his hat pinched the forehead
of the cadet, but was loose over Constructiveness, which
showed an increase of the intellectual organs, particularly of
the reflective, in the cadet, whose studies called these facul
ties into powerful action, and an increase of Constructiveness
in the head of the mechanic.
Eventuality is always very large in Jews, doubtless because
they were required to tell the Lord's doings to their children
and grandchildren ; in doing which they powerfully exercis*
their Eventuality''*3. The same is true of the North Ameri
can Indians, who perpetuate their history in the memor'es of
the rising race.
In the children of the rich, Acquisitiveness is almost inva
riably small. Having every want supplied, and therefore no
occasion for the exercise of this facult", its organ becomes
490456
100 ENLARGEMENT AN^ DIMINUTION
small ft jm mere disuae—a beautiful proviso, truly, against
accumulating immense wealth in the hands of the few.
In nearly every soldier and inferior officer among hundreds
examined in Canada, I found predominant Firmness, Self-Es-
teem. Amativeness, and Alimentiveness, and large to very
large Combativeness, Destructiveness, Hope, and perceptive
faculties, with smaller Causuality, and deficient Conscientious
ness and Acquisitiveness—the very organization which their
occupation would produce if this law of increase by exercise,
and decrease by inaction, be true. They cultivate a bold, dar
ing, reckless spirit ; drink and carouse daily ; and have no
occasion to exercise Acquisitiveness, because their food, rai
ment, etc., are furnished, while their pay is regular, with
scarcely a possibility of being increased. All their associa
tions blunt Conscientiousness, and excite their passions. Pos
sibly men with this organization seek the army, yet .more
probably military associations enlarge and diminish the devel
opments.
This argument for the increase of organs by exercise, de
rives additional force from its beautiful harmony with many
analogous facts. In one of the examinations, reported in the
Journal, a fact was related to show that the intense and con
tinuous action of organs, turned the hair above them gray. In
confirmation of which scores of similar ones could be adduced,
accompanied with names and dates. Another article, written
by a Canadian correspondent, showed that the excitement of
any given faculty causes an itching or tickling sensation of
its organ. In another, it was shown, that the recent activity
of faculties could always be detected by the sharpness of their
organs, etc.
Every reader, who will take the trouble to observe, will
find, that when any of his faculties have been called into un
usual activity, their organs feel as if crawling, or disturbed, 01
feverish, or heated, according to the kind and exten of the
excitement. Observe your own mental exercises, in connec
tion wi h your cerebral sensations, and you will daily be
more and more surprised at the numerous and striking coinci
dences of this character. Those who think, write, study, lee-
OF THE ORGANS. 101
ure, etc., much, will frequently put their hands to their fore-
leads ; while those who are fond of family, and much at
nome, when they sleep away from their families, will involun
tarily put their hands upon the back of their heads where the
social group is located.
President Mal.an, of Oberlin, to whom all must concede a
highly excited state of the moral faculties, when he was
preaching in New York, often put his hands on the top of his
head. In short, this principle of the increase of organs by
exercise, will be found to harmonize most strikingly with all
the facts, and classes of facts, which bear upon it.
Again, we know that marked changes of character often
take place. If, therefore, this principle of a corresponding
change of organs did not obtain, Phrenology could not be
true, because it would be at war with the known operations of
nature ; yet since character is known to change, this concur,
ring capability of changing the developments furnishes a
powerful argument in favor of its truth.
That the power of all the faculties can be astonishingly en
hanced—that every species of memory, judgment, and all the
moral virtues are capable of being improved illimitably—the
main thing desired after all—is a matter of universal observa
tion a;id experience; and that Phrenology proves the possi-
Dility of enlarging their organs, shows that it corresponds with
nature, and is therefore true.
Let it not, however, be supposed that this increase in size
£ proportionate to the increased power of function. The in-
cieased facility of action, as remarked by Spurzheim, is far
greater than that of bulk. The organs become more and still
more supple, sprightly, vigorous, and flexible, as well as en.
during and easily excited ; and this is the great source of the
increased power of function. The blood-vessels also become
enlarged so that the blood flows through the organs, and there.
by augments their power, action, and endurance *r.
And now, inquiring reader, after summing up the evidences
in support of tl is capability of improving the organs and facul
ties, say, is it not only probable, but absolutely certain ? Is
i. no' of a character so conclusive that you may safely best
103 INCENTIVES TO SELF- IMPROVEMENT.
on this result ? And since you can, how glorious be prospect
't thus opens before you ! Into how delightful a Leld of labor
loes it usher you Man naturally loves to effect improve
ments. How great the pleasure of clearing land of forests
and stones, of securing crops, and having fruit-trees grow and
bear abundant yields ; of progressing in buildings, business,
machinery, and whatever we undertake ! But how utterly in.
significant all this compared with the improvement of intel
lect, and building up a magnificent spiritual temple out of
those god-like materials of which humanity is composed ! I
rejoice in all terrestrial and material improvement: it fulfils
an ordinance of nature m 20s m "* ; but O with what inexpres
sible delight does progression—my own and that of others—in
talents and goodness, fill my soul ! To see man rise from
the ashes of sloth and degradation, and soar on the wings of
improvement toward heaven, and become more and more like
angels and like God ! O this is the most delightful sight
mortals are permitted to behold—the most glorious work in
which they can engage on earth or in heaven ! To such a
result, thank God, I am allowed to contribute. And what in
tense delight it affords me. To engage in obviating human
weaknesses, maladies, and sufferings, and in exterminating
those evils and vices which afflict my brother man, to admin
ister a sovereign panacea for all the ills flesh is heir to, and
help build that magnificent human temple now in slow but
sure process of erection, and carry my race onward and
upward toward that angelic destiny in store for it m—this,
O this is the great desire of my soul, the great labor of mv
life. To subserve an end thus glorious—to tell those who
would know, how to curb wayward passions and quench sin
ful desires, how to cultivate weak faculties, and live in accord
ance with, and up to the exalted endowments and capabilities
of their nature—were these pages written. Yes, my fellow
.-non, we can carry our improvement to a far g-eater pitch of
perfection and power than any of us suppose. Shall we not
sow that «e may reap such a harvest 1 Or will we fold our
arms, and allow ourselves, sluggard-like, to wither and die of
pi ire inanf'tion 1 Shall not a prospect of self-improvement thua
APPEAL TO PARENTS. 109
certain, thus glorious, inspire our hopes, and create the firm
resolve to put forth every effort wit! in our power to progress as
high in the scale of improvement as our natural capabilities
will allow ?—and this will be high indeed. Then let us be up
and doing. Why bury our talents in the earth ? Why not
improve till called hence, so that the due occupancy of our re-
spective talents here, shall fit us to receive a far more exalted
trust hereafter ?
But it is to parents that this increase of organs holds out
by far the brighest star of promise. To enlarge the defi
cient organs of children is comparatively easy, and the ear.
lier culture is applied the greater the harvest of improvement
it yields. O how should we literally exult in being allowed
to accelerate the progress of our own dearly beloved offspring?
And shall we sleep over such a work—a labor of love in
which angels should be delighted to engage ? O parents, we
do not duly love our children. We scarcely begin to do our
duty to them. We strive and toil to leave them " well off in
the world," yet do we not most shamefully and wickedly neg
lect their highest good—the cultivation of their moral nature ?
We are ever ready to lavish time and money upon, their per
sons, and spend, though scantily, upon their intellectual edu
cation, yet strangely and blindly neglect the proper regulation
of their feelings.
The plain fact is, parents do not know where to begin, or
now to proceed. They stand ready to do if they knew what
and how. They grope their way in dim twilight, yet the day-
star has risen. Phrenology shines with noon-day lustre on
the philosophy and laws of mind, and shows how to improve
it. We proceed to investigate its directions to parents, and to
all. Do you eagerly ask how can this enlargement be ef
fected ? How can so glorious a bwn be secured ? By
214. THE PERSONAL EXERCISE OF THE FACULTIES.
The attainment of so great a good might be expected to oe
proportionally intricate and difficult. Not so. Like every
other operation of nature, it is simple and easy. Like eat.
tag and breathing, and looking, to acquire this greatest of
104 SXXilClSE OF FACULTIES
treasures is hself a pleasure. We are required neither to
wash in Abana, Pharpar, or Jordan, nor to go on a pilgrim
age to Mecca, nor perform a crusade to Jerusalem, nor waste
our substance in sacrifices, or on teachers. We are not
obliged even to abridge a single pleasure, not even of a
worldly nature, but, in and by affecting this very progression,
are allowed the largest normal gratification of all our various
powers. The greater the right exercise of all our faculties,
the better. Indeed, such exercise is the great instrumentality
of such improvement. Action is the great means of strength
ening every power of our nature. True, a right system of
diet will aid much, and a wrong system effectually retard.
That certain kinds of food are constitutionally adapted to de
velop certain powers both of body and mind, was shown in
" Physiology" K "'. We should, therefore, take the right kinds
and quantities of food, and keep our bodies in the best possible
condition for mental action. This done, it only remains for
us to exercise the faculties we would strengthen. All other
means without this will be futile. The sluggard can never
improve. He must necessarily deteriorate. Inaction always
weakens. Swing up your arm or foot for months, and they
become feeble in consequence. The less we do, the less we
are inclined to attempt ; whereas the more we do, the more
we can accomplish. True, we may overdo. The brain, like
every other portion of the body, can be overtaxed, and thereby
exhausted165. Fitful action is liable to produce this effect.
So is powerful cerebral action, when other portions of the sys
tem, especially the stomach, are overloaded, and the brain
robbed of energy to help discharge the load ". Powerful men
tal action along with over-eating or working, or with deficient
sleep, or disease, is most injurious161. Yet in all such cases
the evil is caused, not by extra mental application, but by the
other excess, but for which even far greater cerebral action
would not only not injure, but would actually benefit.
So also fitful cerebral action, like exercise after long-con
tinued confinement, is very injurious ; yet that the evil is no-,
caused by over-action is evident frcm the fact that a far
greater amount of moderate, diffused actio* could have been
ENLARGES TIIEjR 0R3ANV 105
endured with profit and pleasure. Nor does fitful action ever
effect much. Success in all pursuits requires long-continued,
stable, persevering action. All nature's operations are grad.
ual. The sun does not burst suddenly upon our earth, no»
go down instantaneously, but rises and sets gradually, be
sides being preceded and succeeded by slowly-increasing and
diminishing twilight. Vegetation does not spring up and
mature in a day, but requires time. As the physical and
mental powers are developed by slow gradations from infancy
to maturity206, so progression in knowledge and goodness must
be effected by patient and continuous application. Unlike
Jonah's gourd, all our virtues, all our powers, are brought to
complete maturity only by effort, begun with the beginning
of life, and continued unintermittingly through adolescence,
maturity, and old age, up to its final termination in a natural
death206256. Not, however, that we must sow a lifetime in
order to reap, but we reap as we sow. Unlike spending the
prime of life in amassing wealth, in order to retire in the after
noon of our days to enjoy it, we here enjoy as we go along.
The very effort to improve ourselves is the most delightful—
not labor, but—pleasure in which we can engage, besides all
the happiness consequent on the improvement effected. Nor
ran self-improvement possibly be effected without bringing
i >ng with it this double reward ; for it consists in obeying
U.e laws of our being, and this always causes happiness6.
The normal action cf every function of our nature is pleas
urable108. This is nature's universal economy '. Hence that
very action which secures improvement, also causes enjoy,
ment. In and by the very act, theiefore, of rendering our-
selves better, we promote, in the most effectual manner pos
sible, that happiness for which alone we were created, and
alone should live. Nor need we fear of doing too much, so
that we do right, any more than of being too happy. On the
other hand, as normal action gives pleasure, and as all enjoy
ment cons :rs :i ?uch action, therefore the more we exercise
our faculties the better, because the greater our progress and
happiness. We oftsn overdo, relatively, yet rarely absolutely.
We ofter overwork one particular part of the system because
'06 EXERCISE Of . ACULTIES
we fail to exercise the others proportionally. We often bring
on disease and premature death, by exercising one organ or
class of organs so much more than the others. Thus, seden-
taries may induce nervousness by over mental application in
conjunction with muscular inaction, and perhaps over-eating
added ; whereas, if they ate and exercised right, they could
nave put forth ten times as much mental action, not only with
impunity, but with benefit; so that the evil was caused, not
oy overdoing, but by disproportionate action213. Yet inac
tion162, not over-action, produced the evil.
Not, however, to dwell longer on these and kindred qualifi
cations, the great instrumentality of all improvement is assid.
uous, powerful, and well-directed action. Fear not about
overdoing. Thrust iron after iron into the fire—the more
the better—and then hammer away so resolutely and faith
fully as to let none burn. Exercise this faculty,.and that,
and the other, as powerfully and as continuously as possible.
Idteness clothes mind in rags as well as body, whereas vigor
ous effort alone can array it in the robes of happiness and
heaven ; and he who does most and best, enjoys most.
The reason why the exercise of the faculties enlarges
their organs and strengthens their powers, is, that it causes an
increased flow of blood to them, just as that of the arm or foot
does. That same law by which the exercise of the lungs,
muscles, and physical organs augments their volume and en
ergy, as shown in " Physiology" m, applies equally to the
brain as a whole, and to each of its organs, and is, in fact, a
LAW OF THINGS.
The inference, then, is obvious, that self-improvement can
be effected only by personal exertion. A pearl of so great
price cannot be bought. Nor can it be obtained by proxy,
nor yet inherited, except in its rudiments ; but it must be cul
tivated, and by every one for himself. As no one can eat,
breathe, live, or die for another, but as all must move, see,
exist, etc., in their own appropriate persons, so all must ex
ercise their facu ties, and effect this improvement for their own
selves, and not for another. Teachers cannot learn for their
scholars, but car onlj shov them how to tearn Parents can
ENLARGES rtiKIR OKUANS. 107
not become good Dr great for their children any more than die
in their stead. All they can do is to provide these childrer
with the requisite facilities and incentives—to place stimulants
before their minds just as they place food before them. It
remains for the latter to partake of the mental as of the phys
ical banquet thus spread before them.
And how many, mistaking the provision for the partaking,
relying on the possession of books and advantages, instead of
the study of the one and the improvement of the other, neg
lect both and starve, mentally, surrounded by a perfect glut of
the means of improvement. In faet, parents often commit a
great error in doing too much for their children. How many
slavish mothers have spoiled their children by extra tender,
ness and doing everything for them, when they should be
compelled to do for themselves, or else to go without. But we
shall expatiate upon kindred points under Combativeness and
Self-Esteem.
215. MEANS OF EXCITING THE FACULTIES.
The personal exercise of the various faculties being thus
indispensable to their improvement, by what means can both
be effected and promoted ? As follows.
Every faculty has its own proper aliment or stimulant, the
presentation of which naturally induces spontaneous action.
Thus, Alimentiveness is stimulated, not by gold or goods, but
by food, its natural stimulant. Hence, the sight of food, 01
seeing others eat, or even the taste or smell of food, excites
hunger ; whereas, without these natural stimulants, Alimen
tiveness would have remained quiescent. Acquisitiveness is
provoked to action by property and the possession of things,
but not by laws, distress, or danger. Causality is excited to
action by bringing causes to its cognizance. To excite, and
thereby strengthen, this faculty, think, reason, inquire into the
principles of things, and trace out the relations between
causes and effects—«that is, bring this facuity to bear upon the
causes and laws of things. Combativeness is excited by oppo
sition, not by beef-steak, or money, or a fact in philosophy.
\pprobativeness is exci' >d by praise ;: reproach ; Benevo
108 MEANS OK KXCiTlNl
lence, by suffering ; Reverence, by thoi gh/s of God ; Con
scientiousness, by right and wrong ; Ideality, by the beautiful,
exquisite, and perfect ; Mirthfulness, by the laughable or ri
diculous ; Locality, by travelling ; Combativeness, by opposi
tion ; and thus of all the other faculties.
But mark : no one faculty can either perform the function
of any other, or supply its place. Though they who have
Acquisitiveness small, may desire money to leave their chil
dren rich, or to show off, or to aid the poor, or to furnish the
means of acquiring knowledge ; yet these motives neither
excite this faculty nor enlarge its organ ; because the first is
an exercise of Philoprogenitiveness ; the second, of Approba-
tiveness ; the third, of Benevolence ; and the fourth, of Intel
lect. To exercise Acquisitiveness, therefore, they must make
and love money to possess and hoard—must love property to
lay up, and for its own sake. To eat, not because you relish
it, but because a certain hour has come, is an exercise of Time,
not Alimentiveness. Fighting desperately from motives of
honor, and not for the love of fighting, is no more an exercise
of Combativeness or Destructiveness, than the apparent fond
ness, in company, of husbands and wives who cordially hate
each other is an exercise of pure connubial love.
Those, therefore, who would improve or exercise their re
spective faculties must do two things—must first learn .the
precise function, and thereby the constitutional stimulant
of every faculty, and then bring and keep this stimulant
before the faculty to be improved. Force of will may ren-
der some aid ; yet the required action, to effect the desired
enlargement, must be spontaneous—-must " whissle itself"*.
Forced action is no action. To goad a faculty by strenuous
effort is of little account. This action must be normal, which
is always pleasurable. That pleasure, already shown to ap
pertain to the action and improvement of the faculties, is no
chance concomitant, but a constitutional attendant—a pro
vision as beautiful in itself as promotive of such improve
ment.
Thus much of the means of stimulating and developing cm
»WN faculties Next, the means of stimulating those of chit
vaz FACULTIES. 109
Jren, and others around us. Their varicjs faculties cui also
be stimulated, and thus developed, by setting the appropriate
food of each faculty before them, and thus causing sponta
neous action. Another powerful instrumentality of securing
the required action can also be brought into effectual requisi
tion. It is this. All the faculties are catching. Or thus.
The action of any faculty in one naturally awakens that same
faculty in those around ; and excites them pleasurably or
painfully, normally or viciously in the latter, according as they
are exercised in the former. Thus, Combativeness in one
kindles Combativeness in others, while Benevolence excites
Benevolence ; Causality, Causality, etc. When kindness does
you a favor, you are anxious to return it, and are rendered
more obliging to all, because Benevolence in one excites kindly
feelings in all around ; whereas, being addressed in an angry,
imperative tone, kindles anger in return, and excites a spirit
of resistance and resentment.
Mr. Sharp said, angrily, to a lad, " Go along, and bring me
that basket yonder. Be quick, or I'll flog you !" The boy
went tardily and poutingly, muttering as he went. " Why
don't you hurry there, you idle vagabond, you ? Come, be
quick, or I'll whip your lazy hide of your Dack, you saucy
impudent rascal, you," re-echoed Mr. Sharp, still more impera
tively. The boy went still more slowly, and made up a face
still more scornful, for which Mr. Sharp flogged him ; and
in return the boy conceived and cherished eternal hatred to
Mr. Sharp, and eventually sought and obtained the long-de
sired revenge. But Mr. Benign said kindly, to the same boy,
" John, will you please run and bring me that basket ?"
" Yes, Sir," said John, and off he started on the run, glad to
do the good man a favor.
All the neighbors of Mr. Contentious cordially hate him
because he is continually contending with, and blaming, an<r
sueing them. His Combativeness manifested toward them,
has excited their enmity toward him, so as to cause a per
petual warfare. Hence, they all cherish ill-will against lim,
and most of them watch every opportunity to injure him, and
be seeks to be revenged on them,
10
110 ETCITTNG TUB FACULTIES.
But t /ery neighbor of Mr. Obliging gladly improves every
opportunity to serve him. His neighborly feelings toward
them have excited their better feelings, not only toward him,
but even toward each other.
Mr. Justice, deals fairly with all—asking and offering but
once price ; so thaf. Mr. Banter never tries to beat him down,
nor thinks of maling or receiving a second offer, but deals
fairly with him. But when Mr. Banter deals with Mr. Close,
he stands more upon a sixpence than it is worth, or than he
does for a dollar when dealing with Mr. Justice, and will
neither sell as cheap nor give as much for the same article to
Mr. Close as to Mr. Justice, because the Acquisitiveness of
Mr. Close and Mr. Banter each excites that of the other, while
the higher faculties of Mr. Justice restrain the action of this
Jewing spirit in all who deal with him.
As Parson Reverence enters the sanctuary, clothed with the
spirit of devotion, and in the air and attitude of sanctity, in
stantly a solemn feeling pervades the whole assembly, so that
even the playing boys in the gallery catch the pervading
spirit of solemnity, and drop their sports. But when Parson
Gayety enters the church, a gay, volatile feeling spreads
throughout the congregation, and the boys laugh aloud. The
former is a successful preacher of righteousness, and has been
instrumental in promoting true religion, while Parson Gayety
has a worldly, fashionable congregation. Revivals of religion
beautifully and forcibly illustrate this principle of Sympathy.
Mr. Elegant enters into the company of Messrs. Useful and
Misses Plain, and at once a feeling of refinement and elegance
infuses every breast, chastens every remark, and polishes
ever)- action and feeling ; but when M: . Homespun enters the
company of Messrs. Wellbred and Misses Genteel, the elevated
tone of feeling which before pervaded the company, is lowered
as effectually and perceptibly as when a mass of ice is introduced
into a heated atmosphere ; and he is not well received, simply
because he interrupts the exercise of refinement and good taste.
Mr. Self Esteem swells and struts past you in the natural
expression of pride and scorn, and instantly your own self,
•uffiiiency is excited, you straighten up, and feel that you are
BIT SYMPATHY. Ill
as good as he is; whereas, but for this manifestauin of pride
an his part, you would not once have thought of yourself—
pride and scorn in others exciting the same feelings in you.
Twd Messrs. Mum were sitting silently in a room, neither
having a word to say, when Mrs. Talkative entered, and oegan
to rattle away. This so excited the Language of Messrs.
M um, that they talked incessantly, so that there was not room
to put in words edgewise ; whereas, neither would have said a
word had not the Language of Mrs. Talkative excited Lan
guage in Messrs. Mum.
Mr. Reason began to discuss and expound certain important
philosophical principles to Mr. Business, who, though he had
been too busy before to take time to think or investigate, saw
their force, and immediately exclaimed, " How true that is,
though I never thought of it before V and then proceeded tc
show how perfectly the principle brought to view explained what
he had often seen, but never before understood. It also set him
to thinking upon other subjects, and investigating other causes.
Miss Display came out in splendid, new-fashioned attire,
and almost all the ladies in town were set on fire by a spirit of
emulation, and would not let their husbands and fathers rest
till they too could dress like her; although, unless Miss Dis
play had indulged her own Approbativeness, that of the other
milliner-made ladies would not have been excited.
Mr. Witty threw off a joke, and this excited the risibles of
Mr. Serious, who, in return, manufactured another ; whereas,
but for Mr. Witty's influence, the face of Mr. S. would still
have remained as long as ever.
Mrs. Timid, while in meeting, screamed out with fright,
and nearly all in the house were instantly electrified with
fearj but for what they did not know.
In 1836, Mr. Hope embarked in speculations in stock, real
estate, mulberry trees, etc., and counted his thousands in pros-
pect, which inspired confidence in the breasts of thousands of
the Messrs. Doubtful who were excited by his spirit, and fol
lowed his example.
Mr. Appetite commenced eating his breakfast greedily,
whei in came his boy, who soon bawled for a piece, which he
112 VALUi. J SELF-KM WLKKUB,
probably would not have thought of for hours if he had not
seen his father eating so greedily.
Is not this principle of sympathy—this feeling as others
fuel—this spreading of the emotions from soul to soul—a law
of human nature, as well as a doctrine of Phrenology ? Is it
not as universal and as uniform as the nature of man, and as
powerful as it is universal ? What mind so adamantine as
not to experience its power, and be swayed by its influence ?
The great practical inference is, that we should habitually
exercise toward our children those feelings we would have
them exercise toward others—a principle which we shall have
frequent occasion to apply as we proceed.
One other thing we require to do in order successfully both
to prosecute self-improvement, and to render our children what
we would have them. We must
216. " KNOW OCR OWN SET.VES."
" Know thyself," was written in golden capitals upon the
splendid temple of Delphos, as the most important maxim which
the wise men of Greece could hand down to unborn genera
tions. The Scriptures require us to " search our own hearts,
and try ourselves;" and the entire experience of mankind
bears testimony, that SELF-knowledge is the most important of
all knowledge. A thorough knowledge of onr own selves—of
our good properties, and how to make the most of them ; of
our defects, and how to guard against the evils growing out of
them ; of our predispositions to, and source of, temptations to
excess and error, and the means of keeping these desires qui
escent ; of what we are capable of doing and of becoming, and
what not ; and wherein we are liable to err in judgment and
conduct—is more intimately associated with our virtue, happi
ness, and success through life, than all other knowledge united.
Wise, then, indeed is he, however little else he may know,
who understands himself, but ignorant and foolish they, how
ever much they may know besides, who do not understand
their own character—thsir capabilities and deficiencies, their
excesses and weaknesses, their faults and virtues.
Self-knowledge will show us jus- what we are ; and the
AND MEANS OF . BTAINlNii IT. 118
principle of balance already explained '", what we should be
come ; and that of the increase of organs 2", how to become
what we should be. As, before we can repair a watch, we
must ascertain what portion of it is out of ordei ; so, before
we can do the first correct thing toward self-improvement, ex
cept by accident, we must know exactly wherein we depart
from the true standard of mental and moral perfection. Be.
fore we can correct any defect, we must know exactly in what
that defect consists—must know the precise facultv which is
too strong, or too weak, or wrongly exercised.
Now, this very knowledge, Phrenology furnishes, with all
all the certainty attendant on physical demonstration. It
enables every individual to place his own fingers upon every
element of his character ; and in case his predominant Self-
Esteem renders him proud and self-conceited, or its deficiency
leads him to underrate his capabilities or moral worth,mand
produces diffidence, it will tell him how to correct these false
estimates, and teach all men precisely what they really are.
It telle those whose Self-Esteem predominates over their other
faculties, as by a voice from heaven, that their high notions
of themselves are not caused by the fact of any actual supe
riority in them more than in others, but by their overweening
self-conceit—that this organ would make them think thus of
themselves even if they were fools, and even because of their
folly, and the more the larger this organ ; and if this knowl
edge, uttered with all the unction of scientific certainty, will
not humble them, they must be soft indeed.
On the other hand, it will tell those whose intellectual and
moral organization is good but Self-Esteem moderate, that their
low estimation of themselves is caused, not by their actual
inferiority, but by their want of this faculty—that if it were
stronger, they would think much of themselves, even though
their real merits should remain the same; and if this will not
enable a man to hold up his head, nothing will. It will tell us
all when Hope is too active, and when too weak^when Cau
tiousness is too large, and when deficient, whether we are too
pragmatical or pusillanimous, too talkative cr silent, too benev
olent or selfish ; and thus of al. the other faculties.
10*
114 VALUE OF SELF-KNOWLEDGE.
Phrenology will also tell us when any of the faculties are
wrongly exercised. By giving us clearly the normal func
tion of all the faculties, it of course points out all depaiture*
therefrom, and shows us just how to exercise every faculty in
harmony with its primitive constitution—already shown ic
be virtuous and happy m.
But some will here object that they cannot afford the timk
to prosecute this study sufficiently to be able thus to apply it.
Not to dwell here upon the importance of making its study a
paramount business of life because we can engage in nothing
equally profitable—not to enlarge upon the utter insignificance
of business, money, and those numerous things which now
engross our time in comparison with the far greater happiness
conferred by a knowledge of this science, and shall we not do
that first which will render us the most happy ?' 495—if you do
not understand this science sufficiently to obtain from it the
required knowledge of your own characters, apply to a skilful
and experienced practical phrenologist, who will be able to
furnish the requisite information already at your hands. Do
not go from motives of curiosity, nor to test the truth of the
science, as much as to know your own selves, and especially
your failings. Tell him frankly your object, and inform
him on all those points calculated to aid him in forming a cor
rect judgment ; such as your education, habits, parentage,
occupations, the state of your health, and the like—the latter
more especially, if you wish physiological as well as phreno
logical advice. Place yourselves under his hands as you
would under those of a physician or teacher, and if additional
compensation be required br this extra labor, money can
never be spent to better advantage, or where so little will
yield so much good. By combining your own practical expe
rience with his scientific examinations, you will be able to
learn with absolute certainty not only all your leading ex
cesses and deficiencies, but also even most of your minor
flaws and weaknesses : the;.r remedy will be pointed out in
these pages.
These examinations as applied to children aie especially
•erviceable and important, because they show just what organs
VAU 2 OF PHRENOLOCiV. lift
are too large* and what are too small, what are most liable to
be perverted, and wherever their characters can be improved—.
or in other words, just where to commence the great labor of
their education and improvement, and this work will then
show how to prosecute it.
A correct phrenological examination of a child's head will
also disclose his natural caiabjlities and talents, and
thereby show what occupations or spheres in life he is best
calculated to fill with honor, profit, and personal enjoyment,
and in what kinds of business he must either fail or else drag
along behind his competitors—a species of knowledge almost
infinitely valuable. How many readers have been hampered
and maimed for life by having been thrust into a business for
which they are not naturally qualified, and which they cor
dially detest ? Change is difficult, and this living along be
tween " hawk and buzzard" is worse, so that their whole lives,
which in the right business would have been one grand gala-
day, are now those of barrenness and darkness. Who can
duly estimate the advantages of Phrenology in these and kin.
dred applications?
Such examination will also teach those who have occasion
to employ domestics, apprentices, and the like, who will best
6uit their respective purposes. Take the following advertise,
ment, copied from the New York Sun, as an example :—
" An Apprentice Wanted.—A stout boy, not over 15 year."
of age, of German or Scotch parents, to learn a good but difficult
trade. N. B.—It will be necessary to bring a recommendation as
to his abilities from Messrs. Fowler & Wells, Phrenologists, 131
Nassau-st., New York. Apply corner West and Franklin streets."
* Strictly speaking, however, no organ can be too large if duly bal
anced and rightly exercised. The great danger is, not too much power
or action, but perversion. The faculties need right direction208 rathor
than restraint. The larger an organ the better, provided it is rightl »
exercised; yet, since it is easier sometimes to restore balance by bring
ing down large organs than by bringing small ones all the way up to
them, and since the extra large organs are proportionally more liable
to such perversion208 than small ones, we use the phrase " too large" to
cover the whole ground of perversion and wrong direction, so that we
use " diminution of the organs" to signify their proper guarding, diree
tiiin, and subjugation rather than any actual reduction of their power.
110 APPLICATION OF PHRENOLOGY .
This same firm had already chosen several appientices in
the same waj, and found them such excellent workmen, ant,
withal so trusiy, that they will not now make choice of any
appentices unless they possess the right developments—
\arge intellectual, constructive, and moral organs.
Another firm in New York, which pays cut half a million
dollars in France yearly, would not make choice of a purchas
ing agent till his head had been submitted to the test of phreno
logical science. Similar instances are common ; and the ad-
vantages of ascertaining the true character, beyond the possi
bility of mistake, in these and kindred cases, is incalculable
Above all, these examinations furnish the very best oppor
tunity in the world for telling children, adults, friends—every
body—their faults. To have their errors reiterated a hun
dred times, and often in a blowing, fault-finding manner, is
apt to vex and anger them, and thus render tbem worse. Not
so when pointed out by a phrenologist. They feel that he
has no prepossessions or prejudices either way, but follows the
developments—that their heads show that they have this de
ficiency, that excess, and the other fault, and therefore that it
must indeed be so. Take those whom you would convince
of their faults to a thorough phrenologist. He will be sure to
detect and disclose the error, and thus drive and clench the
nail of conviction—the first great step toward reform.
Formerly, professional applicants sought to test the truth
of the science, or were actuated by novelty or curiosity. But
a most gratifying change is now transpiring in the public
mind. Most of those who now apply, already convinced of
its truth, wish to derive benefit therefrom. I therefore make
it a professional duty to specify especially their faults—to
tell them what organs are too small, and what are most liable
to become perverted, and especially to administer physiologi
cal advice, and give health prescriptions ; and thousands are
testifying their gratitude for the good they have derived there
from. Indeed, I propagate and practice this science mainly
in order to do good through it—to turn that tremendous power
it gives to improving mankind, and especially the young.
Hence, in making out charts of character, I always strike a
TO HUMAN IMPROVEMENT. 1T>
semicircular i.1rcke over those organs which are too small and
require to be more especially developed by culture, and under
those which require to be watched, guarded, or restrained.
These directions, especially in connection with these volumes,
will be of incalculable service, especially to the young, be.
cause these signs show what physical functions and phreno.
ogical faculties require to be cultivated or guarded, and these
volumes show how to effect the required self-improvement.
To present this whole matter at one glance, a table has been
prepared and placed at the beginning of each volume, the
proper marking of which will show what is required to be
done by those examined, and refer them to those passages of
each volume which instruct them how to do it. A general
table has also been prepared, which refers to all the volumes
collectively, in a similar manner, as seen in their explanations.
One word, in this connection, touching the practical utility
of this science of sciences. Since its practical application can
effect all this good—and this is but one among many other
advantages—this "examining heads" is not so inferior a call-
ing, after all. Indeed, what other is equally important or
exalted ? What can be turned to as momentous and practical
advantage ? If to tell men their physical disorders, and pre
scribe medicines, be honorable because useful, how much
more to point out their mental maladies, and prescribe moral
remedies 1 Quite long enough has this professional applica
tion been frowned upon, even by phrenologists. The author—
the first to reduce this matter to a distinct profession—has
been obliged to fight a desperate battle, not merely against
anti-phrenologists, but a worse one against its philosophizing
advocates. But the day is now ours. The application of
this science to the discernment of character, preparatory to its
im]Tovement, is beginning to be duly appreciated and respect
ed, and will soon become the most honorable professional
practice; because the most useful. Phrenologists by scores-
good men and true—are fitting themselves for this arduous
work. Nor of such can there well be too many. They
should be stationed in every town, should be more numerous
than physicans, and be universally consulted. Especially
118 PROPOSED PLA.V.
are female phrenologists required, to prescribe 'or children.
Whether it is or is not proper for them to deliver public lec
tures, is not now up for discussion ; but the propriety of theii
examining and prescribing at least for children is undoubted.
For this their greater development of Philoprogenitiveness than
males possess, fits them223. Hence, I cast my influence une
quivocally in its favor.
But, after all, as every one should be his own doctor, so
every one should be his own phrenologist. Parents should
understand and apply it in educating and choosing occupations
for their own children, and also teach it to them. Indeed, it
should be made a paramount study in all our schools. Our
whole population should brow up phrenologists and physiolo
gists ; to facilitate which, the author hopes soon to prepare,
what he has long contemplated, a work on these subjects suit
able for a school and academic manual.
Having learned our characters, and of course wherein they
require to be improved, and what faculties require special cul
tivation, as just seen, we next require to know how to excite
them to that spontaneous action already shown to constitute
the principal means of improving them214'15. That is, we
must ascertain how to feed these faculties with their ap
propriate stimulus, and thus develop them. This, the analysis
of the faculties alone can teach. To that analysis we there
fore now proceed. And in prosecuting it, we shall define
instead of describe, and point out the adaptation of the facul-
ties to their respective counterparts in nature. Thus, Paren-
tiveness is adapted to the infantile condition of man ; A.limen-
tiveness to our demand for nutrition ; Constructivene.'s to the
existence of mechanical laws and man's requisition for things
made ; Ideality to the beautiful and perfect in nature ; Lan
guage to our requisition for the communication of ideas ;
Causality to the existence of causes and laws, and thus of all
the other faculties. Nor does any other short-hand method
equal this for impressing indelibly the specific functions of
the respective faculties upon the mind ; because to remembei
this adaptation of a faculty is comparatively easy, and this
rivets its true function concisely yet completely.
CHAPTER 1.
itAl.TSrS AND MEANS OF STRENGTHENING IHE FACULTf E*.
I. A.MATIVENESS
217. DEFINITION, LOCATION, AND ADAPTATION.
Connubial love and attachment of the sexes for each other.
Adapted to parentage, or the means ordained by nature for
continuing the race, and all that propagates. Located in the
cerebellum, or back and lower portion of the head. Its primi
tive office is that tender connubial affection and reciprocal
blending of soul which unite loving husbands and wives in-
dissolubly together, induce marriage, and result in offspring.
The larger it is, provided it is rightly exercised a", the more
cordial this union, and the greater the estimation in which each
sex holds the other. For a full exposition of this faculty and
its right direction, see the author's work, entitled " Love and
Parentage."
218. PERVERSION AND RESTRAINT.
Its abuses are licentiousness and sodomy in all their forms and
degrees. On this subject, and also for directions concerning
its restraint, see " Amativeness." Suffice it here to say that
rigid chastity alone can secure connubial, or even general
happiness. Nor chastity in act merely, but also in feeling.
The soul must be undefiled by carnal thoughts and desires,
else corruption will enter and diffuse itself throughout the feel,
ings, if not conduct. Nor can youth be charged with a more
important counsel than to ketv both body and soul perfectly
pcre and holy from all the contaminations of this corrupting
vice. Indulge this fseling on\j in pure love and virtuous
wedlock.
ISO PHILOPROGENITIVENESS
2. PHILOPROGENITIVENESS.
219 DEFINITION, LOCATION LARGE AND SHALL.
Parental love ; attachment to our own children ; interest
In young children generally.
To find this organ, draw a line from the eye to tne top of iho
car, ana continue it on to the middle of the back of the nead,
under which point it is located. It is large in the accompany,
ing <emale head, but small in that of Mr. J. Johnson.
PHILOPROGENITIVENESS LARGE.
No. 5. Mns. Smith.
IiARGE Philoprogenitiveness loves darling infancy and bud
ding childhood with an intensity and fervor proportionate to its
eize and activity, and the more so if they are our own, and
forbears with their faults. It loves the young and helpless as
such, and delights to administer to their wants; loves to play
with them, and see them play ; and takes an interest in the
young generally. It also loves to feed and tend stock, the
young of animals, and succor the helpless.
ITS FUNCTIONS.
JHILOPROGENITIVENESS SMALL
121
No. 6. Mr. J. Johnson.
Small Philoprogenitiveness does not love or take an interest
n children, does not make due allowances for their errors, and
is too austere, distant, and perhaps severe toward them.
220. ADAPTATION AND CULTIVATION.
In case al mankind had been brought forth in the full pos
session of all their physical and mental powers, capable, froiu
the first, of taking abundant care of themselves, without re
quiring parents to supply a single want, this facultj woulc*
have been out of place ; for then it would have had nothing
to do. But the fact is far otherwise. Man enters the world
in a condition utterly helpless. Infants require a great amount
of cere and nursing. Without its stimulus to provide foi and
11
VZ2 PHILOPROGENniVKNEaS
watch over infancy, every cnild must inevitably perish, and
our race become extinct. To this infantile condition of man
kind, and consequent requisition for care and provision, this
faculty is adapted. And who as well qualified to bestow these
attentions as parents upon their own children ? That provi
sion by which all parents love their own children better than
those of others, is most beautiful in itself, and perfectly calcu
lated to nurse and educate the race. Parental love—attach
ment to our own children as ours—is then the distinctive office
of this faculty. None but parents can ever experience the
thrilling delights of parental love, or grieve like them over
their loss. The thought that they are " bone of our bone arrd
flesh of our flesh," endears them to us by ties the most tender
and powerful, which are still farther enhanced if begotten or
born by a dearly beloved husband or wife.
This faculty is more especially adapted to the infantile state,
and its helplessness and need of care ; and the younger and
more needy the child, the stronger this faculty. Hence mothers
always love their weakest and most sickly children most.
Nature therefore requires, in and by the very creation of this
faculty, that we love and provide for our children. The
existence of this faculty imposes an obligation upon all who
become parents, to make all due exertion both for their physi
cal wants and moral training. To usher immortals into exist
ence, and then leave them to suffer for the necessaries of life,
and above all, to let them grow up ignorant *and depraved, is
most wicked. And the higher we can carry those in the scale
of improvement who owe their existence to us, the more per
fectly we fulfil our duties to them, and T>bey the commands of
God, uttered through the institutes of nature. But wo to those
who lisobey these injunctions.
221 DUTY AND MODE or ITS CULTIVATION.
It should therefore be cultivated. Parents are in duty bound
to love their children, as much as to eat, or worship ; because,
being a primitive faculty of the mind, its vigorous exeicis*
becomes an imperious natural duty. But are not most of us
'leficient in this respect ? Would not our own happiness, both
ITS CULTW. now. 123
absomteiy and in our children, oe promoted by it* cultivation ?
Should not the most tender regard be manifested for ihem in
all our conversation and intercourse with them ? Should
anything be allowed to interrupt or mar the most perfect inti
macy and union of feeling between us and them ? Are scold.
ing and beating them in perfect accordance with the nature
and powerful exercise of this faculty ? Is even a distant, aus
tere, harsh, or petulant manner of speaking and acting, com
patible with that perfect love which this faculty was created
to secure ? Should not parents even play with them, and be
on terms of the most perfect familiarity ? Should it not be
our constant study to promote their happiness and advance
ment in all those little affairs of life which being so much with
them facilitates? Should they not be indulged in whatever is
for their good, and denied only what is injurious, or beyond
our means ? This crabbed, fault-finding, authoritative man
ner of treating them, is in open violation of that law of love
which this faculty was ordaintd to secure. " He that loveth
not his own household, is worse than an infidel."
Forbearance toward them is another natural product of
this faculty. Most of those thousand things on account of
which we scold them are childish sports, and perfectly inno.
cent on their pant. Perhaps it is for their incessant activity.
This they can no more help than breathe, and without it they
would die. But we shall touch a kindred point hereafter.
What we wish now to impress is, the duty and importance of
LOVING THEM DEVOTEDLY.
To promote this love, parents and children should be sepa
rated as little as possible. None but parents can possibly sup
ply the place of parents. Their guardianship and healthful
influences should be perpetual. Hence, sending the^n from
home to be educated violates this faculty, and is therefore
wrong. It also measurably cuts off that controlling power of
parents over their children which uninterrupted intercourse
would strengthen. In short, nothing can be more clear than
that, from the analysis of this faculty, parents should be the
main educators of the intellects and formers of the morals
of their children, as, by comm:n consent, they now are the
124 hiloiaOGenitivbness.
providers for their physical wants—a principle c.ften implied
in these volumes, and now demonstrated.
One other motive, if possible still more potent, exists for
cultivating this mutual good understanding and cordial lovj
between parents and their children ; namely, the influence it
gives parents over children. Love forms the most powerful
incentive to obedience and servitude known to the hun.an
mind. As the organs of the social affections are located in
the base of the brai1 , so these faculties exert an all-moving,
all-controlling influence over character and conduct—an in
fluence the power of which is perfectly surprising to those who
have not closely observed its practical workings. Hence,
men, women, children, all mankind, will do for love what
neither money, nor force, nor any other motive whatever,
could possibly induce them to do. A few illustrations. Let
a minister get the love of his people, and he can lead them
whithersoever he will. They will swallow all he says, how
ever absurd or ridiculous, and, spaniel-like, think the more
of him the more he chastises them. This love is the great
secret of clerical power and influence. But when a people
hate their minister, he may preach with the eloquence an,
power almost of angels, but all in vain. They dislike what
he says, however true and good, because they hate its source,
and therefore Urn a deaf ear on him. Attachment inspires
confidence, and all know how much influence this gives those
confided in over those who confide.
Politicans furnish another example equally in point. See
how they go about insinuatingly and coaxingly from voter to
voter, to gain their friendship, because they well know that
personal attachment secures votes more effectually than any
other means whatever. And to rivet this influence on father
and son, so as to provide for another prospective vote, they pat
:he little son kindly on the shoulder and say many a coaxing
word to him. Nor can they adopt a course as politic as this
of securing the personal friendship of father, son, and all
concerned. What put Andrew Juckson into the presidential
chair ? Not his talents, not his fitness for that exalted station,
but his perpon l popularity. His soldiers lovkd him because
•UWBK OF IJ VS. 185
he loved them. He also made it a point to help young men
start in life. This made him their friends, and they made all
their friends also his friends, and thus the circle extended to
the borders of the nation, and perpetuated his powerful influ
ence till he died. Merchants also understand and practice
this plan to secure custom.
The influence of the speaker over his audiences furnishes
another illustration of the power of the afTections over the
feelings, will, judgment, and morals, of mankind. Let him
awaken a prepossession in his favor, and he may say what he
likes, and can make them cry and laugh alternately, because
of his almost unlimited power over them. But let him begin
by awakening their hatred, and how changed the effect of all
he says !
How omnipotent the power wielded by a husband over a
wife who loves him ! When he is sick, all the gold of Ophir, all
the regal power of Solomon, cannot secure the attentions and
self-sacrifices she bestows, not grudgingly, but with her whole
soul. What will not love prompt its subjects to do for those
'jeloved ? What are hireling services, forced services, and
all other services, compared with those prompted by personal
attachment, whether friendly, parental, filial, or connubial ?
Another example more in point. See how children learn
who like their teacher. See how tardy their progress when
they go to a teacher, however good, whom they dislike. Make,
then, your children love you first. Till you do this, your
moulding power over them is limited. Get their hatred, and
you cannot do anything with them. If they obey, it is with
reluctance and as badly as possible. All you say they reject.
All you do they dislike, and the more so the greater their hatred.
But get. their love, and they drink in all you say. They spring
with celerity to do all you wish, and consider themselves most
happy in being able to serve you. And they do for you as
well as they can. Nothing can as effectually secure perfect
obed ;nce as affection, ana the more perfect the latter the
more complete the former.
Get their love, and what you say finds its way into their
'nmost souls, and exerts a moulding and controlling influence
11*
26 FHILOFROGINITIVENESS.
jver their charactei and conduct. Your words now are clothed
with unction and authority. Your advice is more aotent in its
influence over them than the mandate of kings. Their confi
dence in you is perfect. They yield themselves up willing
slaves to whatever influences you choose to exert over them. la
not this a law of mind—a necessary consequence of affection I
Then apply its all-potent power to the government of chil
dren. Where else can it be exerted with equal advantage?
By a law of things, the influence of parents over their chil
dren should be complete, almost despotic ; but it should be tho
despotism of love, not of fear. Parents were ordained to
love their children partly, if not mainly, to awaken the recip
rocal love of their children in return, in order to give them
this power over their yet plastic characters, so that they may
mould them at pleasure. Children naturally love those who
love them. They soon know who like them, and they cling
around them, clamber on their knees, and make free to play
with them, and surrender themselves voluntary subjects to
their power. This, all must have observed. And what un
bounded influence such affection confers on those beloved
over those who love! What could as effectually secure
parental forbearance or servitude as parental love? This
love makes parents perfect drudges, aye, even abject slaves,
to their children. Then will not getting the affections of
children make them as perfect slaves to you, as you to them ?
I repeat, get their love first. Till then, try to do nothing.
However bad their conduct, say nothing, do nothing, which
shall weaken their love. Say everything, do everything, to
rivet that love first i govern afterward. And to do this,
love them. Children like those who like them. Caress
children. Cultivate good feeling with them. Above all
:hings. make them happy. That this happiness is the great
basis of all love, is fully shown in the author's work on
" Matrimony." To get a child's love is the most easy thing in
the world. They have a faculty of filial affection, located
by the side of Parental Love, which appreciates these bless
ings showered from the hand of parental love. Give a child
its daily Dread without unkindness, and that child will lovs
ITS CJiTIVATIOH. 181
you. It is natural for children to look up with a dutiful,
affectionate eye to those who feed and clothe them. Much
more so when you caress them. Children naturally love
those who treat them kindly ; much more their parents, who
should treat them affectionately. Caress children and gratify
them as often as possible, by taking them out to walk or ride,
by feeding their intellects, and making them presents of toys,
garments, etc., and any child will feel spontaneous love and
gratitude to its benefactor. Affection and gratitude are indi
genous in the soil of the youthful heart, and they are virtue?
which should by all means be cultivated. This, those who
have the care of children have every possible opportunity of
doing. They are obliged to feed and clothe them, and in
doing this, their duty and pleasure, they can plant a feeling of
gratitude and love in the bosom of any child, however hard
ened or abandoned, which can never be erased, and will
make those children the most faithful servants, the most will
ing and obedient, imaginable. Let children but see in you a
disposition to gratify them as far as is proper, and because
you love them, and to deny them nothing except their own
good requires it, and they will soon love you with a pathos
and fervency which will make them bound with delight to
fulfil your every wish. Your requests have but to be made
known, and they experience the most heartfelt delight in grat
ifying their beloved benefactor. Pursue this course a single
year, and the worst child that ever was will be subdued by it.
There is no withstanding its power. Kindness will melt a
heart of stone, and produce kindness in return.
And what facilities for gaining their affections, and of course
exerting this power, at all to be compared to those enjoyed by
parents ? That very care which this faculty requires anc
induces parents to bestow upon their children, gives the for.
Dier a constant succession of opportunities the most favorable
for getting their love. And were these opportunities thrust
upon them for naught ? Were they not created to be im
proved ? Does not the mere fact of their existence show that
they should be exercised ? Every garment we procure, every
meal we orovide for them, every constantly returning want
128 PH I.OPROGKMI1'IVEKESS.
we supply, furnishes a fresh opportunity for awakening in tneii
susceptible souls new emotions of gratitude and love, by im-
proving which it is possible to make them love us so tenderly
and devotedly that they will almost lay down their lives for
our sakes—will at least do everything we require of them,
and avoid doing anything to displease us. This is the great
rod parents should hold over their children—love. O parents,
we do not duly love these little helpless innocents committed
to our care. We do not forbear enough. We do not put in
practice that "new commandment" which superseded, be
cause it embodied, the whole decalogue, that we love our
children. Incalculable good to them and happiness to our
own souls would spring from fulfilling this blessed law.
Yet parents, especially mothers, are less deficient in the
quantity of their parental love than in its quality. They often
love their children enough, yet not aright208. Especially they
too often fail to love them intellectually and morally 3U .
They often simply love them, or else love them as dolls, which
they can dress and rig off in gaudy trappings, or to make a
brilliant display in fashionable society. Such love is ruinous
to parents and children2". How many, O how many chil
dren has over-weaning parental love, unguided by the higher
faculties, literally spoiled—worse than spoiled—rendered per
fect pests to society, who might have been made great bless
ings. Readers, have you never seen those thus spoiled ?
Have not the children of many readers even been seriously
injured in mind and body by excessive tenderness88"5 and
foolish trifling. Love your children, but guide your parental
yearnings and training by the dictates of enlightened intellect
and govern it by high moral feeling.
222. MATERNAL LOVE ANt> DUTY.
To mothers, these principles apply with redoubled force.
By a law of their being this organ is much larger in them than
in fathers. Hence a father's love bears no comparison with
a mother's in intensity and frrvor ; and therefore her efforts
for their good are and should be proportionally greater than
his Maternal yea*nings, how oowerful, row inexpressibly
ITS iULTIVATIOIf. 129
tender—almost infinitely more so than patirnai Nature or-
dains that this should be thus. She requires the mother to
nurse her offspring, and, as accompaniments, that she dress
and undress, feed" and watch over them, and bestow all those
little cares and attentions, far more, relatively, than fathers;
and to fit her for her office as r.urse, has conferred on her this
extra endowment of parental love.
But this love does not end in merely feeding, clothing, and
tending them. It caresses ant yearns over them from before
they see the light, all along up through adolescence, and thus
wins upon their love in return, so that children generally love
their mothers more than their fathers, and hence, when sick,
forsake all others for their mother's arms. They even carry
to her first, to her mainly, all their little joys and griefs, and
aches, nor carry in vain, but receive her sympathy in return.
This far greater love of children for their mothers than fathers,
consequent on the greater love of mothers than of fathers for
their children, gives mothers a correspondingly greater influ
ence over them than fathers. And this influence enables
mothers to mould their plastic characters far more than fathers.
And how admirably do woman's naturally fine susceptibilities
and her exquisiteness of feeling qualify her to instil into their
tender minds a love of purity and goodness, and a disgust and
abhorrence of vice. Nor can any other being fill her place, or
discharge the duties required by nature at maternal hands.
These high and holy duties cannot possibly be filled by proxy.
None can love them as their mothers can ; and this love is in.
dispensable to their proper nursing and education. All the.
.iurses, all the teachers in creation, can do comparatively no-
thing. In consequence of, and in proportion to, this love, chil
dren drink in all their mother says and does. They give
themseives up wholly to whatever influences she may exert
oyer them. They are the clay, she the potter. She moulds
them white yet plastic, into this shape or that, or in accordance
with the prevailing characteristics of her own mind, and time
hardens and burns them in :he shape she fashions. Her
feelings they imbibe. Her disposition they assume. Wha
she is, they become
130 PHIL'01'ROGEN..VENESS.
Again : home education or no education. Unless children
learn good manners at home they will be coarse and vulgar
through life. Unless they learn refinement of sentiment and
delicacy of feeling at home, and mainly from their mothers,
they can never possess either, except in a lower degree. Un
less their intellects receive an early maternal direction in the
paths of study and thought—unless mothers draw out their
opening minds from day to day, and create in them a hunger
ing and thirsting after knowledge, and mental progression—
they can never be learned or great, and the opportunities mo
thers possess for developing their intellects incomparably ex
ceed those in the power of all others. Especially must mothers
mould and fashion their moral characters. But we shall
reach this point more effectually when we come to analyze the
moral faculties. Suffice it to say, families are the school-
houses, and mothers the teachers of children. This is nature's
inflexible ordinance. Behold, O mothers, and tremble in view
Df the momentous responsibilities imposed on you by this law
of your being !
You plead a want of time. But should you not do that first
A'hich is most important ?49S And what is, what can be more
momentous than to develop by cultivation their physical, in
lellectual, and moral powers—than to give them strong bodies
powerful minds, and high-toned moral characters? Happi
ness being the great end of life ', and mind being the grand
instrumentality of all enjoyment 19—since all our pleasures
flow from its right exercise, all our pains from its abnormal
action 208—of course nothing whatever can equal the para
mount importance of its proper training. This, you, mothers,
must do. You, therefore, not nurses, not teachers, but ye
mothers, in and by becoming mothers, place yourselves under
obligations the most solemn and imperious to cultivate all the
higher powers of their being. Nor are mortals permitted to
fill any relations at all to be compared with yours in their
mighty influence on the weal and wo of man. How com
pletely the virtue or vice, happiness or misery, of your own
dear children is determined by the training they receive at
youi hands !—the power of hereditary in flue/ices over char
DUTY ''F MOTHERS. 181
acter. is fully admi.. »d, but has been treated by the author in
a separate volume, entitled " Hereditary Descent"—nor their
destiny merely, but that of the world ; because, as is your
training of them, so are they, and as they are, so is the race !
Ye mothers hold the keys of human weal and wo. O think
of it! The characters and destinies of your dear children
under your control ! Nay, you must wield them. Willing
or unwilling, you are compelled by a law of your being to
fashion them, or else leave them unfashioned. By a law ot
things, no nurse, no other human being can love, and therefore
influence, your children as you can—as you are compelled to.
You cannot shift the responsibility. None but mothers can
experience maternal yearnings, and therefore no others can
fill a mother's place in either the affections of their children,
or in her moulding influence over them ssl. An opportunity thus
advantageous for achieving results thus glorious—for making
your own dear children almost angels in sweetness, as well as
mighty in intellect,—should wake up all the energies of your
souls, and prompt you to put forth every effort of which you
are capable. The plastic clay lies in your arms ; O make
the most of your power over it. You love your dear children ;
then live and labor for them—not for their outward but in
ward adorning—not for their bodies but their souls. Pray
earnestly and daily for needed grace and wisdom, nor let an
hour of this seed-time of life go unimproved.
To American mothers this appeal comes home with redoubled
force. Our country is the hope, our institutions the prospective
salvation ofthe world. Even our national destiny is truly mo
mentous. What an innate power and vigor does republicanism
possess ! What a mighty—all-controlling—influence it is in
the power of our nation to wield over the temporal and spiritual
contiition of our descendants for ages on ages to come ! Not
on that handful which now inhabits our borders. What will
be our numbers in fifty years ? *" Some who now read these
lines will live to see it out-number all Europe. Let our old
men look back and recount the growth of city and country
since they can remember, and from the data thus furnished
calculate what sixty or a hundred years will bring forth as to
182 PhlLOPROGK.NiriVK-VESS.
numbers. Be assured our nation is no trifle. Consequence*
infinitely momentous hang suspendeJ on its prospective fate
O what finite, what angelic mind—what but Infinitude—car-
calculate the height, length, breadth, and fearful magnitude of
those results which depend on the character of our nation, the
course it pursues, the political, intellectual, and moral aspect
it assumes ! Nor will these momentous results be bounded by
our national limits, nor even by our continental. Every hu
man being, for ages and ages to come, will feel their power,
and be rendered more happy or miserable according as they
are good or bad. O, I tremble while I contemplate the mighty
power for good and for evil which remains to be developed as
our nation rolls along down the vista of futurity !
But, though this power will be exerted many centuries hence,
it will be formed soon—is now rapidly forming. Our na
tional character, like that infant in your arms, is yet plastic,
waiting to receive its shape, which time will then render rigid,
so that it can be altered only by being broken in pieces.
" Now is the accepted time." We and our children must
DETERMINE PRACTICALLY THE CHARACTER OF THIS KE?ITBLIC, and
through it, of the whole human family for centuries to come !
And as we, and especially you, mothers, must fashion the
characters of your children, and through them, measurably,
of this republic, of course you, in and by the impress you are
daily and hourly stamping upon your offspring, are constantly
and practically moulding our national character. Some ol
you are now nursing our future state and national legislators
and presidents, and every one of your sons who lives to become
a man will help to cast that national die which shall deter
mine the character of our republic, and through it the desti-
nies orour race ! An experiment as big with human weal ot
wo as that of self-government, which we are now trying, haf
never before been submitted for practical solution ; nor can
be again for ages to come. If this experiment should fail,
man must relapse into the fatal folds of monarchy, there to re
main for centuries before deliverance can come. If we make
shipwreck, all is lost for hundreds of years, at least. But i)
we are true to the trusts committed by our pilgrim-fathers to
DUTY OF AMERICAN Mil'IJlEltS^ 133
our hands—and such sacred trusts mortals never oefore com
mitted or received—then will millennial plory soon burst upon
our world, and earth become a paradise ! The influence of
religion in effecting this result, is not denied—is fully appre
ciated—but republicanism alone can purify religion fron the
dross monarchy necessarily intermingles with it. True reli
gion is utterly incompatible with monarchy, and can flourish
like the green-bay tree only in republican soil. Christ was
no aristocrat. His doctrines are republicanism personified. I
will not digress to qualify farther, but trust I shall not be mis
understood. O how infinitely much depends upon the charac
ter of our nation ! And this upon the characters of our chil
dren ! And this upon the training they receive from their
mothers ! O American mothers, actual and prospective, angels
might well sink under the responsibilities now incumbent on
you ! Nor can you become mothers without incurring these
awful responsibilities. Yet archangels might well rejoice to
be intrusted with privileges like these ! Behold the incalcu
lable good it is in your power to effect, nor for your children
themselves merely, but mainly for all mankind ! O save our
institutions—save republicanism—from shipwreck.
The danger is imminent. I would not turn groundless
alarmist, but I do tremble for my country. When I see so
many of our youth growing up in ignorance and lawless row.
dyism—when I see how easy selfish and designing men lead
the masses astray in politics and religion ; how easily the
many are hoodwinked, and carried willing captives by corrupt
and self-constituted leaders ; above all, when I see what po
litical and governmental enormities can go unrebuked—car
even be made popular, and thus the precursors of still greate.
outrages on justice and humanity—my soul sinks within me,
and I dread the opening of the seal of our national character.
Nor have I any hope but in our mothers. Sleep on one gen
eration longer, and all is lost ! But wake up at once to your
high duty and privilege—Wain up your sons to guide and gov
ern this ark of our republic, which incloses the tables of the
world's destinies, aright, till its character is once set—and the
wld'a salvation in addition to the unsneakable happiness of
13
134 PUILOPRUGEMTIVENESS.
your children, and your children's children to the latest gen
eration, is your a:id their blessed reward ! May God open
your eyes and stir up your souls to these momentous truths,
and enable and dispose you to put them in practice !
Park ! Hear ye yonder long and loud blast of a trumpet '
It is the angel of Truth, summoning woman to a grand assem
blage. And now, behold woman of all ages, ranks, occupations,
colors, and nations, stands before him. Hear what he saith .
" Lo I come to prepare the way for the Millennium. Woman,
my business is with vou. As are ye, so are your children,
and so is the world. I come to regenerate your race, to
' prepare the way of the Lord,' to banish vice aud misery, and
establish happiness and peace on earth by reforming you.
Your life is now a burden and a bubble, ' a fleeting show, for
man's illusion given ;' I come to make it a reality and a pleas
ure. You now spend your precious existence in trifling.
Turn ye, turn ye to your nature and your natural duties.
Ye unmarried, what are ye doing ? Young women, how do
ye spend your time ? In changing the fashions of youi
dresses every few days, either for the convivial ball and party,
or to profane the holy sanctuary of your God ! Have ye na
other and more important duties to perform—duties to your
race, not to your toilet? God has sent me with this man
date, Prepare yourselves to become wives and mothers. Strip
off' your gaudy attire, and array yourselves in the orna
ments of nature's loveliness. Be yourselves, as God cre
ated you, and no longer blaspheme your Maker by preferring
artificial ornaments to the beauties and the graces of yout
nature. Be yourselves, and you will be infinitely more
lovely and happy than now. Be yourselves ; for now a part
of you are parlor toys or puppet shows, and the rest are kitchen
drudges, or fashionable slaves. Be yourselves ! for you
will soon be called upon to educate those sons which will
guide and govern the world. For your own sakes, for the
sake of all coming ages, be yourselves !
" And ye mothers, pause and consider ! Stop short ! for fe
are spoiling God's works, whereas ye were placed here tc
burnisb them. Now, ye are mos unprofitable servants. O
ITS vtLTIVATlON. W 185
will ye dot learn wisdom ? O mothers ! mothers ! your race i*
imploring salvation at your hands ! Ye can bestow it, and ye
must. Go your way ; first learn your duty, and then DO it."
Woman listens, weeps, repents, and reforms. The milieu
nium dawns—our race is saved. Vice is banished, misery
follows, Eden is re-opened, and paeans of praise break forth
from all flesh.
223. ITS CULTIVATION IN THE UNMARRIED AND CHILDREN.
Though the true way to exercise this fuculty is to have and
love children of our own, yet the unmarried, and those with
out offspring, should not remain destitute of those excellent
influences diffused by this faculty over the soul. Those who
have no children of their own are apt to be too harsh and im
perative toward children. How often they say, " Well, if I
had children, I'd not let them run over and trample on me in
this kind of style, and all because you indulge them so. I'd
make them know their place, and keep in it, too; indeed I
would." Yet they prove quite as lenient to their children as
those whom they before censured so unsparingly. The rea
son is this. Till Philoprogenitiveness is developed by having
children of our own to love, it lies comparatively dormant,
but becomes powerfully excited by the presentation of this its
appropriate stimulant, so that they not only become indulgent
to their own children, but lenient to all others. Those who
are not parents, are therefore no proper judges of the way
children should be managed. They are not duly lenient.
This faculty has not its due influence. It should therefore
be cultivated. And this can be done by taking an interest in
children, their gambols, and improvement, by playing with
and noticing, petting, and talking to them—in short, by exer
cising this faculty214 toward them. And such regard in a
young man or woman for children, gives assurance that its
possessors will be fond and indulgent parents, and live in and
for their children.
It may also be cultivated, in a lower degree, by having
pets, favorite birds, dogs, cats, lambs, cattle, horses, and even
flowers and trees.
136 f ADHESIVENESS.
It should &jso be cultivated in children. It forms a pait o*
their natures, and its due exercise is indispei sable in softenirjg
and improving their characters, and (specially in fitting them,
as they grow up, ':o become affectionate parents. To do this,
get them dolls, hobby-horses, favorite toys, and playthings,
and encourage them to tend and pet them. And, when old
enough, let them have birds, or other live pets, to feed and
caress. In short, place the stimuli of this faculty before it,
and thus promote its exercise214. Especially, they should ba
furnished with playmates, and encouraged to play affection
ately with other children. Yet this involves also—
ADHESIVENESS.
'*A new commandment give I unto you, that ye love one another." "Love is the
fulfilling of the law."
224. DEFINITION, LOCATION, AND ADAPTATION.
Friendship ; the social instinct ; love of society ; desire
and ability to congregate, associate, visit, form and recip
rocate attachments, entertain friends, and seek company ;
cordiality. Located an inch and a half upward and outward
from Parental Love. Or thus: place one angle of an equilat
eral triangle, the sides of which are an inch and a half long,
on Parental Love, and the other two angles will be on the two
lobes of Adhesiveness. It is large in the accompanying en
graving. It joins Parentiveness.
225. LARGE AND SMALL.
Large Adhesiveness loves company, forms friends easily,
and seeks their society often ; is confiding and cordial, and
iiable to be easily influenced by friends ; trusts in them, and
will not believe wrong of them ; has many friends, and takes
great pleasure in their society ; places friends before business ;
and feels lost when separated from them, and almost distracted
at their death.
Small Friendship is cold, unsocial, averse to companj , un
congenial, unconfiding, forms attachments slowly, and thea
TS FUNCTION. 187
L.RGE iDHKSlVENK!S
breaks them for slight causes, and places business and the
other faculties before friendship. Such have few friends, and
usually many enemies.
226. ADAPTATION AND CULTIVATION.
Adapted to man's requisition for society, combination, and
bommunity of interest. Without this or a kindred faculty to
bring mankind together into villages, companies, and families,
every human being would have wandered up and down in the
earth aj.one, alienated from all others, his hand, Ishmael-like,
"against every man, and every man's hand against him,"
without society,' without any community of feeling or concert
of action, and even without written or verbal language, and
consequently destitute of all the pleasures and advantages
now derived from conversation, news, papers, sermons, lec
tures, schools, and the institutions tc which they have given
12*
138 ■ ADHESIVENESS.
rise, and also wiiiiout one friendly feeling to soften down hia
austerity and wrath, or draw him toward his fellow-man.
Consequently, nothing could have been done more than on«>
could 'do alone—no companies formed for trade, mechanical,
public, or other works; no religious, political, scientific, or
other societies would have been formed ; and no commu
nity of interest, or feeling, and concert of action, as well aa
direct pleasure in friendship, could have been experienced.
And since each faculty in one constitutionally excites the
same faculties in others215, and thereby all the othe. faculties,
without friendship to bring mankind together so tha' their
faculties may mutually excite each other, half his faculties,
having little or nothing to stimulate them, would have lain
dormant, and the balance have been but feebly exercised.
Without friendship to bring mankind together, ambition, imita
tion, mirth, kindness, justice, and many of his other faculties,
would have had only an exceedingly limited arena for their
exercise ;- concert of action could not have been secured ; and
green-eyed jealousy, burning animosity, and dire revenge,
would have blotted out the pleasant smile of glowing attach
ment, palsied the hand of friendship, suppressed the cordial
greeting of old associates, and converted into rancorous hate
that silent flow of perpetual happiness which springs from the
ixercise of this faculty.
The cultivation of an elenent thus beneficial in its influence
is, therefore, most important. Men should not wrap them
selves up in the frigid cloak of selfish isolation, but should
open their generous souls to the reception and expression of
cordial friendship. We were not created to live alone, nor can
we close the door of warm-hearted friendship without shutting
out the light and warmth of life, and locking ourselves up in the
dark dungeon of exclusiveness. The recluse and the misan
thrope violate a fundamental law of their being—this cardi
nal law of love—and suffer the penalty in that desolation of
bouI which congeals all the finer and sweeter emotions of life.
The aristocrat is not human. He stifles an important element
of his nature, and is therefore maimed and halt, destitute of
this ca-dinal virtue. Would that such could see no human
*
ARISiOCRACV. V 18tt
soul till their icy fetters broke loose, and they could once
more look upon all mankind as brothers, and "igr^^them as
friends.
And are these money-made nabobs really so far aboVa-their
fellow-men ? Can standing on a paltry pile of shining dust
make ,hem men ? Is the possession of wealth indeed so
much above that of worth ? Do not the human virtues con
stitute nature's noblemen ? Who are her aristocracy and
crowned heads ? Shall things be exalted above men ? Shall
money, the work of men's hands, be rated above intellectual
greatness and moral worth—the highest works of God ?
And so much above, that the holders of the former disdain to
exchange the look of recognition ? And all in this land con
secrated to equality ? Republicans, ha ! yet too grand to
speak to brother republicans and even human brothers!
Great republicanism, this ! Aristocratical distinctions here,
on this soil consecrated to freedom and " equal rights !" Out
upon such grandiloquent pretenders—such apes of feudal
nobility ! If you are indeed so extra noble, produce your
title, and then abdicate these shores consecrated not to rank,
but to equality. This is no place for you. Would it not be
impertinence—a breach of every principle of decency—for
an infidel to thrust his doctrines upon a religious assembly ?
and is it not more so for you to thrust your aristocracy into
*he faces of us freemen ? This is our soil, not yours. These
e freedom's borders, set apart and baptized to liberty, not
o cast. Why inflict yourselves upon us 1 Here you are
eyesores. Our fathers fled from just such claims as you set
up, and came here that they might sit, unmolested by aristo
cratical pretensions, " under their own vines and fig-trees" of
equality. And yet you indecently and impertinently set your-
selves up right here in our very midst as our chiefs, to be
looked up to and bowed down to, just because you possess—
perhaps wrongfully—a few more dollars than we. If you
will be so grand, go to England, or Russia, or Turkey, where
cast forms a part of their institutions—not force yourselves
'ipon us freemen. You have no right to stay on our soil
unless you will consent to stay as our equals. If you ara
140 B IMESIVENES9.
too good to be our friends, go where men are good en&jgh so
that you can deign to speak to and associate with thpm on
friendly terms. Why don't you? Because your aristocrat-
ical pretensions would not pass current there. The mushroom,
codfish, stockjobbing aristocracy of our nation is utterly con
temptible anywhere, but a perfect outrage in this country.
I repeat, away with you. You are usurpers and traitors to
our institutions. Go home, go home to the old world and stay
there, not inflict your puerile pretensions upon us freemen,
and in our own temple of liberty and equality. Come, hurry,
and be off. Or else, down with your flag of exclusiveness.
Meet us as equals, and we will let you stay and make you
welcome. Come, off with you, or else subscribe practically
to our constitution of equality.
And let us all cultivate cordiality and brotherly love to
ward all mankind. Let travellers and all who are casually
thrown together, whether temporarily or permanently, open
the portals of their hearts, and " scrape acquaintance" at once.
Let them freely exchange views and feelings, and wile away
their otherwise tedious .tours by social conversation and
friendly chit-chat. These modern ceremonies, this requiring
formal introductions, and punctiliously waiting for the last
call *o be returned, or letter to be answered before friendly in
tercourse is resumed, are cast completely into the shade by this
great requisition for the unrestrained exercise of cordial
friendship.
This demand for friendship applies with redoubled force
to members of the same family. Let parents cultivate affec
tion for one another in their children, and let brothers and
sisters separate as little as possible, correspond much, never
allow a breach to be made in heir attachments, and continu
ally add new fuel to the old fire of fai lily friendship. Let the
right hand of hospitality be extended oftener than it now is,
and let friends entertain friends around the family board, as
frequently as possible, instead of allowing them to eat their
unsocial fare at the public hotel. We have too Utile of the
good old custom of " cousining," and of English hospitality ;
and speni/ fir too little time in making and receiving social
ITS CULTIVATE. 141
fisirs. Still, these formal, polite calls are erfect nojsense
—are to friendship what smut is to grain—poisonous. True
friendship knows no formality. Those who are so very oolite
lo eacli other are strangers or enemies, not friends; for true
friendship knows no ceremonious formality, but expires the
moment it is shackled by the rules of modern politeness.
We should all love society, and, as often as may be, relax
from the more severe duties of life to indulge it ; but let not
etiquette mar this perfect freedom of intercourse. True
friendship unbosoms the heart cordially and freely, and pours
forth the full tide of reciprocal feeling, without any barrier,
any reserve. The mere recreation afforded by Adhesiveness
is invaluable, especially to an intellectual man, as a means of
health, and to augment talents. In short, seek every favor
able opportunity to exercise this faculty. Choose your friends
from among those whose feelings and opinions harmonize with
your own, that is, in whose society you can enjoy yourself,
and then frequently interchange friendh feelings with them.
And do not break up your youthful associations, if you can
well avoid it. If you do, renew them as soon and often as
possible. Nothing more effectually blunts, and therefore
reduces, this faculty, than separation from friends, especially
from those who have sat for years at the same table, and be
come cordially attached to each other.
And this idea of " business before friends" is worse than
nonsense. It tramples under foot one of virtue's fundamental
laws, as well as means of enjoyment. Rather " friends before
'business." Or still better, friends and business, and friends
tN business. Our business should promote friendship, never
retard it.
Association might be so conducted as to furnish a more
powerful and constant stimulant to this faculty than any other
system of society. Not that I endorse the doctrines of Fourier
or the vagaries of Brisbane ; yet, beyond contradiction, asso
ciations might be so formed and conducted as to give this
faculty all the food its nature requires, or could bear—and this
is a great deal—and also to avoid those frequent separations
of friends so detrimental to this faculty.
142 ^^ tnHESIVENRSS.
Giving and receiving presents is also directly calculated
to stimulate this faculty to increased action. Tliey are its
natjral food, with which let it be fed abundantly. I like the
good old custom of thanksgivings, of making new-year's,
and other presents, and thereby promoting good feeling between
man and man, as well as kindling anew the old fires of friend
ship. Give and receive presents, and hold them as sacred
tokens of that union of soul which it is the province of this
faculty to create.
Of one thing I am perfectly certain, that mankind know and
appreciate almost nothing of the power and pleasures capable
of being conferred by this faculty. Friendship has hardly yet
begun to assert its supremacy or put forth its mighty power
for good. It is now a Sampson shorn. Let its locks grow,
and it is a mighty moral giant, capable of shaking the pillars
of the whole earth, and revolutionizing society. Christ meant
something when he said, "If two of you shall agree touching
anything which you shall ask of my Father, he will do it for
you." That old saw " Union is strength" is not aspeak-word
merely. I fully believe that this simple principle—the union
and co-operation of the friends of the different branches of
reform now in progress—is destined soon to crown them all
with complete success. We are all brothers in feeling and
object. All we require is to unite together—to fuse our feel
ings, and merge our efforts into one community of kindred
souls—and we can carry the world—not a hundred years
hence, but on the very year of our union. There is leaven
enough in the mass to lighten it ; and union will set it at
work. We must all love one another, and this will disposo-
us to help one another, and this will hurl every existing evil
from its throne, and establish the institutions of society on the
foundation of man's primitive constitution.
Though this friendship should be thus cultivated, yet great
care should be taken to choose for intimates those only who
will exert a good influence even over U3. In making others
our friends we virtually surrender ourselves to whatever in
fluences they may exert upon us222. So that we cannot be
.00 careful into what hands wc intrus' a power thus intimately
rs RESTRAINT. % 143
affecting our weal and wo. Yet this should not prevent the
formation of friendships ; especially, it should not intercept those
passing acquaintances just recommended. And when an inti
mate, cordial friendship is once formed, let not trifles be allowed
to break it up. This blunting and searing of its fine, glowing
feelings, are certainly most unfortunate. Friendship should
be regarded as most sacred, and never be trifled with. Dc
almost anything sooner than sunder its tender chords, an 1 let
friends bear and forbear much, at least until they are certain
that a supposed injury was premeditated ; and then, when
friendship is thus violated, think no more of your former friend,
not even enough to hate him. Dwell not upon the injuries
dene you, but banish him from your mind, and let him be to
you as though you had never known him ; for dwelling upon
broken friendships only still farther lacerates and blunts this
feeling, and more effectually sears and steels it against all
mankind. Never form friendships where there is any danger
of their being broken ; and never break them unless the occa
sion is most aggravated : and let friends try to make up little
differences as soon as possible.
227. ITS DUE REGULATION AND RESTRAINT.
This faculty is capable, when abused, of working eviT com-
mensurate with its good. We are liable t , form improper as
sociations ; and when we do, we should break them off as
soon as convinced of their injurious tendency. The authoi
once saw a young man who was rendered perfectly distracted
by a sudden breach of friendship, or a supposed friend turning
traitor. A breach between him and his spouse could not have
afflicted him more severely. In such cases the faculty re
quires restraint. So also when friends are gaining an undue
influence over us.
1 o effect such restraint break up all association, all connec
tion, all interchange of all ideas and feelings with them. Ex
change no letters, reciprocate no looks, no thoughts. Banish,
as far as possible, all ideas of the persrn loved. Busy your
self so effectually about other matters as to compel you to
withdraw your feelings from this person, an: above all, foim
144 ADHESIVENESS.
other friendly re&tions. There is no cure for laceniu affec.
tion equal to its transfer. Stop its flow y vj cannot, s. ould
not ; you can only direct it into another channel. Find oAer
and better objects on which to expend it, and, especiall % array
reason and conscience against friendship. When your afFec.
tions revert to their former object, bring them back by plac
ing the motive for their withdrawal before the mind. Intel-
lect and the moral affections should reign supreme. The?
can govern the feelings—should govern them all2". And
every one should train his feelings to obey their normal
dictates.
These remarks will apply particularly to those who have
fallen in love injudiciously, and wish to tear their affections
from those on whom they have been improperly or unwisely
placed. To such they will be found invaluable; as also to
those who lose friends, children, or beloved companions. Let
the dead be dead. To mourn over their decease does not
benefit them, but it is ruinous to your health and mind, as well
as injurious to the faculty thus lacerated. And the more you
dwell on this loss, the more you sear this element of your na
ture. Beware of this laceration, and avoid it by banishing its
cause from your mind, and diverting your attention upon other
objects. Be the philosopher and christian au ; and thus
shelter yourself from that merciless storm which threatens
to drive you to destraction, and wreck soul and body on the
fatal shoals of stranded affection. But more of this under
Vitativeness.
228. CULTIVATION IN CHILDREN.
The young form attachments much more readily than
adults, because this social element has not yet been blasted
and calloused by oft-repeated disappointments consequent on
the treachery of supposed friends, or by long separation from
the companions of youth.
O I admire this innocent cordiality and gushing reciprocity
of youth. They do not eye every candidate for their affec
tions with a suspicious " I'll watch you, my man." They dc
not consider " every one a rogue till they have proved him >c
ASSOCIATES Ft h C.IILDREN. » 145
be trus.y," but confidingly regard all as true friends till they
prove traitors. Give me the cordiality of youth rather than
this case-hardening of maturity, and especially of business
scrutiny. Rather be burnt by the fire, time and again, than
have no fire by which to warm the frigid soul. Let my chil
dren be true to their natures, not seared by the contracted
maxims of the world. Let these delightful feelings be culti
vated in them. Especially let this idea of caste** not be
instilled into their susceptible minds. Let them never be in
terdicted from associating with other children on the score of
poverty. And let children be furnished with playmates.
The full development of their moral natures requires friends,
as much as that of their bodies requires bread. Why not.
since both are primitive instincts ?
229. CHOOSING ASSOCIATES FOR CHILDREN.— SCHOOLS.
Yet the utmost pains should be taken by parents to choose
playmates of the right character. Since the power of
friendship over character is thus potent"', let it be for good.
No words can express the injury sustained by playing with
improper associates. Take an example from our public
schools. If one scholar swear, all become familiar with
oaths and hardened by them. If one be vulgar, the whole
school learn the language of coarse obscenity. And the
propagation of vice by this means is unaccountably great.
Parents, be warned ; for you can hardly find a common school
throughout the land to which, at least, one bad, vulgar scholar
does not go. A hundred times have I been shocked at their
bawdy ribaldry ; and to see naturally innocent, modest girls
play on equal terms with such boys, become corrupted by
their manners, and familiar with their conversation and con
duct, is really most sickening and heart-rending. Parents,
do consider this matter.
" But what can we do ? Our children must not stay from
school and grow up ignoramuses," is the answer. Better this
than that they become contaminated, perhaps corrupted, by
those vices too prevalent in school—much more so than jarents
even imagine possible. But the remedy consists in that home
13
146 UNION FOR IIFE
education and maternal instruction urged througi out these
volumes as an unequivocal ordinance of nature"2.
UNION FOR LIFE.
"This silken tie that binds two willing souls," and makes "of them twain ono flesh.*
230. DEFINITION, LOCATION, ADAPTATION, AND CULTIVATION.
Duality, or exclusiveness and perpetuity of conjugal
love. Its organ is located between Adhesiveness and Amative-
ness. A female friend of the author, who loves her husband
most devotedly, experiences, whenever she expects him to be ab
sent a few days, a severe pain in this organ. That is, the pain
ful action of this faculty causes tenderness and pain in its organ.
Adaptation.—Duality of love and wedlock is clearly an
ordinance of nature. This point is established in the author's
works entitled " Matrimony," and " Love and Parentage,"
and the whole subject of love and marriage fully discussed, so
that repetition here is not necessary. Conjugal affection is
the distinctive function of this faculty. Those in whom it is
large, active, and reciprocally fastened upon each other, love
to be always together ; cannot endure to be separated from
each other ; feel that the time spent away from each other is
so much of their existence virtually lost ; experience that per.
feet blending and oneness of soul which constitutes pure love,
and the spirit and essence of marriage ; desire to caress and
be caressed ; are completely wrapped up in each other ; re-
gard any division or sharing of this love with any other objec)
as perfectly abhorrent and sacrilegious ; feel perfectly satis
fied with and devoted to each other ; and are so perfectly one
so wholly wrapped up in each other, as cordially to surrendej
and accept the rights of marriage. It is stronger in femaler
than in males, which coincides with the far greater intensity
and durability of woman's love than of man's.
This faculty suggests many most interesting and valuable
truths to lovers and 'he married, for a full presentation of
which the reader is -referred to "Matrimony," and "Lov»
and Parentage."
/UNCTION OF INHABITIVEKESS. 141
4. IJNHABITIVENESS.
"Home, sweet, sweet home ; there's no ptace 1ike home.'
2M. DEFINITION, LOCATION, AND EFFECTS ON CHARACTER
Love of home, and the domicil of childhood and after life,
attachment to the place where one lives or has lived, and un
willingness to change it ; desire to locate and remain perma
nently in one habitation, and to own and improve a homestead ;
patriotism. Located an inch above Philoprogenitiveness"9,
or beneath the junction of the upper lamdoidal sutures and
the two lobes of Adhesiveness224.
Large Inhabitiveness loves the old family homestead; "that
moss-covered bucket which hung by the well ;" the scenery,
trees, shrubbery, forests, playgrounds, paths, fences, and even
stones of childhood and youth ; and often, through life, thinks
on them with delightful sadness, and loves to rev'sit them;
desires always to sleep in the same bed, occupy tl < same seat
at table, and have everything remain as it was, oi else to im
prove it ; feels lost and forsaken when away from home, and
especially till a room or temporary " abiding place" is selected ;
and strives to render home as pleasant and happy as possible.
It also loves country and desires to serve it. When very
large, and thrown into an abnormal state by absence from
home, it produces that terrible mental disease called the
home-sickness, so common in those who leave home for the
first time, and said to be so prevalent among the Swiss. The
inhabitants of hilly districts generally love their " mountain
homes" better than those of level countries.
Small Inhabitiveness cares little for home or its associations,
improvement, or pleasures ; and is as well contented in one
place as in another.
23'i. ADAPTATION AND CULTIVATION.
The advantages of having a permanent home, and the evili
and losses consequent on changing it, are each very great.
Proverbs say truly, "Three moves are as bad as a fire," and
' A rolling stone gathers no moss." The estimated annua!
148 IltHABITIVENL <s.
cost of meting in New York city alone, on the first of .May, is
iweaty-five thousand dollars, besides all the other movings of the
year, the wear, tear, and breakage of furniture, and the vexa
tions and losses necessarily attendant on it. Those who have
homes of their own, be they ever so homely, are compara
tively rich. They feel that no crusty landlord can turn them
homeless into the streets, or sell their furniture at auction for
rent. Quarte. days come and go unheeded, and the domestic
iffections have full scope for delightful exercise. Every mar.
ried man is bound by this inhabitive law of his nature, as well
»s in duty to his family, to own a house and garden spot ;
»nd every wife is bound, by the same law and duty, to render
,.hat home as happy as possible. A home of our own is also
indispensable to the full enjoyment of the other domestic
affections and the comfort of the family. The prevalent prac-
tio of renting houses violates this law and arrangement of
man's domestic nature, and must necessarily produce evil to
both owner and tenant.
Inhabitiveness can be cultivated by having a home, and
staying much at home ; by improving that home in setting
out fruit-trees and shrubbery, multiplying conveniences about
it, and indulging a love of home as our home. Moving
often, by tearing us away from the place which has become
endeared to us, interrupts and pains this faculty, and thus
hardens, sears, and enfeebles it. Children should, if possible,
be brought up in one house, and their home should be ren-
derered delightful. Children who have lived in one dwelling,
and especially on a farm, till fifteen years of age, generally
have this organ large; whereas it is small in those who have
lived in different places during childhood. This shows the
importance of cultivating it in children, and says to parents,
in the language of nature, " Make as few moves as possible,
and generally keep yuir children at home."
FUNCTION CF CONTINUITY. 149
5. CONTINUITY: OR, CONCENTRA 7IVENESS.
233. DEFINITION, LOCATION LARGE AN.T SMALL.
Unity and continuity of thought and feeling ; applica-
I on; ability and disposition to attend to one, and only one,
thing at a time, and to complete that before turning to
another ; fixedness of attention ; a plodding, poring dispo
sition ; prolixity. Located above Adhesiveness and Inhabit-
iveness, and forming a semicircular arch—like a new moon,
horns downward—over them.
Large Continuity engrosses tho whole attention upon the
one thing in hand till it is finished, and is confused if inter
rupted or diverted ; cannot readily change from one business
or subject to another, but loves to pursue the same regular
and fixed train of operations ; has the power of connected
application to one and the same thing ; is often prolix and
tedious ; takes some time, in speaking, to get to the point, and
then dwells a good while upon it ; and cannot endure to dash
off anything, but desires to be thorough and complete in all
mental and manual operations. This faculty does not con
centrate the mental operations, but simply keeps them from
wandering—does not secure intensity in the mental opera
tions, but rather expands and dilates them, and though it
keeps the mind upon a given thing a long tirrie, yet it prevents
doing much in a short'time.
Small Continuity allows us to go rapidly, like the hum
ming-bird, from thing to thing, and from one kind of business
to another ; to learn and do a little of almost everything, yet
not much of any one thing ; to turn our hands, Yankee-like,
to a variety of pursuits with success ; gives a " now or
never" cast of mind, together with versatility of talents ;
allows rapid transitions from one class of feelings to another,
together with strong currents and counter-currents of emotion ;
with an active temperament, thinks and feels intensely on
subjects, but not long on any one thing at a time ; perceives
and learns quickly, and does admirably what can be done on
the spur of the moment, yet dislikes to con over things;
.3*
IbO CONTINUITY.
may be brilliant, yet is not thorough ; and does eff-hand, of
not at all.
234. ADAPTATION AND CULTIVATION.
Many of the operations of life, some kinds of business, and
especially the acquisition of knowledge, require the continued,
united, and patient application of the faculties o one thing at
a time. Firmness gives perseverance in our general plans,
opinions, etc., while this organ is adapted to the minor opera
tions of the mind for the time being. Without this faculty the
mental operations would be extremely imperfect, deficient in
thoroughness, and too vapid and flashy. Yet its absence may
be advisable in some kinds of business, as in the mercantile,
where so many little things are to be done, so many customers
waited upon in a short time, and so much versatility of talent
's required.
The whole cast and tenor of the American character evinces
an almost total deficiency of this faculty, and accordingly, in
ninety-nine in every hundred of American heads this organ is
small. This error is enhanced by our defective system of
education—especially by crowding so many studies upon the
attention of children and youth in a day. In our common
schools, a few minutes are devoted to reading, a few minutes
to spelling, a few more to writing, a few more to arithmetic,
etc., etc., all in half a day. By the time this faculty has
brought the faculties required by a given study to bear upon
it, so that it begins to do them good, thie mind is taken off", and
the attention directed to another study. Hence Americans
are proverbially superficial. They are content with obtain
ing a smattering, running knowledge of many things, yet
rarely go below the surface. A bird's-eye glance satisfies
them. This is wrong. When the mind becomes engaged in
a particular study or train of thought, it should be allowed to
remain fixed without interruption until fatigued. And I am
of the opinion that not more than one, at best only two studies
or subjects should be thrust upon the mind in a day ; and that
a single study at a time should be made the study, and the
others recreations merely. Make thorough work of one study
and then of another.
SICCATIONAL ERROR. 151
To diminish this faculty, fly from thing 'o thing. Read a
oaragraph here, and a scrap of news there. Get a mere smat
tering of one thing after another, but dwell on nothing. Pick
up information here, there, everywhere, but let it be a little
of everything, yet not much of any one thing. Go into a
store or engage in some thing where there is a great variety
of things to be attended to in quick succession, each of wkich
requires but an instant, to be followed by another. Poke iron
after iron into the fire so as to compel yourself to divert your
attention from one thing to another without cessation.
But to cultivate this faculty pursue the opposite course. Fix
the mind, and keep it fixed, on one single subject for a long
time, and avoid interruption and transition. The weavers in
our factories usually have it large, because their whole atten
tion is required to one and the same thing, hour after hour
and day after day 213, and if you wish to cultivate it you must
seek some business, or do something which will compel you
.o keep your mind upon one and the same thing hour after
hour and day after day for years. Force of will may do some
thing, but this will do vastly more. In short, exercise the
faculty su. These remarks also show how to cultivate it in
children. Scholars, taught by teachers who have Continuity
large, are apt to have it large also. A Mr. Morris, who stands
deservidly high as a teacher, in New York, has this organ
very large, and two-thirds of his scholars have it above mode
rate ; whereas, in ordinary scholars, the tables are reversed.
On expressing surprise at this, and asking for an explanation,
the answer satisfied me that his having called it into continual
exercise in his scholars was the cause of its unusual develop
ment.
A. VITATIVENESS.
235. DEFINITION LOCATION, AND ADAPTATION.
Desire to exist, love and tenacity of life, and dread of
death. Located very near the opening of the ears, or partly
between ani behind them, and between Combativeness and
152 VITATVENESS.
Destructivess. As nc engraving can well illustrate ts posi
tion, none is given.
Adaptation.—Life is sweet. By a law of things, all that
lives 'clings to existence with a tenacity far greater than to all
else besides. Happiness being the one end of universal na
ture, and existence the cord on which all enjoyments are
strung, its breach is their destruction ; to prevent which nature
has wisely and most effectually guarded life by implanting in
all that lives a love of it far surpassing all other loves com
bined. What will not this love prompt us to dare and do for
its preservation. Nor do any of the " wonderful works" of
nature surpass in beauty or efficacy this desire for prolonging
life and its joys.
Death is also constitutionally dreadful. That same ration
ale which renders life thus sweet, that it may be preserved,
has also rendered death proportionally abhorent, that it may
be avoided. How terrified, how frantic, the docile ox is ren
dered by the sight of blood or apprehension of slaughter. The
sluggish swine, in view of death, how resolute, how fierce !
The hunted stag, when fleeing for his life, what swiftness,
what mighty leaps, what desperate exertions—nor surrenders
till all the resources of his nature are completely exhausted.
Corner that placid, fireside puss, and attempt to kill before
you bind or stun—what yells, how desperate, how terribly
fierce, and what tremendous exertions !*
Man, and even timid woman, threatened with death, yet
retaining power to fight for life—what well-directed, mighty,
and protracted exertions of body and mind, what superhuman
sagacity, what terrible ferocity ! What but impossibilities are
not surmounted ! What terrific looks ! What agony of de
spair ! Who can stand before his wrath ! What fiend more
malignant! All produced by that fear of death which is only
the love of life, and both the means of its preservation. How
great the end ! How appropriate and efficacious the means !
But for some such ever vigilant sentinel of life, it would be
destroyed, daily and hourly, if we had so many lives to live.
* Does not this law interdict the slaughter of animals for food?
ITS FUNCTION. l.V
Some such mental faculty is absolutely indispensable to the
preservation of life.
This faculty also contributes essentially to the preservation
of life by creating a resistance [3 disease. Thus .wo persons,
A and B., exactly alike in constitutions, kind of sickness, and
all other respects, except that A. has Vitativeness large, and
13. small, are brought near the grave. A. loves life so dearly,
and clings to it with such teuacity as to struggle with might
and main against the disease, and he lives through it ; while
B., scarcely caring whether he lives or dies, does not stem the
downward current, does not brace himself up against it, but
yields to its sway, is borne downward, and swallowed up in
death. An. illustrative anecdote.
A rich maiden, who had already lived twenty years longei
than her impatient heirs desired, finally fell sick, and was
evidently breathing her last. But, overhearing one of her by-
standing heirs congratulate another that she was now dying,
so that they would enjoy her fortune, and feeling indignant, re
plied, "I won't die; I'll live to spite you;" meanwhile
putting forth a powerful mental struggle for life. She re
covered and lived many years, evidently in consequence of
the powerful determination to live thus called forth. The
rabbit surrenders life in consequence of a slight blow, which
the rat, tenacious of life, scarcely minds. In the latter, Vi
tativeness is large—in the former, small. It is very large in
king-fishers, and all who have shot them know how hard,
though wounded, they are to kill. Other things being equal,
the larger this organ the more energetically we resist disease,
and the longer we live. Hence physicians wisely attempt to
keep the expectation of life in their patients, because they
know how effectually hope of life promotes recovery.
216. ITS CULTIVAT10X DREAD OF DEATH.
This faculty should, then, by all means, be cultivated. So
important a means of warding off the fatal termination of dis
ease should be cherished by all ; so that, to cling to life with
a tenacity however great, is not a sin but a virtue. Indeed,
the mor wc love it the more we fulfil a paramount duty te
154 VITA riTEK ESS.
ourselves and our God. This faculty, like every . her. was
given us to bo exercised. Is not the preservation of life one
of our firs and highest duties, and its wanton destruction, as
in suicide, murder, and even the injury of health, most wicked ?
We shout 1 cling to life with the grasp of desperation, not hold
it loosely or surrender it willingly. We should daily and
habitually cherish a desire to live, not encourage a willing
ness, much less a desire to die—for such feelings do more to
to induce the death desised than can well be imagined, and
are therefore directly suicidal, and hence most criminal.
" But shall we not hold ourselves in readiness to ' depart
hence,' and be with God whenever he calls us ? Is not this
a paramount Christian duty ?" God will nev«r " call" you
till you have so far outraged the laws of health as to prevent
your enjoying life, or else till your worn-out bodily powers
sink gradually down, under the weight of years, into the rest
of the grave. Those who die in adolescence and the prime of
life, call themselves, or are called by their fellow-men, into
premature graves, and called by violated physical law, not by
God. This is a suicidal, not a divine call, and involves great
moral turpitude, not a Christian virtue. True, after life has
been spent by disease or old age, such resignation to death is
well ; yet for those in health to cherish a desire or even wil
lingness to die, is most wicked, because it actually hastens
death—and is virtual suicide. Premature death, or rather
those diseases which cause it, are dreadfully painful. Their
agonies are the climax of all agony, in order to compel us to
avoid them, and so prolong life. Is it then a Christian virtue
to " rush upon the thick bosses" of death's grim buckler ? Is
to seek what a primary instinct of our nature, for the wisest
of purposes, so abhors, a merit ? Does desiring to die, which
is virtual suicide, fit us for heaven ?
Yet in one sense death is desirable in itself and blessed in
its effects. Those pains already described, as rendering death
so dreadful, appertain, strictly speaking, not to death itself,
but to its cause—to those violations of the physical laws which
induce it. After life has been spent by age. or become so far
impaired by disease as to -reclude farther enjoyment, nature
ITS CULTIVATION. 106
kindly sends dei.th to deliver us from the consequences of
broken law. Death itself, especially a natural death, so far
from being painful, is a most benevolent institution. Living
as we do under the action of physical and mental laws, every
infraction of which occasions pain, without death to deliver us
fiom the painful consequences of laws ignorantly or carelessly
broken, we should in the course of a few centuries accumu
late upon ourselves a number and aggravation of sufferings
absolutely insupportable, from which this institution of death
now kindly delivers us. Nor can we resist the conclusion
that the very act of dying is pleasurable, not painful. Is
every element of man, every arrangement of external and in
ternal nature, promotive of enjoyment, and is death the only
exception ? The pains and horrors of death appertain only to .
a violent death, never to that which transpires in accordance
with the institutes of nature, and then not to the act of dying,
but to that violation of the physical laws which occasions
death. Violent death—rather those pains which cause it—
alone is dreadful, and unexhausted life alone desirable—the
former horrible, and the latter sweet, only because of, and in
proportion to, the fund of life remaining. Let the vital powers
become gradually and completely exhausted, in harmony with
that principle of gradual decay which constitutes nature's ter
minus of life, and death has lost its horrors—is even a most
welcome visitor, in and of itself, to say nothing of those joys
into which it is the constitutional usher. Hence, infantile life
being always feeble, juvenile death is far less painful than
adult, and those of weak constitutions than those in robust
health. As the vital powers augment, they proportionally en
hance the pleasures and consequent love of life, and dread of
death, yet the same inflexible law of things which causes life,
after it has attained its maximum, to wane and decline with
age, also proportionally diminishes both the desirableness of life
and the pains and fear of death, till, like the close of day, the
suk of life sets, the tranquil twilight which introduces night
supervenes, and life goes out gradually, and almost uncon.
sciously, just as twilight fades imperceptibly into night. This
gradual decay and final termination of life cannot be painful
156 TMTATIVENKSS.
So far therefrom, ts accompanying rejiose, like the grateful
rest of evening after diurnal toil is ended, is far more pleasur
able than all the joys of life combined. That very repose, so
agreeable to the old man, is the usher of'death—is death itself,
and as this repose is sweet, so that death, of which it is a con
stituent part, is still more so. Death is to life exactly what
retiring to sleep is to the day. The analogy between them is
perfect, only that the repose of the grave is as much more
agreeable than evening rest as the day and the twilight of life
are longer and more eventful than of the natural day. Nor
does death supervene till this grateful decline has consumed
every remaining power to enjoy in life, and suffer in death, so
that to die a natural death is simply to fall asleep " without a
struggle or a groan."
Then why contemplate death with horror ? As we do not
dread sunset, and as twilight is the most delightful portion of
the day, besides inviting that rest which is still more agree
able, shall we not look forward to the close of life with pleas
ure, not with pain ? We should even thank God for its
institution.
Yet mark : while we should not dread death itself, we should
look with perfect horror upon all those violations of the laws
of health which hasten it. Obey these laws and you com
pletely disarm death of all its horrors, and even clothe it in
garments of loveliness. And this is the fatal error of mankind.
They regard death with perfect abhorrence, yet disregard
and perpetrate its cause—those violations of law which hasten
it. The object of this horror should be reversed. We should
love death itself, but words are powerless to portray the repug
nance with which we should contemplate every abuse of health,
everything which tends to hasten death. Ye whc dread this
king of terrors, obey the physical laws, and you disarm him
of every terror, and render your worst enemy your best friend.
In short, let us all love life with our whole souls, and cherish
it as our greatest treasure—as the casket of all our treasures.
Let us neither do, nor for a moment tolerate, the least thing
directly or indirectly calculated to impair health, and thus
shorten and enfeeble life, but do all in our power to promote
INTERMENTS AM, MOURNERS. 151
both. Lei us shrink back horror-stricken, as from the poison
ous viper, from every species of animal excess and .ndulgence
in the least injurious, and love God as we love life—his most
precious gift.
This scaring people by telling them that they may die soon,
is therefore both foolish and wrong. They will die soon if they
kill themselves or are killed, not otherwise. God will never
take their life except by old age. Telling them so will render
them careful not to commit suicide by breaking the physical
laws, whereas telling them that God may single them out and
pierce them with the arrows of death, is virtually telling them
that God may violate his own laws342637. And this making
death a great scarecrow hastens it m, and also implants a feel-
ing of horror which haunts many a poor victim through life.
Teach men to shudder at and avoid the causes of prematura
death, not death itself.
237. THE DEAD AND THEIR INTERMENT: MOURNERS.
That repulsion with which most people look upon the dead,
is weak and painful. The ravages and pains of disease gen
erally stamp a most repulsive and ghastly impress upon the
corpse, and this is the probable origin of the dread occasioned
by the sight of them ; yet, as just seen, this is the consequence
of their disease, not of death itself. The dead will not hurt
us ; then why fear them ? Besides, their bodies are not them.
Their spirits are themselves 19, and these are gone. Their flesh
and material form are only the organs or tools by which they
manifested their minds while alive—are the outer garments
they wore, and should not therefore be an object of Jread.
A single consolatory remark to those who shudder at the
idea of being devoured by worms. This is palliated, if not
obviated, by the fact that as our bodies are wholly insensible
as well as useless, it will not matter in the least to us whether
all alive with worms, or eaten up by beast, or what becames
of them ; and secondly, nature is a perfect economist. She
allows nothing to go to waste. The dead tree decays en
riches the land, and thus does good. All vegetable, all an.'mal
offal is converted, by this all-pervading law of decay, into
14
158 VITAT VENfiSS.
manure to re-ei;rich the earth, and re-enter into the fcrmation
of life2". Shall, then, the human body be exempt from this
taw ? After our bodies have become wholly useless to us,
why not be even glad that they can be converted into food for
other forms of life ? Why not gladly let nature " save the
fragments, that nothing be lost ?" Nature compels their dis
solution, and thus their burial. Then let other orders of
beings enjoy what we cannot. Let this great doctrine of
economy be fulfilled in us after death, as it is in all else that
lives.
And the modern suggestion of cemeteries—of rendering
burying places agreeable—is unequivocally excellent. Let
it be encouraged and universally adopted.
Nor should we grieve inconsolably over the loss of dear
friends and children. Does our grief benefit them ?—or ben
efit ourselves, even ? That their death is heart-rending, is ad
mitted ; yet, after they are once dead, what remains to us but
to derive all the good we can therefrom, and suffer as little
evil ? Pining over their loss is more directly calculated than
almost anything else permanently to disorder the nervous sys
tem, and break down the health. Nor is it suspected how many
hasten their own death by grieving over that of their friends.
This, as already seen, is wrong—is partial suicide236, and
should never be allowed. Shall we kill ourselves because
they are dead ? Shall we inflict upon our friends, by hasten
ing our own death, tbv .same evils their death has inflicted on
us ? Shall we continually irritate the wound, and thus keep
it fresh ? Rather heal it up, and learn therefrom these two
great practical lessons it teaches—first, to hold our own lives
and healths as most sacred, and spare no pains to prevent their
injury and enhance their power ; and, secondly, to cultivate
those higher and holier emotions which shall fit us also to die.
Su< h a lesson should by no means be allowed to pass unheed
ed, yet it should inspire within us longings after a higher and
holier state of moral excellence, as well as loosen our grasp
on earth as such, not break down our health and weaken our
minds.
Yet when death transpii ;s in harmony with the ordinance*
FUNCTION OF .'0JIBAT.7ENESS. 159
•f nature, that is, after the vital powers are fully spent, we
shall not feel like grieving even for a los. oarent or companion.
Then let us all religiously preserve our health till we die a
natural death, so as thus to escape all the agonies of prema
ture death, and not torment and injure our friends with grief
for our loss. To repeat, be entreated, dear reader, to prb-
bksve health by rendering Svrict obedience to its laws>.
6. COMBATIVENESS.
238. DEFINITION, LOCATION ', LARGE AND SHALL.
Energy ; resistance ; self-protection ; defence in gen
eral ; personal courage ; presence of mind ; opposition ; de
termination ; boldness ; resolution ; get-out-of-my-way ;
let-me-and-mine-alone ; resentment ; anger ; a threaten
ing, contrary spirit.
Located an inch and a half behind the tops of the ears, on
the line drawn to find Parentiveness219.
Large Combativeness imparts resolution, determination,
fearlessness, and a disposition to grapple in with obstacles,
and drive through whatever opposes our progress. Small
Combativeness renders its possessor so amiable and good as to
be good for nothing. The idea that this faculty renders tho^
who have it large ill-natured, surly, contentious, contrary,
fault-finding, pugnacious, rowdyish, and inclined. to "knock
down and drag out," is incorrect. That it often does all this,
and much more to the same effect, is readily admitted ; yet
these are its perversions, not its legitimate functions. Its
precise nature and office are disclosed by its
239 ADAPTATION AND CULTIVATION-
If man had been placed in a state of being in which not
only everything he requires had been furnished, paradise-like,
at his hands, but also which required no tilling, and no effort
whatever in either the physical or moral world, this faculty
would not have been needed, because it would have had
nothing to do. Ru. so far therefrom, he is placed in a stats
160 COMBATIVENESS.
of being which requiies a perpetual struggling against the
winds of opposition and the tides of difficulty. We were
placed here to "till the earth and to keep it;'' and in what
does this consist but in removing a constant succession of op-
posing obstacles, and a constant coping with physical obstruc
tions ? Even at manual labor, those without Combativeness
would not earn their salt, because they take hold of every,
thing, if they take hold at all, with an "01 can't if I try !"
which prevents even their trying, and renders them inefficient
and helpless. But large Combativeness creates an " 1-can-
and-I-will," which lays hold of everything with a courage
and determination which will not submit to be foiled—which
jerks everything undertaken right straight along in double
quick time, just as the steam-car does the train. Thus, if
only a log is to be lifted or a stone removed, large Combative
ness catches hold of it and hurls it out of the way, with a
" that's nothing," " I can do more than that ;" while small
Combativeness waits, and looks, and considers whether it can
be done, and finally gives it up as impossible. This organ is
intimately connected with the hands, whence those in whom
it is large, when they do strike, strike much harder than they
suppose, because of that vim and might which this faculty
imparts to the blow.
In the moral world, too, obstacles are to be overcome.
Men are not angels. To accomplish or enjoy, we must push
our projects straight through an almost unbroken series of
obstacles, and urge our way along through life. The tame
and passive can never do, become, or enjoy, anything, but will
be a burden to themselves and those on whom they depend.
Those who want anything in this life must help themselves
to it, or go without it ; and those who require protection must
protect their own interests. Other people have their hands
full of their own affairs. Thus, a pusillanimous boy Is im-
posed upon. He cows down and snivels out, " I'll tell ma !"
yet before " ma" can take his part, the aggressor is off. But
this organ gives that determined energy which says in act,
and which all understand perfectly, " Take care how you
invade my rights;" "know that I'm no chicken."
ITS FUNCTION ANIJ CULTIVATION. 101
Its influence on the voice in conversation and public speak
ing is in keep'ng with, and illustrates, this its general force,
imparting influence on the character. Large Combativenesa
is to words and their enunciation what a full charge of powde"
is to a ball, namely, it hits each word a propelling thump as
it comes out, and expels it with such force as to strike tha
auditors, as it were, with unction and emphasis, so as to com-
mand attention, and make and leave a distinct impression ;
whereas small Combativeness lets the words drawl slowly and
fall tamely at the speaker's, or rather whiner's, feet. Its in
fluence on the style bf writers is similar, and it causes both
writer and speaker to use words of a harsher and more posi
tive import. Much of rfiat positiveness of mannei and bold
ness of expression usually attributed to self-esteem is caused
by this faculty.
Its influence in urging forward the truth, driving reforms,
and exterminating existing evils, may be inferred from its
other influences on character as just explained. No man can
be a reformer without it. Those in whom it is deficient are
as tame and powerless in the intellectual and moral world as
in the physical. In short, when large, it infuses into all its
possessor says, does, and is, a spirit of boldness, daring, reso
luteness, courage, vigor, tone, efficiency, defence, unflinching
determination, defiance, and let-me-and-mine-alone, as well
as get-out-of-mt-way, which wards off all imposition, breaks
through all opposition, and overcomes all obstacles.
A faculty thus indispensable to success should by all means
be cultivated ; for what can you accomplish or become with
out it 1 And to develop it, exercise it. Never indulge an
" I can't." Never allow yourself to be beaten, provided you
are right—a point which you should determine upon before
you begin. Do not be so faint-hearted as not to try, but make
a bofd—though always judicious sso—push, and then follow up
jo energetically as to carry all before you. None of this
tame pusillanimity which palsies effort, but be resolute. Dc
not stop to enumerate all* the little obstacles in your path, but
carry them by storm. And speak out as fearlessly and em
phatically as though you mfant all yo ' said, and intended to
14"
162 »i>MBATlVENESS.
make others feel it. Not with impudence, but ivith force.
And carry this slate of min i throughout all you say, do, and
are
Especially to culthate this faculty, strengthen the body, ana
tone up the general health, directions for which were given in
" Physiology ;" because whatever strengthens it thereby in
vigorates the brain 210. As to fever the body inflames and
perverts the propensities109, so to improve the former strength
ens but does not vitiate the animal organs.
Combativeness often requires to be thus cultivated in chil
dren and youth. When a child breaks down under trifling
obstacles or opposition, and cries when scolded or told to ck
different things, or considers molehills mountains, and gives up
easily to difficulties, or when a young man waits and hesi
tates as to what kind of business to engage in, or, after he has
chosen his profession, sits down and waits for business to come
to him, or is disheartened and always telling under how many
disadvantages he labors, or how others impose on him, this
organ in both requires to be cultivated. And to do this, never
break down upon them, or find fault, or tell them how much
better if they had done thus and so, but encourage them in
regard to the future. Keep them doing, and tell them they
can if they only try. As long as you do it all for them, they
will do nothing for themselves ; but so manage as to compel
them to rely on themselves, and elbow their own way along
through life. Even to provoke such will not do them much
damage, provided you do not carry it so far as to break down
and subdue their spirit, but only just far enough to make them
resent the imposition. Indeed, I have often seen people Tiade
much better by being maddened—seen their pains, headaches,
and other physical and mental maladies dispelled by effec
tually rousing a combative, self-protecting spirit.
To overcome, this is its specific function. Hence, to in
crease its action encourage them to overcome something. Do
not give them so much to do as to dishearten them. Rally
their courage. Tell them they can do it if they try. Show
them that by putting the matter right through they will gain
this and that desirable end. Above all things, do not wait on
ITS iilGUlATION. 163
them in lit Je matters, or fuss over them, or baby ihem, or
let others do for them, but incite them to fall back upon
their own energies, and consummate their own wishes and
purposes. And when such, or almost any children, fall or hurt
themselves, instead of picking them up, let them pick them
selves up, unless severely hurt, and instead of sympathizing
or condoling piteously with them, encourage them by telling
them it is only a trifle, to not mind it, but to jump up and try
it again. To pity them makes them think their misfortune is
greater than it is, and predisposes them to break down undet
trials, whereas, since all are exposed to reverses or calamities
children should early be fortified against them by being en
couraged to bear up with heroic fortitude against the minoi
reverses of youth. Pity rather breaks them down and discour
ages, whereas fortitude to buffet adversity manfully is a most
essential element of success and happiness, and should be in
fused into them from the cradle all along up through life.
Though Combativeness, in its normal function, should often
be encouraged in children, fretfulness, temper, contention,
wrangling, hating, and this whole class of mental operations
are perversions of this faculty, and therefore wrong 208. This
brings us to discuss
240. ITS ABUSES AND DUE REGULATION.
When excessive, orperverted, or not governed by the higher
faculties, it degenerates into pugnacity, gives a quick, fiery
temper, and engenders contentious, ungovernable, fault-find
ing, cross, and ugly feelings and conduct, and sometimes leads
to rowdyism, fighting, mobocracy, tumult, etc. From its ex
cessive or perverted action spring most of the bickerings, con
tentions, law-suits, wranglings, threatenings, animosities, liti
gations, abusiveness, polemical discussions, wrath, ill-temper,
etc., which prevail in society. This is also one of the faculties
which curse and swear, of which, however, hereafter.
The contentious are necessarily unhappy, and quarrelsome
children are a torment to themselves and to all around them '
but " blessed are the peace- makers" for they shall enjoy life.
Have readers never noticed how much more agreeable and
164 COMBATIVENESS.
happy their own feelings and those of tie whole family, when
a child is mild, pleasant, sweet in looks and words, and good-
humored, than when the same child is cross, ugly, fretful,
spiteful, disobedient, hateful, and crying half the time '? In
other words, predominant Combativeness renders its possessor
and all around unpleasant and unhappy.
The usual conduct of parents to their children is calculated
to excite this organ in the most direct and powerful manner,
"and that continually," rather than allay it. Most parents
fret, or scold, or blame, or punish their children daily and al
most hourly, and that, too, for things either harmless in them
selves, or else perfectly right. For example : children, as is
perfectly natural, make a great noise, both with their tongues
and feet. This is as it should be. Without action, they die ;
and nothing contributes more to the development of the child's
body, and thereby of the mind, than the noisy plays and prat
tle of youth. Talking incessantly, hallooing, etc., inflate the
lungs, and increase the circulation of the blood, besides devel
oping the muscles145—functions of the last importance to them,
and for which nature has amply provided in the restlessness
and talkativeness of their natures. And yet, fifty times in the
day, all their innocent prattle and healthful play are broken
in upon by parents and teachers, in a combative spirit and
tone—" Oh, do hush your eternal clatter !" " Stop that noise
yonder, or I'll give you something to make a noise about,"
(chastise you,) or, " Do be still, children, you'll make me
crazy ;" or, " There, now sit down ind sit still ! If you stir,
or make another bit of noise for an iiour, I'll punish you," or
some similar threat or imperious command. As well punish
them for breathing, as for talking or playing boisterously.
They cannot avoid the latter any more than they can stop
the former. They should not stop. They are but yielding
obedience to an irresistible law of their natures, and should be
encouraged and facilitated rather than repressed. If they are
in your way, let them go out of doors to romp and prattle
there : but do not, I beseech you, continually irritate their
tempers, by requiring of them what they cannot and should
no; perform, ani1 then blame or punish them for disohedienoe
ITS RESTRAINT. 165
A child takes hold of a table spread, and :hougbtlessly ^ulls
it along till a dish or two falls off; for which he is severely
punished, though he intended no harm. Or it is told to
bring a tumbler of water, or something else, in doing which it
slips down and breaks a dish, or does some other damage.
Your own Acquisitiveness is wounded by the loss, and your
Combativeness excited, which makes you scold, whereas you
should pity. Thus it is that children are blamed for a thou
sand similar things constantly occurring, when entirely inno-
serit, or deserving commendation. This finding fault just
jecause they do not know how to do things- exactly to suit
/ou, or because it is not done exactly as you wish, excites
.heir Combativeness 2I5 and reverses their Conscientiousness
nence they, too, grow up to find fault, and be ill-tempered.
Their Combativeness is kept in a continual ferment, and con
sequently becomes morbidly and permanently active, and so
breaks forth continually upon themselves and even upon in
animate objects.
Or, it may be, that a child hits its toe against a stick, stone,
jr chair, and falls down and hurts itself. The over-tender
mother catches up that which caused the child to fall, and
whips or scolds it for hurting " itty sissy." The next day,
another child occasions pain to " itty sissy," and she, follow
ing the example set by her parent or nurse, of punishing what
gives it pain, beats the other ohild, and gets beaten back again,
and a regular quarrel ensues : whereas, if the parent had but
taught lessons of forbearance and forgiveness rather than of
revenge, the disposition of the child would have been sweet
and amiable.
Some, whose Mirthfulness and Combativeness are active,
take pleasure ii teasing children, just to witness their angry
and saucy retorts. This is most pernicious. Children should
never be plagued. Parents, if you love your families, remon
strate with those who provoke your children, and if they do
not desist, dismiss them. On no account should you suffer the
tempers of your children to be permanently soured, an(3 their
moral feelings lowered, by being tantalized. Children get
much of their ill-temper from being plagued.
166 DESTRyCI VBNESS.
7. DESTRUCTIVENESS, OR EXECUTIV £NESS
241. DEFINITION, LOCATION, LARGE, AND SMALL.
Force; extermination ; indignation; severity; harsh
ness ; sternness ; walk-right-through-ativeness ; dispo
sition to destroy, tear, ~»v*v down, cause pain, and CRUsn
whatever obstructs its. patn.
Located above the upper junction of the ear with the head,
and extending about an inch above this junction. It runs
from Combativeness forward. The line drawn from the eyes
through the tops of the ears 219, passes through the centre of
this organ. It is large in the accompanying engraving of
Gotfried, who poisoned her own parents, children, and hus
band—thirteen in all—but small in that of Eustache,. who
saved his master from the St. Domingo massacre, spent all his
means in doing good, and received a gold medal as a token of
his exalted virtues.
DESTRUCTIVENESS LARGE.
No. 7. Gotfried. No. 8. Eustache.
Large Destructiveness imparts hardness, haishness, force,
sternness, severity, and a disposition to break through or exter
ITS Cr'.IIYATJON. . tf7
minate all obstacles ; rendeni its possessor fearful when pro.
voked ; and delights in destroying whate\ er requires destrue-
lion, as well as endures and infic'.s pain ; while small Destruc-
tiveness can do neither, but is nuiillnnimous and inefficient, and
shrinks from the sight and enJir.'nsce of pain. Its function
will be rendered still more clear bjr its
24? ADAPTATION AH D CULTIVATION.
Universal nature is one grand and perpetual process of
destruction ; and to this process Destructiveness is adapted,
and adapts man. Moreover, for the wisest of reasons, man is
governed by laws5. But without pain attached to their viola
tion, to deter from repeated infraction, half their present sanc
tion would be wanting6. In thif permission and existence of
pain, Destructiveness has its counterpart, and to it adapts
mankind. Many things also require to be destroyed. Thus,
before we can till the earth and gather the comforts of life
around us, trees must be felled, \h i land cleared, broken up,
and subdued, and many noxious things exterminated. With
out this faculty, even grain co lid not be gathered, or fruit
plucked, or any important end rf life attained. The requi
sition for its exercise in the morsvl world is still greater, as
without it no evil could be exterminated, no good could be
effected. Its improvement, therefore, becomes as important
as this function is indispensable.
In effecting .such cultivation, beir in mind that great prin
ciple of inter-relation existing between the body and the base
of the brain210. To fever the body irritates this organ, and
to invigorate the former imparts tone and power to the latter ;
so that to improve the health—directions for doing which will
be found in Vol. I. on Physiology—is the natural and most
effectual method of imparting tone ted power to this fac
ulty. This means also promotes its normal and virtuous
exercise*8, while to inflame both the body aad this organ by
heating meats and drinKs, or by tantalizing others, killing
animals, or causing pain, occasions its abnormal, and of course
depraved, action. Its legitimate office beinj. to destroy nui-
sances and break through diff 3ulties, it can 1 1 it,'.\l p'J hy
/
.66 OESTIU CTIVENESS.
Bultivating force and executiveness, by breaking through
abstacles, and throwing yourself into those situations where
you are obliged to cope with difficulties. Take the rough-
and-tumble of life with a zest, and put your plans straight
through all that opposes them. Exercise it under Conscien
tiousness in moral indignation against the wrong, and in urging
forward the right. Stand by the innocent. Brace yourself
against the guilty. Exercise this element in these and simi-
ar ways, and its tone and vigor will improve ; but never
illow yourself to indulge a weakly, inefficient spirit.
To develop this faculty in children, put them upon their own
resources, encourage them to help themselves ; and instead
nf doing for them those thousand little services which mothers
so generally perform, let them do for themselves or go with
out. Fush your inefficient son out into the stream of life to
buffet for himself its winds of difficulty and waves of oppo
sition, and while you stand by to encourage him to keep his
head above water, and to raise him in case he should sink,
let him do all his own swimming. Make him hoe his own
rows and fight his own battles. In short, place the natural
stimulants of this faculty before it, and you can soon inspire
him with all needed force and energy.
243. ITS DUE REGULATION AND RESTRAINT: SWEARING.
But this faculty is generally too large, relatively, and also
abnormal in function, and therefore requires a hundred-fold
more regulation and restraint than cultivation. Most mankind
are too harsh, vituperative, bitter, sarcastic, and even cruel,
revengeful, and malicious, and too many are warlike and
murderous—all perversions of this faculty. Most of that
animosity, rage, hatred, cursing, swearing, and the like, so
prevalent among men, are begotten by this faculty. How can
they be checked in ourselves and others?
First, by the principle of diversion. When you find your
wrath rising unduly in conversation or business, turn on your
heel and banish the provocation, however great, by doing or
thinking of something else—something which shall effectually
withdraw yoi:r mind froir. the aggravation and consequent
SUfARING. 100
anger. This dwelling on them, while it seldom obviates any
evil, only still farther sours the temper and re-enlarges Destruc-
tiveness. Reflect, in addition, that the error may possibly be
yours—that your enemy thinks himself wronged as much as
you do, and justifies his course as much as ysu do yours ;
that to err is human ; and that the cause of the dispute may
possibly be on both sides; that even if he alone is in fault, yet
that, as you hope to be forgiven, so you must be willing to
forgive ; and that very likely the fault of which you perhaps
justly complain may have been caused by an irritated state
of his stomach and nervous system, and the consequent pre
ternatural and abnormal action of his Destructiveness208 2",
or of yours, or perhaps that of both—that he and you may
be more sick than intentionally depraved ; that, even sup
posing the worst, to turn the other cheek is Christian, and
to overcome evil with good is divine. This diversion, in
connection with these and kindred reflections, will soon curb
your temper, and restore a serene and happy frame of
mind.
Especially never swear. What are oaths and curses but
expressions of wrath and vengeance ? The moral sentiments
never swear. Nothing but animal propensity in its worst
form, and ungoverned by the higher faculties, ever feel or
'.itter imprecations. Reference is not now had to the sinfulness
of oaths as blaspheming the name of God, but to that gross
animality of which cursing is the natural language. Angels
never swear, only devils, or mankind when and as far as they
are animal and devilish. And the more effectually one ctn
swear, the more of an animal he is. Oaths and blasphemies
are the emanations and barometers of Combativeness and De-
structiveness, ungoverned by moral sentiment and intellect,
and therefore the reverse of goodness2". The better any man,
the less he swears ; the worse, the more. And those who
pride themselves in their swearing capalilities, are but vaunt
ing and glorying in their own shame and depravity.
Above all things, do not make so consummate a fool of
yourself as to curse inanimate things or dumb brutes. As
though sticks and stones were to blame ! What fault there
15
170 DESTRUCTIVEN 2SS.
is, is yours>. What is more unreasonalte or wicked than
damning senseless things ?
Still more ridiculous and wicked for children to swear, ex
cept when they do it from imitation. To see boys try to utter
oaths, and bandy each other with curses and imprecations, is
shocking in itself, and shows in what society they have min-
gled, Yet the way to stop children from swearing is to sub
due that.Combativeness and Destructiveness which begets this
ridiculous, depraved habit.
To restrain the Destructiveness of children is probably the
most difficult, as it certainly is tho most important duty con
nected with their education. Evon very young children, in
whom this organ is large, as it generally is, instinctively
break, burn, and destroy, playthings, and whatever they can
lay hold of, and older ones are rough, harsh, and boisterous at
play, and too often evince much severity of temper with vin-
dictiveness and violence of anger, perhaps throw themselves
on the floor, and bawl lustily, or even stamp, kick, bite, strike,
and foam with rage. A boy only four years old, brought up
in a tavern,* and continually teased, becoming enraged at his
brother, caught up a fork and plunged it into his neck. Many
parents are pained by similar ebullitions in their children, and
would give the world to be able to reduce their temper, yet all
their efforts only make matters worse. How car such parents
manage such children ?
One of the first and most effectual steps consists in employ
ing that principle of diversion already prescribed for adults.
When your child becomes angry, talking to him, be it ever so
kindly, only still farther enkindles his fierce wrath ; and pun
ishment, even though it ultimatelv subdues, only still farther
re excites, and thereby re-increase that Destructiveness which
you wish to restrain. To say nothing til the fit subsides of its
own accord also allows that exercise of this organ which en
larges it. But if some member of the family should set on
* A liquor selling bar-room is the ast place on earth fpr bringing up
children, because there they see and hear all that is bad, and little good,
learn to swear, blackguard and fight, and form associations of a mod
ruinous character 2">.
ITS RESTRAINT IN CHILDREN. 171
•not some music, or noise, or blow a horn, or beat a tin pan,
or do anything else calculated to divert attention, away he goes,
forgetting alike his grievance and its tause, and this allows
the inflamed organ to become quiescent sooner th'an any other
method could do. To excite his Mirthfulness by playing with
him will subserve the same important end. When the fit i?
over, talk to him, but of this hereafter.
Not to excite Destructiveness should, however, be your
great concern. A-void provoking those whose Destructiveness
you would reduce. Every provocation only re-inflames this
organ, and the more quiet you can keep it the less strength it
will acquire. The principle on which this all-important in
ference is based has already been fully proved214 "6, and we
beg parents to heed it, and put it rigidly in practice.
" But," it is inquired, " shall we be so fearful of displeas
ing them as to indulge them in all their desires, and thus vir
tually surrender the reins of government to their caprices ?"
Just how far it is best to indulge them, it may be difficult to
say, or, rather, must be determined by the particular circum
stances at the time, yet this general principle may be taken as
a fundamental guide—to indulge them in all those little mat
ters not positively wrong or injurious in themselves ; because,
by so doing, you awaken or augment that love already shown
to be the great means of securing obedience ™l. Yet we can
not profitably discuss the best mode of governing them, or,
indeed, of curbing our own Destructiveness, till we have
analyzed those other and higher faculties which constitute the
principal means of holding abnormal propensity in check.
Meanwhile, we wish effectually to re-impress two cardinal
points upon the minds of parents—the first, that the more this
faculty is excited and exercised the more it becomes enlarged
and re-invigorated214, and therefore that children should be
provoked as little as possible, and hence should be treated with
mildness, leniency, and affection ; and, secondly, that much
of their ugliness is caused by the irritated state of their bodies
and of course propensities210, so that the great means of sub-
duing their temper, and exchanging their badness for goodness
is bv diet, regimen, and keeping their bodies it a norrral and
173 DESTAUC1 VENESS.
vigorous state by fulfilling the laws and conditions of hkalth,
directions for doing which were prescribed in Vol. I.
To one other point in this connection special attention is
invited. Parents, especially mothers, often induce a feverish
state of their own nervous systems, by confining themselves
within doors day after day, and month after month, without
exercise, except what is too partial to be of much service,
without fresh air, and in heated rooms m ; eating unwholesome
food, pouring down strong decoctions of tea and coffee, etc., till
a chronic irritability of their nerves and brain, and perhaps
a slow fever, supervene, which of course render them fret
ful209. Ignorant of the fact that this irritability is induced by
the disorder of their own nervous systems, they blame others,
while they alone are blamable'. They vent these sick and
sour feelings on their children, and find fault with every little
thing. Being so very nervous, noise is especially painful to
them, and they therefore pour out a continual dribbling of
blame and anger upon their children because they are noisy,
and for a thousand other things which the very nature of
children compels them to do. Children feel that they are
blamed without cause. This wounds and lowers their moral
feelings. In harmony with a principle already presented,
Combativeness in parents naturally excites the Combativenesa
of their children2", and the consequence is, a permanent ex
citement and an undue development of these organs; and all
because parents violate the laws of health. Do, parents, look
at this subject in its proper light, and keep yourselves well.
This will induce good feeling in you, which will continually
excite, and thereby de\elop, the moral, better feelings of your
children", and causr them to grow up under the rein of
i,he mo-al sentiments.
FUNCTION OF ALIMEI.V1VENESS. 173
8. ALIMENTIVENESS
*Put a knife to thy throat if th'iu be a man gif -i to appetite '
244. DEFINITION, LOCATION, LARGE AND SMALL
Appetite; the feeding in.stinct; desire for nutrition;
hunger, or craving for food ; a hearty relish for edibles.
Located half an inch forward of the junction of the foro
and upper part of the ears with the head. It is very large in
the accompanying engraving of that notorious glutton, the em-
peror Vitellius, who. had two thousand different dishes of
fish, and seven thousand of fowls, served up at a single meal,
ALIMENTIVENESS VERT LARGE.
No. 9. The Emperor Vitellius.
and expended, on his table alone, at the enormous rate of
one hundred millions annually, till his exasperated subjects
'.ore him in pieces ; otherwise the immense opulence of th»
15*
174 ALIMENTIVENESS.
Roman empire would not have srfficed to support his table a"
single year ! See the glutton, not only in the fullness before
his ears, but throughout his entire physiology.
Large Alimentiveness gives a hearty relish for substantial,
nourishing food, and, when nature requires sustenance, enjoys
it more and more in proportion to the size and activity cf this
urgan, and the need of nourishment ; loves to eat, and takes
a great deal of pleasure at the table, yet does not necessarilv
require great quantities of food, or highly-seasoned dishes,
but simply enjoys what nature requires for sustaining life and
health, as to both quantity and quality. Gormandizing is often
the result of its being too large, yet generally the product of
its perversion s09, or of an inflamed condition of the stomach 6",
or both, and these of eating highly-seasoned, indigestible, and
injurious kinds of diet. These inflame the stomach, and its
inflammation causes those hankerings and cravings which ac
company dyspepsia, and cause gluttony. Let men eat plain
food, of the right kinds, as prescribed in " Physiology," and if
they have dyspectic tendencies, obviate them by followfng the
prescriptions there laid down, and the danger of over-eating is
comparatively small ; yet that, as it is, nearly all now eat
twice or thrice as much as nature requires, and every way
very badly, was there abundantly shown 65 m " M 69.
S^iall Alimentiveness cares little about food ; experiences
little hunger even during protracted fasting ; and is compara
tively regardless alike of what it eats, or whether it eats or
not. Those who are so fond of nice things, and so, very par
ticular that they must have their food cooked just to their
liking or they cannot eat, are generally rendered so less by
large or small Alimentiveness than by stomatic disorder, or by
a finely organized temperament and consequent fastidiousness
in regard to everything ; that is, by the state of this organ
rather than by its size. But its precise function will be ren.
dered mor.e apparent by its
245. ADAPTATION AND MEANS OF CULTIVATION.
Man is an eating animal. By a law of his physical consti-
tution, every exert ise of every muscle, nerve, and organ—
ITS FUNCTION AND Cl'LTIVATiOrt. 175
every functon of mind and body—expends both organic ma
teria and vital energy 2'. These must of course be re-sup-
plied, or complete exliaustion must ensue29, which would
soon destroy life '". This re-supply is effected in part by the
stomach. Man requires food M, and is furnished with a diges
tive apparatus for converting it into blood, flesh, organ, etc.,
whereby life is prolonged. But without some innate faculty
to create a lovo of food, or occasion hunger, we should become
so deeply engaged in our various avocations as to forget to eat,
or be unwiiiing to spare the requisite time—even now too
many do this—and thus not only forego the pleasures of
the palate, but actually starve ; to prevent which nature kindly
implants in every human being this feeding instinct, and has
so related it to the stomach, that the latter, when it requires a
re-supply of nourishment, excites the former to crave food.
This craving becomes louder and more imperious in proportion
to the urgency with which the system requires nutrition, until
finally it becomes a master passion, and renders its starving
subject so desperate as to devour even his own flesh and drink
his own blood, when he can obtain nothing else to satisfy its
rapacious cravings. Of all forms of death, starvation is prob
ably the most terrible, and of all our other appetites and pas
sions, that for food, when fasting has been injuriously pro
tracted, is probably the most desperate. Does not this law of
nature give all mankind in a starving condition an " inalien
able right" to food wherever they can find it ? Are not
those who have abundar.ee, solemnly bound to feed those who,
after having done their best to procure an honest maintenance,
aie unable to do so? Shall the starving Irish peasant appeal
in vain for bread? Nor is any other occupation more honor,
able than agriculture.
To cultivate this faculty, indulge it by enjoying food and
eating with a relish. Food was made to taste good and be
enjoyed. Gustatory pleasure is as lawful as the pleasures of
doing good, and he who cuts it short by eating too fast, or net
du y indulging it, commits as much sin as he who denies to any
other faculty its primitive gratification. Nor should it be for
gotten that when we so eat as to gratify this faculty in the
178 ALIMRNITHENESS.
most effectual mar. ler possible, we thcr .by eat so as to feed
the body in the best manner possible; ar.d, "~y converse, that
all injurious kinds and quantities of food curtail gustatory
pleasure as well as physical and mental capabilities. Those
kinds and amounts of food, and that mode of eating it, are
best which relish most33; so that to eat right confers the
greatest amount of general as well as gustatory enjoyment.
The idea, therefore, that appetite must be denied, is erroneous.
Only its abnormal, perverted, and painful exercise requires
restraint or denial.
246. ITS RESTRAINT AND RIGHT DIRECTION.
Few faculties are more generally perverted than this ; and
only one, Amativeness, stands in greater need of right direc
tion. The Bible tells us that the sin of our first parents con
sisted in eating ; and both physiology and fact attest that pe:
verted appetite, or the enormous gormandizing of rich and
stimulating kinds of food, in connection with alcoholic and
other noxious drinks, cause a great proportion of the depravity
of mankind. Paul meant something when he commanded,
"Be ye temperate in all things;" nor does the Bible con
demn gluttony and wine-bibbing, from first to last, for naught.
Indeed, I construe its narrative of the eating of the forbidden
fruit as introducing into our world " death and all our woes,"
to mean that perverted appetite, or wrong eating, caused the
fall of mar. and most of his subsequent depravity and conse
quent suffering. But, be this as it may, one thing is certain,
that the starting point of human reformation and restoration i?
the stomach. Its influence in inflaming the system, and th
irritated state of the body as inflaming and perverting the an.
mal propensities, has already been so effectually demonstrated
as completely to establish this point210. The due regulation
of Alimentiveness, then, is the great instrumentality of all self-
improvement. To become good or great, men must first learn
how to eat. But having fully discussed this whole matter of
diet in " Physiology," and given prescriptions for restraining
this faculty 70 n, repetition here is unnecessary.
The prpper feeding of children is of course Die of the most
THE FEEDING OF .'H1LDBEN. 171
impoitant ma.ters connected with tneir educatkii. That
much of their waywardness and depravity, over which their
parents mourn so piteousJy, is caused by unsuitable diet, is a
legitimate conclusion established by many laws already dem
onstrated. We protested in V)l. I. against their eating cakes
and candies'6, yet will here st ite the great law which should
govern the diet of children. Nature's food for infants is ex
ceedingly simple and eas.ly digested. This teaches us that
all children and youth should bi' brought up on plain fare, and
on what is rich in nutrition, yet easily digested. Mothers cram
their children from the very cradle, and, besides this staff
ing, necessarily pervert their appetites by feeding them with
rich food, pastry, and condiments. These, children generally
reject at first, and greatly prefer simple food. Do not pervert
their tastes in the start. Consult their natural relish. Do
not give them cake which they do not love at first, and eat
only because hungry, and thus form an artificial appetite for
it ; and so of other things. If your child be hungry, good
bread will relish, and when it does not like this, let it wait till
it does. We give children the same strong, hearty, highly-
seasoned food which we ourselves cannot eat with impunity,
whereas their stomachs are yet too weak to master them.
This disorders both stomach and system, and engenders all
sorts of depraved mental manifestations209210.
Still, children should eat at table with the family, for two
reasons : the one to cement their affections for their parents—
than which few things are >qually effectual— and, secondly,
that they may learn to eat decently ; for if they are kept
away from the first table, they rush to the second like hungry
wolves, and wrangle for the best pieces left like so many
starved pigs—and thus grow up piggish at table ; whereas, if
they sit down with grown people, such swinish gormandizing
js restrained. Yet parents who object to this course on the
score of trouble while eating, need have no care in waiting on
them, provided they dish out to each child its portion in the
start, as the Scotch do, and let it be understood that this must
suffice. The Scotch manner of feeding their children—giv
ing them a fixed allowance of oatmeal gruel for breakfast and
178 AUMENHVENESS.
supper, and vegetable soup for dinner, and only one plain dish
at each meal—cannot be too strongly recommended, or, rather,
commends itself in that noble race which this regimen has
been the chief instrument in producing. This giving chil
dren plateful after plateful as they request, perverts Aliu.en.
tiveness in the most effectual manner possible. Mothers re
quire, more than any other preparation for training children,
a practical knowledge of dietetics, or the best manner of feed
ing children, so as the most fully to develop all their physical
and mental powers. Yet to prosecute this subject fully here,
would take us out of our prescribed course, and will be found
considered at length in the author's work on " Maternity."
When children over-eat, do not attempt to curb this faculty
by forbidding them to eat any more, because this will only re-
increase desire ; nor should they be supplied with all they
want; for this indulgence will only strengthen the faculty to
be restrained ; but serve out at first what you think they re
quire, and when that is about dispatched, employ that princi
ple of diversion already pointed out2", by having some noise
or amusement started out of doors, or in another room, which
shall allure them from table, and make them forget that they
tvant any more. Then keep them out and engaged till the
next meal. Never give pieces between meals73 490.
One of the best means of punishing children, if punishment
is deemed advisable, is to deny them some luxury of the pal
ate, or keep them on short allowance. Thus, if a boy be
comes angry at table, because he cannot have whatever he
wants, and throws down his knife and fork, declaring that he
will not eat any more unless he can get what is desired, take
him at his word. Let him leave the table, and see to it that
he gets nothing more till the next meal. Fasting, or living on
bread and water will subdue the propensities when nothing
else will; first, because, since most people eat too much85*
87 6S, it clears out the system, and this improves the body, and
thereby the base of the brain ; and, secondly, because it it
about as severe a punishment as ca - well be inflicted.
COLD WATER PUNISHMENT. . 79
A.QUATIVENESS, OR BIBATIVENESS.
247. DEFINITION, LOCATION, ADAPTATION, AND OULTIVATION.
Love of water ; desire to drink, wash, swim, sail, etc.
Located half an inch forward of Alimentiveness344. Adapted
to the existence and usefulness of water. Two-thirds of the
earth's surface are covered^with this element, and about four-
fifths of every human being are composed of it. Nor can
animal or vegetable life be preserved without it103 lM. - Hence,
man is constituted a drinking animal. Water, taken inter
nally, and applied externally, is delightful to both taste and
touch, as well as every way promotive of health "°. To this
demand and utility of water this faculty is adapted.
It should therefore be cultivated. We should drink freely,
yet only at proper times 17°, and wash and bathe much "°. Water
prospects are also delightful, nor are steamboat excursions and
sailing voyages unpleasant or unprofitable, provided the stom
ach is in the right state, and the weather and other things are
favorable. Nearly all children love to play in water. Let
them. They are indulging a primary element of their na
ture, and of course will be benefited thereby. They should
also be washed often uo.
L. N. Fowler recommends the external application of wa
ter as a punishment, and his views and illustrations are given
here ; yet the author is 'ess sanguine as to their correctness
than formerly. He tells the following autobiographic anec
dote :—
" My father always made it a rule to conquer his children tne
first time he took them in hand. On this point he reasoned thus :
' If I subdue tbem the first time, I shall effectually obtain the
mastery, and can keep it easily ; but if they conquer the first time,
they will be still worse the next ' When about three years old, I
cried for a piece of cake. As there was no more, I could not be
gratified, and cried more and louder, till father was sent for, who
offered me bread and butter, and ordered me to stop crying. J
refused the bread and butter, but cried still louder, and was threat
ened with punishment, but only became the more angry. My
father sent for a rod, and began to chastise me, whipping a blow
or two, and then talking. This made me still more angry. This
punishment was continued with increasing severity till all left tho
180 AQ.UATIVENESS.
house crying with sympathy for me, but not daring t -emonstrate
for they well knew my father's determination to conquer his chil
dren, especially the first time. I held out till my father feared tn
whip longer. Compelled to give up, he was careful not to cross
me for more than a year, and feared he should never be able to
subdue me. One rainy day, as I was playing in the rain trough,
he told me to go in out of the rain, but I looked up at him
in a saucy, defying manner. He again said, ' Go in, or I'll duck
you.' 1 laughed Hgain, when he caught me up, and, stripping
off my clothes, soused me all over into the water. I came up
panting, but not quite subdued A moment was given me to
take breatn, and I was immersed again, and came up the second
time subdued and pleading for mercy, and promising always to
mind. ' Oh, but you have been a very naughty boy ; you don't
pretend to mind me, and I intend to keep ducking you till you
always do just as I tell you,' said my father, and repeated the im
mersion. This so thoroughly subdued me, and I promised so faith
fully to dc everything I was told to do, that I was let off, and always
afterward remained the most faithful and obedient child in the
family."
Dr. Taylor, on my brother's recommendation, conquered
a very wayward, wilful daughter, about five years old, by
similar means. He had used the rod, and tried coaxing, but
all to no purpose. Nothing he could do had yet subdued her.
She would break out into most violent fits of anger, throw
herself on the floor, beat her head against it, strike, kick, and
exhibit the utmost fury. He heard my brother's lecture on
the training and government of children.* in which he advo
cates the use of the cold water shower-bath as an effectual
means of subduing ungovernable children, and the next morn
ing, on his daughter having one of her mad fits, he poured a
pitcher of water on her head. Still she remained incorrigible.
He tried another ; she still held out. He tried the third, and
the fourth, till at last she submitted, which he had never be
fore been able to make her do. After that, she yielded to this
treatment more readily. It produces its effect, first, by the
* I have long tried, but thus far in vair, to persuade my brother to
give this lecture to the public in a printed fenn, but he steadily declines,
from want of time properly to prepare it. I have seen nothing on this
subject at atl to compare with it. Its facts and illustrative anecdotes are
most excellent A few of them will be introduced into this work, but
not withouu credit. It will make an excellent help-meet for this book
Th» two suuuld be amalgamated.
WATKR AS A PUNISHMENT. 1*1
sudden si ock it gives the whole system, especially when
poured on the top of the head, where the great pole or
centre of sensation is located IM, and secondly, by its gen
eral cooling effect on the system, and thereby on the pro
pensities.
My brother, ii defining these views, very justly remarks
that cold water is certainly cooling ; that men never fight ir
Ihe rain; that in cases of mobs, if, instead of getting out the
militia and firing guns, the fire-engines should throw water;
the mobites would soon scamper for shelter, and disperse, be
cause, as soon as they get thoroughly drenched, they will be
glad, to crawl out, like drowning rats, and go home to change
and warn.
These views, however, are liable to one serious objection.
These volumes have proved the law, in several varied forms
of application, that whatever is painful is injurious 6, and
whatever is beneficial is agreeable 33 '59 2oa. This law is espe
cially applicable to the external application of water. That
application which is painful is therefore injurious, but if it is
not painful it is no punishment. Yet no punishment which in
jures the health should ever be adopted. In fact this law
.applies equally to all forms and degrees of chastisement, but
of this whole punitive subject hereafter. Yet, in case this
punishment is inflicted, great care should be taken to change
the dress, and rub off dry so as to prevent colds. To punish
by means of the bath may do, yet is liable to make them
dislike it, whereas they should, if possible, be made to love
it.
9. ACQUISITIVENESS.
"A penny saved is worth two pence earned."
248 DEFINITION, LOCATION, LARGE AND SMALJ..
Economy ; frugality ; the acquiring, saving, and hoard
ing instinct ; taking care of the surplus, so that nothing shall
go to waste : thrift ; desire to possess and c wn ; the feeling
181! ACQUISITIVENESS.
of mine an thine, or of rightful claim and possession; love
of'TRADiNG and amassing property.
Located about an inch ahove Alimentiveness. It widens
the head back of the temples, or as you pass from the eye
brows backward to the top of the ears. It is very large in
the accompanying engraving of Teller, a thief, robber, and
counterfeiter, who was executed at Hartford for killing his
jailor, (see Am. Phren. Jour. Vol. VIII., pp. 223 and 368,)
but small in Gosse, who gave away two fortunes without judg.
ment to whoever solicited alms, and on inheriting a third, had
a guardian appointed over him to prevent his giving it also
away, though unusually strong-minded in other respects.
ACQUISITIVENESS LARGE,
Nd 10. Teller. No. 11. Gosse.
Large Acquisitiveness saves for future use whatever is of
any value ; is pained by the waste or destruction of anything
«rhich can be turned to a good account ; loves to lay up the
means of procuring subsequent comforts and luxuries ; desire*
ECONOMY NAIL He's MOTTO. 188
to acquire and possess propert) ; and is industrious and
frugal.
Small Acquisitiveness allows many things to go to waste;
lives in the present, and spends as it goes, instead of laying up
or a rainy day ; may make money as a means, yet cares
little for it as an end, or merely to lay up.
249. ADAPTATION AND CULTIVATION.
Economy is nature's universal motto. Waste she perfectly
abhors, and never permits. What she cannot use to the best
advantage at one time she lays by in store till she can thus
use it. Even the very mountains and bowels of the earth are
deposits for the materials of re-fertilizing the earth throughout
illimitable ages ! so1 But for these store-houses her soil would
become barren ; now it is destined to become richer and deeper
as time rolls on forever. And, by a most beautiful provision,
she prevents the decay of whatever is buried deep, yet com
pels, by the destroying action of the atmosphere, that of what
ever is near her surface. Behold this double contrivance for
perpetually re-enriching the earth, yet preserving for use mil
lions of ages hence what is not wanted sooner.
Nor is anything lost which decays, but its very resolution
back to dust, only re-fertilizes the earth, so that the very ma
terials which composed the decayed body re-enter into the
formation of other and still other species of organic life. In
harmony with this law, offal vegetation returns to its mother
earth, to be again re-constructed into vegetable organisms ; and
ever, that which is consumed by animals, so far from being
destroyed, is thereby converted into fertilizing materials for re-
nourishing the soil which gave it life. The dead tree of the
deep forest is not wasted, but from its mouldering remains
spring other trees, and from these others again, each of which
re.enrich the earth, till man employs this accumulated fertiky
in the production of human sustenance and mentality. How
beautiful this provision, how glonous the result!
But even after it has been converted into flesh and blood,
it is not cast aside as useless, but as the body " returns again
to dust," by a law of r.ature as wise as unalterable, it become*
181 \CQL SITi'-E.VfcjS.
food for other sentient beings m, and the carcasses of these foi
others still, " from everlasting to everlasting." And recent
philosophical experiments have rendered it altogether probable
than tnimalcules inhabit not only all parts of man and ani
mals, but also all parts of organized bodies, throng air and
water in countless myriads, and fill every portion of illimitable
space ! Look steadily through an open window, especially at
the snow, and you can see the shades made by these animalcules
in perpetual motion, within the aqueous hnmors of the eyes,
flitting before the vision, evincing that the very eye itself is
thronged with sentient beings.
One of the most beautiful instances of this economical
principle of nature is found in the principle, stated in " Physi
ology," that animals imbibe oxygen from the atmosphere86,
and return carbonic acid to it93, and that vegetables imbibe
carbon and give off oxygen ; so that the more animal life
there is, the greater the supply of the chief ingredient of vege
table life ; and the greater the growth of vegetable, the more
oxygen—the most essential element of animal life—is there
fore evolved—a principle the action and re-action of which
*ill render vegetables more and more prolific in proportion
as animals become multiplied "2 K3—an end which the ever re-
increasing fertility of the earth ""helps to attain. Thus it is that
this very increase of animal life which requires an increased
amount of vegetables supplies them in proportion to the demand.
Nor is it by any means certain that this self-acting law of
husbanding everything till it is wanted, and " making one
hand wash the other," does not extend to universal matter.
That gigantic motive power which hurls the earth and the
entire universe of planets around their respective cycles,
" from eternity to eternity," is doubtless generated by a kin
dred self-acting principle. Thus it is that universal nature is
as economical as prolific, and as saving of her means as
bountiful in her products !
Shall we not, then, imitate her ever present examples ?
Shall we be prodigal while she is thus frugal ? Shall we
waste by inattention or " in riotous living" what nothing but
the most rigi ecoromy on her part could hr ie provided *
D7T" OF FRUGALITY. 185
Extravagance is a sin. That admirable parable of he prodi
gal son was undoubtedly designed to illustrate, secondarily,
the " woful want" consequent on " wilful waste." Economy is
a virtue even in the rich. Since the Deity steadily pursues
this husbanding principle throughout all his works, shall not
also those who abound in this world's goods? If the rich do
not require to save on their own account, let them bestow on
the poor the avails of their frugality. How many poor, mis-
serable human beings, who are now dying of want, would be
rendered inexpressibly happy by the " crumbs which fall from
rich men's tables !" How many fortunes are squandered by
the affluent on trifling gratifications which do no one any good,
and especially on those vices which injure all concerned :
whereas the same means bestowed on the poor, would make
millions of wretched beings leap for joy ! And let us all
" gather up the fragments that nothing be lost," and spend
nothing except to the best advantage.
We especially require to husband food. This the juxta-
location of Appetite and Acquisitates facilitates, and the nature
of things imperiously demands. Man requires to store up
sufficient of the bounties of the earth in harvest time to last
till this period returns. To waste anything which is capable
of sustaining animal or human life is wicked. Man also re
quires to keep on hand a supply of clothes, tools, houses, innu
merable means ofcomfort, and commodities ofall kinds, against
a time of need. Exchanges of property can also be rendered
most beneficial to both buyer and seller, as also the interchange
of various products of different nations and climes. To this
requisition for property and traffic, this faculty is adapted, and
adapts man. But for this or a kindred instinct, though he
might feast on the stalled ox—yet without tms element he
would not have stalled it—till its flesh spontaneously decayed,
still he would not preserve any of it for future use ; and
though he might have picked the golden bounties of summer
and autumn to satisfy present hunger—still, without this faculty,
he would not have planted or sowed- ,<et he would never lay
up in harvest his winter's supply o* edibles, and therefore have
inevitably starved. In shor:, withoit this saving element, w«
160 :iiClSITIVENESS.
should waste whatcven was not wanted for present use, nor
make any provision for the future. This faculty also restrains
that profuseness and destruction which the other faculties
would otherwise occasion, and prevents vice hy securing in-
dustry and economy.
Its proper cultivation and regulation, therefore, become as
important as its function is indispensable to human happiness.
To promote its action, exercise it by saving the pennies, and
everything useful which is not wanted now, against a time of
need. Spend less, and for nothing not really beneficial. Add
daily to your pecuniary resources by being industrious, and
then fund the surplus by increasing your " stock in trade," or
deposit it in a personal or public savings' bank. Read and
practice Franklin's admirable mottos, many of which enjoin
that industry and economy here urged. Especially save the
driblets. " Take care of the pennies, and the dollars will take
care of themselves." Forego all unnecessary expenses, such
as for candies, ice-creams, beer, alcoholic drinks, tobacco, tea,
coffee, oyster-suppers, and the like. Practice the motto that
" a penny saved is worth two pence earned." Use all proper
means to acquire property and gather around you the comforts
of life, and then turn all your mean's to the best possible ac
count. More especially, lend only what you can afford to
give outright.
Another effectual means of cultivating Acquisitiveness is
by trading. The trafficking principle is clearly engrafted
on the nature of man. As each individual cannot make his
own clothes, tools, and whatever he wants, and in addition
raise his own food—as manufactories and all other kinds of
business, to be profitable, must be conducted on a large scale—
of course trade, or the supply of commodities by retail, be-
comes indispensable. The southern planter grows all cotton
or sugar—more than he alone wants—and the northerner
raises or manufactures a surplus of something else, so that
the mutual interchange among mankind of their surplus prod
ucts benefits all cc.icerned. Hence, every person has occa
sion to make exchanges .or purchases, and should know how
to dc so to personal advantage—th? great end of all trade.
MAKING PURCHASES. 1ST
Men should first know what they really require, and next
what will serve their purpose, and finally how to get things a',
a fair price. Mr. Green always pays double for everything,
while Mr. Sharp pays no more for the same articles than they
are actually worth, and consequently grows rich on saved
profits, while Mr. G., with all his industry and economy, eon.
tinues poor. Let every one learn to make good purchases.
Never cheat, but take care no., to be over- reached. Keep
your eye-teeth cut. If you feel above stopping to barter and
beat down, say nothing, but go elsewhere. Yet never be
thus close to the poor, nor grind them on account of their ne
cessities. Give them good profits, and whenever practicable, '
if only as a delicate mode of helping them, buy of them in
preference to the rich.
The attention of the poor, indeed of all, is especially invited
to procuring by the quantity, instead of in driblets. To buy
flour by the seven pounds, sugar by the single pound, molas
ses by the quart, oil by the pint, and the like, is the most
extravagant as well as unwise of all modes of living. In this
way it is that retailers fatten on the hard earnings of their
customers. Instead of laying out your week's wages or your
money in these driblets, get a barrel of flour and the rest in
molasses, and go without other things till another week's
wages can be spent in some other article, and thus a third
more be procured with them. If you must have .neat, lay in
your year's supply in killing time, unless you can fatten it
yourself; purchase muslins, calicoes, etc., by the piece, thread
by the pound, and thus of everything you buy, instead of run
ning daily to the store for a penny's worth of one thing and a
quarter'3 worth of another.
" Indeed I would, if I could only afford it," sav thousands,
" but I cannot get enough ahead for that." Your poverty is
the very reason why you cannot afford to buy in this small
way. Cut off all dispensables, get one or two things by the
quantity, and content yourself with them, till yon can get
othur things in the same way. Live on boiled wheat a week
or a month, till you can lay up enough to pursue this course.
Till you thus lake advantage of .he market, you must always
tS8 ACQU'SITIVENESS.
expect to be poor. \nd in general buy direj.t from the pro
duces as often as possible ; because the more hands an article
goes through, the greater the profit required to satisfy each
trader. We have too many retailers; they generally more
than double on the first cost of all that is consumed. Yet this
is not the place for a dissertation on political economy, although
its principles, as developed by Phrenology, are inimitably
beautiful.
To cultivate it in children, get them a " savings' bank," and
encourage their dropping their pennies and shillings into it,
instead of spending them for cakes and candies, and give them
money for this purpose. After they have husbanded a suf
ficient sum, induce them to buy something to keep, or some
kind of property which will bring them in something, or else
to put their money out at interest, and encourage them to lay
up for the future. When they have everything that heart
can wish furnished at their hands, they have no occasion to
cultivate the laying-up faculty, and hence this organ becomes
small, and this results in their st ending the property left them.
A youth is richer without a cent, but with industrious and
economical habits, than with thousands in pocket but without
economy. Do not leave children wealthy, unless you wish
to curse and ruin them. The correctness of this advice is
enforced by the sad experience of nearly all left wealthy.
No man shall settle a fortune upon either of my children, and
if I were worth millions, I should require them to earn their
own property, and simply help them to the means of helping
themselves. Money given to children is never prized. They
know nothing of its worth, unless they themselves have ac
quired it, but they set great value on what their own efforts
have procured. Give them a chance ut make their own
pocket money, and you will prevent prodigality and secure
industry. Let the farmer give his sons ground, and time to
cultivate it. With a part of the products let them buy stock,
and feed it on the rest, and so go on to augment their little
property till they are old enough to set up business for them-
selves. Let merchants and tradesmen pursue a similar
course. Youth should have a chance to earn money, and
:ts cultivation :n youth. 180
then have the disposal of all they make, ye of little more.
The prevalent practice of giving children pennies or small
change to spen 1 for candies, sweetmeats, toys, and the like,
prompted by misguided Philoprogenitiveness, is most perni
cious; because iJ induces an insatiable craving after what
does them no good, and also renders them prodigal of their
money, and often leads to bad habits. Especially, this prodi.
gality should not be encouraged in connection with appetite.
To the children of the rich this advice is doubly important,
as in them this organ is generally small, because not exer
cised 213. Hence, they generally squander the fortunes left
them. Since, by a law of things, none are qualified to enjoy
money except those who have earned it, and thus learned its
/alue practically, even prospective millionaires should be
tbliged to make money, if only to learn how to spend it. And
to be reduced to want after having been nursed in the lap of
luxury is hard, yet falls to the lot of many children whose
parents, while alive, gratified their every fancy, and left them
independently rich. But if you must leave your children
rich, so frame your wills that they can spend only the income.
Let all children be brought up to habits of industry and
frugality, so that if they ever come in possession of money
they may know how to " use it as not abusing it."*
And let them also learn to make purchases—to get with
their money what will do them the most good in the long run.
Consult with and advise them as to what they had better get,
but leave them to their own choice; and when they decide,
call their attention to the beauties and defects of this or that
article, so as to develop their judgment by way of choosing the
best; vet always leave the ultimate choice to themselves.
And when they make foolish purchases, show them that they
" hare paid too much for their whistle." Few things are
more useful than to know how to buy in the best manner
* Those laws agitated in many of the States for giving females the con
trol of what property they possessed before marriage, are most just and
excel1ent, and will save many a woman from being reduced to beggary
by tne extravagant husband who married them only for their money
190 ACQUISITIVENESS.
lence tnis lesson should be early and (.tactically faugh
hem.
250. ITS ?CE REGULATION AND RESTRAINT.
Yet this faculty is generally too active, and requires re
straint, or at least right direction, quite as often as cultivation.
While Phrenology commends frugality and condemns the
spendthrift, it scorns the miser. As nature never lays by for
the future what is really needed to-day, so we should never
hoard for the mere sake of hoarding. As we can enjoy only
Ae present, we should spend—though always wisely—as we
go, so far as is actually necessary for present comfort, ex
cept that we should never eat what we should plant, or con
sume to-day the capital stock requisite for procuring the
means of enjoying the future. This living solely to amass—
this curtailing daily necessities in order to accumulate a for
tune on which to retire, or to leave our children rich—is the
worst form of robbery. Two illustrative anecdotes.
While lecturing in Providence, R. I., in 1842, 1 sat at table
near an eminent physician, who, besides being highly intelli
gent, and appearing to enjoy life exceedingly well, paid un
usual attention to his little daughter, about thirteen years of
age, as much as if she were the idol of his. affections. Always
naking it a point to " draw out" such men, I started conver
sation, during which he related the following anecdote. His
aunt, on her dying bed, gave him this piece of advice.
" Do not do as I have done- mt offenjoying your family till
you get rich ; but enjoy it as you go along. Take warning
from me. I nave made myself a perfect slave all my life to
get rich, so that I could give up work, and enjoy myself in the
bosom of my family. We got rich, and thought we would
retire in a few years to enjoy home, but have kept putting i
off from year to year till it became too late ; and here I am,
bedridden with age and infirmities, unable to enjoy either my
family, or the property I have labored sc hard to acquire.
When I was capable of enjoyment I could not afford to take
the time ; and after I had the means, I had lost m>
powers."
spending :n ME MINT. lflJ
He said he profited by her advice, and made it a settled zule,
lowever pressing his business engagements, to spend a portion
of each day in enjoying himself with his family. Yet his
ideas of enjoyment seemed to be confined mainly to aomestio
pleasures.
In 1845, I took passage on the North River steamboat Troy
for New York. At Newburg, some convention occasioned an
unusual rush of passengers, and as dinner is usually served
immediately after leaving the Newburg dock, the steward,
taken by surprise, had not provided enough for all who sat
down. As he came round fcr the tickets, the man who was
seated at my left complained about his scant fare. The
steward apologized, explained the cause—the extra rush of pas
sengers just as dinner was ready—said he would take care to
prevent anything of the kind hereafter, and re-tendered the
dinner fee. The passenger replied that it was not the money
but the good dinner he wanted—that half-dollars were plenty,
but that he could enjoy only one dinner per day, and that one
he wanted to enjoy—adding with a regret that he had nearly
lost this dinner, and could never again recover that loss.
The passenger, having called on me professionally in 1842,
and had a good deal of sport over bis examination, recognized
me, and reiterated thejdea, that this defective dinner could never
be made up to him—that as dinner came but once a day, the
loss or deficiency of any one meal was irreparable—because,
however well he might enjoy all his other meals, that one must
6e enjoyed in its time or not at all.
Sensualist as he was, and thinking only how he could en
joy animal pleasures, his remark furnished a new and practi
cal illustration of this cardinal doctrine of enjoying life as wk
CO along. And so far from stopping here, we should run it
out in its various ether applications to the details of every-day
life, and especially should practice upon .'t, even in all its
details. And practice at once, by disposing our affairs, general
end particular, with this general principle for the basis of life
—should eat, drink, and do all for the sole purpose of en
joying the present. Others may tug and toil in order to
accumulate the means o.' enjoying .he future, but let me live
/ 9i ACQUISITIVENESS.
in and for the present. Not that I would make no provision
for the future, but that I would enjoy the very act of making
such provision, as well as these provisions after they are made.
Prodigality has already been condemned, but while waste is
wicked, parsimony is foolish. Nature deals out her bounties
with a liberal, open hand, not by stint. The free use of what
we really need at present, and the judicious husbanding of the
oaiance for future use is the golden mean. Yet where we
oan do but one, we should enjoy the present. " Sufficient
unto the day is the evil thereof."
Th#se principles utter their solemn protest against the
money-grasping spirit of -the age. Almost all civilized na
tions and individuals are contemptibly mercenary—spend
thrifts included. They act as though riches constituted the
highest good and "chief end" of man—as though nothing
else could yield happiness—and hence, in its hot pursuit,
forego the enjoyments proffered by most of their other faculties,
as well as induce sickness and premature death. Like the
Norfolk and Raleigh misers2", they deny most of their other
faculties the means of procuring gratification, and narrow
down their " penny wise but pound foolish" souls to the lim.
ited range of the squirrel ! Is this human ? Must even
moral sentiment be enslaved by love of filthy lucre, and in
tellect dance servile attendance on this rage for mammon 1
Shall even the professed followers of Him who " had not
where to lay his head," scramble after earthly treasures
while they vainly pretend to have " laid up their treasures in
heaven 1" Shall one faculty, and that an animal propensity,
impudently control and paralyze the other thirty-six ? Shall
miserly Acquisitiveness interdict all the enjoyments proffered
by the "study of- nature and her laws, and even chain that
ungelic department of human nature down to earth which
should soar to heaven ? And shall we, readers, tamely sur.
render soul and body to its tyrant sway ? Shall we not make
it a servant to our other faculties, instead of making them its
vassals ? Shall we not acquire and regard money as a
means, instead of an end ? We do not need our hundreds of
thousands, and cannot use them if we amass tiiem. " Na
IUGHT DIRECTION. ] 93
tore's wants are few," and whoever accumulates moie is
foolish. We cannot carry this world's goods into another,
nor would they be worth it if we could, but must leave all we
do not use behind, to be grabbed and cheated for by "sui.
viving heirs." What a practical comment on the folly of
hoarding more than enough to carry us safely through life,
is furnished by "probate courts!" Nor can this evil be
remedied. It is nature's punishment of inordinate Acquisi
tiveness812 uncontrolled by the higher faculties2". The sole
object of all our acquisitive efforts should be to furnish the
other faculties, especially the higher, the means of securing
their normal indulgence, and whoever accumulates more must
suffer the righteous penalties attached to this violated natural
law6. Hence the rich are rarely happy. If there be a mis
erable man in New York, or one especially to be pitied, John
Jacob Astor is this object of commiseration. How rarely
happiness accompanies wealth ! Nature will not let it. Envy
not, but rather pity, those daughters of luxury, and sons of
affluence, whom you see riding in splendid coaches, or living
in yonder magnificent palaces. They are as miserable as
rich, and the former because the latter. Nor will any but
practical fools follow in their acquisitive footsteps. " Give
me neither poverty nor riches," but " give me day by day my
daily bread;" and what surplus time I have after procuring
the necessaries And comforts of life, let me spend in cultivating
my heaven-tending faculties—in the exercise of which hap
piness mainly consists'". Will you not, reader, be persuaded
to adopt this course ?
Yet while we should " strive to enter into the kingdom of
Heaven" rather than to amass more mammon than we can use
to good advantage while alive, still we require far more prac
tical wisdom in spending than in making money. Fools often
get rich—of whom warming-pan Dexter was one—or at least
often become so ; yet it takes a wise man to spend money so
as to derive therefrom the greatest amount of good. Thus,
one man will so lay out a few dollars as to obtain a great
amount of happiness—the only end of money or life l—there
from, while another will squander fortunes, and only enhance
17
l94 ACQUISITIVENESS.
his sufferings the .nore he spends. The former is rich, the
latter poor. Never lay out a cent for what injures you—that
is, on any useless or pernicious habit ; and so spend every dol
lar as to derive therefrom more pleasure than if expended in
any other way. And to do this, expend more on your higher
faculties, and less on your lower—much on your mind, and
little on your body. And this is the great error of mankind.
They lavish their means on their palates, their vanity, and
their artificial wants, yet rob intellect, and starve their souls.
They can afford to thrust both hands deep and often into
their pockets for edibles, wearables, and glittering show, but
are too poor to pay a do.lar for intellectual food or moral
cultivation.
In New Bedford, in 1844, a well-dressed young man begged
for tickets to attend lectures on Phrenology, though the charge
was only six cents per evening. He was asked how many
cigars he smoked per day, as he was then smoking. " Six or
eight," he replied. " Stop that ruinous practice, and you will
save enough to attend every lecture, and bring your sweet
heart,"—for whom also he had solicited tickets. Men hardly
know that they can afford to spend anything on their minds,
but take it as established that nearly all their time and earn
ings must be expended on their bodies ; whereas, the tables
should be reversed. Since the pleasures of the latter far ex
ceed those of the artner"1, if either must be stinted, stint the
•ody. All should make it a settled rule of life to expend freely
for books, lectures, information—anything which will improve
heir intellects or morals ; and if they have not enough for
mind and body both, take from the latter to oestow upon the
former2".
This organ is usually too large in children, and hence they
covet a great variety of things, and think all they desire is
heirs, just because they want them, without appreciating the
difference between what belongs to them and what to others.
This difference should early be taught them, a id their Acquis-
itiveness subjected to their hig.ier faculties2". But in order to
restrain it, instead of snatching things away from them, per
Ruade them to surrender them voluntarily.
»« KESTlw. JNT. iflj
The pictures in ^ny charts and almanacs attracted the
attention of two young children in a family to which I was
then paying a professional visit, which they were soiling.
The mother angrily jerked them away, which maddened
them, and made them cry violently. I told them they might
have them provided they would not muss them, and would
return them when I wanted them ; to which they readily
consented; and, at my request, surrendered them without a
murmur. Get children to promise and they will fulfil.
Especially, never let them know that they are a whit the
uetter because their parents are rich. Never inculcate that
sdious doctrine that " money makes the man."
To reduce this faculty, be more liberal. Let the small
change slide. Remember that the sole use of money is to
purchase the means of properly gratifying the other faculties.
As long as you hoard it, it will do you no good. Bear in
mind that you are too penurious, that you bargain too closely,
that you are disposed to claim more than your own, and that
you are too close-fisted, selfish, and greedy after money. In
other words, exercise this faculty less, proportionably, and the
others more.
There are two, perhaps three, organs of Acquisitiveness,
one for making money, another for keeping it. The former
is located farthest back and lowest down, and within three,
fourths of an inch of the ear ; while that which saves, oc
cupies the fo-^ part. The upper portion, also, probably cre
ates a desire tor copartnership. The money-making part is
generally large in American heads, hence their " compassing
aea and land to make one dollar ;" but their money-keeping
organ is usually small, hene '> their extravagance and waste
fulness.
100 SECRET1VENESS.
10. SECRETIVENESS.
** Think twice before you speak.'
251. DEFINITION, LOCATION, LARGE, AND SMALL
Sei.i -kestraint; policy; management; finesse; eserve;
evasion ; disguise of opinions and purposes ; cunning ;
"playing 'possum;" lay-low-and-keep-dark-ativeness.
Located over Destructiveness 342, or an inch above the tops
of the ears.
Large Secretivencss imparts a politic, shrewd, managing,
" humbugging" disposition ; employs tact; obtains unsuspected
endsby artful means ; appears to aim at one thing when it is
in reality accomplishing another; proceeds with adroitness
ai/d cunning ; uses stratagem from love of it, even when there
is no real occasion ; and is oily, enigma-'cal, mysterious,
guarded, foxy, and hard to be found out.
Small Secretiveness appears to be whai it is really is;
hoists no false colors ; pursues an open, straightforward, above-
SECRETIVENESS LARGE.
'*X5
No. 12. Aaron BuRb,
ITS FUNCTION AND LOCA'. N. 18?
board course ; disdains to work the wires ; expresses its real
purposes and sentiments; tells others all about self, even on a
slight acquaintance; disguises and conceals nothing; does as
is agreed ; is truthful in feeling, expressions, and conduct;
speaks its mind too freely ; ani lacks sel.'-p "einment.
secretive:iess small.
7/
No. 13, Dr.. Samuel Thompson.
It was large in Aaron Burr, who was one of the Tiost artfu
and cunning of men, but small in Dr. Samuel Thompson
whose open, blunt way of speaking and perfect sincerity were
proverbial, and made him very bitter enemies, as well as ren
dered him liable to be imposed upon. It was also enormous
in Gotfried*48, bir. small in Gosse"48.
17
108 KECRETIVEVESS.
252. ADAPTATION AMD CULTIVATION.
Self-government is one of the mos important pre-requi.
sites of virtue and preventives of vice. To guard the prema
ture expression of our feelings and exposition of our plans in.
calculably facilitates success and happiness. Those who let all
(heir feelings burst out as they come up, often say and do
what occasions subsequent regret, make unnecessary enemies,
and lose friends; while those who divulge all their plans, are
often anticipated or prevented in their accomplishment. Pol
icy may also lawfully be employed, provided the cause be
good. Paul says, " I caught you with guile." A due degree
of management is even indispensable to success. To this de
mand for tact, and the restraint of our feelings, Secretiveness
is adapted, and adapts mankind.
Man, as well as brute, also requires protection. Comhat-
iveness wards off threatening danger by fearlessly meeting
and boldly defying it; and Cautiousness by foreseeing evil
and fleeing therefrom ; while Secretiveness burrows under
ground, employs stratagem, works behind the curtain, and sup
presses the real character and purposes under an assumed exte
rior. Who would willingly disclose all they feel and see to all ?
The fact deserves mention, that this organ is located in the
centre of the animal group—the only faculties which require
restraint. We never need to hide the free manifestation of Be
nevolence, reason, or any of the moral or intellectual faculties ;
and accordingly Secretiveness is not located among either of
these groups: but we often require to suppress our animal
passions, and hence the location of this faculty in the very
midst of just those organs, and those alone, whose faculties
leqnire restraint.
To cultivate this faculty, exercise it. Ktep your feelings
to yourself till you have decided intellectually that their
expression is proper. Measure all your words. To govern
the tongue is more creditable, and often more difficult, than to
rule kingdoms. Be guarded, wise, politic, reserved, and not
too communicative. Say less about your plans, develop your
opinions less fully, and be more equivocal and evasive. Ex
ITS DUE REGULATION. 199
press yourself .ess plainly and posit vely. Be not thus blunt
and open, but tell only a part, and that guardedly. Lawyer-
like, let others do most of the talking, and commit themselves
if they will, but keep yourself to yourself. Observe and
take lessons from those who have it large, and " go and do
likewise."
Stili, never practice deception in any form or degree. Sub-
ject Socretiveness to the rigid control of Conscientiousness.
Lie not, yet leave others to find out as they best can. Tell
the truth as far as you say anything, yet you are not obliged
to tell the whole truth. Employ policy, not in deceiving
others, but simply in protecting yourself—in withholding,
but never in misstating. Never falsify in word or act, yet
" the truth is not to be spoken at all times."
To cultivate this faculty in children, show them how much
more they could have gained by governing their feelings,
and waiting the most favorable opportunity for saying and
doing things. Let them play " hide and seek," and those
other amusements which innocently gratify this faculty. In
short, employ those various expedients which are perpetually
proffered for calling it into exercise ; yet let it be scrupulously
governed by the moral faculties 2".
253. ITS RESTRAINT AND DUE REGULATION.
Yet in general this faculty is either too active or else per
verted. Our world is full of deception. False appearances
constitute the order of the day. What is fashionable life but
one perpetual round of practical falsehood ? In what does
modern politeness consist more than in practically telling
white and black lies, and by all parties pretending to be what
they are not ?
So i:i the business world. " The tricks of trade" consti
tute the "first lessons" of novices, and they are green who
suppose merchants mean half they say. Lawyers live mainly
by deception. But why particularize ?
Especially, why deceive our fellow-men? If to appear to
be thus a"d so be dssirable, how much more to be what we
would have the name of being. Deception is weak and wick
200 $E( RETrVENSSS.
ed. How mean discovery makes the mantled hypocrite feel !
And false presences are generally seen through. The asses'
ears will stick out from under the lion's skin. Like the bird
which, pursued, sticks its head in Tie sand, many think their
deceptions unfathomable, whereas jthers ridicule their shal
low trickery. Never pretend to be what you a?e not, yet
you may sometimes not appear to be all that you are !B. Sin
cerity is policy. It has a directness and truthfulness which
appeals powerfully to those around, and carries more sway
than all the court diplomacy of a Talleyrand. A speaker who
comes out boldly with his real sentiments makes a much
deeper impression than all the guardedness and polish in the
world could effect. Even amiableness, when coupled with
extreme reserve, looses half its charms, and the better we arc
the more open and sincere we may ie. Only propensity
requires restraint from Secretiveness 2M, so that false preten
sions, and even reserve, imply that we are what it is not proper
for us to appear to be.
To diminish this faculty, unbosom your mind more freely.
Be less equivocal. Do things more openly. Take less pains
to disguise your opinions and plans, and do above-board what
you do at all. Do nothing which you are ashamed should be
known, and be less guarded and artful. Sail under true
colors and practice sincerity.
The due regulation of this faculty in children is especially
important. How many parents weep over this falsifying pro-
pensity in their children, and punish therefor without avail?
Why this ? To lie is not natural. On the contrary, man
instinctively confides in his fellow-man, even in spite of oft-
repeated deceptions. So strong is this confiding principle in
youth, that it must be the product of some undiscovered organ—
probably in the moral group. Hence they naturally take
their parents and others at their word. The sentiment of
truth grows spontaneously in the soil of the human soul ; and
confidence in the declaration of others is one of its blessed
fruits. As the law regards every man as honest until he is
founf to be a rascal, so man intuitively regards his fellow-men
as sincere, ti1' experience proves them to be rogues, and even
ITS Dt'E RKGr:,Ano.N. 'J'Jl
then trusts on still. I envy not those who ride themselves on
being suspicious and always on the alert. It is hard to be
deceived, but more sorrowful and desolate is le who distrusts
all around him. This suspicion should not be implanted in
the minds of the younjr, at least by deceiving them. Proverb
says truly " that children and fools always speak the truth."
Youih will never falsify till they learn to do so from pre
cept or example. Parents do not properly guard themselves
here, but teach them more practical lessons in lying than they
suppose. They often threaten, " If you do that again I'll whip
you," yet when the offence is repeated, fail to administer the
promised chastisement. This so weakens the child's confi
dence in the integrity of its parents tha: it disregards subse
quent threats, and compels the former to despise the latter as a
liar. While standing on a wharf in New York, a little girl
stepped several times to its edge to witness the rushing of the
waters between it and a ship. Two or three times her father
commanded her not to go there again, and at last threatened
that if she did he would throw her into the river. I asked
her, in his hearing, if she really thought her father would
throw her into the river in case she went there again. She
hung her head, but said nothing; for she knew that he would
not fulfil so murderous a threat—in other words that he had
lied to her. Make few promises, few threatenings, to children,
and scrupulously fulfil them all.
L. N. Fowler illustrates this point by the following excel
lent anecdote: A very pious mother in Tennessee caught her
son in some petty falsehood, for which she chastised him, tell-
ing him what an awfully wicked thing it was to lie, and to
what a dreadful place liars would go hereafter. As he left
her, he said behind her back, " Well, she'll go there too, for
fihe told me a lie yesterday." What effect can the admo
nitions of parents about speaking the truth have on those
children who see their instructors falsify ? Parents and teach
ers cannot be too careful not to deviate one iota from the naked
truth.
Parents, especially mothers, sometimes tell polite false
hoods. * Oh, how do you dr Miss Fashionable? How glad
2OT CAUT. . VSNESS.
I am to see you ! Why have you not called before 1 Oh,
don't be in a huny. Njw don't go yet. Do call again."
etc. But no sooner is company gone than, in the presence
of he.- children, she says, " That old thing is really hate
ful—I never could endure her, and don't see what she calls
so often for, and stays so long. I'm sure I never want to see
her again." Children hear both her pleasantness and com
pliments to her face, and her backbiting, and learn to make
pretences and piactice deceit. How often is truth sacrificeH
at the shrine of fashion, and the moral feelings of youth,
and all who hear, lowered down. Never invite persons to
visit you unless you really desire to see them. Be honest,
not only because " honesty is the best policy," but especially
to make your children so ; for truth is more valuable than
rubies, and should be held inviolate.
Never distrust or mistrust children or servants. Deal with
them as though you thought them honest. Take them at
their word. Never let them know that you think they can
lie, till the proof is too positive to be denied, and then rather
exhort and encourage them to do better than disgrace them.
The reason of this will be seen under Approbativeness.
11 CAUTIOUSNESS.
" Look before you teap." " Discretion is the better part of va1or."
254. DEFINITION, FUNCTION, AND LOCATION.
Watchfulness ; prudence ; carefulness ; precauticin ;
solicitude ; provision against want, danger, and a rainy day ;
fleeing from prospective evils ; apprehension ; fear ; irres
olution ; procrastination ; suspense.
Large Cautiousness, like ihe watch-crow, is always on the
look-out ; takes ample time to get ready ; shuns prospective
dangers ; makes everything safe ; guards against losses ar.d
evils; incurs no risks; or meets with few accidents or losses.
Small Cautiousness is heedless, careless, thoughtless, and
therefore perpetua.Vy in hot water; fears nothing ; disregards
ITS FUNCTION AND LOCATION. 208
consequences; is imprudent, and hence unlucky; pjdns im
perfectly ; acts impromptu ; and is liable to be reckless. To
find it, draw a perpendicular line from the back part of the ear
up to where the head begins to round off to form the top; and
the wider the head at this point the larger this organ. It is
small in the accompanying head of Vendovi, the Feejee chief,
who was decoyed on board, and brought to this country by
the exploring expedition, but died soon after his arrival. It
is large in that of Diana Waters.
CAUTIOUSNESS SMALL. CAUTIOUSNESS LAROI
No. 14. Vendovi, a Feejee Chief. No. 15. Diana Waters.
255. ADAPTATION AND CULTIVATION.
All nature is as careful as economical240. Her prvoisions
against accidents, how Numerous, how wise ! Though every,
thing has its destroyer, yet everything has also its means of
self-protection. Man, too, is placed in a world full of dangers.
Every stec <ri his journey through life is beset with evils, so
204 CAUTIOUSNESS.
numerous, so appalling, as to threaten pain and death co; un.
ually. Yet many of these impending dangers can be avoid
ed ; and, considering our liabilities to accidents, how few
actually occur! If God had enveloped us in a danger-proof
shield, which no evil could penetrate, this caring instinct
would have been useless, and even .njurious, by raising false
a'arms, and occasioning suspense ; yet, destitute of both this
shield and faculty, these dangers would soon blast all our
pleasures, and destroy life itself. Man requires protection, yet,
as this evil-excluding envelope must have prevented some good,
he is endowed with this watching instinct, which wards off
most impending evils, intercepts no good, and even yields a
great amount of happiness in providing against prospective
accidents, making all safe, and taking care of everything.
Its vigilant action, therefore, becomes as essential as the
evils it is adapted to avert are numerous and dreadful. Those
in whom it is weak should remember that they are too care
less, and that their thoughtlessness is the principal cause of
their misfortunes, most of which carefulness would obviate.
Such should put themselves upon their guard, and always
keep out a windward eye ; should dwell on the dangers they
have escaped ; should often imagine the consequences in case
this and that evil, which they barely escaped, had befallen
them—they had broken this limb and lost that good, etc.—
and, by a variety of means, rouse it to increased action.
Especially let such guard amply against unforeseen catas
trophes, and practice the motto, "Sure bind sure find." And
let all be wise, judicious, and provident.
Children, too, in whom it is small, should be shown that
their carelessness occasioned this loss and that misfortune ;
that they must "look out next time," and have their atten.
tion often directed to the evils brought upon themselves and
others by their imprudences. Even frightening them may
be beneficial.
Especially, never put careless boys to any dangerous trade
or occupation. In 1835, I examined in North Third-street.
Philadelphia, the head of a lad in whom this organ was small
and enjoined its cultivation on both father and son. On lea"
OKOUNDI.ESS FEiKS. 205
ing, I re-urged upon the father the danger pe ^etually pend
ing over his careless son, and told him to put him in a safe
business. Phrenology was not then believed, my advice was
not heeded, and this boy was put to the tin roofing business,
and in 18116, while roofing a house, instead of going down
the ladder generally used, nothing would do but he must walk
around a block of unfinished brick buildings, in doing which
he fell, and was taken up dead ! Dr. Noble, who heard my
warning, narrated the fatal issue of disregarding it.
256. ITS RESTRAINT AND DUE REGULATION.
Yet this faculty is often too active, or at least frightened
without cause, and requires right direction, if not restraint.
Many fear evils purely imaginary ; apprehend danger where
there is none ; regard trifling obstacles as insurmountable ;
procrastinate till they let slip many an excellent opportunity ;
and suffer as excessively as needlessly from false alarms.
How can such conquer their fears, and substitute promptness
for irresolution ? By offsetting this faculty by Combativeness,
judgment, decision, hope, and other faculties, and by exercis
ing it less. Let such decide promptly, and then drive their
projects, hit or miss ; because they will be too careful, even
though they try to be reckless. They should bear constantly
in mind that their fears are excessive and usually groundless ;
that this organ, being too large, excites more solicitude, doubt,
irresolution, and procrastination than is reasonable or best;
that, therefore, they always overrate difficulties, magnify
dangers, and even make them up out of whole cloth ; are
therefore anxious without cause, and fearful where there is
no danger. Impress this upon your mind, and extra Cautious,
ness car. produce no alarm, any more than looking through
green glasses could maite you believe that everything is
green. This principle will tell you that you always look
through glasses of fear, and that it is these fearing glasses
which alarm you, and not any danger—that, in short, your
apprehensions are mostly groundless, and therefcre not to be
legarded or acted upon. Also deliberate less. Take less
time to get ready. Do not fuss and fix so much. Be more
18
206 CA?1 OUSNESS.
off-hand and promp'.. Above all, do not allow your imagina
tion to conjuri; up objects of terror, or dwell on fictitious
danger. Banish all such suppositions, and indulge the feel
ing of security and safety instead. Withdraw your mind as
much as possible from all apprehension and contemplation of
danger, and try to dismiss all anxiety, solicitude, and procras
tination, and to feel contented. Decide off-hand one way or
another, and thus forestall that distracted, painful action of
Cautiousness which always accompanies doubt, uncertainty,
vacillation, and halting between two opinions.
But one of the most effectual causes of groundless fears
and gloomy forebodings, is disordered nerves lw, and impaired
digestion '68. When produced by either of these causes, they
cannot be effectually overcome without removing those causes
—that is, without restoring the bodily functions to health,
directions for doing which are given in Vol. I. If your fear-
fulness proceeds from nervousness, rectify your nervous sys
tem, or else expect to suffer all your life from groundless
fears, and to be always miserable on account of this violation
of the law of health. To indulge despondency only aggra
vates your sufferings. Drive out into the open air. Forget
your troubles, and keep doing. Especially, eat less and do
more6015716416816'.
In children, this organ is often so large as to fill them with
groundless fears; on account of which many a poor child
has been rendered miserable for life. This excess should
never be still farther increased by telling them frightful
stories, making them afraid to be in the dark, threatening
them, and the like. All in my family know that nothing of
the kind must ever be perpetrated on my children. Nor
should youth ever be punished by being shut up in dark
rooms, being told that they will see * raw heads and bloody
bones," or that you will throw them out of the window, oi
call a bear to come and catch them, or by being threatened in
an} way ; because, if Cautiousness is too large, this will re-
increase it, bu. if small, they will only laugh at you and your
futile threats.
The young require even a greater development of thij
FaiOHTK'INU CHILDREN. 207
faculty than adults. Inexperienced, their muscles undisci
plined, and minds engrossed in hilarity and mirt'r, unless
spontaneously active Cautiousness instinctively warned and
protected them perpetually, they would be exposed to one
continued series of accidents—indeed, they often hurt them
selves as it is—and soon destroy themselves. Even a moth,
er's incessant watchfulness is insufficient protection. A care
less child is continually burning, or cutting, or hurting itself,
or falling, or meeting with accidents, which nothing but its
own perpetual carefulness can possibly avert. Henoe, naturo
has kindly endowed them with a large development of this
organ—a provision as beautiful as necessary.
Many mothers have this organ too large ; and hence, be
tides transmitting it in excess to their children, live in per
petual, though groundless, fear lest they should fall or get
into danger, and therefore caution them all the time, even
when there is no possible danger. Such mothers should see
themselves in the hen which hatched ducks, and suffered so
much fear because her brood plunged into the water—should
remember that the large Cautiousness of their children will
render them safe without all this cautioning. Timid children
in particular require to be soothed instead of frightened, and
presented with motives of safety instead of alarm. Especially
do they require to have their Cautiousness offset by Combat-
iveness. In illustration of this mode of quieting their fears,
L. N. Fowler tells the following excellent anecdote of the
Rev. Mr. Loomis, of Bennington, Vermont :—
The first evening after moving into another house, his young
son, four or five years old, was awakened by rats running
and screaming over-head, and so terribly frightened that his
mother was obliged to take him up. The next night he was
still more terribly frightened. His father, determined to sub
due his fears, went to his bedside, intending to conquer them
by chastisement—the most effectual way possible of increasing
them—when the agonized boy clasped him around the neck,
and clung tc him with desperation. Perceiving the utter im
possibility of subduing his fears by force, he took him up, and,
rttf' intent on arresting a passion so liable, if unchecked, to
808 APPKOBATIVENESS.
torment him through life, sent for a stick, noi ,o whip but to
embolden the boy to drive away the rats. His courage, sup.
ported by his stick, and exciled by his father, at length so far
overcame his fears, that he got down, and struck first upon
the floor, and then upon the wall, and finally went to bed
stick in hand, and full of courage. This conquest of Cautious.
ness by Combativeness doubtless saved him from the evils of
cowardice, by emboldening him for life; and can be employed
with the happiest effect on all timid children.
The Cautiousness of the young should also be trained to
work in connection with the higher faculties, and they be
made afraid to do wrong ; of which hereafter.
12. APPROBATIVENESS.
"A good nahk is rather to be chosen than great riches
257. DEFINITION, FUNCTION, AND LOCATION.
Love of praise ; regard for character ; sense of honor ,
desire for a good n«e; love of commendation, and the es
teem of others ; ambition ; desire to attain distinction, be
come popular, attract attention, obtain notoriety and fame,
and rise to eminence ; pride of character ; sensitiveness to
the speeches of people ; desire to be thought and spoken
well of.
Large Approbativeness seeks commendation, and is cut
by censure ; is keenly alive to the smiles and frowns of
public opinion ; regards what people say ; seeks to show off to
ndvantage ; gives affability and desire to please ; loves to be
in the fashion ; stands on etiquette and ceremony ; sets much
by good appearances ; and feels extremely mortified by
reproach.
Small Approbativeness cares little for the opinions of people ;
is comparatively insensible to praise and censure ; disregards
style and fashion ; despises etiquette and polite usages as such ;
and never stops to ask " what will folks think '("
ITS UN, '"ON AND :'H,TIVATION. 209
It is located behind Cautiousness 2M, back of Conscientious
ness"7, and on the two sides of Self-Esteem280. lis 1 bes are
about an inch apart, and run up and down from Conscien
tiousness toward Adhesiveness.
253. ADAPTATION AND CULTIVATION.
Some things are constitutionally commendable, and others,
in their very nature disgraceful. A child falls into the surg
ing billows, but is rescued at the risk of life by a self-sacrific
ing lover of his race. "Noble, worthy of all praise," exclaim
all who hear of the honorable deed. A son of shame casts
this same child into this same stream, and though it is saved,
" disgraceful, contemptible wretch," murmur all who know it.
" Shame on you," " That's a fine boy," and kindred encomi
ums and reproaches appeal to this faculty. To this inherent
praiseworthiness of some actions and characteristics, and dis-
reputableness of others, this faculty is adapted, and adapts
man.
Nor is its influence weak or range limited. On the con
trary, it appertains to all we say, do, and are, and creates an
insatiable desire to do and become what will secure praise.
Indeed, when properly directed, it is a most powerful incen
tive to virtue and preventive of vice ; but becomes, when per
verted, as it too often is, an equally potent instrument of evil.
Its cultivation and due regulation therefore become matters
of the utmost importance. How, then, can they be effected?
By placing before it that commendation of mankind to
which it is adapted 2U 3". We should all seek to be praised.
This element was not created for naught, and cannot lie dor
mant with impunity. As its absence deprives the mind of a
powerful incentive to praiseworthy deeds, so its presence, duly
regulated, renders us emulcns to do and become what will
secure commendation, and thus redoubles every virtue, and
restrains e •ery vice, because the former excites praise while
the latter is disgraceful.
Ambition, properly directed, should then be indulged. All
should endeavor not only to stand fair in the eyes of their fel
low-men as far as known, but to become known more and still
18*
210 APPROBAIIVENESS.
more extensively. To despise the opinions of men <jna par
with t.isdaining fooi, or property, or children, and 50 love and
seek it as essential to human perfection as to exercise any
other primitive function of body or mind.
Approbativeness should therefore be cultivated. And to
do this, set motives of praise before it. Indulge a generous
emulation to excel. Keep your character spotless, and say
nothing, do nothing disgraceful. Assume those pleasant modes
of action and expression, and agreeable manners and address
calculated to elicit encomiums. Say agreeable things as
often and as far as consistent with the higher faculties, and
avoid giving offence unless where they demand a sacrifice o»
popularity to duty. Mind appearances in those little matters
of life which win. And when you must say unpopular things,
couch them in as pleasing a manner as may be. Even reform,
ers, by pursuing this course, would secure more friends and
make fewer enemies to themselves, and therefore to their
cause—a point of great practical importance, be our pursuits
what they may, yet little appreciated.
We should especially desire to retain and enhance the esti
mation of our friends. We cannot long retain their attach
ment when we make them ashamed of us, but shall redouble
their friendship by rendering them proud of us. Let me be
an honor, not a disgrace to my friends. Let me so write,
6peak, and conduct, that they shall glory in espousing my
cause. Yet these views will presently receive a most import
ant qualification.
A faculty thus beneficial I, adults should be cultivated in
the young. Indeed, few appeals to any of their other faculties
are as effective as to this. All know how powerfully praise
stimulates them to do what we wish. They can be flattered
into almost anything. Tell John he is a good boy, and that
you expect he will always continue so—that he generally
minds, and you hope he always will, that he does well, and
bids fair to do still better—and this stimulation of Approbative
ness -edoubles his efforts to deserve still more.
But blast his pride of character by telling him that he is
addle-pated and a disgrace to himself and all about him ; that
MORTIFYING YOUTH PERNICIOUS. 211
he is no king »nd never can be; that he is the worst child
you ever saw ; that he falsifies, or is forgetful, or always in
the wrong, and ought to be ashamed of himseif; and even
though he would do right, yet he either feels ashamed to try,
or else thinks he cannot sink any lower in your estimation,
and so will not attempt to do better. Suspect or accuse him
of stealing, and he will be far more likely to pilfer than if he
thinks you confide fully in him ; because, in the former case,
he thinks he may as well have the game since he has the
name, but in the latter that his reputation is at stake, and
hence that he must keep it untarnished. Those who are per-
petually blaming or accusing children or servants do not un
derstand human nature. Keep good their sense of character,
and if they disgrace themselves, instead of taunting them
with their fall, and making them feel degraded and outcast in
their own eyes, let them feel that the error in question will
be freely forgiven, and they reinstated provided they behave
well for the future.
This law of mind applies equally to young people. When
their regard for character is gone, hope takes its flight, and
almost certain ruin awaits them. To mortify or shame them
sears Approbativeness, and makes them feel that, since they
are disgraced, they may as well "die for an old sheep," and
sin on. As witnessing animal butchery blunts the tender
sympathies of virgin Benevolence, the coarse and revolting
deteriorates Ideality, the goadingsof a guilty conscience hard
en this faculty, interrupted love blights Adhesiveness, and the
painful action of all the faculties sears and palsies their other
wise keen susceptibilities, so to treat youth or adults as if
disgraced in the eyes of others, hardens Approbativeness, ex
cites Combativeness, and, more than almost anything else,
renders them worse, because it paralyzes this powerful incen-
tive to good deeds. As long as the drunkard was treated with
contempt, he drank on ; bu as soon as that Christ-taught
principle of Washingtonianism set him again upon a respect
able footing, shook his hand, and treated him again with con.
sideration, he reft rmed ; because, as long as he considered
his respectability irretrievably lost, he made no efforts V"
812 APPROBATIVENESS.
regain it, for ambition was crippled ; but as soon as he was
practically assured that he should again be treated with re-
spect in case he deserved it, ambition revived and spurred
him on to attain so desirable a meed as honor. This prin
ciple applies equally to all ages and orders of men—is in fact
a law of wind, and develops one of the most powerful of all
instrumentalities of making men better. All mankind, from
the king to the beggar, and even the most degraded outcast,
desire praise and will work for it. Love of food and life is
hardly stronger or more universal, because each is a primi
tive faculty. Hence men, and especially children, before this
faculty has become seared by reproach, should never be mor-
tified, and especially for things not actually disgraceful. Yet
how many parents both reproach their children daily and
almost hourly, and that for things not only not wrong in them
selves, but actually the promptings of unperverted nature.
Yet, in so doing, they both render them worse, and lose their
influence over them.
259. ITS DUE REGULATION AND RESTRAINT.
But this faculty is often excessive, compared with the otn-
ers210, and still more frequently perverted208. Few faculties
require right direction more than this, and the wrong action
of few occasions more evil, individual and public. How su
premely ridiculous many are rendered by its excess and per
version ! The whole world is in full chase after praise, but,
unfortunately, for the wrong things. And, in general, man
kind struggle to enter into the kingdom of commendation, less
for what they are, than for what they possess. Some pride
themselves on their horses, dogs, and even canes and boots !
'' Look here, Jim," said one dandified exquisite to another,
"don't you think I dined up town 'tother day with white kiJ
gloves on. I did so, and the hull party had 'em on, too." What
if tou did ? How much better did it render you ? "What
SH4LL I wear to the dance to-night ?" asks one. "What dress
would you wear to church to-day?" inquires another. " O,
that old-fashioned bonnet aint fit for a wench to wear to meet
ing. The newes; fashion is out, and I should be ashamed tn
THE FASHIONS. 218
L* ieen khere till I get a new one, for you know ' better be
ou. of the world than out of the fashion,' " says a third. And
wliui she gets it, how she flares! One would think by the
way she walks, that she was pretty considerably more than
hum.n, Yet she is only a human fool, and says so in prac
tice—anJ actions spea.t louder than words—because she vir
tually rates her d\ass above herself. Be her virtues what
they mxy, she is rwhamed of herself unless enrobed, not in
a neat, nice dress merely, but in a fashionable one. Now
this fashionableness or unfashionableness is absolutely noth
ing ; yet, since it is of ad much more importance than her
self, how insignificant, ir all conscience, must she be? How
supremely ridiculous the idea, presupposed by fashion, that
the mere foem of the dress can add one iota to the reputable-
ness of the wearer, or unfashionable attire diminish ought
therefrom ! Is man-made attire more praiseworthy than God-
made humanity ? Is the man, indeed, so insignificant com
pared with the thins? Shall silks and satins, ribboned off
and tied together in fantastic shapes, and distended by coftee-
bags and cotton, be the standard of valuation ? Can fabrics,
and even golden trinke's, enhance the honorableness of the
" lord of creation ?" And wilt thou, reader, practically en
dorse a standard of praise so superlatively ridiculous? Will
you libel the dignity and glery of your God-like nature?281
O, votaries of fashion ! how foolish, how wicked ! And what
untold but self-induced miseries you suffer in consequence !
Words utterly fail to depict the evils of fashion ! Drunken
ness bears no comparison with it in the number of its victims,
or aggravation of its sufferings. All the crimes* of all cul
prits are trifles compared with this monster of iniquity. The
evils even of licentiousness, most appalling as they are, are
pigmies by the side of this mighty giant, because, while the
former slays its thousands, the latter devours its tens of thou
sands, soul and body. Indeed, but for the latter, the victims
of the former would be few. Nine in every ten of the daugh
ters of infamy humble themselves to procure the means of
followirg the fashions. How generally is the poverty of the
poor, a1 leas; in this country, induced by past or present out
314 APPR0BA71V1 NESS.
lays for fashionable display. Say, hardworking husband,
do not at least half your labors go to keep up appearances in
dress, style of living, and the like ?
But all these evils are but " as a drop in the bucket," com
pared with its degrading influences on the soul. Let the
meed of praise now bestowed on dress be awarded to intellect
and moral worth—let men be praised for their talents a»
much as now for their coats, and woman for her virtues as
now for her fashionable attire—and what a mighty Rusn would
this occasion toward intellectual attainments and moral excel
lence ? Mankind would not then, as now, neglect their minds
and live for their persons, but would labor and strive, with all
the energies of their being, to develop by culture the exalted
capabilities of their natures26'. But it now prevents such
culture by engrossing for fashion the time required for mental
and moral discipline. A standard of praise thus utterly con
temptible in itself and ruinous in its effects would disgrace
even the monkey tribes. Then shall man—shall we—prac
tically endorse it ? Shall our ambition fasten on nothing
higher than broadcloths and bonnets—nor on these merely,
but on their being cut and made after a particular pattern %
Shall our very lives and souls be offered up on the altar of
such a goddess ? Shall we who were made to reflect the image
of God be content to be darkened by such fripperies ? Shall
we who are constituted to soar aloft on the wings of angels
descend even below inanimate matter? Shall we exalt our
clothes above ourselves ? Or shall we sanction so despicable
a standard of praise in others ? Let men point the finger of
ridicule at my dress as they may, but let my ambition apper
tain to conduct and morals, nc to riches or any external
" pomp or circumstance."
In phrenological language, Approbativeness should not be
governed by the propensities, but by the higeer faculties.
Men should not take pride in eating the most oysters, or drink
ing the most grog ; or in being the greatest fighters, whether
in personal combat, the pugilistic ring, or battle array , but
should seek praise for what they are—for what is in them-,
not on them. We have already shown that the mora*, and
ITS El.-'HT DIRECTION. 213
intellectual iaculties should guide and gove... all tho
others2". Then let this indispensable condition of virtue and
happiness be the supreme law of our Approbativeness.
Since the proper direction of this faculty is thus all-import.
ant to adults, how much more so to the young?—and to the
former because to the latter. Shall this normal instinct in
them be taught to exult in these ridiculous trappings ? Parents,
will you make your boys puppet-shows, and your girls head
blocks for millinery exhibitions? Praise them for goodness
Never commend them because they are rigged off in new or
fashionable attire, or have curly hair, or are handsome, or for
anything extraneous, but only for what implies moral worth
or intellectual superiority.
This giving boys canes and dressing them off in the height
of fashion like dandies, is ruinous. To see them smoke, chew,
talk large, swagger, perhaps swear m, and vaunt themselves on
these and kindred exteriors, thinking it manly to thus play the
fool, proclaims the stulticity of their parents, and foreshadows
their own prospective downfall. And to see girls, superbly
dressed, profusely ruffled and padded, with sun-shade or muff
parading the pave as disdainfully as queens, is supremely ri
diculous. Green things are insipid and unwholesome—green
ladies especially. Let them be girls—play and romp free
from all fashionable restraint—till they spontaneously ex
change the girl for the woman. But of this more at length in
' Maternity."
Nor should they be paid for learning by tickets, rewards,
premiums, medals, and the like. College appointments, hon
orary degrees, and this whole system of literary emulation is
wrong. Not that the best scholars should not be commanded,
but let them be induced to study from love of learning in
stead of from motives of vanity. Those who study for the sake
of praise will relapse as soon as rivalship ceases ; whereas
those who love to improve for its own sake will continue it
through life. And thousands of our ambitious youth break
down and die of excessive application, just to stand at the head
of their class.
This faculty is so large i : some as to render them artificial
81" APPK 3ATIV «««»».
m1 affected—as to make them twist themselves unconsciously
:nto a great many most ungainly postures, and walk, sit, ana
place their hands most awkwardly, just "to be seen of men.'"
In trying to look and behave all so nicely and prettily, they
make themselves ridiculous. Be natural if you would be
graceful. All efforts at putting on gentility only result in
awkwardness. What does not "whistle itself" M, cannot be
made to whistle. Natural manners are always agreeable ;
artificial always awkward. How exceedingly unpleasant
those who try to be extra mannerly. Let such forget them
selves, and throw themselves into conversation, or whatever
they may be doing, and they will be passable. And let all
who would reduce this faculty, not feed it, but offset it by
such reflections as these : " What if they do underrate, and
even ridicule me ? Suppose I do not dress as well as others,
does that make me any the worse ? Besides, my Approba-
tiveness is too large. Hence I feel more shame and mortifi
cation than occasion requires, am too keenly alive 10 praise
and censure, and too apt to think myself neglected when I am
not. I will not let such things trouble me, but will turn my
attention to more important matters. Others do not notice
me a? much as my excessive Approbativeness supposes. I
will act out myself, and not bo so stifF, precise, artificial, and
affected. In short, I will reduce this faculty by exercising it-
less, and always aright."
Nor should children in whom it predominates be laughed
st for this and that smart saying or doing, or be noticed in
their fishings for praise. Nor should their pert speeches be
told to others before them. Notice them but little, and com-
mc:nd very sparingly and judiciously.
FUNCTION OF SELF-ESTEEM. 917
13. SELF-ESTEEM.
'In bis own imago created he them."
260. DEFINITION, FUNCTION, AND LOCATION.
Magnanimity; self-valuation ; nobleness; self-reli
ance ; independence ; love of liberty and dominion ; self-
complacency ; dignity ; self-satisfaction ; desire for power ;
the aspiring, self-elevating, ruling instinct ; that high-
toned pride of character and manliness which commands
respect, despises meanness and self-degradation, and creates
lofty aspirings to do something great and worthy. Will,
self-government, or volition, is also a function of this
faculty.
Large Self-Esteem puts a high estimate upon itself, its
doings, sayings, and capabilities ; falls back upon its own
unaided lesources; assumes responsibilities which it feels
abundantly able to sustain ; will not endure restraint or take
advice, but insists on being its own man and master ; is high-
minded, and feels above stooping to demean or degrade itself;
aims high, and is not satisfied with small success, or a petty
business, but feels wholly competent to conduct a large one ;
comports and expresses itself with dignity, perhaps majesty;
and is perfectly satisfied with self.
Small Self-Esteem lacks self-confidence and weight of
character; feels unworthy, inferior, and as if in the way;
distrusts its own capabilities, and shrinks from assuming re
sponsible stations and undertaking great things on the score of
incompetence ; cannot command ; is apt to say and do trifling
things ; lacks self-reliance and independence ; underrates its
own capabilities and worth, and is therefore liable to be
underrated by others.
To find this organ, draw a perpendicular line, when the
head is erect, from the. opening of the eai to the top of the
head. This conducts you to the fore part of Firmness. Self-
Esteem lies two inches, or a little less, directly backward.
It is large in the accompanying engraving of Judge Living
ston—formerly Supreme Judge on the V S. bench, and a
IS
J1S SELF-ESTEEM.
candidate for vice-president—as seen by the projection of his
head at the crown, but small in the Affectionate Mother, cul
No. 4 "9. See also Conscientiousness seo.
SELF-ESTEEM URSE
No. 16. Judge Livingston.
261. ADAPTATION AND CULTIVATION
Man is the veritable " lord of creation"-—the greatest fe~
jftst rial work of God. Magnificent, yonder towering mountain
Stupendous, Niagara's awe-inspiring cataract. Inconceivably
vast, planets, suns, and the countless worlds which float in th*»
azure sky. In view of the wmdeiful works of God, one in.
voluntarily exclaims, " What ts man 1" Greater than they
all ! What is Niagara beheld only by brute ? What jEtna's
volcanic eruption or the whole earth's gigantic bulk—what
even the material heavens and their myriads of worlds—in
THE PERFECTION OF HUMAN NATURE. 5418
comparison with man ? Can inorganic matter, however huge,
surpass man's divinely-contrived system of bones, muscleSi
organs, and nerves, all redolent with life and teeming with
eajoyment ? Happiness being the standard of valuation ', tha'
is greatest which enjoys most. Does Chimborazo feel, or tha
earth enjoy ? Was not terrestrial creation made for man,
not he for it ? And is that greatest which is made to
serve ? Is the chariot above the charioteer ? Are not more
divina Wisdom and Power exhibited in the structure of the
human hand or eye than in the whole universe of inorganic
matter ? -
But the creation of mind—this is the greatest work of God ' '
Compared therewith, all else is " dust and ashes." The do
mestic affections, the resisting239, feeding245, economical249,
provident855, emulous258, and other instincts, how infinitely
wise in constitution and efficient in function ! Yet it is his
moral and intellectual elements which form Lis crowning
endowments. These render man near of kin to angels, and
constitute us "the sons and daughters of the Lord Almighty!"
They even array him in the robes of immortality, and confer
on those who fulfil its conditions, capabilities of becoming
eternally and inconceivably holy and happy ! Yes, " in the
image of God" is every one of us created. His intellectual
and moral likeness is stamped upon our souls, and even forms
their constituent elements. Does the great Parent of all love
his children ? So do human patents love theirs. Does He
delight to provide for his, and do not they also for theirs?221
Is He a perfect economist, and are not we also ? M9 Does He
delight in praise, and do not we ? 258 Is He immutable—" the
same from all eternity to all eternity"—and are not we also
endowed with this element of stability?266 Is He rigidly just,
and do we not respond to the supremacy of right ? m Is He
a Spirit, and has he not endowed us also with a spiritual es-
sence—an immortal soul?276 Does He delight to pour out
upon all sentient beings a continual succession and variation
of blessings such as naught but Infinite Wisdom could devise,
or Infinite Goodness bestow ' 2, and does not this heaven-born
sov.'ment insfire our own souls to do good282? Are infinito
220 vELF-F.Sli.EM.
Beauty and Perfection stamped upon the cha.acter and all the
works of the Almighty, and is not man, too, highly adorned
in person and exquisitely constituted in mind, and does he not
pan', after a higher and still higher measure of self-perfec
tion ? ESS Is God the great Mechanist of the universe, and
has he not conferred on us also this self-same desire and capa-
bility to make ? MS Does He see and know all things, and do
we not desire to observe420 and acquire knowledge4,4? Does
He speak to all sentient beings in the eloquent and instructive
language of nature, and do we not also commune with our
fellow-men ?510 Is He the great "Cause of causes," and in*
finitely wise in adapting ways and means to ends, and has he
not endowed us also with this divine capability ?MJ What ele
ment possessed by Him is not possessed by us? In degree
alone consists the heaven-wide difference. We pervert our
faculties and sin 2°3 ; He exercises his normally, or in perfec.
accordance with the fitness of things. But His and our
primitive elements are the same. We are "living stones''
in his infinite temple. He breathed of his own divine spirit
into our nostrils, and we become " living souls." " In his own
image," moral and intellectual, reader, are we created. With
"a live coal from off the a4tar"of his own nature, He lighted up
the fire of immortality which burns, however dimly, within us.
His divine likeness we bear. That likeness is faded, and
mildewnd, and crushed, yet it is there. Sin has stained it,
and depravity almost obliterated it, but the canvass is divine
in structure, and the original lineaments and colors as pen
ciled by the infallible Artist of the universe, are still visible-
are oven a miniature of his own intellectual and moral con
formation !—faint, yet perceptible. Trodden into the mire
of moral corruption, yet there still ! Lift it up; wash off its
filth ; remove its stains by varnishing it with the oil of for
giveness ; burnish it; hold it up to the light of its primitive
constitution, and O! behold the; divine in that portrait even
yet. Defaced it can be, but effaced never. God will not let
his peiicilings be wholly extinguished. His spirit he " will not
utterly take awav." Yes—thank the Lord—rvery one of us
carries within the inn \nos recesses of our wn souls this
REQUISITION FOR ITS EXRECISE. 221
mental portrait of the Almighty ; and '.f we "occupy till he
comes," we shall both see him as he is, and be l:ke him.
•'Beholding liis face, we shall be changed from glory to
glory," til! he cleansed portrait of humanity, retouched by
that same Artist who first fishioned it after himself, shall
reflect in the galleries of heaven, to all eternity, the perfect
" image and likeness" of our Infinite Original—the God and
Father of us all ! And even all this is but the faintest glim-
mering of what humanity is capable of accomplishing and
becoming ! and to these exalted ends and destinies, Self-
Esteem is adapted and adapts man.
Have we not, then, a perfect right to place a most ex-
alted estimate upon ourselves? Can we well overrate our
own worth ? We may, indeed, value ourselves wrongfully—
even on account of our deformities—but not too much. This
faculty may take a wrong direction, but cannot well be too
large. Then why hang our heads or sink back into the cor
ner of insignificance ? Are the children of God such inferior,
unworthy, degraded " worms of the dust 1" All that should
humble us is what we have done, not what we are by nature.
Away with this idea of man's nothingness and inferiority—
Phrenology arraigns it as false'. All that even a Gon could
do to exalt and endow humanity, God has done. Reference
here, and throughout this train of remark, is had to our prim-
itive constitution, and not to man's present degraded, depraved
condition. That we have fallen from this high estate, is a self-
experienced fact. That we, created only a " little lower than
the angels, and endowed with honor and immortality," should
have fallen instead of soared—should even ha\e so far de
generated from our divine parentage as to deny n, and given
ourselves up to work all manner of unclcanness and iniquity—
O, this should humble us in the very dust. That capabilities
thus transcendent should be thus abused, so as even to work the
work of incarnate devils, should sting us to the quick with
remorse, and bring us upon tre bended knees of contrition,
imploring, with the prodigal son, forgiveness and restoration.
And those who do thus repent and pray, will be re-clothed
and rei. 'tated. Wt are bent but not broken—trampled into
19*
222 SELF-ESTEEM.
the mire, but not crushed to atoms—withered, but not dead.
The divine original is in us still. O arise, son of shame and
daughter of sorrow Shake off dull sloth. Trim thy heaven-
constructed lamp. Meet thy inviting heavenly Father. Put
away all thy idols, all thy sins ; and array thyself again " in
garments clean and white." " Touch not, taste not, any un
clean thing." Ascend those lofty heights from which thou
hast fallen. O cultivate the divine gift within thee. Be in
fact what thy Creator capacitated thee by nature to become. It
is late, but not yet the eleventh hour. The doors of this heavenly
palace are not yet wholly closed. Arise quickly, and enter.1*
A secondary adaptation of this faculty is to that lawo.'
mind by which to confide in our own strength promotes sue-
cess, and appreciating our capabilities augments efficiency.
Tell that boy he " can't if he tries " and he will either not
attempt, or only feebly ; but telling him " You can," con
tributes wonderfully to success. Encouraging Self-Esteem en
hances uffort and excellence quite as much as exciting Appro-
bativeness ; while discouraged Self-Esteem, like mortified
Approbativeness, palsies the entire man 258. To this requisi-
t'on for self-confidence this faculty is adapted and adapts man.
It elevates all its aims and aspirations, and thereby redoubles
both effort and success. As, by aiming at the sun, though
we do not hit it, we yet shoot much higher than if our mark
were low, so this faculty inspires us to desire and attempt to
do and become something worthy of ourselves, and should
therefore be cultivated.
Self-satisfaction is another trait in human nature as ne
cessary as it is universal. The poorest beggar would not
exchange himself—toot places, but soul and body—with the
richest, wisest, most renowned, and best of men. We often
feel dissatisfied with our lot, but rarely with ourselves.
Even our faults are too often converted into sccasions of
* Phrenology is accused of degrading man—of making him a mere
material thing—with what justice, let the reader of this chapter say. On
the contrary, none but the phrenologist can appreciate the true dignity
and glory of the human mind, or comprehend its perfections and capa-
bil ies. The mors I study the latter, the more I admire the former.
'TS CULTIVATION. 223
pride- How many times, on telling men professionally of this
or that excess or defect, such as of deficient Conscientious
ness, of libertinism, cunning, carelessness, vanity, and the
like, have they publicly acknowledged that these things were so,
and rather gloried in them. But for this principle of self-val
uation, what endless animosities would everywhere occur?
What complaints against God for bestowing on others more
than on us ? But this trait lulls all such murmurs, and instead,
makes us thankful that, Pharisee-like, we " are not as other
men." This necessary and inimitably beautiful end is se
cured by Self-Esteem, and the larger it is the better satisfied
we are with ourselves; and since all have more or less of it,
all are more or less self-satisfied.
The cultivation of a faculty thus ennobling is commensurate
with these exalted ends it was created to subserve. All should
therefore exercise it in all these phases. We should study
that we may appreciate our own selves, and when we have
learned what sphere nature has adapted us to fill 216, should do
our utmost to rise therein higher and still higher. Let ot"
motto be, " Excelsior, Excelsior." Nor should we eve
indulge distrust of our own capabilities, but rather say in
actions, with Col. Miller, when asked, " Can you storm that
fort ?" " I can try !" " Faint hearts never win," but " what
man has done, man can do," accomplishes as if by magic.
Nor should we envy others because they are more highly gift-
,ed by nature than we, but strive to make the most of our one
or two talents ; for what they possess was not taken from us.
We should rather make up by extra culture what we lack by
nature. Do any of us employ half our present capabilities ?
Then why complain because we have no more ? To use
w'jat is already possessed, will confer more.
Those in whom this faculty is weak, besides elevating them
selves in view of those lofty destinies of our nature already
presented, should choose and act for themselves ; may hear
advice, but should make up and follow their own judgment;
should always comport themselves with dignity and self-re
spect; pay their jwn way through life, and never allow them.
ieJves to be behs den or subservient to any; remember that
t24 Wr.F-ESTEEK .
their oppressive feeling* of unworthiness and insignificance
are not caused by actual inferiority, but by deficient Self.
Esteem ; that were they ever so good or great, they would feel
thus humble; that they underrate themselves, and require to
hold up their heads; that they are as good as the generality
of men ; that while humility toward God is a virtue, self,
abasement, in reference to their fellow-men, is uncalled for and
injurious; that, in short, the; are men and women, and be
long to the great brotherhood oi humanity. As the old Roman
felt a conscious pride in exclaiming, "lama Roman citizen,"
so such should indulge a still greater pride in the feeling, " I
am a human being, endowed with all the prerogatives and
immunities of humanity"—should feel as Blackhawk ex
pressed himself when brought before Jackson, "I'm a man
and you're another." You may reverse this, " You're a man,
and I'm another ;" but remember, practically, that though
others are men, yet that you also are human—that some of
them may be better than yourself, while others are worse, but
that all these considerations—their richness and your poverty—
their knowledge and your ignorance—their cultivation and
your want of it—are as nothing; that you are their human
brothers ; have the same origin, faculties, and destiny, with
them ; are fed from the same great table of nature ; sustain
ed by the same breath of heaven ; alike in all your primary
elerrents, and differ only in degree, and perhaps that differ,
ence is in your favor. In short, exercise Self-Esteem on the.
one hand, and offset its deficiency by these and kindred re
flections on the other. Above all things, never belittle your
self ir. your own eyes, or those of others, by doing anything
small, mean, low, humiliating, or trifling, but always carry
and express yourself with manly dignity and conscious eleva
tion. Especially walk erect, for acting out this faculty will
help you feel it.
To cultivate this faculty in children, throw them on their
own resources. Do not humble, but rather exalt them in their
own estimation. Lit them feel that they are embryo men
and women, and are created for something noble, and henoe
should tit themselves to fill some important station. This sen.
TRAINING OF THE WUL. SRJ5
timent, so far from inflating, will rather humble then When
they have perpetrated any mean act, talk to them as though
they should feel themselves above such self-abasing things.
In short, develop this faculty by -calling it into action. Es
pecially never crush them by sternness and severity, or look
down upon them so as to maka them feel menial, or cheap.
Raise, not depress.
26-' SELF-GOVERNMENT. OR THE TRAINING OF THE WILL.
To one other adaptation and functional phase of Self-Es-
teem, special attention is invited. Man is a voluntary being,
endowed with that self-determining power which enables him
to choose or refuse the evil or the good. This iron will,
which takes the reins into its own hands, and does according
to its own pleasure, is the product in part of this faculty, aided
by Secretiveness, Firmness, and some other faculties. Meta
physicians may speculate on this point for and against, yet the
ever-present consciousness of every human being assures
us all that we are endowed with power of choice. We are
not machines, impelled whithersoever we go by circumstances
and our organization w>, but can resist this besetting sin, and
do that virtuous deed. When any passion becomes unduly
or abnormally excited, there is a g 'bernatorial power within
us which can employ that principle of diversion already pre
sented 245, so as to discard the stimulant of the erring passion,
and set the other faculties at work by placing their appro
priate food before them 215, and thus restraining the former,
cultivating the latter, and controlling our feelings and conduct
Especially can it put its veto on sinful indulgence in act.
Yet this is not the place for a full discussion or qualification
of this point. Man requires and possesses self-control, and
this faculty, aided by some others, confers it.
A powei thus important should by all means be assiduously
cultivated, from infancy to old age. When, or in what situa
tion in life, after we leave the cradle till we descend into tne
grave, are we not exposed to temptations? In this respect all
man! ind are Adarrs and Eves. Sometimes we are " drawn
awa\ by our own lusts, and enticed," and son-.etimM by
iJ2(i SELF-ESTEEM.
others. Our Eves are of various kinds, but all are perpetually
exposed to temptations. All, therefore, require that shield of
safety which this self-governing power alone can furnish.
Then let it be exercised. Let us place it at t.'ie helm of all
we say and do. Will to do this and not to do that, and then
do it. Never yield, no, not for once, to the syren voice of
temptation, because the more you do the more you may.
Even " if thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out." Do what,
and only what, the highpr faculties dictate*". Let them, in
accordance with their primitive constitution, be the king on
the throne, and will their sworn executor. But more on this
point after our analysis of the moral faculties shall have pre
pared its way, as also on the importance and means of strength
ening it in children.
263. RESTRAINT AND DUE REGULATION OF SELF-ESTEEM.
The perversion and predominance of this faculty render
its possessor proud, egotistical, conceited, forward, pompous,
supercilious, arbitrary, self-willed, and dogmatical, if not dom
ineering, and should therefore be checked. The conceited
simpleton, whose likeness, taken from life, is annexed, though
most homely, believed himself handsome, and perfectly irre
sistible to the ladies ; and though " non compos," fancied him
self one of the earth's great men, in consideration of which he
allowed his bust to be taken ; and though he could not sound
fa, sol, la, yet he thought his the best counter-voice in the world.
Those whose Self-Esteem thus predominates should remember
that their self-conceit often renders them ridiculous, yet that,
like him, they do not see it. Such should attribute their
exalted notions of themselves to their inordinate Self-Esteem,
not to real merit. They should bear in mind that, be their tal
ents great or small, they overrate them, and hence, that if they
are ten, they rate them at fifteen or twenty ; that they are too
apt to play the captain, and put themselves forward ; that
others were not made to be their lackeys ; and that they must
suppress this swaggering manner and feeling. Let such often
observe this self-inflating organ at the crown of their heads,
and recollect that their developemer'.s are no way extraordi-
TS D.'E R£GU1A1;?N.
aary, except for van-glorying ; and if this does Lt>t humble
them, they must be ninnies indeed.
SELF-LOVI LAKQI.
No. 17. The Conceited Simpleton.
But this faculty requires right direction more than re
straint, because oftener perverted than excessive. Those who
esteem themselves aright can not prize themselves too
highly X1. It is esteeming ourselves for our horses, clothes,
houses, and even for our depraved propensities, which requires
to be checked. So infinitely is the human above the thing,
that he must be small indeed to whom paltry trinkets can add
anything, or from whom their absence can diminish aught.
As though being perched on a little pile of gold rubbish or
bank rags could increase the stature of manhood m ! " God
(brbid the1. I should glnrv s.iv ir " in'ellectual jewels and
228 FIRMNESS.
moral gems—in what I am instead of ow.i. Some people's
quids and cigars are greater than themseves—that is, confer
honor on them. Such honor is too low to be despised. So
are most of those things for which men value themselves.
To such " my soul, be not thou united." This proud, haughty,
touch-me-not, imperious, I-am-better-than-thou, bearing, is
utterly contemptible. Granted that you are better than others,
yet what have you that you have not received ? Then why
thus vaunt yourself on what was given you ? Besides, true
greatness produces humility, not ostentation. No index of
littleness is more "sure than this affected grandiloquence, for it
shows a predominance of Self-Esteem over the higher facul
ties—a sure sign of intellectual and moral inferiority. Is even
God condescending to man, and shall man be too proud to
speak to his brother man ? Granted that you are above them,
should you not try to elevate them, instead of assuming these
monkey airs, and manifesting this cold contempt for those as
good by nature as yourself? "8 When will men learn to ex
change this baboon pride for that ennobling sentiment designed
by nature in the creation of this faculty ?
14. FIRMNESS.
" Perseverance conquers all things."
264. DEFINITION, FUNCTION, AND LOCATION.
Decision of enaracter; perseverance; stability; fixed
ness of purpose ; tenacity of opinion ; aversion to change.
Us name is perfectly expressive of its function.
Large Firmness is set in its own way ; sticks to and cur
ries out what it commences ; holds on long and hard ; and
continues to the end.
Small Firmness yields to difficulties; is easily changed ;
vacillating, fickle-minded, and cannot be depended upon.
Located in a60. Large in John Ordinaux, a privateer of ex.
traordinary obstinacy of purpose ; but small in two of the
puts used to illustra*' Conscientiousness M7,
No. 17. Ordinaux.
265. ADAPTATION AND CULTIVATION.
Immutability is written upon every law of nature. God is
unchangeable. And what disasters would follow if he were
not ! Can the everlasting mountains be removed, the sun
stayed, or any of nature's ordinances be arrested ?
Man, too, requires stability and perseverance. After he
has sown, he must wait patiently for the products of his labor
to mature. Many ends can be effected only by long-continued
application, and many obstacles overcome only by the labor
of a lifetime. " Perseverance conquers all things," while
fickleuess accomplishes nothing, but undoes to-day what it
did yesterday. Intellectual acquirements are not the growth
of a day, or even year, but of an age ; and great moral ex
cellence, unlike Jonah's gourd, does not spring up or wither
in a night, but is produced by the habitual practice of vir
tue from youth to death sw. Many kinds of business can be
rendered profitable only by expending years of patient toil in
20
230 FIRMNESS.
building them up " Perseverance and shovels remove moun
tains." Indeed, scarcely any truly valuable end can be
brought about in a hurry, and, in general, the greater the good
the longer the toil requisite to effect it. Some obstacles Com-
bativeness can overcome with dispatch, yet, in general, a 'ong
time is required to obviate evils and secure good. To this
element of stability in nature, and demand for steady perse
verance in man, Firmness is adapted. Without it little good
can be effected, little evil successfully resisted ; but before its
iron tread, difficulties, otherwise insurmountable, vanish, and
temptations flee abashed. Nor can any man become distin
guished for anything great or good without it. A faculty
thus important to success should therefore be assiduously
cultivated.
To increase it, consider the inducements held out as re
wards to persevrrance. Give up nothing till it is completed.
Let no obstacles turn you from your proposed course. Have
a mind and will of your own, and never allow yourself to be
persuaded contrary to your better judgment. Steadily resist
temptation, and remember that those who hold out unto the
end alone are crowned. Especially, never yield in the least
where right is concerned. Moral decision is a virtue of the
highest order. Firmness and Conscientiousoess are located
side by side, and should always support each other in charac-
tei. Hope is also located upon the two sides of the fore part
of Firmness, so as to work in conjunction with it ; and cer
tainly nothing is calculated to excite Firmness more than
confident hopes of success, and the two combined form one
of the strongest elements of efficiency and success.
To cultivate it in youth, be careful not to require them to
do what they cannot complete, and not to allow them to lea'e
anything unfinished. Let them be taught to accomplish a.
they begin. Making children servile, and requiring strict
obedience, is apt to weaken this faculty. The author knows
a severe, austere, tyrannical father, who has children whom
he rules with a rod of iron. In one of them, Firmness has
degenerated to almost nothing, and in the other increased to
obstinacy, probably berause the former, a daughter, had
ITS "JE REGULATION. 231
her Firmness subdued by his tyranny, w'lile the same dis.
cipline only excited and increased that of the other to mulish
stubbornness.
Parents should always hold an even hand with their chit
dren. They should not be one thing to-day, and another to.
morrow, but be uniform in all their requirements ; and when
they undertake, should always carry through.
L. N. Fowler tells a story in illustration of this point, much
as follows : Susan, a girl of about fifteen years of age, had
invited her playmate, Sarah, to go that afternoon to pick
strawberries. Sarah came, and Susan asked her mother's
permission to go, but was refused. Susan plead that Sarah
had come to go, but all to no purpose. At last, taking up her
pail and starting, she exclaimed, "I will go—so there V
" Well, if you will go, get good ones," answered the mother.
A daughter wished to go to a ball, but was forbidden by
her mother ; the daughter got ready, on seeing which her
mother said, " Since you are determined to go, wrap up
warm." Things like these should never be allowed, but let
one uniform line of conduct be pursued.
Children in whom this organ is small require much encour
agement to persevere, and to conquer such is especially inju
rious. They are too easily overcome now, and, of course,
the more you make them mind the less firm they become.
Nor is it certain that conquering even obstinate children is
not injurious. BreaJc down their iron will in regard to your
self, and you subdue it in regard to other things. A most
excellent watch-dog was spoiled thus :—a man laid a wager
that he could get a roll of codfish placed at the back end of
an arch in which this dog was chained ; and, by keeping his
eye sternly fixed with determined defiance on the animal,
finally conquered him, after which he was comparatively good
for nothing. This is true of all dogs, of all animals, and
equally of man—is, in fact, a law of Firmness. Hence the
Bpirit even of obstinate boys should not be crushed, because
this tames them down for life. Nor can I regard obstinacy
in children as so very bad after all, because it betokens that
Roman Firmness and indomitaLV perseverance so essential
23'i CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.
to future success, and to subdue this will is to well nigh spoil
them. Without it they are good for nothing, but the more they
possess: the better, provided it is rightly diufcted. Rather
persuade them to will right than to crush their wills—-a point,
however, to be dissussed hereafter.
2C6. ITS RESTRAINT AND R163T DIRECTION.
But some persons are mulishly stubborn. They will not
see th< ir errors, or, seeing, change. Such, indeed all, should
be especially careful not to decide till they are sure they are
right, nor ever commence anything not best. They should
then hold themselves open to conviction and correction, and
remember that their excessive Firmness is liable to so blind
their intellects that they cannot perceive the full force of evi
dence brought against them, that they are too hard to be con-
vinced, too inflexible, etc. In short, they should subject their
Firmness to their reason, prudence, justice, and other facul
ties 'u. Still, of well-directed Firmness, no one can have too
much.
15. CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.
" Let justice reign, though heaven falts."
267. DEFINITION, FUNCTION, AND LOCATION.
Perception and love of right ; moral principle ; innate
sense of accountability and obligation ; integrity ; love
of justice and truth ; regard for duty, promises, etc. ; de
sire for moral purity and excellence ; that internal monitor
which approves the right and condemns the wrong ; sense
of guilt; desire to reform ; contrition; forgiveness.
Large Conscientiousness loves the right as right, and hates
the wrong because wrong ; is honest, faithful, upright in mo
tive, and means well ; consults duty before expediency ; feols
guil.y when conscious of havi.ig done wrong; and desires to
reform and be forgiven.
Small Conscientiousness sometimes sacrifices duty on the
altar of indulgence, and tem 1orizes with moral principle; jus-
ITS IDAFTATIuN AMI CULTIVATOR. 338
tifies itself; and is not particularly penitent or forgiving.
Located on the two sides of the back part of Firmness. The
several forms given to the head when these two organs are
larg<? and small, are well represented in the accompanying
cuts
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS LARGE
AND FIRMNESS SMALL.
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS SMALL
AND FIRMNESS LARGE.
No. 18. No. 19.
268. ADAPTATION AND CULTIVATION.
" Thrice armed is he who hath hia quarre1 just."
There is a right, and its violation constitutes a wrong.
These elements are founded in the primitive constitution of
things, and form an integral part of nature, as much as bulk
or beauty. But for this arrangement, no action or feeling
could possess any moral character whatever, nor could any
conception of right or wrong exist.
Man, also, is endowed with a moral eye for perceiving this
moral element, as with Causality for perceiving the existence
of laws "', and Form foi taking cognizance of shape m. This
moral sense phrenologists call Conscientiousness. Its ex
istence in man, therefore, renders him a moral being, and,
by consequence, accountable, rewardable, and punishable—
satellite attendants on this element. This moral constitution
is inwrought into the very texture of his mind, and inter-
woven with most which he says, does, and is. IJe can no
more help regarding right as right, and wrong as wrong, or
approving the former and condemning the latter, than seeing
20*
.234 CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.
what he looks at, or fearing death, or being hungry when de
prived of food. Nor can he escape out of its rightful domin
ion. All his thoughts, words, and deeds, are rendered by this
moral element of his nature, either right or wrong—right
when they conform to the laws of his being, or are normal "*,
wrong when they violate them, or are unnatural. " All he
says, does, and is," because every exercise of every organ and
function of his physical, intellectual, and moral nature has
its laws, which it must violate, or to which conform ; so that,
" whether we eat, or drink, or whatsoever we do," we fulfil
or break some fundamental ordinance of nature. The com
monly received idea that a great many of our actions and
feelings, especially those which appertain to the body, are
neither right nor wrong, is therefore erroneous. Every mo
tion we make, every breath we draw—all our thoughts and
feelings from first to last—fulfil or violate those laws which
govern their constitution, and are therefore right or wrong,
and hence fit subjects for rewards and punishments—in fact,
actually do reward and punish themselves7. The sweep and
minuteness of this phrenological view of right almost infinitely
exceeds that taken by the most rigid theologian, yet is as true
»s universal.
This element is also not tame or feeble, but imperative, and
olothed with authority. Man feels that right is sovereign,
and wrong odious. How powerful an ally an approving con
science ! How inexorable its condemnations ! How crest
fallen and feeble he who feels that he is in the wrong ! But
as strong and " bold as a lion" they who fulfil its mandates.
Conscientiousness is the queen-bee—the premier of the human
soul. All the other faculties are only advisers or subjects.
Its edicts are "supreme law," its sentence final. Even small
Conscie itiousness, unperverted or stifled, possesses an innate
vim or power to hold in check far larger propensities ; nor can
the latter escape the dominion or rebel successfully against
the former without either coaxing it into connivance by palli
ating excuses, jr encroaching by little upon it till they at
length bind it han i and foot and cast it out.
Bu' wo t« thsse who do this. That powerful aid which it
AN APPROVING CONSCIENCE. 235
brings to all the other faculties, they lose. Tnat tight rein
which it holds on otherwise unbridled lust, they sever. The
brightest jewel set in the centre of the crown of humanity
they tear out and cast before swine, and leave a disgusting
gangrene in its place. What can that speaker say—however
clear his logic or classical his diction matters not—who has
no moral pathos, who enforces no right, opposes no wrong ?
It is to tongue and pen what steam is to the locomotive—the
prime mover even of intellect, whose energy it redoubles.
And how much more powerful Combativeness, when arrayed
against the wrong or defending the right ? friendship when
cemented, and love when it glows, with moral principle, than
without this moral sanction ? And thus of every other fac
ulty. Incalculably does it electrify the entire man when it
sanctions, and palsy when it condemns.
Clean hands and a v porous conscience are then indispen
sable to success in ev ry department of life. And then how
delightful its approva' . how soul.withering its condemnation !
Nothing as terrible tut the frowns of offended Heaven ! In
deed, this is His frown—its approval, His smiles.
Every human being should therefore cultivate as powerAJ
an auxiliary to success, as heavenly an attendant. We should
inquire touching everything we say, and do, and feel, "Is this
right ? is that wrong ?" and utterly refuse all participation
in what is not. In other words, all should see to it as a car
dinal pre-requisition that all their thoughts, feelings, and ac
tions are in accordance with their primitive constitution, and
that every faculty and function of mind and body is always
exercised in strict conformity with its creation and normal
en J. Then will they all be right, and our happiness com
plete. Man, in his present low estate, cannot conceive the
beatific joys which would follow obedience to this law of his
nature, nor the anguish and agony consequent on its infraction.
Shall we then stifle this heavenly monitor, thus kindly sent
down to us from heaven to prepare us for its blessedness ?
Shall we sear its delicate susceptibilities by insult and rebel
lion ? Shall we trample into the very dust this premier ot
God and our rightful sovereign—this most sacred emotion
'i36 CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.
implanted in the human soul ? Whosoever offendeth it, ofFen j-
eth Infinite Justice, and sinneth against the moral constitution
of the universe! To do wrong is not so light a matter, nor
right so insignificant. We stifle its sanctions at our peril,
but to obey it is better than sacrifice. Nothing degrades anu
debases humanity equally with doing wrong. O keep this
jewel of the soul unstained by sin ! Yet, alas ! how low in
this scale of moral principle is mankind sunk ! See him igno
rant of its requirements, and living in shameless violation of
its mandates! Behold him even justifying falsehood, knav
ery, fighting, murdering—and that by wholesale—licentious
ness, and all manner of outrages, on the ground of expe
diency ! Hear that lying merchant and dishonest trader pro
claim his own shame—" an honest business-man would starve !"
Hear that war-captain and political stock-jobber urge the ne
cessity of human slaughter, though life is most inviolate ! 2*
Behold that young libertine arguing the necessity of sensuality
on the score of health ! As though right clashed with interest'
As though Heaven's laws conflicted ! Does God punish us
for dealing justly, for obeying his laws?67 As though hon
esty was not policy ; whereas the more exactly rigid one's
integrity, the greater his success—the reward of obeying the
law of moral rectitude. Dishonesty may make a dollar
to-day, but will prevent the acquirement of hundreds here
after. " Burnt children dread the fire." With a business
man who overreaches you once, you never deal again, or if
you do, are simple. Let a firm once obtain a reputation for
strict integrity—for selling as cheap as if the purchaser were
watching them—and all who knew them would deal exclu
sively with them. Would country merchants spend so much
time and money in going to cities after goods, if they knew
onlv a single house which they could implicitly trust ? Such
a house would monopolize the entire business of the country,
because all purchasers could order so much cheaper and
better than go. No error is greater than that integrity is
incompatible with business. On the contrary, nothing equally
promotes worldly prosperity.
And even in case . they conflicted, must Conscientiousness
*ones:y is poliov. 237
succumb to Acquisitiveness ? Rather let conscience De king
and propensity subject21 "Let justice reign though heaven
falls." Rather starve than live on the wages of sin. Would
not the abandoned suffer less to die outright, than to live as
(hey do, waxing worse and more wretched daily, because they
live by sinning ? Gamblers have already been mentioneJ.
In just so far as a man makes money dishonestly, does that
money curse, and not bless211. The unalterable laws of
nature compel this issue. Inflexible' " cause and effect"
secures this result in every form, every degree of application.
" Though heaven and earth should pass away," yet this ordi
nance of nature must stand to all eternity. Righteousness,
then, can never clothe a man with rags, but will feed and
clothe even every beggar and their children. Nature will
not let those suffer who obey her laws, nor those go unpun
ished who violate them67. Yet no concatenation or aggrava
tion of suffering should be allowed to dethrone rectitude.
The very consciousness of having done right is more than
meat and drink, and infinitely surpasses all " the wages of
Ein ;" whereas the goadings of a guilty conscience are poison
in the bones and " hell fire " to the soul.
Young man in search of business, first choose an honest
one. Ask not " Is it lucrative," or " respectable," or " easy,1'
or even "lawful;" but " Is it just 1" And shrink with hor
ror from whatever is not, be its prospects or its emoluments
what they may. " Seek first " righteousness, and all else
" shall be added unto you." Next prosecute it, in all its rela
tions, with rigid justice. Let no considerations whatever
induce you to deviate in the least therefrom, and besides an
appioving conscience—itself a treasure infinitely richer than all
worldly possessions—temporal prosperity is guaranteed to yen
by the fiat of nature. But an unjust youth must ultimately fail
And ye who are prosecuting a dishonest business, quit it at
once. Die rather than do another dishonest thing. You sell
right at your peril. You may perhaps get your thirty pieces
of silver, yet it will be the price of moral blood, and will
doomr or later hurl you to destruction.
Ye, too, wh« pros: ute an honest business dishonestly are
r
238 CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.
as consummate fools as sinners. Cut both sin and folly short
at once. Your transgression of this cardinal law of natura
is without even excuse. Remember, Honesty, all honesty,
and nothing but rigid honesty, is policy, here and hereafter.
And let us all, be our pursuits what they may, place en
lightened conscience on the throne, and implicitly fulfil all its
requirements, from the greatest even unto the least. Let us
do our whole duty toward man, and especially toward Goj,
by fulfilling his laws. They were not made to be neglected
or violated, but to be obeyed. And O how inconceivably holy
and happy will such obedience render us !
Those in whom this organ is small, should remember that,
therefore, they are comparatively blind to their faults ; that,
especially if Self-Esteem be large, they generally carry the
bag containing their errors behind them, rarely see it, and
when they do, are apt to smooth them over by forming flimsy
excuses, and justify themselves unduly; that they are self-
righteous, and hence more guilty than they suppose, because
Self-Esteem parries the feeble thrusts of Conscientiousness,
and throws the mantle of extenuating circumstances over
much which should occasion self-condemnation. Bear in
mind, that your not feeling guilty is no sign that you are
not ; because, other things being equal, the smaller this faculty
the feebler its compunctions, yet the greater the occasion for
them. If this faculty were larger, you would feel greater
self-condemnation for the same sins, and often relent where
you now justify yourself. Be more penitent. Be less self-
righteous. Recollections like these will enable you in some
measure to obviate this blemish. In short, the greater its de
ficiency the more habitual shouU be its exercise.
This faculty is blunted by whatever pains it—by being im
posed upon, as well as by our doing unjustly. Dwelling upon
wrongs done us, is very apt to make us <cel that, since others
are so wicked, we may as well be like them. Many a one
has been thus case-hardened, and rendered dishonest by being
abused. Hence, when others wrong us, we should not dwell
upon our grievances, but turn our minds to other subjects.
This direction is 01 * of great practical importance.
ITS DEVELOPMENT IN rOUTH. 239
The assiduity with which this facu.ty should be cultivated
it. youth, is commensurate with the exalted blessings it con
fers. I have found this organ large in nearly every child's
head I have ever examined. Yet it is often small in adults—
declines in consequence of sheer inaction 2lS—an astounding,
an awful fact! Nature bestows enough of this element on
every human being, to render him scrupulously moral and
just. Its existing woful deficiency is our fault, not hers.
We bury this talent of talents in the napkin of public and
private injustice, and waste or lose it. It does not average
half, if a quarter as large in adults as the young. Nor is
there any other solution of this sad fact, palpable to all ob
servers, than its non-exercise. Children, seeing others do
wrong, themselves commence to tamper with this heavenly
gift, and gradually yet effectually wear it away. O parents,
be entreated to arrest this downward tendency. It should
" grow with their growth, and strengthen with their strength,"
and would if duly called into requisition. It must be fed
with its appropriate nutriment 2'J. Their attention must be
often called to the right and wrong of what they say and do.
Nor is any other means as effectual for subduing their wayward
propensities. Show them intellectually, and make them feel
morally, that this is right and that wrong, and they will no
more dare to neglect the former, or perpetrate the latter, than
to thrust their hands into fire.
Mothers, in particular, should be ever on the watch, while
their children are at play about them, to check any encroach
ment of one upon the lights of the others, every instance of
deception in word and deed, all in any way wrong, not so
much by the whip as by this " rod of the Almighty," thus put
into their hands. Press their consciences, not merely with
accusations when they do wrong, but especially lay its flatter
ing unction to their souls when they do right. Call attention
to the exquisite pleasure they feel in having done their duty,
and they will do right again. Show how miserable doing
wrong renders them, and they will avoid it in future, for the
same reason that "a burnt chill dreads the fire." Nor will
any oiher preventive, except its vster, Veneration, at all com
240 CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.
pare with this. Rightly applied, it is a mora panacea O
parents, note and practice this sacred prescription !
Espfx;ially should parents be careful not to wrong their
children in the least, because, as just seen in the case of
adults, such injustice wounds and callouses their consciences,
as well as sets them a pernicious example. Nor this merely,
but the parent should be so clearly right as that their young
consciences will be on his side. Being strictly just to them,
excites this justice-loving element in them, and also sets an
example which they ma)' follow ; and even when chided youth
think they are right but are not, they become hardened unless
convinced of their error. Especially, never punish them foi
doing wrong until you have gained their consciences in your
favor, and made them feel guilty, and that they therefore
deserve punishment; else the same hardening effects follow
which attend being wronged. But of this whole subject of
punishment hereafter. Yet, whether you punish or not, do
not fail to arraign all their actions and feelings before the
solemn tribunal of right and duty. Try to make them love
their duty, and to do it because it is duty. Never buy or
flatter them to do it, because they will come to feel that they
must be paid for everything, but let it stand on its own naked
authority, Let them be trained to feel that duty is para
mount—that to do right, will render them almost infinitely
more happy than any money or toy they could possess.
Against this hiring children to do right I solemnly protest.
269. HUMAN ACCOUNTABILITY AND GUILT.
Many object to Phrenology, because, say they, " It destroys
free agency ; makes men mere machines—the passive ser
vants of their dominant developments—and therefore alike
excusable for all their vices, and none the better on account
of any of their virtues, since they can help neither ; because,
for what they are fated—organically compelled to do and
become—they can neiiher be guilty on the one hand, nor de
serving on the other." If the science I idolize really taugh.
this abominable doctrine of fatality, Calvinist by education
though I am, I would repudiate and condemn it. Agains'
HUMAN ACCOUNTABILITY 4ND GUILT. 341
tnis, against all guilt-extenuating doctrines, I u .compromis.
ingly protest. I would rivet, not unloose, the chains of
moral obligation. And Phrenology does this in the most effect
ual manner possible. It does not argue that man is person
ally accountable, but proves it. It demonstrates the exist
ence and function of Conscientiousness, as above analyzed ""
and thus renders human accountability certain, from scien
iifio data. It leaves no cloud to obscure this point. Its
proof is absolute. It is this : The existence of feet renders
man a walking being, and proves him to be such ; of ears a
hearing, of eyes a seeing, of nerves a sentient, and of brain
a mental being, and so of all his other physical organs and
functions. Phrenology admitted, what higher proof that man
is a friendly being than his possession of Adhesiveness ; that
he is an eating being than that he has Alimentiveness ; a talk
ing being than his endowment with Language ; a reasoning
being than his being constituted with reasoning powers ? Can
any order, any amount of proof—can even mathematical
demonstration—render anything more absolutely certain ?
Then does not the fact of the existence of Conscientiousness in
him, as forming a part and parcel of his primitive constitu
tion, both prove and render him a moral, accountable being,
and therefore not merely a fit but a necessary subject of
rewards and punishments ? Is that two and two are four
more self-evident than that human conduct and character—all
we say, do, and are, or can be—are moral or immoral, right or
wrong, virtuous or guilty ? What can nail man down to the
fact that he is accountable, as effectually as this existence in
him of Conscientiousness ? All other proofs, compared with
this are sand ropes ; this the mighty cable of nature. Read
this chapter, and then say how ignorant, or else wicked, our
accusers. But we " forgive them, for they know not what
they do." Yet they ought not to do without knowing.
Again : has not a former section proved that the organs can
be enlarged by action, and diminished by inaction?3" And
does not this admitted law of phrenological science blow this
itupid objection to atoms ? What is its practical language to
those who ha\e less favorable developments, commonlj called
21
242 * CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.
"bad heads?" It seizes them by the tl.roat of personal ac.
countability, and thunders in their ears, "Why have rou
INDULOED YOUR PROPENSITIES AND NOT EXERCISE 3 YOUR HIGHER
' faculties till the former have acquired sach gigantic strength,
and the latter been subdued by a lifetime of conquest and
tyranny ? Stop your guilty career now, and cultivate the
former, but remove exciting causes from the latter "' till the
required ascendency of the higher guides and governs the
lower." Search the universe, but it will be in vain for a more
potent personal accuser than either of these laws separately, or
both together, furnish. They tell the wicked in the name of
science, and therefore of absolute certainty, that they have
no business to have bad heads; that they owe their depraved
passions, claimed to be ungovernable, to themselves—to their
own wicked indulgence of them, not to their organs ; and
does not this amputate all excuse ? Does it leave the forlorn
sinner even a straw to save his being drowned in guilt?
It is, indeed, admitted and proved by Phrenology that " like
parents like children"—that predominant propensities ano
weak moral and intellectual organs in parents transmit similar
organic conditions to their offspring—but this only shifts the
responsibility from children to parents, and accords perfectly
with " visiting the iniquities of the fathers upon the children."
Yet even this is obviated by the Tact that none can be sc
bad, but that, by the proper cultivation of the higher faculties,
and removing stimulants from the lower, they can be rendered
virtuous and happy members of society. God will not let
those come into being who are so low in the scale of morals as
to be incapacitated for both goodness and enjoyment—a point
fully established in the author's work entitled " Hereditary
Descent," and there applied to physical as well as moral
maladies.
It has also just been shown that Conscientiousness possesses
an innate sovereignty by which it can govern propensities
much stronger than itself. This is equally true of all the other
moral organs, and also of the reasoning. But enough. This
spurious but oft reiterated objection is fully silenced by eithei
of these answers separately, and annihilated by them all col-
MAN A MORAL 3E1 5. 249
leatively. Taken together, they enforce personal accounta
bility and the guilt of wrong doings with a sweep and power
incomparably above all other motives. Nor should we have
digressed—if digression it be—merely to answer this objec
tion, for our aim is self-improvement, not to refute cavillers ;
but have introduced and refuted this objection mainly to make
every reader see and feel that he is guilty—condemned
and sentenced at the tribunal of his own soul—for every
wrong thought, word, and deed. Apologies are not heard at
this tribunal. " The soul that sinneth it shall die." This
principle grasps every human being—for all have Conscien
tiousness—in this moral vice, and arraigns, condemns, and
executes. Escape is utterly precluded : " Thou art the man."
You, and I, and all flesh, are amenable, for every sin we com
mit ; that is, for all our transgressions of all the laws of our
being 6 '. Ay, and punished too. Ignorance is no apology.
Nature imperiously commands all who do not know to learn,
and equally proffers instruction to all, saint and sinner, sage
and savage. All the most ignorant have to do is to follow her
teachings36—and they are palpable as the noonday sun—
and the wisest can know or do no more. And I put the ques
tion to the conscience of every readier, Does not every page
of this work presuppose, and powerfully and practically en
force, personal accountability, and therefore as it were lay
bold of every one of you, and drag you along into the king
dom of self-improvement ? What is our title even ? Is that
fatalism ? Does that imply that what we are we cannot help
being? Does this chapter on Conscientiousness tell you that
you cannot do other than your organs make you ?
Yet, curious as it may seem, the very advocates of rank
fatalism are loudest in their condemnation of Phrenology for
teaching, as they erroneously say it does, this very doctrine
which forms the " pillar and ground of their fai'h." At Man
chester, N. H., the last day of 1S43, I heard a rank old-school
Calvinist, of the Congregational church of that place, preach
on predestination—that all mankind are by nature so very
bad that all they can do is of no avail, but all must be ete!
nally damned except the d ict, and much to the same effect
i 14 : ONSClENTIOT/s.SESS.
He reiterate] the same paralyzing doctrine .n tne evening,
and wound off by exhorting sinners to " make heir calling
and election sure " by " striving to enter in at the strait gate."
That is, he exhorted all to strive because the salvation of the
elect and the damnation of the rest are decreed " from the
foundations of the world," irrespective of all they have done or
can possibly do. That is, he exhorted them to strive with
all their might to "make their calling sure," because it was
sure anyhow—to work like heroes because they could not
do, if they tried, and because if they did do, it did no good.
Yet I was so very a dunce that I could not perceive in his
becauses the least motive for effort, but thought I saw —how
ever, it was probably because I had not sense enough to put
his this and that together—the strongest possible motive for
not doing a thing. As he descended from his exalted station,
I was introduced to him as a phrenologist ; and his first remark,
which he reiterated, was, " I'm afraid of your science, because
it leads to fatalism. It compels bad men to be bad. They
cannot help themselves"—the very doctrine, the one-idea, he
had preached all day long to enforce. " Hypocrite or bigot,"
thought I, " you abhor out of the pulpit what in it you proclaim
as ' the great salvation,' besides accusing Phrenology wrong
fully." No opposition to this science at all compares with
that of these old blue-stocking fatalists, and the head and front
of their holy horror of it is that it confirms this polestar of their
faith ! Out upon such saps or bigots ! Learn more of our
science, or condemn less. But to return.
270. RIGHT DIRECTION . *' CONSCIENTIOUSNESS
That this faculty can become too active, so as to require
restraint, is not averted, but that it can become diseased, and
condemn unnecessarily, and even for things right in them
selves, is an experimental fact. In 1843, a clergyman, in
whom this organ is very large, consulted me, professionally,
mainly to inquire whether he was as wicked as he felt him
self to be, or whether his self-condemnations were unfrunded.
I requested him to specify. He said that mornings aftei
preaching, he often desired to lie in brd, and sometines in
ITS RIGHT DIRECTUM. 245
dulged ; but wher he did so, his conscience rendered him
indescribably wretched ; and thus of many similar things
which he did—for evil thoughts which might enter his mind,
yet were at once banished—and thus of kindred things innu
merable. I asked him whether he usually slept well those
nights before he felt like hugging his morning pillow. He
answered, " No ; the blood courses through my brain, and
my mind wanders to and fro on everything, and is absolutely
uncontrollable, till midnight, perhaps dawn of day." " Then
it is right and duty to sleep mornings, for sleep you must
have," I replied—" and not only so, but many of your other
compunctions result from abnormal and partially-inflamed Con
scientiousness ; that is, this organ is a little fevered or sick,
and should not, therefore, be heeded," and explained the prin
ciple established in69209, and some others, to substantiate this
as a law of things.
Undoubtedly many readers suffer similarly, and from a like
cause—feel conscience-stricken, as though they were all moral
filth and pollution—not because they are so, but because this
organ, being irritated or slightly inflamed, condemns unduly,
and often for what is right. This self-loathing and abhorrence
is still farther increased if Self-Esteem and Hope are small,
and Cautiousness and Veneration large. David Brainard's
and Edward Payson's religious gloom had, in part, this cere
bral cause. Payson called on a friend of the author in Boston,
and before tea was mourning over the sins of the church, and
his own "wicked heart," most piteously. A cup of strong
tea was served him on purpose to cheer him up. He was
very fond of this beverage and drank unusually freely, after
which the church was all right, and he was on Pisgah's fop,
and preached one of his best sermons that evening. The ex
planation is this. His nerves were disordered ; hence his
melancholy "•, anv, of course his moral organs, being very
large, produced religious compunctions. But his strong tea
excited his nerves and exhilarated his moral organs, and hence
his religious comfort and exaltation after it began to operate.
Many pious drinkers of strong tea may see themselves in this
glass if they will look, and many others will find in the prin
21*
240 JO.NSCIE.NTIOUSNESS.
ciple nere involved both the cause and cure of their moral
maladies. If their nerves were healthy their self-condemna
tions would be less, though their sins were the same. Their
self-loathing has a physical origin209. They may not, there,
fore, be quite as sinful as they feel. Besides, even in case they
are, they believe " the blood of Christ cleanseth from all sin."
Lay hold, then, on this promise. After you have repented,
do not indulge these feelings. They are even wrong. Your
privilege, your duty, are to " hope in his mercy." True
religion will render you anything but mournful. Wesley
took the right view of this subject, and inculcated a cheerful
and happy frame of mind.
These remarks show the importance of a right direction,
or an enlightening of this faculty. It is blind, and must be
piloted by intellect, as must all the other faculties401. But
we cannot stop to qualify, farther than to say, that it should
a«t in harmony with the normal functions of all the other
faculties M7—a principle as definite and simple in its detailed
application as universal in its sweep. It should be exercised
in conjunction with reason in particular. The former should
search out the various laws of our being, while the latter
should see that the other faculties render obedience to them.*
* We have dwelt long on this organ—the reader may think too long-
but, so far from having exhausted our subject, the half has not been pre
sented of those most important and most sublime truths it develops and en
forces. Indeed, we have presented no more thau appeared absolutely
necessary to elucidate the importance and means of its cultivation. But
in the author's work on " Natural Religion," 12mo edition, they will be
found fully developed, along with many delightful religious truths, as taught
by the analysis of all the moral faculties. And the author hopes that read
ers will derive so much pleasure and profit from perusing this volume,
as to become readers of that also. But for that work and this hope, these
views would be extended here ; yet their repetition in both is objectiona
ble. Reference is had, n >t to the Journal edition, but to oue every way
(nperior, to be publisfcei some Ibie in the spring or summer of 1847.
FUNCTION OF UOii. 247
16 HOPE
* Springs eternal in the human breast—
Man never is. but atways to be b1est'1
271 DEFINITION, LOCATION, AND FC NOTION.
Expbotati.n; anticipation of success and happiness , >
over-rating prospective good, and under-ratinj or over
looking obstacles and evils ; contemplating the brighter
shades of the picture. Located on the two sides of the fore
part of Firmness S", and back part of Veneration. The line
drawn to'find Firmness M0 passes through it. To represent
its location by cuts is difficult, yet in cut No. 19, or "Firm
ness large and Conscientiousness small," on p. 233, it is small.
Large Hope calculates on more than the nature of the case
will warrant ; expects, and then attempts a great deal ; is
sanguine and cheerful f rises above present trouble by hoping
for better times; though disappointed, Hopes on still ; builds
iome air castles, and lives in the future.
Small Hope is easily discouraged ; expects and attempts
too little ; lacks enterprise ; sees lions in the way ; magnifies
obstacles ; and calculates only on what the other faculties see
how it will be brought about.
272. ADAPTATION AND CULTIVATION.
Man is not the creature of an instant586, but is related to the
past by memory474, to the present by experience, and to the
future by anticipation. He is also adapted to the future as
well as the present ; because what he does at one time affects
him always afterward. He can also appoint future times and
seasons for doing particular things, and by a law of his being
is compelled to wait for the future in order to enjoy the full
fruition of his labors. Nature spreads futurity before him,
and bids him sow that he may reap249. And the more abund
antly he provides for his prospective happiness, the more he
may reasonably expect to enjoy.
This crgan spurs him on to effort, and this contribuies to
success Those who expec.' but little, attempt and accomplish
848 iope.
little; while sanguine anticipations ei large all oit plans, and
redouble all our exertions. But for Hope, the heart would
break, and the hands hang down. Without it, the intense
yearnings of our nature would only torment us with ardent
desires which we could never expect to see realized, and
■hould, therefore, fail to attempt. But now this faculty
enables us to expect what the other faculties desire, and this
inspires us to do, and hence incalculably promotes efficiency
and all our enjoyments.
It should not, then, be allowed to flag, but cultivated. Dis
couragement constitutes no part of man's primitive constitu
tion. So far therefrom, we should " hope on, hope ever."
If we fall, we should not supinely lie there, but should bestir
ourselves and search out some other " peg to hang our hopes
upon." "Never give up the ship." If it storms to-day, to
morrow is the more likely to be fair. And when trouble
lowers and difficulties thicken, the true man will outride the
storm by remembering that " the darkest hour is just before
day," and that his lot, compared with that of many others, is
quite comfortable. I protest against this breaking down un
der discouragements. Never indulge regret for what is irre
trievable. Difficulties throng life's entire pathway, the very
surmounting of which is pleasure to him who is resolute.
Does pondering over misfortune remove it ? Does it not
rather aggravate ? Giving way to" trouble paralyzes effort,
blasts success, crushes the spirits, and blights the soul—how
much, those only know who have given up to " hope deferred."
Few things render js more wretched or paralytic. " Away
with melancholy." "There is a better time coming." De
spondency impairs appetite, diminishes respiration, circula
tion, motion, and all the physical functions, as well as enfee
bles intellect; whereas expectation promotes every- function
of body and mind. Its due exercise redoubles all our pleas,
ures by enabling us to enjoy them twice—in anticipation ai
well as fruition—and often confers far more pleasure in the
former than the latter ; but gloomy forebodings blight present
pleasure as well as blast all the delights of expectation. The
atter should therefore, be unceremoniously dismissed, the
ROPE AND DESPAIR. 24'J
former encouraged. We have something to (k in this world
besides " crying for spilled milk." Pitiable, indeed, are those
who despond. Why ever be dejected ? If we cannot obtain
what we wish, let us try to get what we can. The past is
irretrievable, and unavailing regrets do not bring back what
has already transpired. All that remains is to make the most
of the present Me, with a wise reference to the future.
A few illustrative anecdotes : I asked a fellow-boarder, who
had come to several of his meals bent almost double, looking
as sad and discouraged as K he had been sentenced to the gal
lows, and moving as though twenty-five years had suddenly
been fastened upon him, " How heavy the loss he had sus
tained ?" "About $1,500," said he; "who told you?"
" You told me, not by words, but by your sorrowful looks and
decrepit movements. You were young a week ago, but look
and act old now. What was our conversation a few days
since about making the most of our pleasures and least of our
troubles, and enjoying life as we went ?" I responded. A few
days afterward, he still appearing dejected, I inquired, "How
much of that $1,500 have you mourned back ?" "None."
" Then why continue to sigh ? You could have made half as
much more by this time, but instead, have made the less,
beside having shortened your days by grief," I rejoined ; and
repeat the same to every discouraged subject. Few things
break the health, or talents, or shorten life, equally with a
sunken spirit.
A rich and piosperous man helped his friends till he
failed, when, shutting himself up, he abandoned himself
to gloom and discouragement. Of course, his family soon
came to want, when a poor widow woman brought them
three loaves of bread. The thought that this widow woman,
beside supporting by her own industry herself and little son,
should also earn bread for his hungry children, roused him to
effort. He bestirred himself, found employment, and is now
comfortable, and bids fair to recover his lost fortunes. Words
can hardly portray the influence of encouraged Hope on effort
and all the other faculties, and, of course, on success and
happiness, or the paralyzing power of despondency. He »
-ioO -jope.
weak who yields to it , and the greater the misfortune, the
greater the fortitude with which it should be met. Indeed,
this magnanimous rising above trouble almost converts it into
good-fortune, by those delightful feelings it inspires.
Yet much of the despondency, especially of the sedentary
and invalid classes, is caused, like that of Payson, by elisor-
dered nerves. The reason of this is given in Vol. I. Is6 Let
such remember that their evil 'orebodings are caused not
by unfavorable prospects, but by a state of nervous insta
bility.
And those whose Hope is small, should cheer up ; expect
more; and recount all that is favorable, but not what is unfa
vorable. Bear in mnd, practically, that large Hope would look
out upon the same puspects very differ~ntly—that you behold
them through diminishing and dark-shaded glasses, and hence
should make due allowance.
This faculty should also be cultivated in children. Their
sky is always bright. O I admire their happy, happy frame
of mind. The instant one source of delight is cut off, they
wholly forget it, with a " Never mind that ; this is better."
Take pattern, ye despondents, from them, and let this faculty
be stimulated in all.
273. ITS PUE REGULATION AND RESTRAINT.
ifet it may be, relatively, too active, so as to render its pos
sessor visionary, chimerical, speculative, and liable to lose all
by attempting more than can be accomplished. Such spread
themselves too much. Their splendid prospects have no solid
foundation, but are caused by the magnifying influence of
Hope. Dock off half or two-thirds from what you really ex
pect to obtain. This is all you may reasonably calculate
upon. Bear in mind that you are constitutionally inclined to
overrate every prospect, and to underrate every difficulty.
Besides, you are not contented with the present, because you
think you could do so much better in something else. Hence,
i ever lose a certainty in grasping after an uncertainty. Go
more slowly and surely. Do not try so many experiments,
or enter on sc many schemes In short, pu' intellect, pi'i
A fUTURE STATE. 261
dence, and your other restraining faculties, over against Hope,
and refrain from acting on its chimerical projects.
And let all guard against both excessive and deficient Hope.
Thousands are slaves either to the one or the other. The
former make the worst of their fate, and suffer in the mere
apprehension of imaginary evil ; the latter suffer from wild
extravagances like those of 1836, and thus cause the fall of
thousands of others.
274. A FUTURE STATE.
But "it is not all of life to live, nor all of death to die."
Though death may demolish the earthly tabernacle of the
soul, yet that does not constitute the man, but merely his outer
garment l9. Death ir- not an eternal sleep, but only the door
of entrance upon a new and infinitely higher order of life.
That this is thus, we will not stop to prove, only enough to
found on it a most important inference. See a short but con
clusive proof of this point in "Memory," under Time486 im.
See also a perfect demonstration of it in " Religion," under
Hope, Spirituality, and also Veneration. The same absolute
order of proof is there brought to confirm this immortality of
the soul just adduced under Conscientiousness, to prove that
man is a moral being. Nor is it open to the least doubt, but
rendered certain by absolute science. Yes, man is created
for immortality—a state of being beyond the narrow confines
of earth, and extending down the endless vista of eternity,
infinitely beyond the conception of imagination's remotest
stretch ! And an eternity of happiness, too, if we but fulfil its
conditions. And to an extent, the height, the boundaries of
which the largest Hope, mounted on her loftiest pinions, can
not environ. Oh ! the height, length, depth, and richness of
that ocean of unalloyed bliss proffered to the foretaste of mor
tals by this faculty !
Shall we then be content to confine all our hopes to this life ?
If terrestrial objects had been the legitimate terminus of Hope,
it would have been located by the side of this world's organs—
among the social 01 animal groups—but no : it takes its exalted
position in the ranks of the moral virtues. It is located bv
JM HOPS.
the side of Conscientiousness behind, so that it may look foi
ward to the reward ofgood conduct ; by the side of Spirituality
before, so that, in conjunction therewith, it may hope for a
o.essed immortality beyond the grave ; by the side of Venera
tion above, so that it may hope to see God as he is, and even
to be like him ; and by Sublimity below, so that it may associate
these hopes with the illimitable and the infinite ! He whose
expectations terminate on acquiring wealth, fame, food, fami
ly, friends, or anything which earth can possibly con
fer, falls infinitely short of his glurious privileges and his
exalted destiny M1. As to hope for this world's goods redoubles
our efforts to obtain them, so placing our hopes on " heaven
and heavenly things " increases our attainments in that holiness
which fits us therefor. Then why grovel ? Why crawl when
we can soar ? ay, even on the wings of angels, and to th&
realms of bliss ! No, we will not trifle thus—will not forego
the treasures of heaven for the paltry gewgaws of earth.
One word of consolation to those who mourn the loss of
dear children or friends. The withering influence of blighted
affection on Adhesiveness has already been specified m. It
equally blasts Hope. I will not stop to prove, but merely
state as a summing up of my observations, that mourning for
lost friends diminishes Hope. Yet such diminution necessarily
deteriorates and palsies a,s, and is therefore wrong. But
though the death of promising children may blast earthly
prospects, yet it need not blast this faculty ; for we may hope
to meet them in another and a better world. And what are
even a score or two of years compared with eternity ? We shall
soon see and unite with them, and may encourage Hope by
preparing ourselves for this blessed fruition, so as to save out
hopes from becoming wrecked—so as even to devel >p Hope,
instead of suffer from its decline.
FUNCTION OF SPIRITUALITY. 258
17. SPIRITUALITY—MARVELLOLVSNESS.
** God is 'a Spirit"—M Without faith it is impossib1e to see Ood."
275. DEFINITION, LOCATION, AND FUNCTION.
Intuition; faith; prescience; spiritual perception of
truth, what is best, what is about to transpire, etc. ; the
"inner light;" perception and feeling of the spiritual;
credulity ; belief in the superhuman ; and trust in divine
uuiDiNGS. Located on the two sides of Veneration.
Large Spirituality perceives and knows things independ
ently of the senses or intellectual faculties, or, as it were, by
spiritual intuition ; " feels it in the bones ;" experiences an
internal consciousness of what is best, and that spiritual com.
munion with God which constitutes the essence of true piety ;
loves to meditate ; bestows a species of waking clairvoy
ance ; and is, as it were, " forewarned of God."
Small Spirituality experiences little of this state of mind,
and believes only on actual evidence; is incredulous—a
doubting Thomas ; and not favored with this intuition and
iremonition.
276. ADAPTATION AND CULTIVATION.
That there exists a spiritual state of being, and that " God
is a Spirit," are matters of universal belief; and that man is
endowed with an immaterial principle—an undying soul—
which sees and knows by intuition, irrespective of material
eyes or reason, is to many an experimental reality, a con-
scious fact. But for some such faculty, man could form no '
more conception or idea of anything not material, 2r of any
thing spiritual, than the blind of colors. But for it, the idea
of God as a Spirit, of the immortality of the soul, or of ar.
immaterial, disembodied spirit, would have been absolutely
impossible. But man has these ideas. The fact has also
recently been philosophically demonstrated in Germany, that
in certain states of the nervous system subjects do see by a
kind of spiritual sense, independently of vision. Clairvoyance
also establishes the same conclusion by another method of
£54 SPIRITUALITY.
proofs; and in almost every community will be found those
who a;e forewarned of coming events, and who arrive at cor-
/ect conclusions independently of reason, and often in its very
eeth, without knowledge, and, contrary to all appearances, by
impressions better felt than described, yet in strict accordanco
ivith what subsequently occurs. Believers in the Bible will
at least admit the existence of this spiritual guide in the
teachings of the " Holy Spirit," the prescience of the prophets,
plenary inspiration, the existence of spirits, of the soul after it
leaves the body, and much more to the same effect.
Man, moreover, requires some such faculty to teach him
things which reason can never know, because they depend
on contingencies yet untranspired, and which this spiritual
vision alone can disclose. And with this vision, which the
sun cannot enlighten nor thick darkness intercept—which sees
with the optics of angels, and gathers pearls from the ocean of
illimitable existence, which distance intercepts not and which
reads the book of fate before time breaks its seal, which
reveals to man what shall be hereafter, when the earth has
become old and the sun gone out—man is endowed. But our
purpose being simply to show how this faculty can be culti
vated, we will not dwell upon the proofs of its existence, but
refer the reader to our work on "Natural Religion," both for
such proof and a full elucidation of its function. Suffice it to
add, that no mental faculty was created in vain ; that the cul
tivation and right exercise of each one confers a great amount
of happiness ; that the moral in particular require such exer
cise, in order that they may maintain that supremacy so indis
pensable to human happiness and virtue211 ; and that there
fore Spirituality should, in a special manner, be developed by
culture. And the more so since it is so universally deficient
In not one head in hundreds does it reach mediocrity, and,
excepting Continuity m, is decidedly the least developed of
any other organ. Yet nature evidently designed it to be one
of the very largest.
The exercise of no other fills the soul with such a flooe
?f holy, happy emotion. Believers in the immortality of the
tsoul rightlj maintain that disembodied spirits are capable of
BEING t:-IRITU.<.t.nY-MtNDE; 255
oeing inconceivably happy, and that the joys of hearen are
of an order, as well as degree, i.ifinitely higher than those of
earth Why ? Because this spiritual state so infinitely ex
alte and enhances our capabilities of enjoying, as well as sea
sons those joys. Consequently, the more we exercise thia
spiritualizing faculty, the more we sweeten even the pleasure*
of earth with th''s seasoning of heaven.
This faculty, moreover, so purifies the soul as to redouble
many times over, every pleasure, even of earth ; so exalts the
mind and all its appetites and passions, as to dispose and en
able us to see God and love him, in all the works of his
hands, as well as imparts a heavenly relish, zest, and exqui-
siteness to the domestic affections, to all the animal propensi
ties, the intellectual operations, and especially to the moral
virtues, which words utterly fail to portray—which, to be ap
preciated, must be felt. Yet this is felt only by the chosen
few. Man is yet too low in the moral scale to derive much
pleasure from this faculty ; but, reader, there is proffered to
mortals, in its due exercise, a holy joy, a heavenly serenity, a
delightful communion with the Father of our spirits—even an
extasy of divine love—which is akin to the felicity of angels—
which actually constitutes that felicity. Heaven " is not far
from every one of us." We need not wait till we reach its
shores, before we taste its nectar. This spiritualizing prin
ciple imports them to earth—at least sufficient to sustain
us in our journey thither, and create an appetite—yea, a hun
gering and thirsting—for " the bread of heaven and the water
of life." O little do we realize how happy it is possible for
us to become on earth, by the due exercise of this faculty, in
communing with our own souls and with our God! By so
doing we can mount Pisgah's soaring heights, and " view the
promised land"—can be literally translated to paradise, and
revel in all its spiritual luxuries. Heaven is around and
within those who duly exercise this heaven-constituting
faculty.
Accuse me not of imaginative rhapsody. All this, and
much more, is sober, philosophical deduction on the one hand,
and experimental reality on the ither. This sublime truth
«66 SFia.TUALITV.
will not be appreciated by the many, because of the .ow state
of this faculty ; yet the "spiritualiy-minded" few will feel the
sacred response in their own souls, and all who will inquire at
the shrine of their inner man, will experience enough to con
firm the witness.
To two classes of facts in corroboration of this great prac
tical truth—the exalted enjoyment conferred by spirituality-
special attention is invited. That religious conversion often
fills its subjects with an indescribable rapture of love and
"joy in the Holy Ghost," is an experimental and observable
fact. This extasy is not counterfeited, but felt. Many
readers are doubtless its living subjects ; and it so infinitely
exceeds all the other joys of life as to beggar all attempts at
description. Now this joy consists in the exercise of their
faculties—the only instrumentality of happiness of mind—and
especially of the moral, all of which are greatly quickened.
But this heavenly rapture is not the product of Benevolence,
or Conscientiousness, or i>e, or even Veneration, mainly,
but of that spiritual exaltation of mind we are attempting—
almost in vain, because it so infinitely exceeds the language
of earth—to depict. The former help swell this flood of holy
joy ; but the latter constitutes its channel, and the main body
of its holy waters. And these heavenly extasies of recent
converts, are but as new-born babes compared with the angelic
raptures it is possible for mortals to experience. Progression
is nature's motto"1. Personal progression, especially in
moral excellem e, and therefore in all its joys, is the glorious
prerogative of every human being M!. Then why cannot
these converts go on " from glory to glory," every successive
year and hour of life, till heaven consummates their joys 1
And why not all be equally happy ? But why enlarge 1
The principle involved must be apparent to all, and its per.
sonal application to our own souls palpable. Now this extasy
af joy must have both its cause and its instrumentality ; both
which are found in Spirituality.
Sometirr 3s these foretastes of heaven soften the dying bed.
Nor do thfy wholly forsake tfie walks of private life. Every
one of us have only tc read, forth our hands and pluck thia
PURIFYING INFLUENCE*,. 267
golden apple of :a:adise, and feast on it through life. Then,
besides enjoying a heaven below, we sha 1 be ripened for a
heaven above. Beat .n mind that all this is but rigid scientific
deduction from the normal function of Spirituality, though
that function no previous phrenological author seems to have
appreciated.
The other class of facts appertains to a certain delightful
state of mind consequent on a pure, holy, heavenly tone or
state, capable of being experienced by all the propensities and
feelings. Examples will best illustrate this point. The low,
vulgar, animal, sensual indulgence of Amativeness, confers a
similar coarse-grained kind of gratification, yet how infinitely
more happifying—to coin a new word—that spiritual love
experienced by two kindred souls when basking in the sun
shine of each other's love, and sipping the nectar of heaven
from this flowing-together of spirits ? Approbativeness also
experiences a coarse species of pleasure in the rude ha ! ha !
provoked by some monkey prank, or by excelling in eating,
fighting, wrestling, and the like ; yet how far higher the order
of pleasure taken in commendations for intellectual and moral
excellence ? Self-Esteem, too, may experience a crude, coarse
grained pride in exhibiting its golden possessions and external
trappings, yet how infinitely higher the order of pleasure ex
perienced by this faculty in view of that dignity and glory of
the human constitution ? M1
This law also governs all the intellectual faculties. Phys
ical observation gratifies Individuality, but moral infinitely
more. Causality experiences a lower order of pleasure in
adapting physical ways and means to physical ends, yet how
almost infinitely greater in studying and applying those high
er laws which appertain to intellect, morals, and the Deity !
In short; a physical, and also a highly-elevated, tone or caste
of actio i appertains to all the faculties, and the order as well
as amount of happiness experienced in the latter are almost
infinitely higher than in the former. Now Spirituality lifts
all the faculties up out of this sublunary function, and carries
them on its own heaven-tending pinions into this exalted and
most beatific state; and thus, i: addition to all the delights
26b SPIRITUALITY-.
conferred by itself d.rectly, almost infinitely exalts and en
hances the happiness conferred by all the other faculties.
And now, happiness-seeking reader, allow this home ap
peal. Are you content with this animal tendency of your
faculties 1 Do you not experience a perpetual " aching
void," which this world is utterly inadequate, as it was never
designed, to fill ? Are gold, and silver, and lands, all the
treasures for which you long ? Do you not experience an in
definable want which nothing earthly has the power to satisfy ?
You eat material bread, but does that satiate your inmost
soul ? Do you not hunger and thirst after " meat to eat
which you know not of," except the merest taste—just enough
to show you what there is ? O our God ! feed us with " this
bread of heaven !" We starve—our souls are pining and
dying—in the desert of vain pursuits. O feed us on the
grapes of paradise till we revive and gain strength to entv
the " promised land !"
The importance of cultivating Spirituality is, of cours*
commensurate with these antepasts of heaven it was calcu
lated to bestow. Shall we not exercise it? Yet we must
not expect to carry heaven in one hand and earth in the other.
" No man can serve two masters." " Where our treasure
is, there will our" joys be also. We cannot revel in this
gross animal caste of our faculties, and also in their holy aspi
rations. If you are contented to go on as heretofore, your
way is before you. Advice is useless. But ye who would
renout.ce this coarse-grained function of your faculties, and
feast on the riches of heaven instead, hear. To experience
these holy joys, this spiritualizing faculty must be culti
vated And to do this, put off this worldly phase of all your
faculties and exercise them in accordance with this analysis
of Spirituality.
Above all, meditate. Commune with your own soul and
your God—not at times " few and far between," nor hurriedly,
but daily and long. Shut the terrestrial door of thy soul, and
open its celestial windows, and there give thyself up to spirit-
ual reveries. Let thy soul go out after God, and imbibe his
spirit. Feast on hi& love. Contemplate his character as
MEDITATION. 259
exhibited in his works. Assimilate and attune your feelings
and innermost soul to his divine likeness'261. Wrestle with
fiim as did Jacob. Put away all unclean thoughts and de
sires, and long after purity and moral perfection. Yet you
need not shut yourself up in the dark. Natural light does
not Intercept but promotes spiritual. The open canopy of
heaven, cultivated fields, deep, still forests, flower, bedecked
lawns, murmuring brooks, beautiful or magnificent land
scapes—above all, the rising and setting sun, morning and
evening twilight, the glowing east, the gold-tinged sky of de
parting day—O there is a magic spell in these works of God
which inspires us with a sense of his presence, and infuses
into the soul those spiritual longings and emotions we would
show how to cultivate. If I had been brought up a Parsee,
I should have been a devout worshipper of the morning sun,
and offend up soul-melting homage to the departing god of
day.
But, glory to God, I can worship the Creator of the
sun at his morning advent and evening departure. Memory
cherishes with inexpressible delight some choice gems in its
casket, but none as bright as those sacred seasons, when, at
evening twilight, I went into wood, dale, or field, to meditate,
and hold sweet communion with the Father of my spirit. To
these holy seasons I owe eternal thanks, as both the happiest
and most profitable periods of my eventful life. There I
learned lessons taught nowhere else—taught by God himself.
These holy seasons the cares of the world, pressing profes
sional engagements, etc., have been wickedly allowed to inter
rupt, yet not to efface from memory's sacred tablet. My
soul must be fed with this manna from heaven, though my
body starve. Reader, shall we not go forth at evening twi-
light together, and gaze upon the ever-varying beauties and
glories of Vesper to think on heaven and God, and to seek
that conformity to his image which shall fit us for its joys ?
And shall we allow dull sloth to rob our souls of Aurora's
nmile« as she comes forth to light up the face of nature ? 138
Shall oirds arise with the dawn and sing anthems of praise to
their God, and we not to ours—especially since we have so
i80 -SPIRITUALITY.
much more for which to sing? Nor is the sts f canopy of
heaven so inferior a temple for divine worship.
Yet I by no means condemn the earth, its comforts, or its
blessings. We need not cease to indulge our worldly facul
ties on terrestrial objects in order to attain these spiritual
pleasures. The animal instincts are not at enmity wu». this
spiritual state of mind, but, rightly exercised, actually pro
mote it. We may love food and property, friends and praise—
may exercise every other faculty, not by stint, but intensely,
without in the least interrupting Spirituality. Indeed, we can
not exercise it without exercising them also. We may— .
must—love this world, " yet as not abusing it." We must
not love it in predominance, but subordinately. And love it
'n connection with our moral faculties. Indeed, by this union
alone can we truly enjoy it. He whose whole mind is on the
world, does not, oannot, enjoy even it. To derive its full
quota of happiness from any one department of our nature,
that department must blend in action with all the rest208.
We cannot possibly love the world too much, only wrong
fully. Yet our animal faculties require to be sanctified by
the conjoint action of the higher faculties211. By "not carry
ing earth in one hand and heaven in the other," was meant,
making an idol of earth—loving it exclusively, or on its own
account. Neither without the other. Both in delightful con
cert m . Yet we all love the world too much, relatively, and
hence give it most of our time, and can hardly spare from it
an hour, morning and evening, for those meditative seasons,
even after we have given the entire day to our animal nature.
The body was never made to engross nineteen-twentieths of
human time and money24*. Our higher faculties are the su
periors, and if either must be slighted, neglect the body. Yet
there is time for both. Let us take it.
But the cultivation of this faculty is by no means limited to
these appropriated seasons. Every hour of the day, be our
avocations what they may, be we in sequestered wood, or
thronged, uproarious city, this feeling can be and should be
exercised, in addition to its morning and evening repast.
Especially can it be cultivated - by following its premoni.
FOLLOWING ITS GU:CNGS. 361
tions. Man usually turns a Joaf ear to its whisperings, and
hence it ceases its guidance. Follow where it leads and it
will lead again, and, obeyed, become a spiritual monitor in all
the little as well as important affairs of life. Especially let it
be followed in the selection of matrimonial companions.
Here, allowed to speak, it becomes an infallible oracle ; and
especially when it says, marry this one, or refuse that, obey,
no matter how much appearances, friends, etc., favor the lat
ter or war against the former. Every union thus formed will
be blessed. More especially should woman obey its sacred
matrimonial injunctions.
The existence and analysis of this faculty rebukes those
*vho pride themselves in believing nothing till it is proved.
*.t was not created in vain, and cannot be stifled with impunity.
We require to believe many things which intellect cannot
'each. We should open all the windows of knowledge.
•Still, we should believe nothing unreasonable or self-contra
dictory ; for this faculty will never conflict with intellect.
On the contrary, all the faculties harmonize with all. Its
'cachings may be above reason, but will never conflict with
it. While, therefore, we should receive its teachings, we
should also " try the spirits," and seek intellectual confirma
tion of its teachings, which, if they be correct, we can always
find. We should therefore be neither skeptical nor credulous,
out should open our minds to receive new and apparently su
perhuman propositions, yet should test them all in the crucible
of intellect. By rejecting all new and seemingly strange
things, we shut out much truth ; and by swallowing all we
hear, unexamined, we adopt much error.
What has been already said involves both the i.nportance
and means of cultivating this faculty in youth. They should
lie allowed time, and encouraged to indulge its spontaneous
tendency to action, and by so doing, will csow up "spiritually
minded." Mothers, in a special manner, can and should de
velop it in youth, nor will any other means equally cleanse
/our children from the dross of animality, )r render them
obedient, sweet, and holy.
262 7ENERATI0N.
277. TS DUE REGULATION.
Fear of ghosts, witches, and other supernatural things, is
the product of its perverted action, and should not be indulged.
Especially, never tell spook stories o children. But out
analysis of the faculty shows what phases of it are abnormal,
and hence require to be checked. Yet for a full elucidation
of this faculty, and a presentation of those blessed truths
which such analysis teaches, the reader is again referred to
" Natural Religion," by the author.
18. VENERATION.
*- Worship God."
278. DEFINITION, LOCATION, AND FUNCTION.
Devotion, adoration of a Supreme Being; reverence for
religion and things sacred ; disposition to pray, and observe
religious rites. Located in the middle of the top of the head.
It is large in " Father Oberlin"—as seen in the great rising
of his head above his ears, and elevation of the middle por
tion of his top head—but small in the cut of a negro, executer.'
VENERATION SMALL.
No. 21. Negro Murderer.
for murder, who was almost devoid of this sentiment, in him
Spirituality was also small, and hence that depression across
the middle of his top head. But it is very large in Diana
Waters, who went about the streets of Philadelphia deranged
on religion for twenty vears, praying spontaneously most of
ITS LOCATION ilND TVNCTJON. 263
the time, exhorting all others to pray, referring everything
to the will and providence of the Lord, etc.
VENERATION LARGE
No. 22. Diana Watfrs.
VENERATION LARGE.
No. 23. Father Obeelin.
La roe Veneration experiences an awe of God and things
•acred ; loves to adore the Supreme Heing, espev.'ally in liis
USA VENERATION
works; gives true devotion, fervent piety, .nd love of chrino
things ; and takes great delight in religious exercises.
Small Veneration sets lightly by religious creeds and obser
vances ; places religion in other things, such as charity, hon
esty, etc., and is not serious or particularly devout.
279. ADAPTATION AND CULTIVATION. -
That there is a Supreme Being, all nations and ages havo
believed, all nature attests, and Phrenology demonstrates, by
pointing out the existence of a primary faculty of the human
soul adapted to his worship. As the existence of the eye and
its adaptation to light presupposes and proves the existence of
light ; of Causality that of laws ; of Language that of words ;
and thus of all man's other primitive powers—as the adaptation
of one thing in nature to another presupposes and implies the
existence, past or present, of that to which it is adapted—so the
existence of this primitive element of mind implies and com
pletely demonstrates the existence of a God adapted to re
ceive the homage this faculty is constituted to experience.
Nor can this proof be invalidated. It is absolute. It has
but two conditions—the existence of this worshipping faculty,
which Phrenology establishes—see "Natural Religion"—and
the other that the adaptation of one thing to another implies the
existence of the latter—an indisputable ordinance of nature.
The existence of this worshipping faculty proves that it
should be exercised. No faculty was created for naught.
None can lie dormant without creating a great mental hiatus,
which nothing else can fill, and which enfeebles and deforms
the whole mind. How absolutely necessary to human perfec
tion the possession of lungs, heart, muscles, and other physical
organs ? And what would a mind be, destitute of Friendship,
Parental Love, Prudence, Ambition, Moral Principle, Obser
vation, Language, Reason, or any other primitive faculty ?
So maimea as to be hideously deformed, and almost de
stroyed. Proportionally defective those whose Veneration ia
umall, and perfect in whom it is large.
It also, like all the other faculties, contributes incalculably
to human enjoyment, both in its own action, and by enhan-
ITS INFLUENCE ON HUMAN HAPPINESS. 265
oil., and sanctifying that of all the others, as Spirituality was
shovn to do. It chastens rampant propensity, develops in bold
relief all the virtues, and even sanctifies and enhances intel
lect. Those who do not love God and his worship are com
parative strangers to that extasy of enjoyment of which hu
man nature is capable. Veneration is that moral luminary
which imparts light and warmth to all the other moral ele.
ments, and these are the planets of the satellite propensities2".
Exclude its genial rays, and darkness which may be felt su-
i 3rvenes throughout the soul, which retards the development
o" all its other powers. But let all its generous emotions be
thawed out by the beams of true devotion, and how they bask,
and grow, and thrive, in its quickening rays! "The unde
vout astronomer is mad," and the irreverent comparatively
frigid. We were all created to worship God, as much as to
eat or breathe, and neglect either at our peril, but exercise the
former or the latter " with exceeding great reward."
Veneration also powerfully restrains abnormal propensity,
and aids Spirituality in securing that elevated tone of all the
animal, intellectual, and moral powers, so promotive of enjoy.
nent276. What more effectually checks boiling passion than
.he thought, " Thou, God, seest me ?" What can stimulate to
self-improvement equally with the love for that bountiful bene
factor who bestowed all these transcendent gifts ? Who can
love God supremely, yet cheat, lie, hate his neighbor, swear,
gormandize, debauch, or commit any gross sin ? And when
temptations entice, and resistance fails, what overcomes
"easily-besetting sins" equally with fervent prayer? An
abiding sense of the Divine presence is the natural antagonist
and antidote of depravity ; nor till the propensities have
warped or else stifled Veneration, can they who truly love
God deliberately sin.
Veneration also opens the mind to the reception of universal
truth. The passage—"If any man lack wisdom, let him ask
of (tod, who giveth liberally"—means something—means that
frayer cultivates an intuitive perception of truth276. This
oint product of Veneration and Spirituality is facilitated by
their juxtaposition. That w« should unite charity with wo*'
28
26* VENEARTION.
ship, is taught by ihe juxtaposition of Veneration with Bener.
lence, and that we should consider such worship d solemn
-duty, by the near residence of Conscientiousness.
Veneration is also located nearer than any other organ to
that " seat of the soul," '" or grand centre of the nervous
system which receives all impressions and issues all edicts.
This organ lies directly above this " holy of holies," so that
its delightful action may maintain the most perfect inter-rela
tion with the inner temple of mind. Hence, love and worship
of God diffuse throughout the entire brain and nervous system
a holy spell, which sanctifies them all, and sheds an indescrib
able exquisiteness throughout mind and body. The patriarch
mentioned bottom of page 31, in answer to the question,
" Are you more happy, or less so, now, than formerly ?"
clasping and raising both hands devoutly, exclaimed, " O yes,
I'm so thankful now—I did not use to be—and this makes
me so happy !" The beaming countenance and eloquent
extasy with which he uttered " SO happy," showed how much
more happy this gratitude rendered him than tongue could
tell. Mark : it was his additional thankfulness which so en
hanced his joys. He added, that " for those daily blessings,
formerly considered matters of course instead of subjects of
gratitude, his soul now overflowed with inexpressible thanksgiv
ing, and therefore delight." I replied : " But you have lost all
your property, most of your friends, several children, and
three wives, and now, lone'y and feeble, are obliged to earn
your precarious subsistence by daily toil"—here he inter
rupted me with : " All this is nothing. O He is so infinitely
better to me than I deserve. I love him better and better
every day I live, and it makes me so happy !" His love of
God rendered him thus happy, because it was an exercise of
Veneration, the proximity of which to the great nervous
centre"1, charged both body and brain with its own divine
electricity.* Veneration is the great central organ of the
* Disordo.' f the nerves produces a tenderness on the top of the head,
at Veneration, because this great nervous centre is in the middle of th«
brain, right below this organ, and hence cause, as in Braiuard, Payson
•tc., religious gloom—a beautifiil converse f the doctrine of the .tit.
TS ABNORMAL ACT. PIT. 267
head—and in the middle of the top head The other moral
organs cluster around it, so that as it is they become, and as
they are, so is our happiness. How absolute our proof, that
even the animal faculties, to produce enjoyment, must be
sanctified by the moral 2" . And in order that the moral may
govern the animal, the latter must be stimulated and elevated
by Veneration. By a law of things, then, this love of God in
the soul is indispensable to human happiness, which it incal
culably promotes. This, reader, is the sacred key of the
inexhaustible store-house of human enjoyment and personal
perfection.
The converse of this law shows why to rebel against God
causes such complete misery. A woman in Philadelphia,
a member of Dr. Tyng's church, indulged by father and
husband in whatever she wanted, however trifling or unrea
sonable, cursed and blasphemed her Maker most impiously
for taking away her son while he spared other children, and,
consequently, was a perfect personification of agony ; because
when Veneration takes on an abnormal action, it produces
as much pain of mind and body as its normal exercise does
pleasure, and for the same reason—its proximity to the seat
of the soul m. This law also explains and causes that awful
state of their minds who fight against their religious convic
tions, as well as the extatic joys of those " converts" who
yield to them. O that this law were duly understood and
practiced—that this joy-creating faculty were intensely and
universally exercised. Why should infidels pride themselves
in their infidelity any more than skeptics in their unbelief'.' *"
Do not both, in neglecting to exercise two important faculties,
violate a fundamental law of the mental economy, and of
course incur its righteous penalties ? Let them ; but let ua
" worship God," and secure all these blessed rewa1 Js of
obeying it.
How, then, can a faculty thus weighted with enjoyment be
cultivated ? By its exercise. And how exercised 1 By
contemplating and adoring God. As food excites Appetite ,
property Acquisitiveness, danger Cautiousness, and thus of all
the other faculties 8ls, so loving God for his infinite perfections,
jMJ8 veneration
and thanking him for his loving kindness, excite and of course
enlarge this faculty, as do also "keeping the fear of God
always before our eyes," and " whether we eat or drink, or
whatever we do, doing all to his glory." We should contem
plate him as ou Fathrr, not as an austere autocrat ; " for
God is love.' His goodness is infinite. His loveliness
what terrestria: words, what celestial, even, can express ?
Has he capacitated us to become infinitely happy here ' s * and
hereafter*74, and created us in his own image?261—does he
allow himself to be entreated of us and promise us to "see
and be like him"—and shall we not thank him with our
whole souls, and love him with all our might, mind, and
strength 1 How can we help exulting perpetually with adora
tion and praise 1
Shall not those, then, in whom Veneration is deficient, strive
assiduously to cultivate it ? O reflect on his gosdness to you,
to all, and you will spontaneously adore him tlirefor. By a
daily, hourly, perpetual thank-offering alone can it be culti
vated "*-.
The fore part of this organ probably respects men, reveres
antiquity, and produces conservatism. Superiors should there
fore be respected, and reformations shoulo be gradual, not
violent. Republicanism is now so abused as to savor strongly
of lawlessness. We should all treat our fellow-men with due
courtesy and deference, venerate the aged, and yield obe
dience to our country's laws.
A faculty thus promotive of human virtue and happiness
should by all means be cultivated in children. The most
effectual means of doing this is to be devout before them.
This, family devotion, if sincere instead of formal, and ren
dered inviting instead of repulsive, facilitates. Yet it should
be so conducted as to make them love the family altar—by
no means a difficult matter. If they hate it, it injures them
by searing Veneration. Religion cannot be crammed down
them by force. Render it delightful, and you thereby gain
unlimited power over them, and most effectually develop
all their moral facu ties ; of which more at length in oui
summary.
IN YOUTH. 269
Mothers, in particular, can and shoujd dfcve.op this faculty
in their children, by praying with and for them, and pointing
nut to them the goodness of God. But agains- this aweing
them in view of his sovereignty, and making them fear him
as a stern tyrant, Phrenology utterly protests. It says they
should be induced to love him ; but how is it possible to love
what we fear ? Is telling them that he is an arbitrary despot,
or what amounts to this, the way to win them over to devotion
and goodness ? Children hate tyrants—-are compelled to—
and will therefore hate God just as far as he is represented as
an austere sovereign. More infidels have been made by pre
senting this odious as well as erroneous view of his character,
than by all the infidel lectures and prints in the world.
Nor can the minister or Sabbath-school duly develop this
sentiment in children, because they rarely see the former, and
fear him when they do, and attend the latter only one hour
per week ; whereas this faculty requires daily food, as much
as their bodies 2M. And even this hour is too often spent in
teaching some ism which cramps instead ofdeveloping devotion.
Why must every sect have its Sabbath-school ? To teach its
own tenets. This is the .main perpetuity of sectarianism.
And then this rigging youth off in gaudy fashions to parade
the streets, as puppet-shows, is most pernicious"9. Still,
though parents send their children to church and school, yet
they themselves must develop their Veneration, or it must
lie dormant. We have already proved that they must educate
their own children Ml "", and to nothing does this law apply
equally with religious education, the importance of which is
paramount. Were Sabbath-schools conducted ever so well,
still parents, in becoming parents, place themselves under the
most solemn obligations, from which theie is no discharge, to
develop their children's moral affections. That these should
be paramount, is a cardinal doctrine of this work, and another
is that parents must educate their own children22', and of
course develop their moral faculties. As far as Sabbath.
schools furnish parents an excuse for neglecting this duty,
they are most injurious. In infants, Veneration is small.
Children should also be taught to respect superiors, and
23*
870 BENEVOLENCE.
bow to the aged. We too generally allow them to grow
up almost impertinent. Our institutions rather favor in
subordination, if not rowdyism. This tendency should be
counteracted.
280. RESTRAINT AND DUE REGULATION.
Veneration cannot be too large, yet may be perverted—
indeed, generally is. Most of our religion is spurious— a
libel on the character of God and the duties of man, and a
public curse instead of blessing. Wherein, need not here be
shown, but will be seen in " Natural Religion." Indeed,
this chapter presents but a limited view of this vitally impor
tant subject—only enough to enforce the importance and
means of cultivating Veneration, without developing any of
those delightful inferences which grow out of a full view of
religion as taught by Phrenology. This view that work will
contain. It is especially important that youth be taught the
true religion.
19. BENEVOLENCE.
"It Is more b1essed to give than to receive."
281. DEFINITION, LOCATION, AND FUNCTION.
Kindness ; humanity ; desire to make others happy ; an
accommodating, neighborly spirit ; sympathy for distress ;
a self-sacrificing disposition ; philanthropy ; generosity.
Located between Veneration578 and Human Nature. It is
very large in Gosse248, but small in Gotfried.
Large Benevolence delights to do good, and gladly makes
personal sacrifices to render others happy ; cannot witness
pain or distress ; and does all it can to relieve them ; counter,
acts selfishness, and manifests a perpetual flow of disinterested
SOODNESS.
Small Benevolence allows the other faculties to trespass
upon the rights of others ; is callous to the woes of others ;
does few acts of kindness, and those grudgingly; and allows
•a- '"'shness.
ITS LOCATION.
BENEVOLENCE LARGE
S71
No. 23. Gossk.
BENEVOLENCE SMALL
No. 24. Gotfried.
372 BENEVOLENCE.
282. ADAPTATION AND CULTIVATION
Happiness is the one constitutional product of humanity—
of creation—the only legimate function of every organ and
faculty of man, of all that is or can be - " *.
Nor is divine goodness . he ulterior end of all things merely ;
but this happiness-creating element is also found stamped
upon the human soul. Man is both a sentient being, capaci
tated to enjoy and suffer individually, and also so inter-related
to his fellow-man, as to be capable of enhancing the happi
ness and diminishing the miseries of mankind. If he could
experience neither pleasure nor pain, or if all were isolated
from all, so that they could neither communicate nor receive
good, Benevolence would have been out of place. But it so
is, that man can both enjoy and suffer, and also promote the
happiness and assuage the miseries of his fellow-men, and of
brutes.
To this ordinance of nature, Benevolence is adapted, and
adapts man. Without it, man would be perfectly callous
to the sufferings of others, and hence comparatively unre
strained from causing pain, and even taking life, which Com-
bativeness and Destructiveness would prompt him to do, where
as this faculty makes him shudder to cause suffering or death.
Without it, our world would be one vast Golgotha of anguish.
Not one good Samaritan would be found in all its borders ,
but this humane element dresses wounds caused by violateJ
law, and pours the oil of consolation into the troubled soul.
Nor can words express the amount of human happiness which
flows from the exercise of this faculty. From no other foun
tain of human nature more. Great as are the moral virtues—
justice *», faith m, hope m, and devotion 279—the greatest of all
is " charity." It is to the human character what the benev-
olence of God is to the divine—the final goal to which all the
others tend '.
It also blesses giver " even more " than receiver The ex
ercise of our various powers confers all the happiness we can.
experience, and none more than this faculty. Its exercise, in
the very nature of things, renders its jtossessor happy, while
TELLING . HE PIOR. 273
selfishness interdicts one of the most exalted itjoyments of
our being. Hence, though all our faculties should be culti
tivated, Benevolence, more than almost any other, should be
in constant action. Shall God promote the happiness of all
his creatures, in every work of his hands, and shall not man,
too, be " co-workers" with him ? Shall we receive a constant
outpouring of every conceivable means of enjoyment from
him, and shall we not do by others as we would that God
should do by us ? Allowed to be partakers with him in this
glorious work of disseminating happiness, shall we not accept
the divine proffer ? An example thus set us by Infinite Good-
ness, shall we not follow ? Even in order to secure our own
happiness we must seek that of others. " Blessed are the
merciful, for they shall obtain mercy."
And that we may never lack opportunities of doing good,
" the poor we have always with us." Yet how negligent are
we of the duty we owe them ! We have indeed provided poor-
houses for them ; but many will suffer most direfully before
they will consent "to come upon the town." Such are often
the most deserving, and should be sought out and aided in
some delicate way, which shall not wound their pride. Pub
lie institutions can never take the place of private charity.
We must do good in person, and from love of it—must feed
the hungry, clothe the naked, visit the sick, and scatter hap
piness wherever we go, with our own hands. This alone
exercises Benevolence, and secures 'ts reward.
Yet we can often do great good without giving money.
We can frequently help the poor far more effectually by help,
ing them help themselves, than by direct donations. Indeed,
the latter way is by far the best. The Quaker method of
supporting their poor is as efficacious as admirable, and should
supersede poor-houses. Employment should be furnished to
those who are able and willing to work, and they paid liberal
wages. This taking advantage of their necessities to "grind
their faces," is outrageous. Rather pay them over than under
the real worth. Let those who own land give the needy an
opportunity to raise their own produoe, and thus encourage
industry. This giving to mendicants of whom you know
474 BENEVOLENCE.
nothing, often subjects the donor to imposition, as well aa
injures iecipients, by furnishing them with the means of get
ting drunk, and the like. There are always enough whom
we know to be deserving.
The London Times, after arguing the utter folly of attempt
ing to feed all their poor by donation, urges one most noble
suggestion—that those gentlemen's immense parks, now ren-
dered comparatively unproductive by being kept for hunting-
grounds, be made accessible to the poor, so that they can
raise thereon the necessaries of life. To prevent the tillage
of land while human beings are starving for what they would,
if allowed, raise upon it, is utterly wrong. The earth is the
common birth-right of all God's children. Every member of
the human family has an "inalienable right" to food244, and
the means of procuring it—that is, if he cannot attain -it
without, to the use of as much land as will give him his
"daily bread." This fencing in land from the famishing, for
pleasure-grounds merely, and putting in the pocket of exclu-
siveness deeds of thousands of acres on which to speculate, is
an outrage on human rights—is robbery on a great scale. As
well speculate in the air of heaven, and let those suffocate
who cannot buy it at exorbitant profits ! Buy the privilege
of living ! Western " squatters" are right. The public
lands should be free to occupants. Grant this, and we should
have no poor, for it would render produce cheap and wages
high-
Planting fruit-trees by the wayside, and in unoccupied
land, and allowing the poor to gather their own fruit, and sel.
the balance for grain, would subserve a similar end ; but of
this in "Natural Religion." Providing for the necessities of
the poor would also banish most crimes, as well as wretched
ness, and thus save the enormous expenses of courts, prisons,
and lawyers. Poverty is a prolific parent of robbery, bur
glary, murder, etc. ; and a generous public spirit and provi
sion for the poor would both remove all excuse, and also bind
all so cordially to all, in the strong bonds of brotherly love,
as effectually to suppress most forms of wickedness. Kind
ness will convert the most hardened into good members of
THE UBLIC LANDS. 875
society. The selfishness of society provokes most r>f those
outrages on its laws and peace which we try to arrest by pun.
ishment, but in vain.
Public pleasure-grounds, and as much community of interest
as possible, will also facilitate this result. Let the grasping
rapacity of the rich be interdicted, and a general good feeling
between all classes take the place of existing animosities and
impositions, and crime would be almost banished. We begin
at the wrong end. Men can be coaxed to be good better than
driven. But of this, also, in "Natural Religion."
Especially should professing Christians, like their great
Exemplar, " go about doing good." But do they ? Should
such ride in splendid carriages, live in princely palaces, amass
fortunes, and then despise their poor fellow-beings, because
of their poverty ? Away with this I-am-better-than-thou-
because-I-am-rich Christianity ! Hot ice is not more impos
sible than for such to gain his favor while they violate
every doctrine he taught, every practice he enjoined. On
the day of Pentecost " they had all things common," and
" went from house to house breaking bread and giving alms."
Would that we had more Christianity and less pretension.
And let us all do whatever good we can, in all the walks of
life—not merely by relieving human wo, but especially by
that kind, humane conduct and carriage which this faculty
always produces.
Yet acts of individual charity by no means constitute the
widest or most profitable field for the exercise of this faculty.
Men have minds as well as bodies. We can often benefit the
rich even more than the poor. Nor by condolence mere
ly—often a source of great relief and comfort—but by ee-
torming them. Mankind, from being thus wretched, are des
tined to become inconceivably happy. Every evil is to be
done away, and every human power to enjoy developed. Thii
progressive doctrine pervades our work. But all this is to be
brought about by means. And those means must be used by
men. These are the largest fields in which to exercise Be
nevolence—fields all whitened for the harvest. Individual
charity only lops off now and then a twig of the great tree of
278 BEISi -CLSKCfc.
human' wo. We jan and should lay the ax at the root.
Thus, though feeding and clothing a few of those wives and
children brought to want by intemperate fathers and husbands,
may do good, yet to prevent this misery-generating traffic, and
render the inebriate temperate, would do infinitely more ;
because the labors of the reformed father would then pro
vide for them far better than private donations, and at the
same time render them inexpressibly happy in the restoration
of their father and husband to their affections. Nor should
we slumber over such public misery-breeders, but resolutely
attack and demolish them. And thus of many other evils,
and their causes.
Our world is full of like causes of depravity and wo. And
these causes must be removed. And every one of us is un
der a moral obligation to do all we can to obviate them. To
sleep over this glorious work is sinful ; to engage in doing it
is the greatest privilege of mortals. And to do it, men require,
more than anything else, a knowledge of the causes and cure
of their miseries ; and we should all embrace and make every
possible opportunity for obtaining and diffusing this knowledge.
The glorious field of human reformation, now all white for the
harvest, we should all labor with our utmost endeavors to
gather. But more of this subject in " Natural Religion."
Special pains should of course be taken to develop, by con
stant cultivation, so important a faculty as this in the young.
It is small till about the second year, because nature will not
spend her energies in developing it till they are old enough to
do good with it ; but from two years old upward it becomes
one of their most prominent organs. Hence they should be
pleasantly requested to do those numberless little errands and
favors which so effectually promote the happiness of all around
them, and in the doing of which they take so much pleasure.
They delight ir action, and love to oblige, and these little runs
gratify both. Their natural pleasantness and good-nature,
and that gushing fountain of disinterested Benevolence which
flow forth in every action and feature of lovely childhood,
and shed so much happiness on all around, should by all
"aeans he encouraged, both for their own sakes and that, when
IN THE YOUNG. 277
grown up, they may 1 less a'l around by their goodness instead
of curse all by their selfishness. To secure so desirable a
result, various simple yet efficacious expedients may be de
vised, among which kindness to thej: stands first. Benevo
lence excites Benevolence^"; so that every favor you do
them, provided your manner is also kind, awakens this divine
sentiment in them. Evince a deep and permanent interest in
their welfare, and a disposition to gratify them whenever tc
do so is proper, and, depend upon it, they too will always be
good to you and to all around them.
Also encourage liberality in them, and see that their gen
erosity is amply rewarded. Give them things, and encourage
their sharing them with each other. Especially show them
how much more they enjoy what they divide. When they
refuse to give, show them how unhappy their selfishness ren
ders them. Give them a full supply, so that they shall not
want, even if they are liberal. Be generous to them and they
also will give freely ; but stint them, and they will give spar
ingly and grudgingly. Mothers especially should improve
those thousands of incidents furnished by their plays foi
developing this faculty.
Above all, take special pains not to let them witness animal
butchery. Send them from home killing days, if such days
must come. Yet many boys are allowed even to go from
home to witness it. At first they always shudder at the sight
as something most horrible 42 43, and so it is235. A girl in
whom Benevolence is large, on seeing a calf going to be
slaughtered, besought her father to buy it in order to spare
its life, which he gratified her by doing. She never allows
herself to taste animal food, because its consumption aug
ments its slaughter, the thoughts of which she cannot endure.
Nor should adults sear their Benevolence by witnessing or
perpetrating such slaughter, because this arraying Destruc-
tiveness against Benevolence, blunts the latter4"17. The na
turally large Benevolence of a friend of the author, who
resided near a place of animal torture, was so wrought up by
their piteous groans, and by the blows with which they were
beaten while dying, so as to make .heir meat tender, that h«
24
17% . BENEVOLENCE.
finally remonstrated with the butcher, but to no effect. At
last, he threatened to make him groan if he heard any more
such bellowings in his yard, and in a manner so determined
as to put a stop to them. He would not suffer his own Benev
olence, or that of his family, to be thus calloused.
Shooting birds is, if possible, still worse ; because, though
their sufferings are short, yet such wanton destruction of these
happy, harmless songsters, sears the gunner's Benevolence.
Hunting birds exerts a most pernicious and hardening influ
ence on boys. Besides, why deprive us of the pleasure of
listening to their sweet warblings ? They also preserve vege
tation by devouring worms. Probably, an abundance and
variety of birds would destroy the insect of late so detrimen
tal to the wheat, potato, and other crops. Wrens, when bee
hives are elevated, go under them mornings, and consume
that fatal enemy of these sweet-collectors, the worm. All
wanton destruction violates Benevolence, and must therefore
be injurious in all its effects. He is practically inhuman who
" needlessly sets foot upon a worm."
If it be objected, that to kill wild and noxious animals,
hawks included, is necessary to human happiness, the answer
is, that nature causes them to retire at the approach of man ;
and this saves the wear and tear of Benevolence in killing
them. Still there is less, if any, objection to their destruction ;
but robbing harmless birds of life, just from love of killing, is
most barbarous.
283. RESTRAINT AND DUE REGULATION.
Though this faculty cannot be too powerful, provided it is
rightly directed, yet it is often exercised most injudiciously, so
as to do much more harm than good. How many have failed,
ruined their creditors, and beggared dependent families, by
lenJing, endorsing, and yielding to sympathy, in opposition to
judgment ? How much more good they could have done by
spending their money otherwise ! Those who solicit help most
urgently, too often deserve it least. Give, but let it be judi
ciously. But never endorse. If you have a surplus, give it
outright, and lend only what you can afford to lose. Rather
OONSTRUCriVENESS. 279
give Vo the needy than lend or endorse, except in extreme
cases. Govern this faculty by intellect, and be iust before
being generous.
20. CONSTRUCTIVENESS.
" Man is a tool-using animal."
284. DEFINITION, LOCATION LARGE, AND SMALL.
The making instinct and talent ; manual dexterity in using
tools ; ingenuity ; sleight of hand in constructing things,
and turning off work, or whatever is done with the hands ;
disposition and ability to tinker, mend, fix up, make, build,
manufacture, employ machinery, and the like.
Large Constructiveness loves to make, and gives an excel
lent practical idea of the best mode of constructing things,
as well as manual skill and dexterity in executing all kinds
of work, writing, drawing, sewing, folding, managing ma
chinery, packings, and whatever we do with our hands. It
also relates to the construction of ideas in sentences, dis
courses, and works.
Small Constructiveness is deficient in these respects, awk
ward in manual exertion, fails in understanding and working
machinery, writes and uses tools bunglingly, and lacks mental
as well as physical construction. Located two inches for-
ward, and one upward of Ami'^itiveness *".
285. ADAPTATION AND CULTIVATION.
Everything which is, is made. All nature is one vast
workshop, and all things in and on the earth are the manufac
tured wares of the great Maker of the universe. And the
skill and ingenuity displayed in every work of his hands are
indeed infinite! Everything constructed in the test possible
manner to subserve the great end of its creation. Every
organ perfect in formation and function, and located just where
it can execute its mission to the best advantage ! Behold the
infinite mechanical perfection oi the eye, ear, lungs, heart !
480 constructh eivess.
How infinitely minute yet perfect the capillary ramifications
of blood-vessels, glands, nerves, muscles, fibres, etc. ! How
inimittbly perfect in invention and execution the mechanism
of the human body ! Nothing superfluous. Nothing wanted
but is supplied. Its functions, how numerous, how complica
ted, how efficient ! Ye: every one of them effected by kame
instrumentalitt, for nature never works without tools.
Though we do not understand a hundredth part of those con-
trivances employed throughout the human body, yet what we
do understand is worthy of all admiration.
The Infinite Mechanist of the universe has also stampeo.
upon all his works certain mechanical laws, which are gen
erally self-acting. Of this the heart, lungs, stomach, and al.
jur physical functions furnish examples. They " whistle
themselves" in their growth, their various functions, and their
decline.
This self-acting principle doubtless moves the earth, sun,
and stars through their immense cycles, and both generates
and applies the power required to propel such huge masses
with such mighty velocity and precision. The Newtonian
theory is probably incorrect. The true one will doubtless be
found to proceed on certain simple yet efficient mechanical
principles—to embrace a self-moving and self-regulating
law of perpetual motion. That principle undoubtedly exists
•n nature, and will yet be discovered and applied by man—not
by any arrangement of machinery, but by the generation and
combination probably of some application of those two forces—
self-attracting and repelling—which constitute magnetism,
light, heat, galvarism—all the same—and which produce
growth, and probably constitute the motive power of universal
nature.
But however perfect all that physical mechanism of nature
which attaind ends so countless in number and promotive of
happiness, yet all this is nothing compared with the mechanism
manifested in the construction of the human mind. Here, all
attempt? at description only beggar it. None but the profound
phrenologist ct n comprehend its beauty or perfection, nor
Me only begiw. I admire the works of God—full of the
ITS OFFICE 1ND CULTIVATION. 281
divinity of their Infinite Author. But thou, O mind ! excellest
them all. Think of it. The creation of an immaterial,
immortal, sentient, and thinking entity, capable of all the
varied emotions, desires, and operations we perform, and in
such almost angelic power ! O, thou Maker of heaven, earth,
und the human soul ! thy works, like thyself, are indeed infi.
nite! And thy last, thy most perfect. "Here the whole
Deity is shown.'
Man, too, is e .dowed with this making instinct and capa
bility. Constituted so as to require houses, garments, tools,
agricultural, mechanical, and other implements, as well as
machinery, without this faculty adapted to such requisition,
he could never make a single article, nor do anything what
ever with his hands. But with it, the farmer, mechanic, and
laborer execute every stroke with the hammer, saw, ax,
scythe, and every other tool used by man ; the builder con
structs houses and palaces; the machinist invents and con
structs labor-saving machinery of all kinds, and therewith
makes all sorts of fabrics and articles of comfort and luxury ;
and even compels water, wind, and steam to become his work
men. Behold that floating palace ! See her plough the
mighty deep, perform her prescribed voyages, and even outride
that terrific gale ! Every breeze, from whatever quarter,
propels her forward. . The very winds are her servants. See
the innumerable machines all over the land, executing all
sorts of labor for the comfort of man. Behold the human face
divine transferred to canvass and the Daguerrian disk ! How
beautiful, how necessary, he possession of this faculty of
man ; and how innumerable and great the good it confers !
A faculty thus promoti\e of human happiness should of
course be cultivated. The idea that none but mechanics
require this element, is a great mistake. Every human being
uses it, in all to which he puts his hands. All farmers and
workers in any and all sorts of manual occupations ; all mer-
chants in putting up, taking down, cutting, packing, folding,
and wrapping their goods ; all who use the pen in making
letters and words ; all who frame books, essays, paragraphs,
or si itences; all who speak in publio or converse i. privatet
24>
883 CONSTRCCTIVENESS.
or even t.iink or feel ; all who do anything! in whatever thej
do, as well as mechanics proper—all mankind, rich and poor
wise and foolish, old and young—require and use this construct
ing instinct and capability. All should therefore cultivate it-
artists, mechanics, operatives, and workers, that they may
excel in their respective pursuits—and still more those who
would live by or enjoy their mental powers.
Skill in the use of tools is of incalculable value to all. It
will enable them to execute many jobs, trifling and important,
which they can do for themselves better than any one else can
do for them.
Its cultivation will also greatly facilitate that muscular ex
ercise shown in " Physiology" to be indispensable to health and
talents1™"91401431". On this account, if no other, the rich
should perform some kind of manual labor daily. But we
need not repeat.
A good chirography—a plain, easy, and rapid formation
of letters and words—is of great utility in all stations in life,
and is secured in part by Constructiveness, and should be cul
tivated by all. And to acquire this, drawing should be taught
along with writing. Both consist in transferring forms to
paper, and greatly aid each other. In fact, reading, writing,
and drawing, are virtually one, and should be taught together.
On this point, Hon. Horace Mann, State superintendent of
Massachusetts' schools, says, in a report of visits to schools in
Europe : " Such excellent handwriting as I saw in the Prus
sian schools, I never saw before. I can hardly express myself
too strongly on this point. In Great Britain, France, or in
iur own country, I have never seen schools worthy to be com
pared with theirs, in this respect. This superiority cannot be
attributed in any degree to a better manner of holding the
pen, for I ' never saw so great a proportion in any schools
where the pen is so awkwardly held. This excellence must
be referred in a great degree to the universal practice of
drawing contemporaneous!)' with learning to write. I believe
a child will learn both to draw and write sooner and with more-
ease than he will learn writing alone. In the course of my
'x,ur, I passed from countries where almost evory pupil in the
TOOLS FOR CHILDREN.
.school could draw with ease, and most of them » til no incon
siderable degree of beauty and expression, to those where
drawing was not practiced at all, and I came to the conclusion
that, with no other guide but the copy-books of the pupils, I
could tell whether drawing were taught in school or not."
Mr. Mann adds: "Drawing, of itself, is an expressive and
beautiful language. A few strokes of the pen, or pencil, will
often represent to the eye what no amount of words, however
well chosen, can communicate. For the master architect,
for the engraver, the engineer, the pattern-designer, the
draughtsman, moulder, machine-builder, or head mechanic
of any kind, all acknowledge that this art is essential and
indispensable. But there is no department of business or
condition of life where this accomplishment would not be of
utility."
This faculty should of course be cultivated in children.
In them, this organ is usually large, and faculty active, and
hence their fondness for hammers, nails, knives, and tools.
This tool-using propensity should be indulged, and they en
couraged to make and use kites, wind-mills, mill-dams, water-
wheels, bows and arrows, cross-guns, miniature sleds, boats,
railroads, steam-engines, etc. Instead of this, when boys
draw pictures on slates, in place of ciphering, they are scolded
or chastised. Let drawing be encouraged. I would give a
handsome proportion of all I am worth to be able to draw ac
curately, so that I could sketch and draw, exactly to suit me,
such phrenological heads and illustrations as I often meet in
real life ; whereas now, I am compelled to obtain but few, and
then to trust to artists who do not understand phrenology.*
Furnish children with tools. Let them have knives, and be
encouraged to whittle, carve, make sleds, wagons, etc., and
even have a shop of their own, supplied with tools with which
to tinker. And this is doubly important to those who are del
icate, as a means of strengthening their muscles, drawing the
* The importance of combining a knowledge of Phrenology with the
arts, especially with portrait painting and engraving, is very great, and
too apparent to require comment. In a few years erery artist must bo
k. phrenologist, or be nut of employ
284 IDEALITY.
blood and energies from their heats to their muscles, and
equalizing their circulation.
28G RESTRAINT AND DUE REGULATION
Whenever this faculty encroaches unduly on our timo ot
other duties, it should not be indulged. Many have spent
their all in fruitless endeavors to invent perpetual motion, and
many others rendered themselves wretched by spending time
and money on inventions which never amount to anything.
Large Hope combined with large Constructiveness still far-
ther enhances the evil by promising great success without any
solid foundation.
But the most important direction, after all, is never to make
anything not useful. All the Deity makes is beneficial ; and
all we make should subserve an excellent purpose, else it is
not worth making.
21. IDEALITY.
287. DEFINITION, FUNCTION, AND LOCATION.
Perception and admiration of beauty and perfectio
good TASTE ; REFINEMENT J PURITY of feeling ; PROPRIETY Oi
conduct and expression ; elegance ; gentility and polish of
manners ; imagination ; the ideal of poetry, eloquence, and
romance ; pure and elevated aspirations ; longing after per
fection of character, and desire to obviate blemishes, especially
moral.
Large Ideality appreciates and enjoys beauty and perfec.
tion wherever they are seen ; especially admires these quali.
ties as found '.n nature ; is characterized by purity and pro
priety of exprtssion and conduct; gracefulness and polish of
manners and good taste in all its departments ; and has a per-
ception and manifestation of beauty and perfection throughout
all the actions and mental operations. It is to man what the
beauty of the flower is to the flower, or the perfection of any
thing te to the thing itself; and adds a charm, beauty, and
ITS OFFICE AND CULTIVAT ON. 28£
exquisiteness, to the entire human being, as much superior to
that with which it crowns the flower, as humanity is superior
to inanimate nature. It " finishes off" its possessor, com-
plete3 and perfects humanity, smooths down the rougher
points of character, and beautifies and adorns all he does and
says. To consistency of opinion, and harmony and perfection
of conduct, it is indispensable. It gives general consistency,
propriety, perfection, correctness, and naturalness, or normal
ity, to all the feelings, actions, opinions, and mentality.
Small Ideality is plain in feeling and manners ; home
spun ; inelegant; wanting in propriety ; and the converse of
Ideality large.
Located over the temples, and an inch above Construct-
iveness m. It is small in John Locke H1, but large in
Shakespeare MS.
288. ADAPTATION AND CULTIVATION.
All nature is one vast galaxy of beauty. Perfection of
structure, function, and adaptation characterizes all her works.
The flower-bedecked lawn, the meandering stream, the blos
soms of spring, the glories snd the harvests of summer, the
beautiful and delicious fruits of autumn, the silvery moon, the
rising sun, the glowing west, tinged with the mellow hues of
departing day, the star-spangled canopy of heaven—all are
redolent with beauty—all glow with divine perfection ! Ani
mated nature, still more beautiful ! Man, the most beautiful
and perfect of all. Behold his majestic mien, angelic form,
ind face glowing with health and irradiated by the soul
iivine !
But while. all nature glcws with beauty nexpressible, and
is crowned with perfection such as none but a God could cre
ate, it remains for the human soul to complete the very oli-
max of all terrestrial beauty and perfection. Infinitely per
fect is the nature of man I261
Nor is this beauty hidden from the sight of mortals. So
far therefrom, man is endowed with a primary mental faculty
adapted thereto, and capable of revelling therein. But for
some suel faculty to put him in relation with this array of
286 I EALITY.
Deauty, the latter would be a perfect ,.lank to all mankind—
as much so as colors are to the blinc. No son or daughter
of humanity could possibly have perceived its existence, much
less tevelled in its delightful contemplation ! Nor could any
have hungered or thirsted after self-improvement, cr longer
for perfection of character, or purity and elevation oi feeling
Bui, infinite thanks to the Giver of all good, He has graciously
endowed man with this perfecting sentiment in the inventior
and creation of Ideality. He has first arrayed all nature—
jur own natures included—in one grand halo of exquisite
beauty and infinite perfection, and then adapted man thereto,
by having implanted in his soul this power to tecognize and
enjoy these qualities. Ideality confers this capacity ; and un
speakable are the pleasures it is capable of bestowing. It
purifies, refines, and elevates the soul—creates a longing after
perfection, intellectual and moral, and a disgust of sin, because
debasing and corrupting, and thus inspires us to labor and
strive for moral excellence, and eschew the polluting touch of
depravity.
Its location upon the borders of the moral group, indicates
that it was designed to exert an important moral influence on
character. It does. In criminals, confined for gross offences,
it is usually small. It so chastens Combativeness as to take
away its harshness and roughness, and smooth off the resist
ance it offers. Thus, 'et it be small in one of two debaters,
and large in the othei, the former will come out rough-shod
upon his opponent, and be grating, denunciatory, harsh, per
haps vulgar, in his tirades—in short, will be the coarse black
guard—while the latter will be keen, caustic, and cut to the
quick, yet do it all up genteelly, and thus come off victor.
Similar remarks apply to its influence over the affections,
wnich large Ideality polishes and refines, and thus prevents
impropriety, while small Ideality allows Amativeness to as
sume a more gross and sensual character ; and thus' of all
the faculties. Indeed, its influence in promoting virtue and
moral purity is hardly excelled by any other faculty.
How important, then, its cultivation ! How boundless, how
exquisite the range of enjoyment it proffers ! How promotive
ITS CI L1IVA7I0N. 887
»f even a preparation for the purity and glor ' of Heaven !
Let. us all, then, set at once about its improvement. To en
large it, it must be fed ; and to feed it, we must contemplate
beauty s1s—the beauties of nature in particular, because those
of art are infinitely inferior to those made by God. Let us
give a few moments, as the glorious sun is rising upon the
world, to that revery of this faculty which his approach natu
rally inspires. Let us, as he sinks to rest, suspend our tem
poral avocations, to cherish this divine sentiment. Let us
study botany, and often admire those beautifully painted
flowers which " Solomon in all his glory" could not equal ;
seek yonder eminence in order to drink in the glorious scenery
below and around ; admire beautiful birds, decked in golden
plumage ; observe the gorgeous rainbow ; and, above all,
cultivate the society of those who are endowed with this sen
timent, as well as avoid the company of the coarse and vul
gar. We should also read books the style of which is finish
ed and sentiments elevated, especially good poetry ; cultivate
a taste for the fine arts ; practice personal neatness and ele
gance ; express ourselves with beauty in conversation ; and
perpetually imbibe and admire this sentiment from nature's
inexhaustible stores of beauty and perfection.
Few things chasten the grosser manifestations of the pas
sions, or elevate the soul, more than the study of nature.
How perfect, beautiful, exquisite, throughout ! And yet her
beauties are comparatively a sealed book to most of her chil
dren, because they have no eyes to read, no time to contem
plate them. Above all, the society of refined and pure-
minded woman, beautiful in form, charming in manner, and
accomplished in conversation, is calculated to excite and
develop this purifying faculty.
Nor should the cultivation of moral perfection be omitted.
It should even constitute the great object of all our self-per
fecting efforts. We should strive to obviate every imperfec
tion, every flaw in our characters and conduct, and labor with
all our powers to develop by culture the inimitable beauties
and perfections of human na ure in general, and our own in
particular.
288 IDEALITY.
To cultivate this important element in youth, to not allow
them to go shabbily clad, but keep them as nice and clean as
may be. Call their attention frequently to the beauties of
nature, and discourage all kinds of coarseness and vulgarity ;
but encourage gentility and refinement.
289. ITS DUE REGULATION.
Tnis faculty is often perverted ; and when so, causes much
mischief. Few faculties require right direction more. That
most pernicious passion for novel-reading, which diseases the
tastes and perverts the feelings of so many youths, in parf
springs from abnormal Ideality. Against such reading, Phre
nology loudly protests. Their characters are not natural, but
distorted. They do not teach human nature a tithe as well
as observation of men and things, or the study of Phrenology.
Above all, they unduly excite and pervert the social affection,
and kindle fires of love which should be allowed to slumber
till preparation for their legitimate exercise in marriage is
made. Youth, especially those of warm feelings and arden.
imaginations, are warned against this nerve-destroying and
pasyion-perverting practice. To young females it is especially
injurious. Besides, these love-stories are not exactly proper
subjects with which to imbue their minds.
Another great perversion of this faculty consists in neg
lecting natural beauty for artificial. Art may be beautiful as
far as she imitates nature—and this is not far—yet, in gen
eral, artificial beauty falls infinitely below natural, and many
things in art called beautiful, are most deformed—a fashion
ably attired, and especially corseted, and padded, and painted
female, for example. Art is beautiful only when, and as far
as, she follows nature ; but the fashions depart wofully from
this standard, and are therefore palpable violations of this law
of taste.
Fashionable attire is exceedingly liable to beget artificial
manners, and thus render its would-be-exquisites most awk
ward and ridiculous in their carriage and style of conversa-
ion. Dancing-school manners are especially exposed to thit
FUNCTION AND CULTIVATION Of SUBLIMITY 289
pensurt Nature is always beautiful. Follow her and vou
will always be in good taste.
Children should be kept as near as possible to the natural
ness which always adorns them till laid aside for art—should
be induced to move, play, talk, everything, without any jffort
at gentility. Especially enamor them of natural beauty and
perfection. This requisition for naturalness is especially ap
plicable to speakers, most of whom spoil their efforts by
affectation.
B. SUBLIMITY
290. DEFINITION, LOCATION, AND FUNCTION.
Perception and love of the grand, splendid, awful, v/ar,
TOWERING, ENDLESS, MAGNIFICENT, ILLIMITABLE, and INFIX TK.
Located between Ideality M7 and Cautiousness 2M.
Large Sublimity fills the soul with sublime emotions on
beholding rugged, towering mountains, foaming, dashing,
roaring cataracts, a storm at sea, lightning's vivid flash, ac
companied by loud peals of thunder, the commotion of the
elements, the star-spangled canopy of heaven, or any other
manifestation of Almighty power.
Small Sublimity is comparatively unaffected by these and
kindred phenomena.
291. ADAPTATION AND CULTIVATION.
Infinitude characterizes every work of the Almighty.
Thus, space is illimitable *5 ; the duration of time from ever
lasting to everlasting486; the number of the stars, and of
natural objects, infinite m; the power of causation absolute
and omnipotent*"; in short, every species t>f science, every
department of nature, is " without a bottom or a shore." To
this infinitude of the Almighty and his works, Sublimity—a
more appropriate name for which would be Infinitude—is
adapted, and adapts man. And certainly its exercise, beside
filling the soul with most delightful emotions, imparts an e*.
pansiveness of tiews, a grandeur of conception, a range and
25
*60 IMITATION
sweep of idea, a compass and volume to thought and exprei
sion, without which no adequate conception of truth, nature
or God, can be formed.
It should, therefore, be assiduously cultivated by the exer.
cise of those emotions with which it inspires us. We should
contemplate sublime scenery, all exhibitions of this principle
in nature, and above all, the infinitude of God, as manifested
throughout his works. The Sublimity of the young should
also be developed by similar means.
292. REGULATION.
This faculty is less perverted than most others. Occasion
ally it renders the style of speaking and writing rather sopho-
morical by employing too much hyperbole, and using too
many extravagant and rather bombastic words and expres
sions, which young speakers and authors sometimes require
to restrain, or at least to chasten.
22. IMITATION.
293. DEFINITION, LOCATIO> LAROE, AND SMALL.
Ability and disposition to imitate, copy, take pattern, da
what we see done, mimic, etc. Located on the two sides of
Benevolence281. It is large in the accompanying cut of Clara
Fisher, whose imitative powers are generally known as being
extraordinary ; but small in that of Jacob Jarvis, whose Be
nevolence was remarkable, but whose copying powers were
weak.
Large Imitation evinces strong propensity and ability to
copy, and do things after any pattern set by others ; is liable
in walking, speaking, gesticulating, etc., to adopt the pecu
liarities of others ; and can describe, act out, and perhaps
mimic, draw, and the like.
Small Imitation fails in these respects ; does not conform
to the manners and customs of others ; is original ; and adopts
his own way instead of patterning afler others.
THE COF' NG INSTINCT, *9J
'WITAli^N LARGE.
Na. 26. Clara Fisher. No. 27. Jacob Jarvis.
294. ADAPTATION AND CULTIVATION.
To take pattern—to do as others do—is as natural to man
as breathing. But for this copying instinct, man could nei
ther talk nor write, both of which consist in imitating one
common mode of articulating and forming letters and words ;
and all learn to speak their mother-tongue, whether English
or Arabic, Chinese or Indian, because they copy the manner
of speaking from those around them. Man also copies me-
chanical and other inventions, and thus all discoveries and
improvements become disseminated and perpetuated illimit
ably; whereas, but for this faculty, all new inventions, how
ever useful, woul 1 be confined to, and die with, their authors,
and human advancement precluded ,os. But for this faculty,
every human being would be obliged to originate everything
he did, and his mode of doing it, in business, science, me
chanics, and even all the trifling affairs of life. Indeed, how
could man exist—what could he do or become—without it ?
We also copy opinions and practices, and maintain a geneial
conformity to each other, every way conducive to humas
happiness.
292 IMITATION.
A facult) thus promotive of personal and general progres
sion and enjoyment, should, by all means, be assiduously cul
tiv^te'd. This can be done only by its habitual exercise
We should therefore imitate whatever in others, will make us
better. But mark : This faculty is located, not among the pro.
pensities, but between the intellectual organs before, the moral
behind, and Constructiveness below, so that we should never
copy the vices of men, but only mechanical and other improve
ments, correct opinions, and above all, their moral virtues.
All their valuable adaptations of ways and means to ends—.
and these are many—as well as all their correct intellectual
conclusions—the juxtaposition of Imitation and Causality
requires us to adopt. The proximity of Constructiveness and
Imitation facilitates our copying all inventions and improve
ments, in making and using tools, machinery, and the like,
and in all the arts and sciences. The location of Ideality by
Imitation disposes us to copy all matters of taste, in manners,
expression, refinements, the fine arts, etc. ; and the near resi
dence of the moral organs enjoins on us to copy whatever of
goodness and moral excellence we find among men ; yet none
can be too careful what they copy, of wnich, however,
presently.
In children this organ is especially large, and hence they
copy almost everything they do and become from those around
them. But for this, their progress would be very slow, and
their conformity to persons and things around them very
slight. But with this faculty thus spontaneously active, how
soon they learn to talk—which consists in expressing their
minds as others do—in short, how soon they learn to do and
be as others do and are. It is really astonishing how quicks
and correctly they adopt the manner and everything of those
around them.
Proportionally careful should we be what practical copies
wo set them. " Example goes farther than precept." Thoy
do not do or become what they are told to, but like otheks.
Scold them, and they will scold one another. Be mild and
sweet, and they will pattern after your aniiableness. Swear
in their hearing and the} wil swear, not so much becausr
IJW22 OF EXAMPLE ON YOUTH. 293
they feel wrauflil** as because, monkey-like, '.hey do what
you do. So of smoking, and a thousand other pernicious hab
its. Express yourself well or ill in conversation, and they
will imitate you m m iX. AnJ thus of everything you say,
do, and are.
Parents should therefore be what they would have their
children become. R?ly not on what you command them to
do, but on what you are. Your actions speak a thousand
times louder than words An accurate observer can soon
tell, on seeing any family of children, how the parents con
duct. The former are but images of the latter, reflected in this
mirror of Imitation. A single bad example will neutralize a
thousand wholesome precepts. Hence the rapidity with which
vices spread among youth as well as adults. O, parents, be
entreated to mark and practice a principle thus vitally import
ant. First set about the correction of your own faults, and
the cultivation of your own virtues, and, without saying a sin
gle word to them, you will render them like yourself. Never
mind them or their faults—probably copied from you. Say
nothing, but set them right examples, and you will be sur-
prised how sudden, how great a change this will produce.
" Whatsoever ye would that they should do unto others, do ye
even so unto them."
Above all, never punish them for doing what they see ycu
do. Yet how often is this outrage on their nature perpetrated !
You wash your hands or clothes, and your children follow in
your footsteps. You keep doing, yet tell them to stop; but
they keep on, and you punish. For what ? Simply because
they yielded obedience to this powerful imitative propensity
of their natures. And thus of a thousand other things in life
equally innocent. As though this propensity were wrong !
What would they be without it ? Chastise yourself for setting
the example—not them for spontaneously following it. For
nothing, however bad, which a child patterns after, shouk' it
ever be punished. All you need to do is to correct the
examples set them. And many wrong things they say and do
just as parrots say " Pret y Polly," and mean no more by it.
And many cf the smart t ingr 'hey do and speak-words thev
25*
264 IMITATION.
use &i4 simply copies made by them, not signs of any extra
genius. Very simple indeed if they could not.
295. ITS DUE REGULATION THEATRICALS.
Rightly to exercise this faculty, therefore, becomes a most
important matter, both in forming our characters and those
of our children. If we would adopt a good style of delivery,
we must listen to and copy good speakers, and thus of writing,
manners, and almost all we do and say.
Yet we cannot be too careful not to copy their faults along
with their excellences ; because we naturally imitate those we
admire, and their blemishes as well as beauties. In nothing
are nice discriminations more requisite, and accordingly Com
parison is located close to Imitation. This organ imparts that
action to speakers which Demosthenes said constituted the
first, second, and third elements of oratory. It also gives
expression, or suits the action to the word. In both these
respects, pattern after none but good speakers, and then only
their excellences. Thus ofstyle. One of the ancient authors
copied Herodotus many times over, in order to acquire his style.
Viewed ip this light of setting examples, which the masses so
naturally follow, how responsible the station of public men !
I often tremble, as I write and lecture, for fear that my faults
as well as excellences may be copied, arid .herefore put you,
reader, on your guard.
Especially let us all pattern after good men and women.
As the moral virtues constitute the highest order of human
excellence and endowment u1 2W m m m, let us copy them
wherever we find them. Yet those fashionable an 1 aristo-
cratical grandees, who assume to lead off the public mind,
are of all others the last to pattern after. I repeat, no one,
especially no young person, caii be too careful whom and
WHAT THEY IMITATE.
Theatricals are the legitimate product of this mimicking
faculty. Shall they be patronized ? Undoubtedly they might
be so conducted as to become great public benefactions, but
as now managed, their influence is unequivocally bad. Still,
those who deplore their evil teHencies should labor to cor.
"\
MIRTHFULNESS. 296
eect them, rather than to demolish the theatre altogether-
should, as they can, turn it to a great practical advantage in
enforcing morals, instead of allowing it to remain in present
hanJs. The theatre must live as long as man exists, because
it is founded in a natural element of the human mind. De
stroyed it can never be, any more than hunger, or any other
natural or legitimate product of any other faculty. All that
remains is to sanctify, and rightly wield its mighty power for
good. Yet I unequivocally disapprove of them as now con.
ducted. Especially I warn the young against them.
23. MIRTHFULNESS.
" Laugh and grow fat."
296. DEFINITION, LOCATION, LARUE, AND SMALL
Intuitive perception of the absurd and ridiculous ; dispo
sition and ability to joke, make fun, and laugh at the im-
PBOPER, ILL-TIMED, UNBECOMING, etc. J HUMOR ; PLEASANTRY J
facetiousness. Located backward from Causality Ml, and
forward of Ideality 78. It is large in the accompanying ex
cellent engraving of Joseph C. Neal, the witty author oi
" Charcoal Sketches," and many other most humorous as well
as sensible productions, and now editor of " Neal's Saturday
Gazette," one of the most entertaining and useful family
papers n this country.
Large Mirthfulness enjoys a hearty laugh at the imperfec
tions and absurdities of others exceedingly, and excels as
well as delights in holding them up to merited ridicule; makes
fun out of everything not exactly proper or in good taste ; and
is always ready to give as good a joke as it gets.
Small Mirthfulness fails to perceive its own exposures to
ridicule, or those of others, and neither enjoys nor can return
a joke, but is cut down if laughed at.
297. ADAPTATION AND CULTIVATION.
Man, though perfect by constitution, is not so by cultiva
tion o» conduct. On thr contrary, he is full of weaknesses
386 MIIiTHFlf.N'ESB.
■ISTHrULNESS LAB3I.
No. 28. Joseph C. Neal.
and absurdities, consequent on the perverted, excessive, ant
deficient action of his faculties 208 m. To his consequent er-
rors and imperfections this laughing faculty is adapted. It
is a kind of Junius, or public censor. All those manifesta
tions of all our faculties not in accordance with tneir primitive
constitution, it delights to expose and correct by ridiculing
them. Thus caressing children—the normal function of
Parental Love—is not ridiculous, whereas an old maid fond
ling a lapdog or cat excites Mirthfulness, because this faculty
is not exercised upon its legitimate object. Combativeness
BENEFITS OF MIRTH. 291
fighting a man of straw, Cautiousness fearing an unloaded gun,
Destructiveness pelting insensible objects, Approbativeness
wearing , are perversions of these respective faculties,
and therefore ridiculous. All such unnatural exercise of all
the faculties it is the prerogative of Mirthfulness to correct by
exposing them to merited ridicule. Its perfecting influence
on mankind is therefore very great, and its exercise emi
nently benefieia..
And in thus correcting the faults of others, it wonderfully
promotes health, longevity, and happiness. Few things in
crease digestion, respiration, circulation, sensation, and mental
action, more than a real hearty laugh, and certainly few
things are more pleasurable. Its close proximity to Causal
ity aids that organ in detecting error by perceiving its in
congruities, and of course opposition to truth, and also helps
reason to expose error by ridicule—a favorite method of
argument.
A faculty thus doubly promotive of good, should of course
be exercised. Many consider joking and fun-making irreligious
and wicked ; but is the right exercise of any of our primitive
faculties wrong ? ,3S For what was this natural element of mind
created but to be exercised 1 Such exercise, so far from be
ing sinful, is even a duty M7 ; nor can we always keep on a long
face without injuring health, blunting our faculties, and
abusing one of Heaven's choice blessings. Perfection and
virtue require the exercise of all our powers, Mirthfulness of
course included, and we restrain its normal promptings at
our peril.
This faculty also allows us to say many a true and sensible
thing in jest, and thus to correct faults without naming them
directly, or giving offence. It also enables us to express truth
in a witty, taking manner, of which Franklin's trite and seD
sible proverbs furnish examples. In all these forms we can
and should exercise this gift. It can also be very properly
employed in hitting off public errors and absurdities.
To increase its action, notice and laugh at the ridiculous.
Make fun. Take jokes without getting ang'y, and return as
good as you get. Engage in lively conversation, attend pic
298 MIRTHFULNBSS.
nics, etc., and cultivate a jovial, pleasant, humorous manner
of speaking and acting.
This faculty is large in children generally, and should by
all means be cultivated. This trying to render them sedate
and demure is all wrong. Rather let them laugh heartily and
often. Instead of preventing their sportive hilarity, rath?r
join it. Laugh and play with them. Especially get up frol
ics just before retiring. Few things will contribute more to
both their and your health, talents, and enjoyments. Laugh
them out of whatever weaknesses or absurdities may mar
them, and foster a lively, cheerful, laughing disposition. And
the more sound sense and wholesome suggestions you can
commingle with your witty sallies the better.
Amusements are thus engrafted on the nature of man, and
should therefore be provided and patronized. Old and young
require recreation, almost as much as food, and will have it—
will and should go where they can enjoy a hearty laugh.
This faculty creates a demand for places of public amuse
ment, as well as private entertainment. Yet our museums
and other laughter-moving exhibitions, fall very far short of
what they might and should be made. That they should
combine instruction with amusement is rendered apparent by
the location of Mirthfulness in the intellectual group ; yet how
ridiculously nonsensical they too generally are. They should
expose public evils to merited ridicule, and apply many a
wholesome truth in jest. For this required combination of the
mirthful with the sensible, few things equal phrenological lec
tures and examinations, as those who have attended them can
testify. This alone should entitle them to public patronage.
As profitable amusements they have no equal.
Dancing also furnishes this requisite recreation, as well as
musoular action144. Though I solemnly protest against pub
lic balls, and late dances, as now conducted, yet family and
social dances—a few select friends speeding the evening, but
never continuing later than ten o'clock, in this most healthful
and animating amusement, is most beneficial. The proximity
of Mirthfulness to Time and Tune, proves that all three should
be exercised together, and this is precisely what dancing se
AGREEABLENESS. 299
cures. This form of amusement is thus closely engrafted on
human nature, and can therefore never be prevented. Its
right direction alone remains, and this every lover of his
race should labor to secure.
298. RESTRAINT AND DUE REGULATION.
But this faculty is often perverted. 'Many ridicule what is
not only not ridiculous but actually right. Others laugh at
(heir fellow-men for not rendering themselves ridiculous by
adopting some absurd fashion or opinion, because it is cus
tomary. No such exercise of 'his faculty should ever be
adopted.
Others take delight in saying cutting things which sting to
the quick, just because they can, even where there is in reality
nothing ridiculous to be laughed at. This is all wrong. To
wantonly abrade feeling and cause pain is wicked. This fac
ulty wa3 created to give pleasure instead of pain, even to the
subject of the joke, and they who do not know how to frame
their witticisms so as to hit off the impropriety they would cor
rect—the only legitimate object of ridicule—without lacerating
the feelings, do not understand the true mode of operating with
this delicate instrument. To know just when and how to give
jokes is very desirable, yet rare ; and to be able to express
sensible observations in a taking style, is a talent as desirable
as uncommon.
C. AGREEABLENESS.
"Persuasive in manner, yet energetic in matter."
299. DEFINITION, LOCATION, AND FUNCTION.
Pleasantness ; smoothness ; ability to say and do severe
nings in an acceptable manner. Located between Imitation
.tbove5*", and Causality below"1, and on the two sides of
Human Nature M8.
Large Agreeableness can say and do pungent, severe things
in so pleasant a manner as not to give offence ; easily wins
the confidence and good-will of all, enemies included ; so says
800 AUKEEABLENjraS.
and does tilings that they take ; makes kw enemies, and geta
along smoothly and pleasantly among men.
Sjcall Agreeableness fails in these and kindred respects ;
is liable to say and do even agreeable things disagreeably, and
to make enemies by manner, where friends could have been
secured by pleasantness ; and never speaks or acts persua
sively any farther than it feels agreeable.
300. ADAPTATION AND CULTIVATION.
Manner is often quite as important as matter. Men wil
often swallow bitter doses of truth, if expressed in a sweel,
acceptable manner. Even nauseating pills can be sugared
over so as to be eagerly and freely taken, which would be un
ceremoniously rejected, unless rendered thus palatable by
words and looks of honeyed import.
A law of mind as palpable and important as this should be
practiced by all, and especially by those who have any whole
some moral medicines they would administer to individuals
or communities. In other words, all should " choose out
acceptable words," and use no other. To public speakers
this Agreeableness is of the utmost importance. It may be so
used as to carry an audience by storm, and render most ob-
noxious truths inoffensive, if not even popular. In Americans,
this organ is especially deficient, and therefore requires
assiduous cultivation in all. Especially should this important
means of success and happiness be encouraged in the young.
This, mothers have every facility, and should lose no opportu.
n;ty of doing.
PUNISHMENT. 3fti
SUMMARY APPLICATION TO JUVENILE MANAGE
MENT AND PERSONAL IMPROVEMENT.
301. THE PUNISHMENT Or CHILDREN.
Having thus pointed out the means of cultivating and
directing the individual faculties, it remains to apply thij
whole subject practically to the training of the young, and to
Belf-perfection. How can bad children be governed and made
good ? A momentous question, and one which many an
anxious parent, thus far thwarted in all their untiring efTorts
to gain the mastery, are asking almost in the agony of despair.
This question, so vitally affecting the present and prospective
welfare of those most dear to them, the principles already laid
down in this work answer unequivocally and effectually.
That answer observe and practice. It is this :—
Children should never be governed by punishment ; be
cause all its forms and degrees constitutionally excite anr1
therefore enlarge those very propensities you would subdue.
No chastisement can ever be inflicted without the exercise of
Combativeness and Destructiveness in the punisher, and there
fore without increasing them in those punished 2I5. This is a
law of mind—absolute and universal. In the very nature of
things, Combativeness and Destructiveness in one can never
overcome these faculties in others except by extinguishing
them, the pusillanimity and consequent evils of which have
already been exposed 238M\ This law applies generally to
Self-Esteem and Firmness—to both insubordinate and bad.
tempered children. You can never break their rebellious
wills without crushing their spirits, and rendering them good
for nothing so. Almost as well break their nesks as effectually
subdue their wills, which, if punishment does not break, it will
necessarily increase. This result is consequent on the very
nature of all force government. Chastisement is fuel to the
very fires you vainly attempt to quench. All human being*
are created with wills of their own. What could they enjoy
or accomplish without them ? Now the very nature of wil'
303 PE&a3ASK"x\ BETTER THAN FORCE.
is to resist more and more, the mc.e it is driven. Is not this
the case, readers, with your own selves, and with universal
human nature? Does not compulsion always and constitu
tionally increase both anger and obstinacy ? And are not
vouth human beings in miniature, endowed with passions
exactly like those of adults ?
Facts, w.ienever and wherever observed, also confirm this
conclusion. Are not our worst boys and men those who have
been punished most ? Than prison convicts, who are more
depraved ? By far the worst boys in my neighborhood are
those whipped most. Applied to school districts and commu
nities, old and young, is not this a palpable, universal fact ?
If it be objected that " thost are punished most who are
worst, not worse because chastised most," I reply, whipping
even good children will make them bad, because it sears
their moral faculties, degrades them in their own eyes258361,
and compels them to brace themselves up against it. It hard
ens them just as friction thickens the skin on the palms of the
hands and wherever it is applied. Beating even good horses
and cows renders them fractious, whereas gentle treatment
will subdue the most unmanageable. In short, by a law of
mind, all artificial punishment increases the lower, but sears
the higher, faculties of those punished, and thus renders them
worse.
Far be it from me, however, to advocate the odious doctrine
that children need not obey their parents, or, rather, comply
with their requisitions. Indeed, this is the very thing I would
secure. But the question is, " How can this most desirable
object be effected?" Ask human nature, "Can you be
coaxed more easily than driven?" and its universal response
from old and young, high and low, is, "I can be led by a
hair, but forced never." So palpable is this truth as to have
been embodied in the mottos, " Persuasion is better than
compulsion."—" One man may lead a horse to water, but ten
men cannot make him drink." This practical fact appertains
equally to children. Even though they obey outwardly from
fear, yet their nominal obedience is virtual disobedience, and
re.augments 'heir wilfulness. Fcced compliance is the worst
PUNCHING IN ANGER. 80S
form of rebellion. Let children who will not obey voluntarily,
disobey, and then appeal to their consciences. Require,
rather request only what is obviously right, and if they re-
fuse, leave the issu» with their higher faculties, of which
presently.
If, however, you still insist on punishing them, do be en-
treated never, on any account, to chastise in a passion. To
punish coolly, meanwhile telling them that you hate to, but that
your conscience and their own good compel you to inflict it,
is bad enough, and excites the very organs you would sub
due; but to strike in anger, and because you are mad, is
barbarous in the extreme, and, more than anything else,
rouses their passions and blunts their moral sensibilities.
Said a mother to her brother, " You are a most hearties- man.
You punish your children in cold blood, and even stop aud talk
to them ; but I can never whip mine till I get right down
mad. Then I love to whip, and can tuck it on like fury."
The result was that every one of her children hated her, and
in her old age, dependent, blind, and decrepit, would not
have her in their families, so that she had to live from house
to house among her neighbors !—the legitimate consequence
of her flogging them in a passion. Yet how many parents do
this!
Said a whipped boy to his father, shaking his fist defyingly
at him : " When I get old enough, I'll flog you." This feel
ing all angry punishment engenders. Nor can this direful
effect be avoided.
" But," say some, " Solomon taught that sparing the rod
spoils the child." If he meant anything else than that, when
you begin, you should master, and not desist on account of
his crying, he was wrong. Phrenology inculcates the same
doctrine *s. Yet it tells you not .o begin S4° 2°, but points out
a much " more excellent way." Unless your child is an in.
tellectual and moral idiot, you can subdue by appeals to the
higher faculties far more effectually than by force. If you
cannot govern by love, be ashamed to own it, because you
practically confess either that yois own moral and intellectual
organs were too low to impa-t them to your children, or else
304 rialM.M. THE WILL.
that you do not know how to excite them. By treating yoa
children as brutes, you practically confess that both you and
they are brutish—wanting in the higher elements of hu
manity.
Besides, suppose those children should die, would not the
reflection, " I struck that dear departed angel—I treated it as
if it had been a brute !" sting you to the very quick, and
haunt yoi like an avenging ghost? Said a father to me, "I
have brought up eleven children, without ever having struck
one of them a blow. Two are in heaven ; and one of my
greatest consolations is that I never punished them." "And
did so large a family mind without being whipped 1" I in
quired. " I never had any trouble with one of them," he re
plied. A thousand similar practical testimonials from parents,
teachers, and all who have had the charge of men, confirm
the doctrine that other means exist for securing obedience fat
more effectual than punishment of any kind, in any degree.
What then are they ?
302. GOVERNING BT INTELLECT AND WILL.
That every human being is created with a will of his own,
has already been proved 362. That its creation confers the
right to exercise it, is self-evident. That such exercise, in all
we say and do, is a solemn duty, is demonstrated by twc
facts : first, that the exercise of every faculty is a duty, and
even indispensable to perfection, this of course included ; and,
secondly, that no action or feeling can possess any moral
character unless it is voluntary. No human being is or can
feel guilty for doing wrong when compelled so to do ; nor is
anything virtuous done from compulsion. Children can
therefore be neither good nor bad any farther than they did or
or refrained from doing voluntarily. Is not this a funda
mental law of morals ? Does it not carry its response in
every human soul ? Is not volition indispensable to morality
of every thought, word, and deed ? Then are children anj
better when they do right, or are prevented from doing wrong
by compulsion ? Since right or wrong consist in mental db
wrfs, instead of ph "sica' <icts, what better is forced obedienc*
TOOLS FOR CHILDREN. 80S
than rebellion 1 You must reach motive mainly, and thin
can be done only by letting them choose ai d act for them
selves.
Nor is there a more powerful promoter of virtue or pre
ventive of vice than will. As every one must eat, breathe,
rtason, etc., for himself, so all must choose the good and
refuse the evil voluntarily. Nor can anything else as
effectually guard young and old against temptation as self-
government262. If responsible for the moral conduct of a
ihousand youth, I would hedge in virtue and keep out vice
mainly by developing this power of choice. I said to an
anxious mother, " Give this boy more air and exercise. Let
him run and play." " But if I do he will associate with bad
boys, and become like them," she answered. "Better that
than die. Besides, do you expect to keep him tied to your
apron-strings always ? Where will he be at twenty-one and
thirty-five ? To temptations he hiust be exposed, sooner or
later ; nor is there any salvation for him but in training him
to resist them. And the earlier this is begun, the better.
Fortify him against the allurements of sin by cultivating a
love of goodness—by developing his moral faculties. Nothing
else can save him. This is a salamander-safe—encased in
which he is fire-proof against flaming passions, however
fierce." Thus I reasoned with her, and reiterate to all.
Even if you do prevent their sinning by excluding temptation,
what better are they ? To prefer the right when they
might have chosen the wrong, alone strengthens their moral
faculties, alone subdues their propensities. Parents, is not
this a great practical truth ? O that I could proclaim it, as
with an archangel's trump, in the ears of all flesh ! The
great point is to induce young and old to will to do right.
How can this be effected ?
By training intellect rightly to direct will. That intel
lect is the enlightener and constitutional pilot of the moral
affections, and these two of propensity, is an already demon-
strated law of mind "1. This law requires that intellect and
mo-ility control the will, and this the passions. This shows
why volition is necessary to give moral character to feelings
26*
808 T1A1NING THS WILL.
and conduct. The grand point, then, both in training the will
and in resisting temptations to evil, consists simply in show
ing intellect what is right, and then leaving the whole mat
ter to their own choice. This, this alone, can bring Conscien
tiousness into the field, the propensity-subduing power of
which has already been pointed out268. Rest the issue on
their own consciences, and they will not dare to do wrong or
refrain from doing their duty. Conscientiousness will thus
control their wills, the exercise of which will strengthen
them ; whereas compelling them to do right till they are of
age, and then sending them out without the previous training
of their self-governing power to encounter ever-besetting
temptation, is like walking for them till they are of age, and
then starting them off on a long and rapid match.
A boy, brought up to do exactly as he had been commanded,
went to live with an uncle, who put him to riding on horse
back, to plough out corn. Coming to a stump in the middle
of a row, he asked his uncle which side he should turn ?
" Which you please," answered the uncle. The boy arrived
at the stump, and unable to decide, again whined out, " Which
side shall I go V " No matter which, but go along." How
could one with so feeble a will resist temptation, especially the
solicitations of depraved associates ? Such, however moral
in feeling, can be enticed to anything, because they have no
strength of purpose to carry out their moral convictions.
The whipping mother abovementioned, and her husband,
always governed by shall, shan't, and the rod. Being reli
gious, and wishing to keep their children from the vulgarity
and vices of the new country they inhabited, when these chil
dren asked permission to go to parties, balls, etc., answered,
" No, you shan't." Still farther entreated, they replied, " I
tell you no, you shan't, and that's the end of it. If you do,
I'll flog you, old as you are; so go if you dare." Youth,
like adults, become more determined when dared. Hence
they set their wits to work to get off by stratagem. " Father,
may we go and slide down hill to-night 1" " Yes, go, and
hold your tongues." They slid—to the party; whereas if
the desire to go tc parties ha ' been quenched, no occasion foj
ANBCi OTES. 307
6uch duplicity would have existed. Found out, they got their
flogging ; still, since there was no other reason why they
should not go, and since they enjoyed more in going than suf
fered from the whipping, go they would, and go they did, and
thus lived in open rebellion and continued war with their pa
rents, destroyed their health, lost their standing, and became
contaminated with vice, and all in consequence of bad pa
rental management ; or rather, want of SELF-government.
The cold-blooded brother, also mentioned above, who be
longed to the same church, and had the same moral welfare
of his children at heart, when his son asked leave to go to tho
same party, reasoned the case thus : " Is it best for you to go ?
Who is to be there ? Is Jim Brown going ? * " Yes, sir."
" Did you not tell me the other day that Jim Brown used
naughty words, and was a very wicked boy ? Do you want
to mingle in the company of such boys, and learn to swear
and fight as he does ? for we insensibly become like those
with whom we associate." " No sir." " Is Joe Smith going
to be there ? " Yes, sir." " Did you not tell me that he had
been caught stealing, and do you want to go in company with
thieves? And very likely Job Fay will be there, and you
know that he lies, swears, and is bad to his parents. Do you
want to go in company with such boys ? Besides /ou will
be out late at night, and perhaps be sick to-morrow, will see
and hear many things which will make you unhappy, and
above all, will displease God. My son, I have always done
all I could for you. I send you to school. I make you com
fortable at home. I love you. My greatest desire, my daily
prayer to God is, that you may be good ; for this I spare no
pains. Nothing could grieve me as much as for you to go
with bad boys, and become bad yourself. If you go, you will
make me very unhappy. Still, if you really insist upon
going, go. There is the horse, and I will help you off; but I
much prefer that you would be contented to stay ; and if so, I
will get you some good book, or a new article of dress, or let
you spend a day with your cousins, or go a-fishing, where you
• Bea. names are suppressed, out >f regard for the living.
808 CULTIVATE THE H .HER FaCLLTIES.
will take full as much pleasure as in going to the party, w.th
out leaving a sting on your conscience. But do just as yot
please."
Love of these pernicious amusements was thus nipped in
the bud, and all desire to attend them, effectually eradicated.
He had no occasion to deceive by false pretences in order ta
go, but looked upon the amusement with aversion instead uf
pleasure. The same principle of government was employed
with equal success in regard to all other matters, and the re
sult was, that the whole family became remarkable, far and
wide, wherever it was known—and that was very extensively,
as it was a kind of minister's and laymen's tavern—for their
perfect obedience and high-toned moral feelings, and are now
exerting a great and highly salutary moral influence. With
natural talents and advantages inferior to the other family,
they are now every way their superiors.
What youth, thus trained, would have the moral hardihood
to violate the express wish of a kind parent, and the dictates
of awakened Conscientiousness? Still another kindred means
of governing children, if possible yet more effectual, is—
303. ARRAYING THE MORAL FACULTIES AGAINST THE ANIMAL.
The former are the constitutional antagonists of the latter,
and when pitted against them, as naturally subjugate them as
alkalis neutralize acids. This law has been already proved
concerning Conscientiousness sffl, Spirituality"5, and Venera
tion379; and applies equally to Benevolence28', and Ideality283.
Men could not sin as they do if their higher faculties were
brought to bear on the lower.. The great trouble is, theii
moral are allowed to go to sleep while their animal revel,
and then the moral take their wakeful turn. If both classes
were but trained to act together, the moral, by a law of mind,
woula assume the helm. This is their constitutional preroga.
tive. They are the royal family of mind and conduct.
Their very constitution clothes them with " supreme authori.
ty," even though they may be weaker, as is shown in " Reli.
gion." Indeed, this supremacy is the great idea of that work
GOVERNING THE LOWER FACULTIES BY THE HIGHER. 309
Hence the efficacy of prayer in quenching the fires of propen
sity, as already shown 979.
A personal anecdote. When a boy, if I did wrong, my
father would arraign and so talk to me as to convict my con
science, make me condemn myself, and assign my own pun
ishment, as well as appoint the time. That arrived, he would
summon me, but often take me alone and pray with and
for me before chastising. This had a vastly greater restrain
ing effect on me than the Punishment, because it arrayed
Veneration against propensity. " Keeping the fear of God
before your children's eyes " will restrain depravity, and
develop goodness infinitely more than all the chastisements
ever inflicted, for reasons already given S79. I thus recommend
prayer as a philosopher, not a religionist as such. Yet mean
while I protest against sectarian piety as utterly powerless
and most pernicious, because it palsies the efficacy of true
religion, and curses all but blesses none.*
Benevolence exerts a similarly restraining influence over
propensity, especially over Combativeness and Destructive,
ness. And the more so when acting in concert with the do
mestic affections. Cultivate that brotherly and sisterly love
already recommended 226, and your children will never strike,
wrangle, tease, or even fret each other. We cannot quarrel
with those we love. The exercise of the moral virtues and
affections towards those in anger, as effectually nullifies bad
temper as water deadens fire. " A soft answer turneth away
wrath, but grievous words stir up strife." When your chil
dren fret, your scolding them only re-inflames the passions
you would subdue ; whereas benignity excites their good feel
ings, and doing them kindnesses when they refuse to obliga
you, " heaps coals of fire on their heads." These and kin.
dred passages—" Overcome evil with good "—" If a man smite
thee on the one cheek, turn to him the other also"—" Bless
* The author and his favorite science are generally accused of favoring
irreligion, immorality, and infidelity—with what justice let the readers of
this volume say. Where can you find their cultivation more strongly
recommended, and even enforced as a paramount duty 7 Let our oppo
nents falsify ocr but the day of t^.eir reckoning is near at hand.
310 TEACH YOUTH THAT
them that curse you, and do good untc them which despitefullj
use and persecute you"—mean something more than is gene
rally supposed.
Indeed the great precept they enjoin constitutes the car
dinal doctrine of the New Testament—embodies the great
practical truth Christ came to teach—and is none other thai?
the cardinal principle of this work—the supremacy of tht
higher faculties over the lower. Say nothing to your chil
dren about their sins—drop all allusion to them—but' assidu
ously cultivate their moral and better feelings, and these will
do the work effectually. Overcome their propensities by the
moral faculties, and to do this, remove stimulants from the
former, but apply them freely to the latter, and you " kill two
birds with one stone"—completely subjugate propensity, and
at the same time develop those moral affections the ascendency
of which alone can render them good or happy 2". Appealing
to their intellect, as just recommended, also develops it, and,
what is of the utmost importance, train reason to work in con-
junction with the moral faculties, and the two to guide the will,
and then all three will maintain easy and complete mastery
over propensity, however powerful. The great trouble with
mankind is that these respective classes of faculties act sep
arately and therefore fruitlessly ; whereas concert would
obtain and maintain complete mastery.
Besides, this arraying the moral against the animal is incom
parably the most severe punishment which ?an be inflicted
The mental anguish consequent on contention among the facul
ties, has already been pointed out W!. When this conflict occurs
between the moral and animal, not anguish merely, but agony
is the necessary product. This horror of horrors is nature's
punishment, and constitutionally calculated to restrain pro
pensity and develop morality, whereas artificial punishment
inflames the passions but blunts the moral feelings.
A humane planter, in whipping a very h«4™*ye for theft
and other misdemeanors, after strikingjjfbtew or two, appealed
to his better feelings thus : " I have tried every other way to
make you better without avail, and,#fci{> only because I must ;
fo: if I do not, all the other slavasiwill become disobedient."
.s
3IN PUNISHES ITSEU. 811
After two or three blows more—" I give you plenty of good
food and clothes take care of your wife and children, do not
sell you as many other masters would"—" Massa, whip on,
I'd rather you'd whip than talk," interrupted Sambo. This
arraying the moral against the animal, besides being the worst
of all punishments, reforms by awakening the moral2'5, and
giving them the victory.
Finally, both this and the preceding volume are based in
this cardinal principle ofthings, that all laws are self-acting;—
reward their own obedience, and punish their own infractions.
And recompense adequately. Does not the Deity punish
abundantly ? Does he leave any part to man ? Preposter
ous ! He punishes every violated law to the full extent re
quired, and so punishes, as in the most effectual manner pos
sible to produce reform. Nor requires any human help. All
required to reform youth, criminals, all mankind, is to show
them wherein their bad feelings and actions punish themselves.
No human being can know and realize that every violation
of law will assuredly cause pain, and obedience pleasure,
without being instinctively and irresistibly entioed and impelled
by the love all constitutionally have of happiness and dread
of misery—the grand summary of all the motives of our en
tire being167—to choose the right, and shrink from all wrong.
A law of things thus clear, universal, and efficacious, com
pletely interdicts all artificial punishment, and substitutes,
instead, this home appeal to the grand controlling motive of
man, which at the same time both cultivates their moral affec
tions, yet, unlike all artificial punishment, subdues, instead
of developing propensity. Even God never pours out his
wrath upon us, but simply allows us to bring upon our own
heads the unalterable penalties of violated law. He inflicts
no pain other than the specific sin committed constitutionally
brings with itself. Shall we not then adopt the same course
to reform our children which our heavenly Parent pursues to
ward us ? Is not his infinitely wise plan of government a
perfect model for us to copy ? Then let us enlighten intellect,
train will, and leave them to their own choice, and its conse
quences. Let us Dress penetually upon their consciences
312 ts cci.Tivxruiw-
f
this great practica. truth—that chosing the right wi". necessa
rily render them happy, but that he who sins must suffer—
meanwhile exemplifying its practical workings in their own
daily experience. This will irresistibly allure and compel them
to love and practice goodness, but hate and eschew depravity.
Our practical summary, then, is this. First, cease all pun.
ishment300, and even all scolding and peevishness*""43 ; next,
gain their affections 2" * 2* ; then show them intellectually
what is right and duty *", and make a solemn and powerful
appeal to their consciences, and all their moral faculties, and :f
necessary, array the latter against their " easily besetting sin ;"
and finally, after pointing out the consequences on both sides, ,
rest the issue with their own voluntary choice, and they will
no more dare to do wrong, or refuse to fulfil their whole duty,
than cost themselves into the fire. No human beings—noi
even devils incarnate, thus treated—have the moral hardihood
to do wrong or refrain from doing right ; and what is still more,
this course effectually develops by exercise their intellectual
and moral faculties, and establishes the regal government in
the hands of morality and intellect—the constitutional king
and queen of human feeling, motive, and conduct8".
These propensity-restraining laws apply equally to self-
government and improvement. Cultivating our own moral
faculties will, of itself, purify and subjugate propensity,
especially if we train will to follow their dictates. We stifle
them at our peril, because every conquest by propensity weak
ens them, but strengthens it. Doing as well as we know
how will teach us more ! How infinitely short of ourselves
we live ! Of all our exalted capabilities, how few we im
prove ! Where we might enjoy so much, how much we .suf
fer ! Not a tithe of the natural talents and virtues of mankind
13 improved. How many good heads do T see unused, or used
wrong! This makes me sad ! Almost a quarter of a centurj
I have asked, " Lord, what can I do to teach and inspire my
fellow- men to render themselves by cultivation what God has
capacitated them by nature to become ?" " Write this
book," was the response. I have obeyed. God grant that it
may help attain that " greatest good"—human improvement.
x^ \
