{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1847__gully___the_water_cure_in_chronic_disease.pdf","mytitle":"The Water Cure In Chronic Disease","mylang":"de"}
TilE
WATER CURE
'" .
CHRONIC DISEASE
0 F TH II:
CAUSES, PROGRESS, AND TERMINATIONS
or
VARIOUS CHRONIC DISEASES 01~ THE DIGES'l'IVE ORGANS, LUNG!!,
NERVES, Lll\IBS, AND SKIN;
AND OF THEIR TREATMENT BY WATER,
AND OTHER HYGIENIC MEANS.
RY
JAMES 1\IANBY GULLY, M.D.,
LJCII:NTU.T!! OF THE ROYAL COLLJo:GE OF Sl' RGEOWS
.urn FI:LLOW OF TUIC ROYAL PHYSICAL SOCI&TV, J:DlSBURQB:
FELLOW OF THE ROYAL MEDICAL AND ClURl"RGlCAL SOCJI:T¥1 LONDON1
J'!T\~., I:TC.
11 He told the hidden power of springs,
And Disease drank and slept. '
SHELLEY.-Prometlat:llS U11bott11d.
NE\V YORK:
WILEY & PUTNAM, 161 BROADWAY
1847.
WlLLU.lll OSBORN, PRIMTJ:R1
TRlBUNJ: BUJLDtNGS.
)
T. B. 8N:JTB, BTII:RII:OTYPER,
216 WtLLU.N: STREET.
TBa white lines In the opposite engrnvinK represent the agglomerations and net·workt
of nervou~ matter, which constitute the central portion of the system of nerves called the
ganglionic, the nutritive, the organic, or the vegetative system. The extension of th.la
system is over the entire organs of the body. Wherever there is a blood-vessel to nourish
a part, there is ganglionic nervou, matter to regulate that nutrition. The brain itself is
nourished under this influence : and in this manner the phenomena of the brain and spinal
cord And of the nerves proeeedin~ thence, are regulated by the ganglionic nervous matter
which pervades them. In the pages of the following volume, the existence of chronic
di~nsc in any part of the body is shown to be bound up with the existence ofsome phase
of disorder in the central portions ofthe nubitive system of nerves here represented. The
physiologiC3l fRet of the preva.lence of their ganglionic nervous matter over the whole
body Is thus p:ualleled by the pathololtical fact of the prevalence of chronicdisea.se in any
part of the body, when the centre ofit is disordered.
The upper number 1 points to the net-work of nutritive nerves wlaieb are ln the neigh-
bourhood of the organs of respiration and circulation in the chest ; tho lower number 1, to
those which supply the lower organs of digestion, the eolon, &e. Whilst at number 2, the
greRt central net-work is found which corresponds to the 11tomach and other upper organs
of digestion. The viscera themselves are here removed in order the better to show the
nerves. But anyrepresentation gives but an imperfect idea of the myriads of nenes or
this system which prevail in the abdomen and chesc cenerally.
P RE FACE.
EvERY writer supposes that his work is to supply some
want. My object in publishing this treatise, is to afford a
truthful and rational exposition of the value of the water
treatlnent in certain chronic diseases. I apprehend that it is
wanted, because the works on the subject of the water cure
whicn have hitherto appeared in this country contain, so far
as n1y experience informs me, tnuch overstate1nent as to Its
operation, and are 1I10reover written rather to catch the hope-
ful invalid, than to enlighten him as to the nature of his
disease, or the mode in w~1ich the water plan is to relieve it.
From this remark I except the work of Dr. E. JoHNSON,
entitled "Hydropathy," wherein the manner in which the
water cure operates on the chemistry of the living body is
very ably traced. The other 'vorks have not the slightest
claim to be called scientific.
In the First Part of this work the origin, progress, exten-
sion, and tern1inations of Chronic Disease in general, are
delineated and explained, and one general deduction from
the facts made, namely, that no disease becomes chronic,
unless the central organs of nutrition are affected.
In the Second Part, this is further developed in the his-
tory of individual chronic diseases, the explanation of the
pathology and symptoms of each of which is given, and also
of the reasons for the water treatment applicable to each. In
arranging the diseases, those are first treated of which affect
vi PREfACF..
the primary organs of nutrition, the organs in which the first
step in blood1naking from food, and therefore of nutrition, is
taken. The next step of bloodmaking being effected by the
lungs and heart, their maladies are then treated of. The
circulation of the perfected blood being under the control of
the nenrous system, the diseases of that system come the
next in order. One portion of the general nervous system,
namely, the brain and spinal cord and their nerves, having
control over the locomotive organs, the diseases of the limbs
come the next in order to be treated of. Finally, the blood
having been made and circulated, certain clements of it are
thrown off in the shape of secretions from the bowels, kid-
neys and skin : the diseases of which are the last to be men-
tioned. The whole arrangement of these individual1naladics
is thu~ strictly physiological, beginning with the formation of
blood, and ending with the excretion of its useless portions.
Part Third treats, in the first place, of the mode in which
the water cure operates in producing its beneficial results, the
rationale being given under twelve sections. The subject is
treated generally, as that of Chronic Disease was in the First
Part. But, in the second place, the details of the water cure
are brought forward, the rationale of each process given, and
the circu1nstances which regulate their application stated.
Throughout the volume, the great pathological fact of the
existence of visceral disorder in all chronic disease is kept in
vie'v; and the attentive reader will find that, from beginning
to end, it for1ns the basis of the practice recommended, and
of its explanation. And as the viscera play this important
part in the phenomena of chronic disease, it is not without
useful intent that an engraving of the ganglions and net-
works of nervous 1natter which pervade thCin, and regulate
their functions, is published at the commencement of the
volume.
The Appendix contains facts and a1guments in answer to
PREFACE. vii
certain accusations brought orally against the water treat-
ment, chiefly by medical men, although none has ever yet
ventured to print them. This portion of the volume is a
reprint from a former work of mine.
I put this 'vork forward as an attempt in the right way of
handling the subject of the water cure, with a hope that it
will be carried out by more able observers and writers.
Until it is treated gravely, earnestly, and truthfully, as a
matter of scientific importance, it never will obtain the foot-
ing in the opinion of the public which it ought to have : for
in this land of thinking heads, nothing endures unless it ad-
dresses itself to the sober thought. It is not by "Tributes"
and " Confessions" of water patients that the water cure is
to he permanently advanced : they are mere puffs indirect,
which may answer a ten1porary purpose by luring the same
class of credulous people who would swallow pills or have
their corns cut on the strength of " Testimonials" in the
newspapers. But productions of that class do permanent in-
jury to the establishment of a new and philosophical mode
of treatment; the thinking see through them, and disappoint-
Jnent awaits the unthinking, who expect to realize the glow-
ing pictures they exhibit: and thus a good cause is lost by
bad advocacy. Such advertisements, and those more direct,
which tell, in lengthened column, of water cure establish-
tnents, arc precisely what the enemies of the treatment
would desire :
"Hoc lthacus velit, magno mercentur Atrida!."
Nor can the members of the medical profession be blamed
for refusing to acknowledge a plan of treatment so advocated.
Besides, they are probably aware that out of the number
now practising the water cure, not more than three have legi-
timate right to the title of " Doctor" which they append to
their names. All this is adverse to the advancement of the
viii PREFACE.
water cure, which, opposed as it is to old prejudices, requires
and has claim to all the aid which Truth and Science can
afford.
To that Truth I have strongly adhered in the following
pages. What I have stated is altogether of my own experi-
ence in an extensive field of practical observation during four
years : and be the result to lessen or exalt the reader's ideas
of the water cure, the Truth is told The cases recounted
were treated by me at Malvern. In publishing them I have
not descended to the vulgarity of publishing also the names
of the patients, nor can they be guessed at by initials or any
other token. The reader who requires such obJectionable
e-vidence should apply it to himself and ask, "Who is safe
if 1nedical attendants publish the names with the infirmities
of their patients ?" Hence, such a proceeding is very pro-
perly rejected by the members of the medical profession as
undignified and indecent : and I apprehend that non.profes-
sional persons will not view it in any other light.
J. M. GuLLY.
Malvern, August 1, 1846
CONTENTS.
PART I.
OF CHRONIC DISEASE IN GENERAL.
CHAPTER I. Preliminary
II. Docta·ine of Acute Disease
III. Doctrine of Chronic Disease
..
IV. Phenomena of the extension of Chronic Disease ••
V. The Causes, Progress, and Terminations of Chronic
D1seasc ••
PAR'l' H.
OF PARTICULAR CHRONIC DISEASES AND THEIR
TRE.\Tl\IENT.
CHAPTER I. Diseases ofthc Primary Nutrith·e Organs
Sect. 1. Mucous and Nervous Indigestion
2. Case of Nervous Indigestion
Mucous Indigestion •
Case of Mucous Indigestion
..
3. Combination of Nervous and Mucous Dyspepsia..
Case of Nervous and .Mucous Dyspepsia.-Another Case
of Nervous and Mucous Dyspepsia
4. Gastro-enteritis.- Chronic Inflammation of the Stom-
ach and small BoweL-Atrophy ..
Case of Atrophy or \Vasting
5. Disorders of the Liver and Duodenum
Case of Nervous Disorder of the Liver
Case of Congested and Swollen Liver
Case of Obstructed Liver ..
CHAPTER II. Diseases of the Secondary Nub·itive Organs. Diseases
of the Lungs and Heart••
Sect. 1. Nervous Cough.-Stomach Cough ••
Case of Stomach Cough
2. Chronic Inflammation of the Air Tubes of the Lungs.-
Bronchitis •• ••
Case of Chronic Bronchitis • • • • ••
- 3. Pulmonary Consumption • • •• •• • • •• •• ••
P408
1
3
11
17
32
65
68
S9
92
95
99
102
109
113
114
12S
129
132
l:JG
137
138
140
142
146
CONTENTS.
· Case of 'hreatening Consumptive Disorder
Lungs.-Intense Stomach Irritation ••
Case of Pulmonary Consumption
Secl 4. Palpitation of the Heart-Organic Disease
Heart • • . •
Case of Nervous Palpitation of the Heart
••e•
of the
147
150
of the
151
152
CHAPTER III. Diseases of the Nervous System . . 157
Sect. 1. Nervousness.-Neuropathy.-Hypochondriasi!f • • 158
Case of minor degree of Nervousness 1M
Another Case of minor degree of Nervousness 106
Case of Hypochondriasis, the greater degree of Nervous-
ness •. • • 160
2. Neuralgia.-Nerve Pain.-Tic Douloureux.-Sciatica.-
Nervous Headache • • 171
CaRe of Sciatica •. • • 176
Case of Neuralgia of both Legs • • 178
Case of Tic Douloureux of the Face • • 179
Another Case of Sciatica 182
3. Apoplectic Fulness of the Brain.-Congcstion of the
Brain.-Palsy . . • • 1S7
Case of Apoplectic Fulness of the Head 196
Case of Apoplectic and Congestive Fulness of the Head.
-Deafness.-Intense Headache . • 198
Case of Palsy of the Right Leg • • 205
4, Spurious Palsy.-Chronic Congestion and Irritation of
all the Ganglionic Nerves • • • • 209
t-uAPTER IV. Diseas~s of the Limbs ..
Sect. 1. Rheumatism
Case of Rheumatism of the Knee Joint
Case of general Rheumatism of the Body
Case of general Rheumatism with Nervous
Ncuralgic Rheumatism
2. Gout • ••
Case of Nervous and Chalky Gout ..
3. Rheumatic Gout
Signs.-
..
CHAPTER V. Diseases of the Lower Organs of Digestion-Diseases
of Excretory Organs • • • • • •
Sect. 1. Diseases of the Colon.-Constipation
Cases of Constipation
2. Hemorrhoids or Piles
Case of Internal or Blind Piles .. .. ..
3. Dropsy • • • • • • • • • • • •
Case of Dropsy of the Belly and Skin • • • • • • • •
4 Skin Diseases • • • • • • • • • • • •
Cases of Skin Diseases • • • • •• • • • • ••
217
218
229
233
234
236
245
248
250
251
266
269
272
275
282
284
290
CO.NTENTl!,
PART III.
PRINCIPLES AND DETAILS OF THE WATER TREATMENT 01-,
CHRONIC DISEASE.
PAGB
CHAPT.Ea I. General Remarks on the Action of the Water Treatment 293
CHAPTER II. Details of the Water Cure
Sect. 1. Hot and Warm Fomentations
2. Packing in Damp Towels and Sheets
3. The Sitz Bath • • • •
4. The Abdominal Compress
5. The Dripping or Rubbing Sheet
6. The Shallow Bath .•
7. The Douche
8. The Sweating Process
.. 0 0
• 0 0 •
••
327
328
332
338
340
•• 344
346
• 0
00 349
9. Foot and Hand Baths and minor Ablutions and Friction~
353
358
360
364
10. Water Drinking o o
11. Air and Exercise
12. Diet
Diet Table for Patients under Water Treatment
13. Clothing o o • 0
14. Habits of Life o. • o
Remarks on Water Cure Establishments • 0
APPENDIX. 0 0
366
368
371
374
378
381
PART I.
OF CJIRONIC DISEASE IN GENERAL.
CHAPTER I.
PRELIMINARY.
Nomenclature of chronic disease-Phases between that and acute disease
-Acute disease always precedes chronic-Anangemcnt of the subjects
to be treated.
TilE epithet "chronic" is given by medical men to diseases whose
duration passes a certain limit of time ; and that limit has been
fixed at forty days. All within this period are generally de-
signated as "acute;" but as this would form but two extreme
classes of disease, whilst Nature exhiLits several intermediate
phases, some writers have subdivided the "acute" diseases into
the most acute, when they terminate in three or four days,-into
the very acute, when they do not continue longer than seven days,
-into the simply acute, when they endure for fourteen days,-
and into the sub-acute, when they reach forty days.
It will be plain, however, that these are merely arbitrary terms,
of which there are far too many in medicine, since they are apt
to be taken by the young or by the routillier as guides in prac-
tice; and thu~ names, instead of condilions of body, come to be
treated, and much mischief to be consequently perpetrated.
Now, the term "chronic" has in itself no reference whatever to
the actual state of the diseased frame ; and if I employ it in this
Essay, it is only that I may explain it, and fix some meaning to
it as regards that state-the word being, in other respects, con-
venient and precise enough.
Every disease is, in its onsetting, acute; that is to say, the
2
OF CHRONIC DISEASE IN GENERAL.
symptoms are intense, pressing in character, and if Nature, either
with or without the aiel of Art, does not soon bring relief, extin-
guishes the individual.
The relief and the escape from ueath are brought about either
by transfer of the morbid action from the original sent of disorder
to some less important part, and the elimination of some secretions
therefrom,-an action to which the term crisis has for three thou.
sand years been applied ;* or, no such transfer occurring, the
acute state of disease in the affected part passes into the chronic
state,-chronic disease is established.
Preliminary, therefore, to fixing what constitutes chronic dis-
order, it is necessary that we should obtain some precise idea of
what constitutes the acute form. I shall next proceed to inquire
into the minute changes of organs which induce the phenomena
of chronic disease. All the circumstances of chronic disease,
generally, will then be considered. Applications of the general
doctri·1e and circumstances will then be made to individual dis-
eases In the course of these inquiries, I shall take occasion to
show ilow acute disease is originated, and chronic disease main.
tained and exasperated, by internal stimulation ; and finally, I
shall show how the treatment of chronic disease by water, and
other hygienic means, obviates this inconvenience, is more safe
than any other plan of treatment, and comes in aid of the natural
and ooZy permtment process towards recovery.
• It is well ttJ note this, as all the world has of late spoken of a "crisis"
as a new prodigy : a mistake which some writers on the water-cure would
seem to encourage, either from ignorance of the literature of medicine, or
from some silly idea that the novelty may add to the eclat of the treatment
they profess. HIPPOCRATEs was the first to use the term crim aa applied
to a termination of disease, and he lived A.M. 3500.
DOCTRINE OF ACUTE DJSEASB. 3
CHAPTER II.
DOCTRINE OF ACUTE DISEASE.
What is meant by "general disease" and "general debility "-Disea.gc
always begins in one organ-The ganglionic system of nerves-Its C(>ntre
and extensive influence-Control ovel' the blood-vessels·-lrritability
and sensibility-Action of morbid causes on the irritability of the blood-
vessels-Their contraction and exhaustion-Illustrations-Changes in the
movement and character of the blood-Periods in the process of acute
disease-Its extension-Shown in acute indigestion and simple inftam-
matory fever-Real cause of death from acute disease.
\VE are much in the habit of speaking of "general disease:" in
truth, there is no such thing. All the organs of the body may
give signs of dis~ased action, but there are invariably one or more
parts whose malady originates all that we see.
The brain may evidence disease by impaired volition, delirium,
sleeplessness, &c. ; the lungs, by rapid breathing, cough, &c. ;
the heart, by excessively quickened action; the digestive organs,
by dry tongue, thirst, loss of appetite, nausea, constipation, &c. ;
the kidneys, by diminished secretion ; the skin, by unnatural
heat and dryness,-yet all these multiform diseased actions may,
and very often do, depend on a small patch of inflammation in the
stomach, perhaps no larger than a half-crown, or even a shilling.
To treat all these multiplied symptoms under the name of "gen.
eral disease," would be mere ignorance or sheer charlatanism,
which ever aims at bustling complexity.
So also of " general debility," a term so common and so un-
meaning; there is no such thing. Debility always signifies the
disorder of one or more parts oppressing the healthy functions of
the rest of the body. Remove the disorder of those parts (it may
be by positively lowering remedies), and straightway the" general
debility" vanishes. Inflammation of any of the digestive organs
very shortly brings down the physical and mental vigor: which
as quickly rises when a few flannels wrung out of boiling water,
and applied over the abdomen, have removed the internal infiam.
mation. On this head I shall have more to say hereafter.
Disease, then, always commences in some one organ or set of
4 DOCfRINE OF ACtJ'l'J:: l>lS£AS£.
organs, from which it spreads, with more or less rapidity, to
others, by a sympathy whose physical agent i::; the nervous sys-
tem.
By this term, "nervous system," the brain, !=:pinal cord, and
the nerves proceediug from them, are onlinanly understood ; but
there is another system of nerves which, as it is neither obedient
to the will, nor cognizant of pain, commonly so called, is rarely
considered in the explanation of disease ; in whic:h it, neverthe-
less, plays by far the most important-! may say, the only im-
portant part. This system of nerves has been called the "gan-
glionic" (from the appearance of small knots or ganglions in the
course of the nerves), the "organic" (as regulating the character
of the ot·ganization of parts), the "nutritive" (as presiding over
the organs that minister to the nutrition of the body), and the
" visceral" (as pervading and having its centre in the viscera,*
that is, in the contents of the chest and abdomen) ; and I R
ha11
use these terms indiscriminately in the course of this Essay.
Perhaps the most accurate, however, are the epithets "nutritive"
and "organic;" for, wherever there are organs in the body, or
wherever nutrition goes on in it, there arc nerves ofnutrition to be
found. \Vherever, too, there is a blood-vessel (and we know not
of nutrition without blood), organic nerves accompany it and re-
gulate its action. In every part of the body, therefore, organic
nerves exist, as in every part of the body blood-vessels exist; the
point of the finest needle cannot be introduced into any ti~sue of
the ft·amo without entering one or more blood-vessels and organic
nerves.t The brain itself, containing, as it does, so large a pl·o-
portion of the blood of the body, is, in this view, supplied also
with a large proportion of organic nerves.
The coincidence ofnutritive blood-vessels (called also capillary)
and nutritive nerves points to some sti·ict organic connection be-
tween them. In fact, it is the presence of the nerves which
imparts to the blood-vessels the property of receiving and reacting
• The word t1iscus, of which t1isccra is the plural, signifies, in the Latin,
slime. And as the older anatomists found the membranes which line the
lungs and digestive canal slimy from the mucus they secrete, they applied
the characteristic term to the parts tbemselves, calling each or!!;an of the
chest and abdomen, viscus, and the general content~, viscera. This expla-
nation was necessary, from the frequency with which I shall be compelled
to use the term in these pages.
t Ruysch, \Villiam Hunter, and Lieberkuhn, asserted that every sub-
stance of the animal frame consisted of nothing but vessels.
DOC'rRINE OF ACUTE DISEA~E. 5
upon impressions from agents within or without the body- a pro-
perty to which the name of" irritability" is given.
Let not the reader confound " irritability" with "sensibility,"
another property of a portion of the body. Irritability exists in the
blood-vessels and organic nerves all over the frame- has its cen-
tral organs in the chest and abdomen-begets no sensation or
volition-is ever in action. Sensibility exists in the nerves of the
brain and spinal cord only- has its central organs in the brain
and spinal cord-begets sensation and volition, and is suspended
in s]eep. But, on the other hand, scnsioility and sensation are
built upon irritability and irritation ; as thus-the brain is com-
posed of matter deposited from the blood-vessels, and these are
regulated in the manner and quality of their deposit by the amount
and character of their initability ; therefore, if the irritability be
acted on l·chemently (as in giving stimulants), the action of the
blood-vessels, otherwise called their irritation, is vehement also,
and they deposit more than usual of the brain matter which
possesses the property of sensioility, aml in this way augmented
sensation is begotten. It is important to bear this in mind for the
future application to the doctrine of chronic disease-irritation
precedes sensation, sei1Sation is built upon irritatio-n.
The first effect, therefore, of causes of disease- excessive cold
or heat, infectious matter, &c.-is upon that nervous system which
presides over the capillary or nutritive blood-vessels, and whose
central portions are in the viscera of the chest and abdomen-the
ganglionic system.
It is ascertained by numerous experiments that the first effect
of all kinds of agents upon the nervou~ly-endowed capillaries is to
produce contraction of them-a diminution of their calibre by the
fact of their contraction. In other words, all agents arc stimulants
to them, and bring them into action, and that action is contraction.
But as all action is effort, such effort must, in a living body, be
succeeded bv lassitude and exhaustion ; and in the case of these
small blood-~essels, relaxation and increase of calibre is the
evidence of this secondary state; and further, it follows that the
amount of relaxation wjll be in exact proportion to the amount of
the pre•;ious contraction.
Of course the condition of the blood as to quantity is affected
by these two opposite states of the vessels that contain it. \Vhen
the vessels contract on the application of the morbid stimulus, they
driv their contained blood from them; and when relaxation
6 DOCTRINE OF ACUTE DISEASE.
ensues, the blood rushes into their increased calibre ; and the
amount of blood thus brought into a part will be, of course, in
exact proportion with the relaxation, and this with the contraction,
of the containing blood-vessels.
To illustrate all this :-1 apply water at 35° of Fahrenheit to
the back of the hand when it is warm; it first of all drives the
blood from the skin, and renders it pale; this is because the cold
has stimulated the nutritive nerves of the blood-vessels, and caused
them to conti'Uct and drive the blood from them ; but in a very
short time the skin becomes more than usually red, and, if friction
be used, hot too. This is because the vessels have been exhausted
by the contracting effort, have relaxed, and admitted more blood
into them. This is an approach to inflammation of the skin of the
hand.
Or take a piece of frozen mercury, the temperature of which
is 380 below the zero of Fahrenheit, and apply it on the hand.
The stimulus is so violent, the contraction so excessive, as to be
insta11taneously followed by excessive relaxation and total loss of
vital power of the blood-vessels, and inflammation of the most
destructive kind is produced. The part is burnt, in fact, as
effectually as if the opposite stimulus of red-hot iron had been
applied.
Between these two instances the shades of stimulation and re-
laxation arc infinite, according to the morbific agent applied. The
more stimulating the agent, the more rapid and extreme the amount
of blood brought to the part, whether that part be the skin of the
hand, or the mucous lining of the stomach or luugs.
But whilst such are the conditions of morbi(l action in the blood-
vessels, what changes take place in the bloou they contain 1
In the first place, its movement through the blood-vessels of the
diseased part is retarded, in consequence of the diminished con-
tractile power of those vessels. There is more or less excess and
congestion of blood in the part, an excess which obtains at the ex.
pense ofother and healthy parts. It is this excess which causes the
swelling of inflamed parts, their redness, their i11creased heal (the
unusual quantity of blood secmting an unusual quantity ofcaloric),
and their painfullless, the pressure of the excessive blood on the
surrounding nerves rendering them irritable, although, as I shall
have occasion to show hel'eafter, inflammation of internal parts may
exist without pain (in the usual acceptation of the word) and with.
out redness.
DOCTRINE OF ACUTE DISEASE. ·-•
In the next place, the chemical changes that go on in the
blood undergo modification, in consequence of his excess and
retardation of its movement. This is shown by the increased
heat already alluded to; and further, if the inflammatory con-
gestion be not relieved, the Llood secretes pus-the matter of
abscess-either in the shape of a collection called an abscess, or
the same flows freely from the surface of a mucous membrane,
forming a bad kind or expectoration, &c. But the chemical
changes in question vary endlessly with the diseased part. In
the stomach, there i~ acid instead of insipid mucus and gastric
juice ; in the liver, there is acrid and dark instead of slightly
bitter and yellow bile; fl'Om the kidneys, acid instead of alkaline
secretion ; and so on. The most f.'lrniliar instance of this as a
signal of disease is the state of the tongue when the mucous lining
of the stomach is disordered. The variety of the secretions there
is endless, and each one corresponds with a certain shade of con-
gestion of blood in the membrane that covers the tongue. Judge,
then, how numerous are the shades of diseased action in that
single tissue of the body!
Such, then, is the condition of a part when it is in the acute
stage of disease. The phases of the process may be briefly stated
as follows :-
1. The UIJplication of excessive stimulus to the nervously-
endowed Llood-vcsscls of the part.
2. Excc:-:sive contraction of the blood-vessels in consequence,
with expulsion of their contained blood.
3. Exhaustion and relaxation of the same blood-vessels, with
consequent excessive influx and retention of blood in them.
4. Diseased sensation, secretion, and nutrition of the part, con-
sequent on the retention of the blood in the exhausted and relaxed
,·essels, the vital chemistry being, for the time, improperly car-
ried on.
Tht·sc phases apply to all acutely diseased parts whatever-
from the small pimple on the skin to the most intense inflamma-
tion of the 1ungs or brain. In all, the same stages occur, what-
ever the cxeitiug cause may be; whether it be the atom of dirt
irritating the follicle of the skin, and producing the pimple there,
or the rush of cold air into the lungs, irritating their mucous
membrane, and drawing excessh·e blood into it.
From what precedes, it appears that the intimate vital condition
of a part in acute disease is one of debility. The blood-vessels
8 DOCTRINE OF ACUTE DISEASE.
have lost their contractile energy, and are oppressed with blood,
which they lack the power to throw off. But we must not, mean-
while, lose sight of the fact, that the organic nerves themselves,
whose re-action on excessive stimulus has produced all this mis-
chief, ate also supplied with and nourished by blood-vessels;
and that therefore they, too, are in a state implying diseased sen-
sation and nutrition. In other word!"1, they are exquisitely in·ita-
ble, but their irritability is of a diseased quality, and not sustained,
because they arc badly nourished by the blood; the result of
which is a more than ordinary sensitiveness to the causes which
first induced the disease, or to any stimulus whatC'ver applied to
the part. Feeble contraction takes place, then more C'Xhaustion ;
contraction again, antl so on until all pmvcr is lost. Thus, a man
gets o. slight inflammation of the mucous lining of the wind-pipe
f1·om breathing very cold air; allowg the same cause to exasperate
it daily by acting on the highly irritable but feeble nerves and
blood-vC'ssels of the membrane; and, finally, induces the most
intense form of inflammation of the lungs-a too frequent illus-
tration of the fact that the most fatal maladies commence in a
"slight cold."
Having thus established the fact, that acute disease of an organ
implies extreme debility, morbid irritability, and congestion of its
blood-ve~sels nnd organic nerves, we may now revert to the pro.
position, that all so-called general disease originates in some local
disorder-a proposition that will best be develop('d by tracing the
physical history of such a local condition us I have above de-
scribecl. And we will take the local inflammation of an ot·gan
whose sympathies are the most extensive-acute mucous inflam-
mation of the stomach, comn1only called "acute indigestion."
A man ingests highly seasoned meats and alcoholic drinks, and
begets in the mucous lining of his stomach a patch of such dis-
order I have minutely dcseribed. Now, though that disorder is,
as r£'gnrds the patch it;;:clt·, one of depressed vital power, it be-
comes to other parts a source of exalted vital action ; as if the
very fact of the existence of a diseased point roused the system
to efforts for its relief--an opinion that was lwlJ Lv HIPPOCRATES
. ,
and has prevailed with some of the soundest physicians since his
times.* The sympo.thy thus excited in other organs of the body
. * Indeed, the do~trine that disease-i, e., a series of unnatural symptoms,
1s constantly the s&gnal of the whole body being excited to save some vital
part from destruction, obtains countenancn from ull the facti that close
DOC1'Rl){I: OF ACUTE DJSF.ASE. 9
is in proportion to the amount anu kinu of nervous matter they
contain. Thus, in the case before us, the ganglionic nervous
matter of the mucous membrane of the stomach excites the same
matter distributed to the heart, whose b~ats ai'C, in consequence,
increased in frequency and force; the pulse bccornes rapid and
harrl ; as a rmmlt of this quickened pulse, the breuthings also
quicken. T hen comes the sympatl1y with the ~pinal cord an(
the brain, whose functions are rendered irregular or are op.
p1·essed; hence the lassitude of mind and limb, the prostration
of strength, the somnolence first, and then the sleeplessness, &c.
Then thP.re arc the sympathies with the mucous surfaces of all
the other organs roused, causing the diminution and vitiation of
their secretions; hence the heaviness and the aching of the fore-
head, the suffused eyes, the fevered and dry tongue, the thirst,
the stoppage of the bile, the constipation of the bowels, the scan-
tiness of the secretion from the kidneys, all of them dependent
on mucous membranes. And as this mucous surface ex-
tends to the outer part or the body, forming the true skin, the
same morbid sympathy extends thither, accompanied with the
same diminution and vitiation of sensation and secretion; hence
the dry and hot skin called " feverish heat."
In fact, here is a case of what is called "simple inflammatory
fever," a general disease traceable to a small poiut of acute in-
flammation in the stomach. Sometimes the same general result
follows on the application of cold ajr to the outer mucous surface
-the sldn, whereby the blood is thrown on an extensive portion
of the inner mucous membrane of the nose, throat, and lungs;
and then nearly the same phenomena are present, and a "fever-
ish cold" is said to exist. But in either case, and indeed in all
cases of general symptoms, there is one organ, and sometimes
only one spot of an organ, that originates the whole series, and
which must be overcome, as the cause, before we can vanquish
the symptoms, which are the effects. Too much stress cannot
be laid upon this important fact. The denial or ignorance of it
leads to the most unscientific and unskilful treatment of disease
-it leads to the treatment of effects instead of causes- and, as I
shall have hereafter occasion to show, it furnishes the chief argu.
ment against the ordinary drug medication of the day.
observation of its causes, progress, and tPrminations can supply. If spacP
permitted, it \Vould not be difficult to apply this doctrine to any possible
case of diseue.
IU IlOt;TRIN£ OF ACUTE DI~F.ASE.
It tlocs not appear that, in acute thscasc of a part, the organic
connection between the containinrJ' blood-vessels nnd their con
0
taint d uloocl is further disturbed than to alter the vital chemistry
curried on in thPm, and thus to produce diseased nutrition or se-
cretions. There is no breaking down of the blooJ globules, no
disorganization of that fluid. There is only excess of blood in
vc~;sds that have lost the sufficient irritability to contract on their
contents, and ,v]aich yet, having this low degree of vitality, arc
exquisitely sensitive to the action of new or additional morbid
cau:5eS.
But this can only obtain for a certain period. If the acute
inflammation be not terminated by some critical action in other
organs,-if uo purging of the bowels, nor purging of the skin by
sweat,* nor of the kidtJeys by loaded urine, nor of the membrane
of the lungs by expectoration, puts an end to it by the transfer
of irritation to those several organs, the organic sympathy be-
tween the blood and its vessels is lost, and the other great organs
-the brain, spinal cord, heart, &c.-which the first diseased
part had aroused to extraordinary action for the purpose of rescu-
ing the m·gan in which it exists from disease, being unable to do
so in consec1uence of its intensity, fail in their powers too; and
the death of the body follows.
Be it remarked, however, that we know not of death of the
body save as it is produced by failure of the organic powers of
the viscera-of the internal parts. A man is said to die from
" mortification of the leg," when, in truth, he dies because the
irritation of the leg has extended to the viscera, and, notably, to
the uigestive organs, and causes there a morbid state which kills
them. As long ns they can digest food, the man will live,
though both legs were in a state of mortification ; and when they
will no longer digest food, the man will die, though only a single
toe were mortified. And if this holds with regard to the disease
of a limb, how much more forcibly is it true when some internal
malady alone is concerned! In short, as I have elsewhere said,t
"death comes only by the viscera ;" an axiom that ou"ht to be
0
present to every physician when he visits a patient.
• Here is another of those terms which writers on the water-cure pro-
duce ns new, and containing a new idea. As in the case of the "crisis,"
we must look back 3000 years to find HIPPOCRATES speaking in many
places of his writings about " purging by the skin."
t In my" Simple Treatment of Disease." Churchill, 1842.
lJOCTHlN.E OJ..' CHRONIC DISEASE. II
CHAPTER III.
DOCTRINE OF CHRONIC DISEASE.
Passage of acute into chronic disease-How caused by drug medication-
Imperfect and forced crisis produced by it-Loss of vitality in the blood-
vessels, a source of irritation to other parts-Parallel between the states
produciug acute and chronic disease-Changes of secretion and sensa-
tion illustrated in dyspepsia, chronic disease of the lungs, &c.-General
conclusion.
SuPPOSING acute disease to terminate neither in death nor in
some complete critical action raised in another than the morbid
organ or set of organs, there remains a third termination of it-
and that is "chronic disease."
To this the ordinary moJe of drug medication in acute diseases
tends most powerfully. I will endeavor to show how.
A simple inflammatory action of the stomach, such as I have
described in the last chapter, being endowed with the name of
"acute indigestion," is treated as such; that name is treated;
the in.flammation would appear never to be considered- at least,
it is charitable to suppose so. For what is done~ Three or
four grains of a highly irritating compound of mercury, called
calomel, is administered, the aim being to urge the liver to pour
out its bile. After this has remained in the stomach for a few
hours, violently in itating it, antl calling to its already gorged
mucous membrane a further supply of blood, another kind of
irritant is administered, in the shape of a purgative saline draught,
the aim of that being to cause the secretion of a vast quantity
of mucus from the whole digestive canal, and especially from
the stomach.
Now, in this process, two things are to be remarked: first,
that calomel docs not stimulate the liver to act, except by pre-
viously stimulating the stomach; it acts, and can act only, by
extension of irritation from the stomach to the liver; it never
touches the liver at all-it is physically impossible that it should;
and next, that neither can the liver pour out more bile than
usual, nor the digestive mucous membrane pour out more mucus
12 DOCTRINE OF CHRONIC DISEASE.
than usual, without more blood than usual being present, whence
to derive those secretions. Accordingly, after the double stimu-
lation of the calomel and the black draught perpetrated on the
membrane of the stomach, there can be no difficulty in imagining
the auO'mentation of blood in it. Yet tlre disorder to be rem01Jed
t'>
consisted essentially in an increase ofblood in that very membrane!
Yct again calomel and black draught do certainly relieve a fit
of acute indigestion ! How is this 1
It is thus. It is found by long experience that a free flow of
bile and mucus from the digestive canal and liver JS the kind of
crisis which Nature chooses in order to relieve the upper organs
of digestion. Autumnal diarrhrea is a never failing instance of
this. And as it is certain that, in acute dyspepsia, those upper
organs are disordered (however uncertain or erroneous may be
the precise notions of the disorder), the attempt is made to imi-
tate the natural relief by expediting it. An enormous quantity
of blood is attracted to the stomach directly, and to the liver indi-
rectly, and the vessels containing it relieve themselves by forcing
out the bile and mucus in extraordinary quantities. .A. forced,
false, and imperfect crisis is thus produced, and all seems quiet
agam.
Seems quiet again; for it is impossible that such unnatural and
vehement stimulation can be applied to the organic nerves of the
mucous membrane without exhausting their energy; it is the
law of all living bodies ; therefore, although the gorged vessels
have relieved themselves by their extraordinary secretions, the
nerves, by whose energy they should recover their healthy cali-
bre, fail to afford such energy. In this state of things, nothing
prevents the accumulation again of blood in the same vessels :
the very first meal after the physic may do this, or it may be a
day or two of feeding, or a few days of mental or physical exer-
tion-for these, too, are causes of acute dyspepsia. But what-
ever the exciting cause, this second accumulation takes place
still. more readily than the first, the organic power of the part
havmg been weakened; and, lo! another fit of indigestion, and
the same calomel and black draught as before.
But this .time it is not quite so acute in character as formerly.
The orgamc tone of the blood-vessels is diminished, in conse-
quence of the exhausted state of their nerves. The organic
sympathy between the vessels and the blood they contain is di-
minished, from the same cause ; add to which, that in the inter.
DOCTRINE OF CHRONIC DISEASE. ]3
val between this and the former attack, the membrane of the
stomach has not been in condition to afford strong gastric juice,
digestion has been of a character not to make good blood, and the
want of this operates on the vessels of the diseased membrane.
So that, looking to the vessels themselves, to the nerves which in-
fluence them, and the blood that circulates in them, the whole of
the morbid organ, or part of organ, is in a still lower state of
vitality than before.
Nevertheless-and this must never be lost sight of.-this dimin-
ished vitality in the portion of the diseased stomach is a cause
of great irritation elsewhere. The phenomena of headache,
fever, &c., are not so intense as before. But although the pain
of head, heat of skin, &c., are not such ]Jrominent signals of the
stomach disorder as before, this is because their vitality is climin-
ished : they do not respond with the same vigor and acuteness to
the digestive irritation as on the first attack. Still the mischief,
both in the stomach and the brain and its nerves, as well as the
skin, has advanced ; their minute action is further than ever
from the standard of healthy life. The two forced false and im-
perfect crises have left the stomach in a more irritable, and more
r.~~ble condition than ever.
But what of that 1 Relief has been procured, speedily, and
with small trouble. Business and pleasure have scarcely, if at
all, been interrupted; the only disagreeable has been the taste of
the physic, and perhaps a little griping of the bowels from it.
The patient knows not of, and the prescriber cares not for (if he
knows), the small spot of lingering irritation that is left behind,
to be again lighted up and again extinguished by forced deluges
of bile and mucus, until the stomach itself passes fl'Om irritation
into disorganizing ulceration, or cancer, and, extending its mor-
bid sympathies to the brain, spinal cord, skin and lower bowels,
kills the patient with apoplexy or palsy, or allows him to drag on
life, a prey to the miseries of hypochondriasis, to piles and rectum
disease, or to an inveterate skin disease.
The mode in which this extension of morbid actions from the
stomach over the entire body takes place, will receive further de-
velopment in these pages. Meantime, the tracing of those actions
in the stomach itself, that has been made, will, I trust, put the
reader in possession of the organic state which constitutes chronic
disorder of the stomach. It will be perceived that it is an ext~n.
sion, in degree, of the acute state. In both there are-
14 DOCTRINE OF CIIRONIC DISEASE.
1. The exhausted and relaxed condition of the blood-\·essels.
2. The enfeebled, yet irritable state of the organic nerves of
the part.
3. The presence of an unusual quantity of blood in the vessels,
consequent on their loss of power to pass it on.
-1. Disordered lluids from, anti disordered nutrition of the part,
consc·quent on the pt·esence of excessive blood, ami on the imperfect
chemi:stry carried on in vessels that have lost the healthy control
of the ganglionic nerves, and the healthy ~ympathy with their
contained blood.
In the chronic &
tate of disease all these conditions arc augmented.
The enfeebling and irritability of the vessels and nerves go on to
!SUCh an extent, that, in some cases, no interval whatever of re-
lief from the symptoms they beget is obtained. As regards the
excess of blood in the part, this varies with the amount of stimu-
lus applied. A more than ordinary amount of food, or drink of
stimulating quality, will, by exciting the contractility of the ves-
sels for a brief period, diminish the amount they contain for that
period ; and for this reason it is that some dyspeptics find tempo-
J·ary ease from eating, from taking wine and other alcoholic
liquids, or bitters, or opiates. But it is mainly in the alteration
of the vital relations between the vessels and their contents that
the chronic stage of disease exceeds and differs from the acute.
In chronic disease, this relation is so lost, that the blood in the
\'esscls frequently breaks up, loses its globular constitution, be-
comes brown or purple, instead of vcnnilion, and is changed in
its chemical constitution also. As a consequence of all which,
the deposits from it, both liquid and solid, arc more extensively
deranged than in acute disease, where the blood as yet retains its
mechanical, and is very slightly, if at all, changed in its chemical
characteristics. Hence it is that chronic disease (of the stomach,
for instance) is so invariably accompanied with acid instead of
insipid fluids, with vast volumes of air, sometimes insipid, at others,
fretid and offensive ; the vital chemistry of the small blood-ves.
sels mixing together the elements of the blood in such a morbid
manner as to furm acid in one case, and aeriform instead of liquid
matters in the other. Hence it is also that cancerous and other
simply morbid and malignant matters are deposited, instead of
the usual textures that constitute the part, be it the mucous mem-
brane of the stomach or of the lungs, the brain, the skin, and
other textures. ·
DOCTRINE OF CHROXIC DISEASE.
One of these solid deposits is the nervous matter itself of the
part. The loss of healthy structure and vital and chemical con-
~titution of the Llood c.:auses a deposit of di::.;cased nervous matter
-mattr~r that originates, therefore, di~euscd nervous sensations.
Hence the thousand indescribable sensations of the person afflicted
with chronic disease, especially of the stomach ; the material of
which h nerves nre composed is diseased in kind. But he also
has it di~cased in degree; for there is an excess as well as a de-
tcriomtion of blood in the part, and the deposit of nervous mate-
rial is, us a con::;equence, in excess too. lienee it is, taking the
stomach as an cxattlple again, that the food taken into a dyspeptic
stomach is generally felt, which it never is in health; a sound
man knows not, l>y his :stomach, that he has eaten at all-knows
not that he has a stornach : the orga.nic nen·cs in a state of health
not possessing sensibility, Lut only irritability. Hence, too, the
voracicus appetite that accompanies some forms of chronic imli-
gc~tion, in which the excessive irritability of the nerves, from
augmented deposit of nervous matter, causes an increased con-
traction of the muscular coat of the stomach, even to the amount
of spasm; and hunger is nothing more than a gentle spasm of
that organ. In some dyspeptics, hunger of this kind is experi-
enced immediately after a very full meal. The same excessive
secretion of nervous matter also explains the extreme sensitive-
ness of the stomach to the sight and smell of many things which,
in health, wet·c tolerable to both. And, finally, the combined
excess and deterioration of tl1e nPrvous influence of the stomach
produces that immense caprice of appetite, and in the objr>cts of
appctit0, the fastiuiousness and the desire for change, which cllU-
ractcrizes some phases of chronic irritation of the stomach.
I have exemplified from this last-named chronic disorder, be-
cause it is the most familiar; but the same doctrine applies to all
other organs of the body.
In chronic di::eases of the air-tubes of the lungs, for instance,
which includes what arc called "old man's cough" and "humid
asthma," the same relaxation of blood-vessels and loss of accord
between them and their contents, beget morbid expectoration, on
the one hand, and excessive sensitiveness to the quality and
quantity of the air that enters them in respiration on the other.
There is frequently, too, the same caprice as regards air, which
we have noticed in the stomach as regards food (for air is the
food of the lungs); and asthmatic patients will sometimes be able
J6 DOCTRI~E OF CliRONlC IIISEASE.
to breathe only the heavy and smoky atmo~phcrc of towns; at
others onl t.r the clastic and li(rht breezes of mountains.
J J ~
Or suppose chronic disease fixed decpet· in the lungs, in their
sponO'y texture· there too the same condition of blood-vessels
;:. • ' J '
and their contents gives rise to analogous results; and the morbid
nutrition "oinO' on in the part leads to the f()fmation of abscesses,
0 0
of tubercles, sooner or later to terminate in pulmonar consump-
tion, of cancerous deposit, of calcareous matter, &c.,-all of them
dependent on morbid influence of the ganglionic nerves of the
part, morbid blood-vessels, and morbid blood.
From these instances all the rest may be conceived. In the
brain, in the heart, in the liver and kidneys, in the bones and
their covering, in the sheaths and great coverings of the muscles,
in the ligaments of the joints, and, finally, in the skin, the same
state forms the chronic disorder of each and all. Excessive and
morbid secretion, nutrition, and sensation, the result of exhausted
vitality of the blood.vessels, diseased blood within them, and ex.
treme but diseased sensitiveness of the ganglionic nerves of the
part, constitute the organic facts in these different textures and
organs of the body.
I now proceed to review the manner in which a combination
of points of chronic disorder is brought about, nncl from a simple,
becomes a complicated disease.
I'Y.TENSlON OF CHRONIC DISEASE. 17
CHAPTER IV.
PHENOMENA 01<, TilE EXTENSIO~ OF CHRONIC DISEASE.
Oc:casional and permanent extcnsion-AgE'ncy of the nervous system in
this-Anitnal sensation not necessary-Rationale of extension without
pain-Shown in congestion of the brain-Phases of extcnsion-,Vhy
without pain-Exemplified in various stomach disordPrs-Extension from
stomach to livcr-Fmm the same to the air-tubes of the lungs-Stomach
cough-Asthma-Pulmonary consumption- Extension to the kidneys,
stone, diabetes, dt·opsy, Bright's disease-Extcn.;ion to the skin, tetters,
scurf. acne,&.~.:.-To the limb3, spurious palsy- Sympathy of nutrition-
Importance of the vi~cera-Extension from without inwards, wounds,
&.c.-From within outward3, with pain-Gout, tic, rheumatism, &.c.-
Causes of the pain-Generalizations.
1 HAVE hitherto been speaking of the minute essentials of chronic
disease in any one organ, or part of an organ. The chief cha-
racteristic of a living body, however, Sympathy, will not admit
of one part remaining in a morbid state, without involving, sooner
or later, other parts. The principle upon which this proceeds,
and the phenomena elicited in the course of the extension, are
of the first importance in guiding us towards the philosophical
treatment of disease. The want of precise ideas on this suuject
is the source of the most inefficient, and, at the same time, of the
most dangerous practice in chronic disorder; of practice which
strives against effects, instead of causes, and cnc.ls by exasperating
both, as I shall show in the next chapter.
The extension of chronic disease is either occasional or penna-
ncnt; and the fl'equent repetition of the former leads to the
latter. Thus chronic irritation of the liver and stomach causes
occasional flushing of the face, and headache,-indications of
surcrinrr of blooc.l towards the head,-the intervals between which
0 0
gradually become less and less palpable, as the establishment of
the condition in the head which causes them proceeds. 1t is a
sort of warning given before another organ, the brain, becomes
permanently involved in the mischief of the one first affected.
The agent by which this ~xtension takes places is the nervous
18 EXTENSION OF CHRONIC DISEASE.
system; but both occasional and permanent cx!~nsion may take
place without the intervention of animal sensation-as when
chronic irritation of the digestive apparatus causes a periodical
increase of discharge from an external ulcer, no increase of pain
or other sensation attending; or when irritation of the stomach
acts slowly but incessantly on the heart, producing therein or.
ganic mischief totally unsuspected, until examination after a
sudden death reveals the fact of long-standing disease in both
organs. Vcry frequently the worst cases of indigestion are those
which produce no pain, no malaise even, but in which the body
wastes in atrophy. The deposit of tubercles in the lungs from
chronic disease of the digestive organs is another and too fre.
qucnt illustration of this fact. In such cases there must stili
be transmission of sympathy, of sensation; and, inasmuch as
the animal part of us is not aware of the transmission, save by
its results, it follows that the sensation propagated from one dis-
eased part to :mother, must have been an organic sensation, as
contra-distinguished from an animal one.
Referring to the fact before-mentioned, that wherever there is
a blood-vessel, or wherever nutrition goes on, there are organic
nerves, the explanation of this organic sympathy or sensation
will be sufficiently clear. The universality of these nerves and
blood-vessels in the body renders the extension of organic irrita.
tions from one of its organs to others a very ready, and, indeed,
an inevitable phenomenon. The exhausted and irritable nerves
and vessels of a part prove, as was before said, a source of irri.
tation, of stimulation to other parts. In these latter, the same
minute changes go on as have been observed in the part first
affected-oft-repeated contraction, followed by relaxation and
exhaustion of the vessels and organic nerves. Thus, in the in-
stunce just quoted, the chronic irritation of the stomach from
time to time violently stimulates the blood-vessels of the brain ·
'
these contract ,·ehemently, then relax, and then the blood surges
towards the head to fill them. This process happening over and
over again, the vessels of the brain become at length permanently
gorged, congested; and congestion oftlte brain may terminate in
partial pressure of its substance, and consequent palsy of a limb
or of half the body: or the congestion may end in disor~aniza-
tion ofthe brain, insanity, im,becility, and death. -
As may be readily conceived from what has been premised,
the shades of this irritation and congestion are infinite. They
.EXTENSION OF CHRONIC DISEASE.
vary with the amount o.nd character of the first-formed irritation,
with the predisposition of the part secondarily affected, and with
the general temperament of the individual. Thus, in the case
of chronic stomach irritation extending to the head, the phase of
mischief in this last will depend upon the long or short standing
of the stomach disease ; upon its exasperation by food or physic ;
upon the predisposition caused or avoided by the patient's toil or
ease of brain and mind; and upon the fact of his having a largely
developed brain or otherwise. These various phases produce
ond represent respectively simple fillness of the head, impatience
and irritability of temper, hypochondriasis, insanity, apaplectic con-
gestion, JJaralytic congestion (I shall speak of the difference be-
tween these two states afterwards), annihilation of the mind in
drivelling imbecility ; so that a simple fit of acute indigestion in
the stomach may, by improper management, grow into a chronic
dyspepsia, and terminate in idiocy; and this is an almost every-
day fact r
I repeat, then, that the most extensive changes in organs may
be brought about without the intervention of animal sensation or
pain; and this because the ganglionic nerves, which alone pre-
side over the offices of the blood-vessels, are concerned in, and
arc capable of themselves of effecting those changes. The most
serious ulceration of t!te stomach and bowels-nay, cancerou,s
ulceration of that organ-may go ·on without the smalle5t amount
of animal pain; but far more fortunate are they in whom such
pain is excited at a very early stage of mischief, for they are
thereby warned from indulgence in its causes, and cautioned to
remctly it; whilst, in the other case, the very core of life may
be unsound, the vitals undermined and beyon1l remedy, before
the opportullity of applying any is given. How often have I
seen medical men pronounce positively the absence of all in.
fbmmntion of the digesti\·c organs, because pressure on them
·with the hand elicited no ]Jain! and this at the yery time when
apoplectic fulness of the head from extension of chronic irritation
of stomach kept the patient tottering on the brink of the grave,
yet was speedily relieved by hot fomentations over the stomach,
ru1d spare diet.
The fuct is, that the nerves of organic life neither are obedient
to the will, nor capable of sensation in the ordinary acceptation
of that term. On the other hand, they urge and modify both the
will nncl the sensation of our animal nerves-that is, of our brain,
EXTENSION OF CHRONIC DISEASE.
spinal cord, and their nerves-masmuch as these are nourished
by blood and vessels over which the orgnnic nerves ho~d s~vay;
and- their state of acuteness or dulness, of firmness or fl•ghtmess,
depends on the way in which they arc nourished. By virtue of
this it is that we constantly see chronic stomach disease playing
by sympathy so much upon the nutritive vessels of the brain as to
induce at one time the most vehement will of fiendish impatience,
and at another time prostrating it in the hopeless irresolution of
hypochondriasis. By virtue of this it is that the most minute
changes in the digcRtive parts act upon the brain and mind, no
animal sensation intervening, unfounded fears, anxieticA, and
irnaginary diseases tormenting the soul, and l\eeping up the dis-
tresses of that malady. By virtue of this it is that food sweetens
the temper which hunger had acidified; and that the best time to
ask a favor is after-the worst time before-dinner. By virtue
of this it is that chronic irritation of the stomach is so frequently
attended with dreams generally of an appalling or distre~ing
character, and that the sleep in such cases is so often unrefreshing.
All these states are owing to the morbid nutrition of the brain
swayed by the morbid action of the ganglionic nerves, and the
blood-vessels that pervade its substance. But all these may exist
without pain.
Again, the chronic irritation of the stomach may creep on
towards the liver without the smallest intervention of pain. The
same membrane that lines the former passes on to line all the
myriad bile ducts of the latter, and is supplied with enormous
quautities of ganglionic nerves, and very sparingly with nerves
of animal life. Hence it is that very frequently pains are ex-
perienced in the right shoulder, in the head, and appear in the
form of tic douloureux of the face, arms, fingers, and thighs, that
arc clearly traceable to cltronic irrit.alion of the liver, in which
organ itself, meantime, not a sign of pain has been experienced.
The explanation of these sympathetic pains will be given by
and by.
Or take the instance of chrlmic disease cf tlte air tubes of tlte
lungs, or "old man's cough." This may go on to a most destruc.
tive extent without any pain whatever. The outpouring ofvarious
kinds of expectoration from the diseased blood-vessels of the
pulmonary mucous membrane into the air tubes may produce a
sense of oppression, or a tickling, that brings on the instinctive
act of coughing ; but there is no ache nor pain in this ; besides,
EXTENSION OF CHRONIC DISEASE. 21
if there were, it would rather be from the consequences of the
chronic irritation-the fluid to be expectorated-than from the
irritation itself, that it would proceed. Nay, in the most formida-
ble of all lung diseases-pulmonary consumption-the whole malady
may be enacted, from the formation of tubercles to the last attempt
at expectoration, without pain of the chest.
Not to multiply instances, I may mention that huge fatty tumors,
bony tumors, and even cancerous tumors, all of them the results
oj: chronic irritauon, may be deposited without animal pain of the
part.
Pain, therefore, is not a necessary concomitant of chronic dis-
ease of an organ, and of its extension to others. It frequently is
an accompaniment, but not necessarily so. An important maxim,
the denial or ignorance of which tends to that disastrous system
of stimulation, which is at once the producer and the maintainer
of chronic disease. Denying the existence of irritation and in-
flammation where no pain can be elicited, the ordinary plan of
proceeding is to stimulate, on the ground that what is not inflam-
mation must be want of tone. From what has preceded, the
reader will perceive that chronic inflammation is, quoad the blood-
vessels, want of tone, but also, quoad the ganglionic nerves, ex-
cessive sensitiveness. I shall amplify this point when speaking
of the causes of the extension of chronic disease.
Extension of chronic disorder is not confined to adjacent organs.
Perhaps we may even say, that it more commonly takes placP.
towards organs at a distance. I have already quoted the case of
chronic stomach irritation being propagated to the brain, and it is
one of the most frequent occurrences. I ha\·e also alluded to the
non-painful extension to the heart.
Another instance is the propagation of tlle same stomach malady
to the lungs, and this is of two kinds. One degree of the first
malady excites and maintains in the mucous membrane of the
pulmonary air tubes a chronic condition of extreme sensitiveness
or morbid secretion, and sometimes of both, which renders those
parts exceedingly susceptible to alternations of temperature, and
thus is incessantly causing the patient to catch fresh colds, besides
maintaining, in the intervals, a dry, hard, ringing cough, well
known as stomach cough. The frequent repetition of the catarrhal
attacks of the air tubes alluded to, at length ends in the establish-
ment of a chronic inflammation therein, attended with a varying,
but always some amount of expectoration; and thus what was at
22 EXTENSION OF CHRONIC DISEASE.
first only a nervous irritation, begetting a sympa~hetic coug~, ends
by a substantial chronic inflammatory congest10n. In th1s con.
gestion induced by sympathetic extension from the stomach, we
behold ~ne of the elements that enter into that complicated malady
called ast/wuz, \vhich I shall notice hereafter.
A second <.legrec of chronic stomach irritation propagated to the
lunos tends to the formation of tubercles, and the commencement
ofp~lnwnary consumption. In this instance, the phase of irritation
is such as to excite a sympathetic irritation in the spongy tissue
of the lungs, not in the air tubes. The minute changes consti-
tuting chronic disease, so often spoken of in these pages, wil1 go
far to explain the deposition of tubercular matter in such a case.
But this is not all. In most persons in whom tubercular con.
sumption obtains, there is a congenital disposition of the circulating
blood, which tends to such deposition in any tissue of the body, as
we behold in white swelling ofthe l71.Ce and elbow, which are nothing
more than inflammation of tubercles deposited in the bones of those
joints. Now, the organic sympathies between the stomach and
lungs being great, from the vast quantity of organic nervous mat.
ter they both contain, the deposition in question takes place more
frequently in the lungs than elsewhere. The fact is, meantime,
that the process of digestion in the stomach, which produces the
constitution of the blood alluded to (a constitution commonly
known as scrcifula), is rendered a morbid process in consequence
of the chronic inflammation always going on there; for never wcu
there a patient laboring under tubercular deposit in lhe lungs wlw
had not previously to, and coocomitantly with it a cltrmJic di.sease aJ
the stomach. I put this down as an invariable fact, and am ready
to prove it in any case that may be submitted to me : so that
chronic stomach irritation acts in two ways in the production of
pulmonary consumption.
lst, By establishing, through the sympathy which exists be.
tween all parts of the organic nerves, an irritation in the spongy
texture of the lungs-a state which, of itself, supposes a morbid
conditi~n of.the ~irculati?g blood in the chronically diseased spot,
but whiCh, m th1s case, 1s further rendered morbid by
. 2d, The mo.rbid state o.f th~ whole blood of the body, result.
mg from the Imperfect dtgeshon of food in a stomach in a state
of chronic disease.
As I have already remarked, this extension of chronic disease
may, and generally doeH, take place without the slightest pain.
EXTENSION OF CHRONIC DISEASE. 23
Chronic irritation of the stomach, in which the liver is also
'ftsually involved, also takes an extension towards the kidneys, in
which an action is consequently set up, and a kind of blood ge-
nerated, both generally in the body, and particularly in the kid-
ney, that produces a secretion of variously disordered urine, but
the chief varieties of which are the acid, the albuminous, and
the saccharine. As results of this extension, we have to note
three formidable maladies-stone and gravel, Brig1tt's disease,
and diabetes. Another disease, dropsy, very often attributed to
the kidneys alone, I shall, further on, show to be connected
rather with malady of othet· parts, and notably of the blood-
making organs, the stomach and lungs.
There are some extensions of chronic disease of the stomach
to the skin that take place without pain or other animal sensation.
Several kinds of tetter come under the category, especially those
of the dry kinds, which are marked by an excessive secretion of
skin, causing the scurf that so often prevails in patches over the
body.
The skin complaint, technically called acne, and which con-
sists in the presence of small pimples with white heads, scattered
over the shoulders and forehead, and thickly ranged on the chin,
is, for the most part, unaccompanied with pain or other sensation
in its character of an extension of chronic irritation of the diges-
tive organs; for that it is such is abundantly proved by the whole
history of the disease, as well as by the operation of diet and
other medical means applicable to the stomach upon it.
As regards the extension of chronic disease of the digestive
organs to the limbs, without the presence of pain, there is only
one form of such extension; and even this, though frequently
unaccompanied by pain, has the animal sensations of lassitude,
tremblings, heats, &c. I allude to the gradual failing of power
over the limbs, swelling of the joints, spasmodic drawing of the
muscles that bend the limbs, and final distortion and fixation of
them; the whole being the result of an intense, destructive
irritation of the digestive organs, deterioration of digestion and
blood-making, and consequent bad nutrition of the whole body,
the animal nervous system especially. I shall have to speak
of this condition at some length when treating of the causes of
chronic diseases, a~ also when the individual diseases come to
be considered. Meantime I shall mark it by the name of spu-
riou pahy.
24 EXTENSIO?'t OF CHRONIC DISEASE.
In the instances enumerated, wherein no animal sensation ac.
companies the extension of chronic di~ens~ from the. stomach in
all directions of the body, that extenston 1s accomplished by the
universal sympathy of nutrition, as it is carried on uncle~ tho
influence of the ganglionic nervous system. But, though umver.
sul, that system has a centre in which the greatest masses of the
matter constituting it arc congregated, and towards which irrita.
tions commencing in any part of tho body converge; just as,
when they commence in the stomach, they diverge to all other
parts of the body. That centre is to be found in the ganglionic
networks and nuclei that abound in and ::;urround the viscera, and,
in a more especial manner, in that portion of them which regu.
latcs the offices of the upper organs of digestion, the stomach and
liver. All the facts of healthy, as well as those of diseaseu life,
confirm this doctrine. In the organs of digestion we behold the
starting point of all the nutrition of the frame : according to the
vigor they exhibit is that of the other viscera, of the brain, and
of the limbs; and when these are wearied by exertion and the
natural waste, they transmit to the stomach organic sensations
that produce in it the craving for supply, which we call hunger,
and the first act of restorative nutrition, which we call digestion.
Suppose this digestion to be bad, what follows 1 Imperfectly
formed blood: whence comes bad nutrition of parts-bad solids
and fluids; the solids weak and irritable, the fluids morbid and
irritating; and both send back their irritations to the parent mis-
chief in the stomach. In short, there is a sympathy of nutrition
going on between all parts of the body, independent of the animal
sympathy commonly spoken of; and whilst the latter has its cen-
tral points of convergence and divergence in the brain and spinal
cord, the former-the sympathy of nutrition-has those points in
the ganglions and net-works of nerves of organic life that exist
so largely in the immediate neighborhood of the primary organ
of nutrition, the stomach.
When therefore disease, commencing in an acute form in any
of the organ~ or tissues of the body, passes into the chronic state,
an organic sympathy is established with the centre of organic
life in the stomach; and according to the condition of the stom·
ach will be the intensity, the duration, and the curability of the
local chronic disorder ; for the stomach sends its organic sensa.
tions back to the morbid part. The smallest patch of skin dis.
ease on the leg or arm is maintained in its chronic state by some
EXTENSION OF CHRONIC DISEA.SF.. 25
unalogous irritation in the great digestive organ, and is, in fact,
a symptom of the existence of such irritation. A broken bone
will not unite, neither will an external ulcer heal, if there be
chronic disease of the stomach going on-the fl·actu re and the
ulcer become chronic too. In s1wrt, tee know not cif chronic
disease C!f. any part cif the body without some phase ofthe same con.
dition in the ncn·ous and other tissues of the stomach; this is m1
unvarying rule. And though in many cases appetite may be
present, dig£ stinn free from uneasiness and apparently perfect,
yet will the distant malady net,er Lc got rid of, so long as t·eme-
dies that act upon the digestive organs, to reduce .irritation, arc
avoided. ABERNETHY knew this well ; but, inasmuch as he
failed to appreciate the true meaning of chmnic digestive dism·-
der, and the process and agent of organic sympathy, the remedies
he applied rather transferred than extinguished, and even, in the
long run, exasperated, the malady they were directed against.
[ shall exemplify this when treating of the causes and progress
of chronic disease.
\Vhilst thus the extension of chronic disease is in many in-
stances from within outwards, commencing in the digC>stivc parts,
and radiating in all directions ; and whilst, on the other hand,
irritation e01mnencing in some external part is propagated by
sympathy toward~ the digestive organs, it will depend upon the
condition of these last how long and how severe the disease shall
be in the fit·st case ; and whetl1er, in the second case, the exter-
nal irritation shall become chronic at all, and how long it shall
.
remam so.
For, suppose a lacerated wound of the leg. It sends organic
irritation to the stomach. If the stomach be in a sound condition,
it will be able to re-act upon the irritation, anrl, by virtue of its
good digestion, send to the wounded spot blooJ of a healthy and
healing character. The consequence is that, betwe(·n tho ab.
scnce of irritative re-action fro111 the ganglionic centre and the
presence of healthy blood to throw out the matter that is to unite
the wound, the latter heals without inflammation. Had the irri-
tation of the wound found the nerves and blood-ve~sds of the
di~restivc parts chronicallv diseased, all this would have been re.
0 w
versed: the wound would have remained open and chronically
irritated; that is to say, the same diseased blood, blood-vessels,
and secretions, nnd the same diseased sensations, would have
3
26 F.XTENSION OF CHRONIC DISEASE.
pervaded it, just so long, and no longer than the stomach re-
mained in like state.
But further, the irritation commencing without may induce
chronic disorder of the stomach, which, us in the former instance,
maintains the external mischief. Thus, a blow is given on the
knee-joint; a shock is given to the stomach in consequence;
vomiting ensues ; this acute irritation of the stomach passes into
a chronic state, and then commences that interchange of irrita.
tions which (exasperated by the ordinary treatment) is so often
found to terminate in amputation of the limb. Of course, in this
and all similar cases, the whole series of phenomena will depend
upon the violence of the first irritation: if the blow Le not very
severe, and the stomach sound, the latter 'vill tt·iumph, and no
chronic disorder of the knee will be established.
To return to the extension of chronic disease from the digestive
organs to the outer organs. This would appear to be done in not
a few occasions as an attempt on the part of the inner and vital
part to throw its mischief on some less important <.>xternal parl.
Strictly speaking, this is scarcely extension; it is rather a trans-
fer. Yet us it is rarely, if ever, accompanied by a totaltra!1sfer
of the stomach malady, it may be here referred to; the rather ns
it is nn important aud frequent phenomenon in the course of many
chronic diseases. In acute disease, the same phenomenon is ex.
hibited in the erupth•e maladies, measles, small-pox, scarlet-
fever, &c., wl1ich are but efforts of the violently in·itated internal
parts to throw some part, at least, of their mischief upon the skin;
in doing which they invoh·e the animal nervous system, the brain,
and spinal cord. But in the chronic form, the extension takes
place more slowly, and a skin disease of some kind, or an ulcer,
is gradually established as a sort of counterpoi:sc to the irritat~on
which would otherwise pr0y upon the vital pa1 ts, and destroy
them. Thnt something of this outaius is plain from the fuct, that
whenever these chronic skin discasts or u1cers arc driven in, or
dried up, many serious results fo1low in some important vi:scus,
such as apoplexy of the brain, spasm of the heart or stomach,
spitting of blood from the lungs, &c. It is well known that N.A·
POLEON had a patch of sh.in disease on the outer side of one of
his thighs; and that whenever he felt heavy, or melancholy, or
more than usu:&lly .irritable in mind, and uneasy in body, he had
only to cotJ:£ a further amount of irritation into this patch, by
scratcl.-.g until two or three drops of ulood came, to find im.
EXTENSION OF CHRONIC DISEASE. 27
mediatP. relief. And this necessity arose whenever the skin dis.
ease had diminished in degree; that is to sa.y whenevGr the
disease within had b£-come more concentrated and intense.
Sometimes this extension to the surface of the body only takes
place at certain times, the internal chronic malady, meantime,
always remaining there. Thus many persons have eruptions of
various kinds in the spring or in the autumn. Others have ful-
ness of the mucous membrane of the nostrils, and bleeding thence
at periods depending on the accidents of the patient's mode of life.
Others again have painful itching and bleeding hemorrhoids
whenever the smallest aherration from cool diet is permitted ; and
not unfrequcntly, without any such causes working, internal
chronic disease takes this mode of relieving itself by the extension
from time to time to less important parts. One of the most harm-
less, but at the same time the most troublesome, instances of the
occasional extension of chronic stomach disease, is the tenderness
oftl&e feet, so often complained of by dyspeptic patients. Swelling
ofthe feet is another instance. Sound stomachs are subject to
neither of these evils.
Under this category of extension to the external organs of the
body, come the important diseases, gou.t and rlteU11Ullism. Here
the extension is accompanied with the phenomenon of pain, as it
also is in another too prevalent disorder, which is also an exten-
sion of internal chronic mischief.-! allude to tic douloureux in its
various shapes of megrim or nervous l~.eadacltc, toothache, sciatica,
tic cffthe face, oftlrr fingers, <Joe.
Pain in these cu~es is attributable to the peculiar phase of the
internal irritation, to its fixing on a peculiar tissue, and to a cor-
organization of the individual.
The phase of internal irritation is generally of the most invete-
rate character; the loss of power on the part of the blood-vessels
and ganglionic nerves would appear to be extreme, for in no
series of maladies is it mastered with greater difficulty than in
those just named. Moreover, the mingled feebleness and irrita-
bility ofthe ganglionic nerves so often referred to, would seem to
be excessive, since causes almost inappreciable suffice to rousP.
the lurking irritation to the point of producing pain. And this
mingled morbid state causing a similarly irritable condition of all
the nutritive nerves and blood-vessels over the body, will account
for the exquisite sensitiveness of gouty, rheumatic, and tic patient&
to the smallest change in the atmospheric and telluric in11uences
28 EXTENSION OF CHRONIC DISEASE.
A cloud passing athwart the sky is often felt by s~fferers from tic,
who will also tell you how the wino has changP.d m the courso ot
the niO'ht or that snow will fall in ten or twelve hours before
;::, '
there is to others the least sign of it. The snrnc may be said of
gouty-rheumatic persons. And in both maladies there is a readi-
ness to take cold that can only be accounted ior by the enfceLled
action of the vessels and nerves that minister to the nut •·ition of
parts, on one hand, and to the morbid sensitivencss of the nerves
of the brain and spinal cord distributed to the skin, on the other.
The peculiar tissue affected in internal chronic disease, which
exhibits itself in gout, rheumatism, and tic, is more especially the
nert,ous tissue of the stomach and liver; that is to say, there is
rather irritation and congestion of the ganglionic nerves of those
parts than of the mucous membrane : for it is very common to
find the tongue perfectly clean in the worst cases of the diseases
in question. No doubt the mucous membrane is, in many in-
stances, involved also; but that is not an essential of the state I
am speaking of. Now, it is a well-established law ofthe economy,
that similar tissues have the strongest sympathies; and it is a well.
established anatomical fact that a large portion of the spinal corJ
(that portion of it which ministers to sensation) is very similar in
texture to the ganglionic nerves of the viscera. Accm·dingly,
these last being inordinately irritated, a sympathetic irritation is
roused in the spinal cord, and therefore, in more or fewer of the
nerves which proceed from it, and are distributed to the joints
and muscles of the body ;-if in the nerves of the face, producing
the most usual form of tic; if in the great nerve of the thigh,
producing sciatica; and if generally to the superficial nerves of
a limb, producing neuralgic rheumatism of that limb ; but in
rheumatism, and gout, and tic, alike, there is the further organic
irritation, originated and maintained by the sympathy between
the ganglionic nen•ous matter of the viscera, and that of the par.
ticular limb, joint, or nerve, tha~ may be respectively the scat of
the rheumatic, the gouty, or the tic pain; so that the irritation
radiating directly from within to the outward point of disease, and
again radiating from within to the spinal cord, and thence by the
animal nerves to the same outward point, these diseases arc with
much propriety stigmatized as complicated, and dreaded as in.
tractable by most medical practitioners of the ordinary treatment.
Lastly, the pain in these maladies is attributable to individual
organization ; in other words, the reason why some persons having
EXTENSION OF CHRONIC DISEASE. 29
visceral irritation arc more liable to have it thrown upon the ani-
mal nervous tissue, inducing the pain of gout, rheumatism, and
tic, than other persons having the same internal irritation, is to be
sought for in the greater development of the animal nervous sys-
tem (especially of the spinal cord), in the former. In pro()f of
which, we find that the great majority of those who are liable to
those diseases, either have been (before they were crippled), or
arc, given to the strong exertion of the will in the shape of strong
exercise : the spinal cord being, let it be remembered, the seat of
the will, which is exercised by its nerves sent to the muscles of
the whole body. In tic, more particularly, I have remarked that
almost every patient is possessed of a vehement will, and of hard
muscles on which to exert it; and both in it and in rheumatism I
have observed the characteristic energy of those afflicted with
either. You never see a phlegmatic nature attacked by rheuma-
tism or tic, and very rarely by gout.
In the extension, then, of chronic visceral irritation in the forms
of rheumatic, gouty, and neuralgic disorder, we have still the
phenomenon of organic extension ; that is, from the centre to the
circumference of the ganglionic system of nerves; but we have,
in aduition, the phenomenon of pain, indicative of extension from
the same visceral irritation to the spinal cord, producing therein
an action which is the cause of the pain experienced in the exter-
nal atfecteu parts. Let both these facts be well borne in mind ;
they bear much on the scientific treatment of the diseases in
point.
As in the instances just considered, the chief extension was to
the spinal cord and its nerves, so in another series of phenomena
connected with the animal nervous system, the extension is par-
ticularly to the brain. These phenomena are collectively called
nert•ousncss, or neuropathy, and may be sufficiently intense to de-
serve the names of monomania and insanity. In the former, the
amount of irritation in the ganglionic centre is not so extreme ns
to maintain, though it is sufficient to generate, an irregular circu-
lation in the brain. Hence we find that nervousness is brought
into pluy by surrounding circumstances; the patient being tole-
rably free from it if withdrawn from exte1·nal causes ofexcitement,
and prevented from the strong exertion of the will. But in mo-
nomaniacal and general insanity, the brain circulation of blood is
permanently deranged, the ideas are continuously confused; and
both indicate a degree of chronic ganglionic irritation in the abdo-
30 EXTENSION OF CHRONIC DISEASE.
men that is of the most intense character. In these neuropathic
and insane instances, as in the neuralgic states last s~ken o~, a
certain orrranization of tlu~ brain, for the most part, obtams, whiCh
renders it~bnoxious to the radiation of the ganglionic irritation to
its own tissue rather than to other textures of the body. Whilst,
however, this is admitted, it must not be supposeJ that in these
unfortunate conditions the brain alone is concerned ; both one
and the other arc much more essentially maladies of the nerves of
the abdomen than of the brain, the facts and arguments in favor
of which I have fully stated in my worlc, entitled "An Exposilitm
r!f the Symptoms, Essential Nature, and Treatment of Neuropathy,
or Nen:ousness."*
This sketch of the mode of extension that obtains in chronic
disease points to a few generalizations which it is important to
mark, as in the appreciation of that form of disease as well as in
its tr·eatmcnt, they should ever be prominently present to the
mental eye of the medical practitioner.
1st. Chronic disease may exist, and its extension from one to
several organs may take place, without the intervention of ani.
mal pain.
2d. In such cases, the organic or ganglionic system of nerves
is alone concerned, and the extension is effected by the organic
sympathy which exists between all the tissues of the body by
virtue of their common nutrition from the same mass of circu-
lating blood ; of which sympathy and nutrition the nervous sys.
tern in question is the representative.
3d. Chronic disease may exist, and its extension from one to
several o1·gans, may take place with animal pain.
4th. In such cases, the ganglionic irritation has been more
especially fixed in the purely nervous tissue of that name dis.
tributed in the abdomen, and has produced a sympathetic irritation
in the same nervous matter distributed to the blood-vessels which
nourish the animal nervous centres, the brain and spinal cord;
the consequence of which is pain of more or fewer of the nerves
proceeding from these last to the various external and internal
parts of the body, constituting neuralgic diseases; or unnatural
sensati~ns and perceptions of a temporary character, constituting
the vanous shades of nenousness; or, Justly, perverted ideas of
• In 1 vol. 8\·o., second edition, JS42. Churchill, Princes street, Soho,
London.
EXTENSION OF CHRONIC DISEASE. 31
a permanent character, constituting the various shades of mental
in.sanity.
5th. Disease, of what part of the body soever, is endued with
the chronic character, and maintained in it only by some chronic
irritation in the central portions of the organic system of nerves,
ancl notably in thost: portions that are found about the stomach
and liver. \Vhethcr the :;tarting point be in the skin or brain,
or digestive organs thP.mselvcs, there is no chronic disease without
the implication of these last. If lltey be sound, the causes of
disease applied elsewhere, in distant parts, are resisted and over-
come ; if they be inclined to disease, those causes act indirectly
upon them, und, through them, establish disease in the distant
part.
6th. Tho extension of chronic disease from the internal to
the external parts is usually made for the purpose of relieving
the former, which are immediately necessary to life, at the ex-
pense of the latter, which arc less so. And this is done either
periodically, as in gout, tic, &c., or permanently, as in chronic
rheumatism, skin disease, &c. Of the rationale of this effort at
relief we know little ; and in this want, it has usually been as-
cribed to the restorative power of nature-the vis medicatrix
nat~trm of the schools.
No allusion is made in the. above ~tatements and conclusions
to the doctrine of chronic disease advanced by LIEBIG, because
that doctrine applies only to the chemical changes that occur,
and uccausr. these arc, in a living body, necessarily secondary to
the rital chunges, upon which I have morP. especially built. In
tho appendix, rcfe:rence will be made to the applications of LIEBIG's
thcm·y to the treatment of chronic disease by the processes of
the water-cure.
32 THE CAUSES, PROGRESS, AND
CHAPTER V.
THE CAU~E~. PROGRESS, AND TERMINATIONS OF CHHONIC
DISEASE.
Constitulinus llwt pr·~dtsposc to chrnnir disease-The ganglionic and scro-
fulous run~titutions-Previous uisease-Bloo•lletting as a cause-Drug
medication in tl.cute disea:.c-How it causes and maintains internal
chronic ui:;c•.s.~-:\ote on homreopathy-Ilow external chronic disease
i9 kept up-Stimulating di£.'t- Carc-Intellectual labor-Progress and
pcculiaritit·s of chronic disease-Occasional exasperation into an acute
form-Termination in organic dise::tsc-Act of ucath in chronic disease.
HAVING, in preceding chaptcrs, entered into the minute conditions
constituting chronic diseuse, and traced its origin, I shall, in the
present one, inquire into its predisposing causes, and trace its
progress towards the various terminations to which it is liable.
In doing this, I shall suppose that the minute conditions alluded
to, as well as the mode of extension, nrc understood from what
has been already advanced, and shall therefore have no occasion
to repeat them, but may speak of them in a more general lan-
guage. Having explained terms, it is log ically correct to use
them.
There wouh.l appear to be a decitled predisposition towards the
establishment of chronic di:sease in certaiu constitutions-that is
to say, acute disease has a greater temlency to become chronic
in some than in other persons. \Vhat this constitution is, may,
perhaps, be hardly pronounced by an epithet. The scrofull'us
constitution may be signalized as pec.;uliarly Iiaule to fall into this
1u:m of disca~e: ~ut there is another organic disposition which,
WJtho~t the d1stm~t1vo. characteristic of scrofula towards glandu-
lar dtsease, conststs m a feebleness of the nutritive diaestive
organs that induces the formation of solids and fluids of th: body
that are unequal to the strong and sustained reaction ai'J'ainst ex-
ternal th~ngs, _which is the fortunate prerogative of th~ healthy.
Persons m thts state may almost be said to have a con"enital
cnronic disease; for in them, at thci r best we bellold t1°
· · f ' 1e ma-
JOnty o the symptoms of chronic irritation of the stomach and
TERMINATIONS OF CHRONIC DISEASE. 33
bowels. There is the clean and very red tongue, sometimes split
atvl too l.1.1'ge; enlarged tonsiis of the throat; gorged eyelids ;
lipn almost purple with congestion; breath more or less offensive;
appetite keen hut small, with 1·apid swallowing of food ; sinking,
and incapability of going long without food; obstinate bowcJs.
Th~so persons arc, in their exterior, unlike the scrofulous, in
tending rather to emaciation than puffiness nnd fat (except that
the abdomen is often huge); in being more frequently dark than
light-complexioned ; in their tendency to YiYacity rather than
slowness of feeling and expression. They are nervous and
fiugety; excessively anxious about all th0y arc or are not concerned
in ; al'e for the most part bud sleepers, antl wake with a sense
of sinking. They nrc very much given to take cold, especially
that form of it called influenza, and also sore throat. They do
not so commonly fall into pulmonary consumption as the scrofu.
lous, though they are liable to it. On the other hand, they ex-
hibit in all their intensity the various affections of the limbs
which, ordinarily treated as rheumatism and rheumatic gout, are
resolvnble into forms of neuralgia, the sympathies of the abdomi-
nal viscera being, in this disposition, established more especially
with the brain and spinal cord. Finally, they do not appear, as
in scrofula, to inherit or propagate the constitntion in question.
To this diathesis, ot· disposition (I do not call it temperament,
because that depends on the whole organization viewed congeni-
tally, and is not alterable by any plan of treatment), I would
apply the term ganglionic-the ganglionic constitution, inasmuch
as it consists essentially in a chronic congestion of the viscera,
and of the nervous centres of that name situated among the
viscera.
From what has been said in former chapters, it will not be
difficult to comprehend wherefore this sort of organic congestion
tends to drive acute into chronic disorder, and to maintain the
latter in any part of the body. In fact, the centre of nutrition
beina at fault in its function, the extremities are deficient in that
1:)
energy which can alone accompany soundness at the core. Al-
most the whole blood of the body is accumulated in the viscera,
and but little remains fi>r the surface to enable it to resist and re-
act upon external agencies of temperature, electricity~ &c. Ac-
cordingly, we find in such constitutions, besides the liability to
catarrh already alluded to, an acute sensitiveness to variations of
atmospheric electricity, the spirits, strength, sleep, &c., varying
3*
THE CAUSES, PROGRESS, AND
with almost any cloud that passes o\·er the sky' and with every
chan<YC of wind. Bv virtue, also, of the strong sympathy that
exist; between the vi~cera and the brain and spinal cord, we find
in this state many si<rnals of irregular n.nd painful function in the
latter parts, such a:the anxiety and fid~ety character of mind
before-mentioned, and, as regards the phys1que, a strong tendency
to spasmodic and neuralgic phenomena..~f the limbs. J?oubtlcssly
to this cause is to be attributed the scnsillveness to clectnc changes,
since these infringe upon the delicate extremities of the nerves
(Jf the spinal cord so thickly spread over the whole surface of the
body. The individual, in short, is all viscu.s, so to expt·ess it.
Life, feeble in its character, seems, by the conservative law of
nature, to concentrate all its forces in the viscera, as the essential~
for its maintenance; and these fm·ces arc to be found in the blood.
Yet this same congestion of blood about the stomach renders the
formation of that fluid by the stomach an imperfect process; and
a bacHy elaborated and poor blood always circulates in persons
of the ganglionic constitution, in which we detect another reason
for the want of re-active energy, the poor blo0~ depositing poor
solids-nervous solid among the rest.
\Vhen, therefore, in such a constitution acute disease invades a
part, the viscera are in the best possible state to render it perilous;
and if the immediate peril be overcome, to render it chronic, for
there is not sufficient vigor to produce a complete crisis of the
acute malady. Hence colds that involve the stomach-influenza
colds-and that hang about for weeks ; hence cough tor months,
after intlam.-nation of the air tubes of the lunas· rheumatism
0 ' '
that vanishes partially with warmth and dryness, to return vigor-
ously with cold and damp; erysipelas, that creeps about the skin,
but never totally disappears, and so forth. In ali which, mean-
time, we behold none of the slow inflammation of the bones of
'
the glands, of the brain, of the tissue of the lungs, which are so
chur.ac~e~·isti~ of the scrofulous diathesis, and constitute respective-
ly lup-Jomt disease and while swelling, goitre, and swelled external
gland:;; of the neck, water on the brain and insanity, and tubercular
con:mmption. Neither on tbe score of nervous sensations nor
tendency of diseased action, can this constitution be deemed 'scro-
fulo~s. l\Ioreover, it ~s most commonly acquired, not inherited ;
acqu1red by long-coutmued abuse of the nervous system ·th
• 1 . . , c1 er
m t 1e \\~ay of execss1vc m~ntal l:iensations or excessive physical
exhaustiOn. And I call It not a disease itself, because, to all
TERMINATIONS OF CHRONIC DISEASE.
appearances, the subject of it is well, and is only in an apt state
to receive disease.
The other constitution which predisposes to chronic disease is
the scrofulous. All medical writers have remarked the low de-
gree of inflammatory action that obtains in p~rsons of that con-
stitution, even when, from the mode of coming on, and from the
a.;ymptoms, it is called acute. Sub-acute would generally be the
more precise term to designate the morbid action. This is due
to the fact, that the innate power of the nutritive nerves and ca-
pillary Llood-vcssels is low; their condition is that of feebleness
and great irritability ; and the exhaustion following on the excite-
ment of a morbid cause is consequently suduen and extreme;
such, in short, as constitutes chronic exhaustion. Moreover, the
rallying power of those nerves and vessels is small; and hence
it is that chronic disease is not only more readily established, but
is more slowly cured, in individuals of the scrofulous disposi-
tion ;* yet although the inflammatory action accompanying it be
so low and slow, it is on that very account the more destructive,
the \'itality of the part being more utterly lost. Thus, in chronic
abscess of the lungs (pulmonary consumptitm), of the bones of the
loins (lumbar abscess), of the bones of the knee-joints (white
swelling), the destruction is so extensive as, in the vast majority
of cases, to carry off the patient; and these are all instances of
chronic disease occurring in persons of the scrofulous diathesis.
I shall enter more upon this subject in a future chapter. It suf-
fices here to indicate the disposition in question as a strong pre-
disposing cause of chronic disease.
All constitutions, likewise, that are dilapidated by previous
disorders, especially by typhus fever, scarlet fet·cr, the various
forms of remittent and intermittent fevers, such as the yellow
fct•er of the West Indies, the jungle fever of the East Indies, and
the fen fevers of Europe, and by influenza and syphilis, are much
predisposed to take on the chronic form of disease. Referring to
• The difficulty of removing scrofulous inflammatory action is testified
by all writcrli on the subject: by GIBBs, QuiNCY, MoRLEY, \VHITE, HEN-
NING, LLOYD, GooDLAD, CLARKE, and others among ourselves; by HUFE·
LAND and VERING among the Germans; and by BoRDEU, FAURE, CHAR-
METTO!Il, MAJAULT, GoURSAUD, and BAUDELOCQ.UE among the French.
CELsus says of scrofulous inflammations, "prtBcipue medico! fatigare
10/ent."
36 THE C.o\USES, PROGRESS, AND
the rationale of that form, the reason of this wil~ be sufficiently
obvious. . .
Lona continued exertion of the intellectual faculttes-pamful
tension°of and pressure upon the affect~ons-cxcessive U8e of the
animal propensitics,-these, by wast~ng the ~erv?us energy,
impair that organic power, the exhaustiOn of whiCh Is the essen-
tial of chronic disorder, and may therefore be regarded as pre-
disposing causes of such disorder.
For a like reason, all losses of blood, or of some of its consti-
tuents, as in excessive secretions of mucus, urine, &c., tend to
the passage of acute into chronic disease. Hence it is that
bleeding with the lancet is such a fe1·tile cause of this. The large
quantity of blood suddenly withdrawn from the body has invaria-
bly the effect of sending the greater part of what remains to the
internal parts-to the viscera. Innumerable facts and experi-
ments show this to be the case; and when we consider that there
is the centre of organic life, we shall not wonder that the myste-
rious instinct of nature should send the nutritive liquid, the blood,
where it is most required to prevent the extinction of that life.
Now, it so happens that these bloodlettings are usual1y practised
for some acute inflammation of the viscera, and they certainly
sometimes answer the aim of reducing it. What takes place,
though, subsequently 1 On one hand, the whole body being
deprived of a mass of its blood, there is a rush of that liquid
towards the very viscera that were inflamed, and this the more,
the more the blood is drawn. On the other hand, the visceral
organic nerves being deprived, like the rest of the body, of a
quantity of nutritive liquid, lose also a quantity of that energy
which they derive, also like the rest of the body, from bei~g
nourished by the blood. Thus, there are two reasons why the
previous acute inflammation should pass into the chronic,-Ist,
The nerves and blood-vessels have lost their contractile power-
that power which was to enable them to rid themselves of the
blood that oppressed them ; and ~ The quantity of blood in the
oppressed part still remains sufficient to perpetuate the oppression.
To these may be added the fact, that the blood which remains in
t!•c body is vitally. affec~ed ~y.the withdrawal of its former por-
tiOn. The blood Itself~~ a.hvmg fluid, has an independent exist-
enc_c, and t.he shock to 1t ~s as the loss of a limb to the body ;
?es1des wh1ch, the abstraction of a quantity of the red globules
1s not very soon compensated by digestion of food ; on the con-
TERMrNATIONS OF CHRONIC DISEASE. 37
trary, it is a very slow process, this restoration of the red glo-
bules ;-men who have undergone large bleedings have been
found, when bled so long as three years afterwards, to have not
yet recovered them, so watery, poor, and devoid of clot was the
blood taken. Such a state of the nutritive liquid is not likely to
improve the organic energy-that is, to resist and throw off chro-
nic disease.
\Vere I to detail the instances that have come before me at
Malvern, wherein a series of nervous and other symptoms have
dated through years from, in some cases, a single large bleeding,
the recital would appal many who look upon that operation as
very simple and very innocent, because very commonly prac-
tisf'd. I have seen persons afflicted with inveterate indigestion
and hypochondriasis ever since bleeding for acute inflammation
of the stomach. The most hopeless case of 1&ercoUS1zess I ever
met with was that of a youth who, in the outsctting of small.pox,
was largely bled for the headache which accompanies that stage
of the disorder. The result was a loss of power to the system,
which disabled it from the free evolution of the disorder. Stimu-
lants were given in large quantities to prevent death. His youth
aided them, and he got through it; but between the bleeding and
the stimulants which it necessitated, the patient is an incurable
neurt1pathic. The repeated bleedings in acute inflammation of
the 1ungs a most fruitful cause of chronic disease in those
of tubercular deposit and pulmonary consump-
tion. seen instances of both in the persons of patients
socking relieffrom the watc1· treatment. I have here seen also two
cases of drapsy of the chest after acute pleurisy, which had been
treated by large and repeated bleedings. The non-professional
reader should understand that dropsy of the chest is the chronic
inflammation of the pleura, and that thus we have another in-
stance of the passage of the acute into that form of disease attri-
butable to bleeding. Dut a more ordinary result still of bleeding
is general dropsy. Here the loss of the nutritive liquid so debili-
tates the blood-vessels, that they are unable to carry on the vital
chemistry in a healthy manner; and the watery parts of the
hlood are separated in large quantities instead of the peculiar
tissues of the different parts of the body. Some years ago, when
bleeding was more commonly practised than at present in ordi.
nary fevers, the occurrence of dropsical effusion in some of the
cavities of the body, or under the skin, was a most frequent con-
38 THE CAUSES, PROGRESS, AND
comitant of the con\·alescence from them. And this convales-
cence itself. what is it but a chronic following on the acute fever1
Of this mo;e anon. Meantime, I repeat that, in the vast number
of chronic cases presented for treatment at Malvern, blood-letting
is clearly traceable as a cause. The patients tell m~ that "they
have never been well since ;" that " they were gomg on very
well until they were bled," that "everything tells upon them
more severely since they are bled," and so forth-facts which speak
trumpet-mouthed as to the destructive agency of that too com-
monly used operation of bloodletting.
As if, however, this were not enough, the system of drug medi-
cation, so much relied upon in acute malady, comes to aid in
perpetuating it in the chronic shape. In fact, it is almost impos-
sible to conceive of an acute disease being cured by these double
means of phlebotomy and physic. The very legs of the frame,
so to speak, are cut from under it ; the very forces by which it is
to throw off the malady of the vitals upon some less important
part, are taken away with the blood that flows, and paralysed by
the confused stimulation of various drugs. On this subject I
cannot do better than repeat what I have said in my "Simple
Treatment of Disease;" and let it be remarked that what follows
was written before I had become acquainted with the water treat.
ment, hnd must therefore be taken as my conviction at a time
when I was still classed among the practitioners of drug medi-
cation.
" A physician acting on this treatment, in a case of simple fever,
would, in the first place, attempt 'to cut it short,' as it is termed,
by a copious bleeding from the arm, and, immediately on the
limb being bound up, by an emetic. If this does not dispose of
the fever in a few hours, he administers repeated doses of calo-
mel, opium, and antimonial powder, with some powerful cathar.
tics, in which he persists, in the expectation of causing healthy
evacuations. In the meanwhile, time is found for the adminis-
trati~n of a mixture of sudori~cs and diuretics. So things go on
for s1x or seven days, the patient being told, as regards diet, that
he can take ' any little thing that he fancies,'-but not beef-steak
or mutton-ch?~· At length the brain gives symptoms of being
a!fecteu-dehrmm supervenes. Then begins the array of revul.
s1ves on the external surface; .the head is shaved, icc is applied
at the back and front, and a bhster on the top of it. The deli.
rmm passing from the furious to the muttering kind, the tongue
TERMINATIONS OF CHRONIC DISEASE. 39
becoming dry and brown, the limbs utterly powerless,-in short,
all the signs of a typhoid state appearing, the stomach is once more
tried with wine and other stimulants, the feet are blistered, and
exhausted nature sinks; or if, in spite of all, the jaws of death
arc escaped, the body, drained of its blood, worn out after the
enormous stimulation, and utterly thrown out of the rhythm of
its sympathies and functions, drags through a prolonged conva-
lescence, with a tardy recruiting of the quantity, and still more
slow restoration of the quality, of the vital fluid that it had lost,
and of the nervous energy it had previously possessed. Even in
this state, a little revulsion is essayed in the form of bitter tonics,
carminatives, anti-spasmodics, &c., and sometimes a relapse into
another species of fever called nervous, is thereby brought about."*
Further on in the same work this subject has a greater develop-
ment; in the course of which the following remarks are apposite
to the present argument:-
"Persons called, or calling themselves, bilious, those of confined
bowels, accompanied with heat of mouth, tainted breath, frequent,
and to them inexplicable, headaches, having cold feet, occasional
lassitude of limbs, and almost constant irresolution of mind, al-
though constitutionally otherwise endowed; who go about their
business and into society, but have not much pleasure in either;-
these will be found to carry about them the germs of that visceral
condition which, upon some accidental cause, breaks out in acute
indigestion, bilious, rheumatic, or even typhoid fever; but which,
by timely rest of the digestive organs and those of animal life,
without the interference of medicine, might have been easily
eradicated. Instead of this, they drug themselves-are relieved;
again feel ill-repeat the dose ; eating, drinking, dancing, and
bargaining, meantime, with all possible avidity, until outraged
Nature forces them to halt, by a complete paroxysm of sickness,
and thus saves those who would not save themselves.
" Observations such as these are the more appropriate in this
place, as I am about to speak of the treatment of several kinds
of fever, which are almost invariably preceded by the sub-febrile
t:itate alluded to. \Vere non-professional persons better acquainted
with this fact, and did they, knowing its occurrence in themselves,
abandon the treatment to Nature instead of trusting to a worn
out prescription, they would avoid attacks for which they would
• Loc. cit., p. 65.
40 THE CAUSES, PROGRESS, AND
gladly compound by a few days' withdrawal from a.n busin~ss
and all pleasure. Capable of moving a~out, yet domg so WJth
early fatigue, they imagine thci 1· complam~ to be wea~ness, and
stimulate the di(l'estive organs to overcome It ; or, commg nearer
to the truth, they suppose themselves bilious, and ta.ke physic and
devour bacon at breakfast. At length, on a certam day, after a
mental shock, great exertion, a cold air in a passage or through a
window, wet feet, some change of clothing, or a crowning excess
of diet, shivering~ seize the patient ; and, accot·ding to constitu.
tiona] and accidental circumstances, the symptomatic array of
rheumatic, inflammatory, or typhoid fever is in a few hours esta.
blished. That such is the process-that visceral del'angement
precedes by some the feverish outbreaking- I have verified in
hundreds of instances: and that the fever is fully developed when
the irritation, in whatever vjscus it may be, has become suffi.
ciently intense to link together more or fewer organs in its mor.
bid sympathies, those of animal life included, is, in my belief,
sufficiently clear. It is not that the exciting cause-cold, for
instance- has driven the blood inwards upon the viscera, as is
commonly asserted; but the latter have for some time previously
maintained a morbid sympathy with the surface, which rendered
it unable to re-act upon the cause in question as it would do in
the health of the internal parts. Upon these, then, as the strong-
holds of life, the office of reaction devolves: and hence fever hos
been not unaptly denominated an effort of Nature to bring a
morbid process to a crisis ; a crisis that varies in period aud
character with the vital energy of the patient, with the lenath of
time during which he has neglected or exasperated the pr:vious
symptomatic warnings, and last, not least, with the amount of in-
terference with the morbid viscera before and after the full de-
velopment of the fever.
"With this view of the febrile condition (and it is one for the
r~asonableness ?f whicl~ eminent names in medicine might be
Cited), ~e p~opr~ety of VIolent revulsion practised on the organs of
vegetatJve hfe Is, at least, very problematical. These last are
laboring to effect relief for themselves by transferrina the irrita-
tive action to one of the great emunctories, the lowe; bowel tht
kidne!s, ~r the skin,-to t~e latter, in the great majority of c~ses.
How Is th1s to be done, whilst means are taken to retain the 1
• 'ta-
. . . I 1 rn
tive actiOn In t 1emse vcs? whilst calornPl and ant1
•
. . ' mony are
exc1ting the stomach, and senna, scammony, and other strong
'IERl\llNATIONS OF CHRONIC DISEASE. 41
purgatives, are drawing blood to the whole canal to supply the
enormous excretions they produce 1 whilst, as if to force all the
emunctories together, n conflict of diuretics and sudorifics comes
to aid the mercurials and pnrgutivrs in making 'confusion worse
confounded' in the already oppressed and irritated internal organs?
It is suclt treatment as this that justifies the jest passed on medicine
in the definition of a physician as one who, armed with certain
weapons, lays about him in all directions, with at least an equal
chance of extiuguishing the patient as the disease. For, although
the patient may recover, notwithstanding the tumult into which
the viscera huve been thrown, the chance is considerably in favor
of this tumult being extended to the great viscus of animal life,
the brain, whose function is first Jeteriorated and then destroyed.
"But in the event of recovery, what Jo we behold 1 A body
drained of its blood (for copious bleeding is with many the fir·st
step in treatment), exhausted in its nervous energies, with viscera
that have been subjected to every phase of irritative action, and
now in the extremity o( consequent collnpse,--tlragging its
enfeebled organs through a long convalescence, one function ami
then another stumbling on the road, and falling back into the old
disorder, without the rhythm, the combination of all of them
moving onwanls towards health, which should mark the restora-
tion of calm to the system. The convalescence itself is a veritable
disease, a trnin of disorders. TheJ·e is the nightly sweating, indica-
tive of the terrible exhaustion of the frame, for which acids are
given; the inappetizcd stomach, for which tonics are ordered:
these, again, aid in constipating the bowels, already deficient in
activity after the vehement efforts of secretion to which they have
been stimulated : there is the flying spasm of the abdomen, now
in the stomach and then in the lower bowel, for which carmina-
tives are administered. Then, as regards animal life, there is
the sleepless brain nightly stupified with narcotics; there is the
tremor of limb and lip, that often continues for months: the
hysterical condition of mind : the tendency to fainting in even a
moderate de~rce of warmth : the nervous head!chc, that fre-
quently from this date takes up its abode in the system for the
remainder of life. Withal, there is a general sensitiveness to
cau~cs of disease, that persists for a considerable time, and,
coupled with the active medication still in progress, enhances the
risk of fresh febrile attacks before the body shall have acquired
the stamina to re-act against them.
42 TIJf: CAUSES, PROGRESS, .AND
"Such is the sketchy history of fever treated. according to ~he
method which mal\es the internal parts the subjects of revulsive
action. a method which increases the dangerous risks during the
'
malady, causes the infliction of prol.onged convalescence, and by
this last fact exposes the frame disadvantageously to renewed
disorder. And all these results flow from a neglect of the maxim,
that deatlt comes only by the viscera, and that too much care can.
not therefore be obsen·ed in the treatment of them, when they are
the scats of disorder."*
For the truth ofthese observations I am more pledged than ever;
now, that from the vast number of chronic cases that have come
before me since they were written, I have been more extensively
and more intimately made acquainted with the long persistent
results of the practice they describe ; now, too, that in a few
instances of my own practice, I have had opportunity of observing
the far, far more favorable condition of patients who have recovered
from fever by the means of the water cure. It is idle to call this
prejudice: on the one hand, the patients tell their own tale, and
come to the same conclusion; on the other hand, it is reasonable
that I should assume to use the external senses, and that internal
sense, which appreciates inevitable deductions, in common with
the rest of the medical world. And doing so, my conviction is,
that the above, the ordinary mode of treating fever, is pernicious
in the extreme, puts in peril the Jife of the patient, and, if he dies
not, burdens that life with the miseries of some chronic disorder.
Again, it is idle to blame individuals for a system-a system in
long and common usage ; they work with the instruments they
possess, and conscientiously believe to be good for the purpose.
At the same time, their belief and praise neith('r render the system
good, nor prevent the staring h'lct, oft repeated by patients with
chronic disease, that such disease has been their lot since the
treatment of acute fever, three, four, or more years arro.
But if the ordinary medicinal plan be active in forn;inrr chronic
out of acute disease, it is more potent still in maintainina the
former. Thd' emergencies of acute disorder, where the
0
first
thoug?t is to save. life, ~ay nff~rd some palliation of the rough
handlmg of the delicate VIscera m its course (thourrh I maintain
that the physician should have an eye to the conseq~~nces in life,
as well as to the chances of death) ; but, in my opinion, no
• Loc. cit., p. 112, et seq.
TERMINATIO!IiS OF CHRONIC DISEASE. 43
excuse presents itself for a continuance of the same vigorous
medication in the chronic form, where the question of life or death
is not imminent. The most superficial observation mu~t show
that cure never takes place from such medication, and that exas-
peration of the malady is the far more frequent result; while
some reasoning on the intimate condition of the parts chronically
diseased, leads to the conclusion that cure cannot take place, and
that exasperation must.
For let us look into a chronic inflammation of the stomach and
liver, commonly called indigestion and biliousness. We have in
these a very exhausted and irjitable state of the capillary blood-
vessels of the mucous membmne which lines the stomach, and by
extension of surface, the ducts of the liver. The ordinary
treatment by drugs consists in the administration of mercurial
medicines to stimulate and alter the secretion of bile from the
liver; of tonics, such as bitter vegetables, iron, bismuth, sul-
phuric acid, blue and white vitriol, lunar caustic, arsenic, &c.,
to procure a fictitious appetite; of alkalies and opiates, to obviate
heart-burn and other pains; of various spirituous and peppery
articles, such as lavender drops, tinctures of cinnamon and carda-
mom, sal volatile, cayenne pepper, &c., to remedy the flatulence
and spasm of the stomach ; and of the long list of purgatives, to
overcome the constipation which is the usual attendant of this
dyspepsia. In each twenty-four hours the highly irritable and
wearied blood-vessels arc called upon to respond to the stimulation
of one, at least, of each of the above classes of rcmcuics, and from
what has been shown in former chapters, the result of this is plain
enough. 'rhc blood-vessels, stimulated again and again, fall into
more and more hopclc~s exhaustion, and become more and more
irritable. The Llood they contain increases in quantity and de-
teriorates in quality, which deterioration causes the secretion of
mom bad bile and more acid and acrid juices than ever, und
finally leads to the deposit of unnatural solid matters, cancerous,
lardaceous, &c., constituting a true organic and incurable disease.
But besides this, and mr!anwhile, the bad quality of the bile aud
stomach juices is causing a bad digestion of food; bad blood is
formed, and the whole body languishes in its functions, from be-
ing nourished by a badly elaborated blood. And thus the treat-
ment proceeds, until the medicines of the various classes being
exhausted, and the patient worse, nothing remains but to go to
the sea-side, to a farm-house, or to travel, during the operation of
44 TilE CAUSES, PROGRESS, AND
which healthful and natural stimulants some improvement tak~
1 I · h ve had the chance of rest, and have UHed It
p acc-t 1e vtscera a
for their own preservation. . . .
It · t y intention to expatlate on thts subJect, else I could
1s no m .
1
d" .
show by not a fi~w illustrations how thts comp ex me 1cat1on,
this polypharmacy, nccessitat~s ~he emplo!ment of each of
the medicines compi"ehended 10 1t, to obvmte the effects of
another. how the effects of the mercurials have to be combated
by the ~piates ; how these, again, produce a necessity for the
purgatives; these, for the remedies for flatulence ; and these,
again, producing heart-burn, call for alkalies and opiates. Begin
where \VC will, the circle must be traced: the explanation of
which is, that as they all unnaturally stimulate the blood-vessels
and nerves of the part, these fall, after each sthbulation, into
another degree of exhaustion, which induces fresh symptoms to
be met by fresh remedies. This alone, this necessity for heap.
ing one remedy on the back of another, might suggest that the
whole plan is radically wrong, and that the root of the malady,
the essential character of it, is not attacked ; else why does an
evil follow each remedy, to be corrected by another remedy 1 It
looks like a combat between the medicines, for which the dis.
eased stomach is the arena, rather than between the disease and
its curative means.
The truth is, that it is physiologically impossible to adapt such
coarse means to the infinitely minute shades of irritation which
constitute the essence of internal chronic disorder. Unless you
can find medicines of such character and in such amount, as,
when applied, to give to the blood-vessels the exact degree of con-
tractile power that sha11 rid them of the blood which oppresses
them, and no more, you either do nothinO' or mischief. If the
stimulation you thus apply be too small t~ give the vessels the
po,vcr in question, not even temporary relief ensues. If it be
exce~sivc, which is usually the case, greater exhaustion than be-
foro follows, and matters are worse than before. The conse-
q~enc~ is, at tlte ~est, a hap-hazard pmctice, and at tlte worst a
m1sch1evous practiCe-the latter, alas! beinO' the rule· for how
is it possible to hit the precise stimulus?*
0
'
• " I can do it," says the homreopathist " with my sp "fi d ·
fi
. . , ec1 cs an my m-
mtcsJmal doses." And certainly the homreopath1
"..t comes n "t f: h
h d· · · . . • .. earer 1 ar t an
t e or mary practthoner. Hts 1s a much more rational plan, which, look·
TERMINATIONS OF CHRONIC DISEASE. 45
Such is the mode in which the ordinary medicinal treatment
becomes a cause, and maintainer and aggravator of chronic dis-
ease in the internal central organs of life-whence the mischief
is propagated to any other organs of the body. And this is the
case when disorder is originally in some external part. Thus
some violPnce is applied to an arm or foot, the irritation of which,
conveyed to the internal organs, produces disorder there, and
feverishness. To these organs, thus sympathetically excited,
irritating aperients, &c., are applied, as is usual in fever, the con-
SC<Jucnce of which is the establishment in them of an irritation
which radiates again towards the diseased limb, where a similar
establishment is made. The limb proving obstinate, the pain,
heat, swelling, &c., continuing, notwithstanding the cooling purga-
ing to the specific irritabilities of different tissues, strives to discover the
particular stimulus adapted to each tissue, and, more than that, to the
numerous grades of irritation which each tissue is capable of exhibiting.
Thi~ is a matter of sheer experiment and experience ; and, accordingly, we
find in the homa'opathist in!initely more nicety and accuracy ofohscn·ation
than i~ necessaa·y to the allopathist in his practice, where specific effects
arc sought for by a strnng revulsive operation on the stomach alone; that
is to !'ay, the disease, however distant, is concentrated in the stom:H·h
during the operation of the medicine. Besides their having a specific
effect, infinitt>sirnal doses of thE'! merlicine used by homreopathists ara, in
theory, much more likely to affect the minute aud highly sensitive ca-
pillaries than the coarse and overwhelming doses of the allopathist: and
this I have ascertained in practice to be the casE'! in very many instances.
It is well anrl wise to observe and investigate these things before laughing
at them: the hommopathic dose, the three-thousandth part of a drop or
grain, if you will, iY more effectual than the allopathic ten or twelve grains,
however laughable it may appear. As for the maxim of the homreopathist,
that " like cures like," which has also been ridiculed, it was put in prac-
ticP. by tt.e allopathist without his knowing it, until the homreopathist tolrl
him of it; since when it has been left in peace.
Still, in homceopathy as in allopathy, though not equally in both, the ob-
jection applies that the body is not allowed to throw off its own disease;
without which cure is unattainable. There is still the forcell change of
action in the diseaserl part, on the permanency of which reliance cannot be
placed. There is still also the employment of the stomach for all medicines,
~nd therefore its fictitious stimulation by all. And with these objections,
although I might be induced to try to subdue a passing, but troublesome
symptom, I could not trust to remove the essential nature of a chronic
malady by homceopathic means. But I speak of the whole subject with dif-
fidence, my experience being as yet limited. Not so with allopathy, the
insufficiency of which has been proved to me by sixteen years' practice.
Jlow far might the homceopathic come in aid of the water treatment?
46 THE CAUSES, PROGRESS, AND
· d · · d f 1nc1·cury 1's the common resource
t1ves a m1mstere , a course o . . .
_ h 't · t very clearly ascertained-to winch opmm 1s
w !' 1 Is no _1 doi·l'fic effect By this both in.
sometimes added, to prouuce a su : ' .
ternal and external irritation become more decidedly chmmc ; and
this is further aided by courses of iodine, iron, arsenic, &c., in
succession all (Tiven \\ ith the view of, somehow or other, ridding
the limu of the
0
congested blood it contains : it apparently never
occurrincr to the administrator that, by producing chronic disease
within, 1~ is taking the best means of perpetuating it without. I
have known this go on until the patient was fairly told that,
e\·crything having been tried in vain, there only remained ampu.
tation of the lcg-an alternative to which he preferred the water
treatment, assuredly fatal ns it had been represented to him. He
walked without crutches in six weeks !
It is by such a process as this that rheumatism and tic of the
limbs are maintained by the very means intended for their reliea
-that skin diseases are inveterated, and old ulceratio11s kept open.
You establish chronic irritation at the centre, and thereby keep it
up at the periphery. The rule is invariable.
Stimulating diet acts in the same manner as a cause of chronic
disorder. Yet, well ascertained as this is, it is at once painful
nnd wonderful to behold the laxity of practice regarding it, both
in the medicinal and the water treatment. In the former, this
want of stringency is attributable to the facility with which the
immediate results of indigestion are avoided by medicines, no
thought being given to the ultimate and lasting effects of both.
'fhis renders both patient and practitioner less anxious on this all.
important point. In the water treatment, as it is very often prac-
tised, the same remark is to be made; but I shall have to renew
the subject in another part of this work.
As the brain and spinal cord represent an immense mass of
blood-vessels and ganglionic nerves, and arc thereby kept io a
state of close organic sympathy with the central portions of the
organic nerves, and thence with the rest of the body, it miaht be
expected that ~rrit~tion of .thos~ organs would tend powerf~lly to
cause and mamtam chrome disorder; and constant experience
shows such _t~ be the case. Intellectual labor and moral anxiety
each or conJomtly keep up the derangement of other parts • the
latter, perhaps, doing it more intensely than the former. To
"Pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow
Raze out the written troubles of the brain,"
TF.R.i\IINATIO~S OF CHRONIC DISEASE. 47
is an unavailing endeavor when the sympathies of the digestive
organs have been involved ; for these, in return, maintain the
irritation of the brain, and the unlucky patient is the prey of two
chronic mischiefs, which few can long withstand. Cause and
etlect become confused, and the practitioner is puzzled where to
begin. It appears to me, that if the core of life in the chest and
abdomen can be put into a condition so as more steadily to rcsi:st
impressions from the brain, the latter receiving fewer irritations
from that point, the 10ind will be thereby better enabled to struggle
with its load, and throw it off. In fact, unless the mental distress
prey upon the digestive organs, it is certain not to last: the pro-
verb, that "a hard heart and good digestion go together," is based
in truth: he who knows not suffering is the least likely to pity it
in others or be anxious for any one. \Vhilst, therefore, it is of
course advisable to remove the moral cause as far as may be, it
is, at least, quite as necessary to avoid additional irritation of the
abdominal organs, the stomach, &c.; and looking to this, we must
observe the folly of giving stimulating diet and medicines to dis-
sipate moral clouds: they can only thicken the gloom of the mind
in proportion as they complicate and inveterate the physical dis-
order. 'Vhercver the mischief begin, therefore, I should, above
all, have·a care of the viscera and ganglions.
Care, anxiety, and grief, more especially, give rise to chronic
nervous dyspBpsia, diseased heart, pulmonary consu,mption, and
dropsy, the rationale or \vhich is sufficiently obvious fl'om what
lws preccdeu. They also originate, by the medium of the
stomach, certain forms of skin disease, such as scaly-tetter
(psoriasis), and dandriff (pityriasis), which diminish and exaspe.
rate with the mental condition.
Intellectual labor, if sedentary and silent, produces rather
chronic mucous than nervous dyspepsia, obstruction of the liver,
and, as a consequence of that, piles. But it generally leaves the
viscera of the chest, the heart and lungs, untouched. The pre.
ceding paragraphs would lead us to expect, what really happens,
that, if to such labor, any of the passions, or care, be added, the
results to the entire viscera of the chest and abdomen would be
mo:st destructive. The experience of medical men could tell of
many obscure yet useful laborers in literature whom this double
load broke down and pressed into an early grave, demolishing one
function after another-the exhausted brain sometimes giving
way the first; and similar histories of authors more " bruited in
48 TilE CAUSES, PROGRESS, AND
men's ears" are familiar to all of us. And whilst we may de.
plore their fate, we must not forget to rc.call in how.many ~fthem .the
glorious gift of Thought was misused m the p~·actice o.f s.ms agnmst
the bodily organization, of inte_mpcrance, whlCh mult1phed and ag.
gravated the ills which Prov1dence had thought fit to try them
,-.·ith . for the same Providence ordains that man, to whom a lofty
brai~ has been given to control his viscera, shall pay a heavy
penalty when he employs it in committing outrages on them : ancl
these the glutton, the drunkard, and the drug-eatc1· uo daily
commit.
If, however, labor of the intellect be accompanied with much
employment of the lungs, as in parliamentary and forensic debate,
or hustings' eloquence, the consequences, in the shape of nervous
and mucous disorder of the digestive organs, are neither so rapid
nor so intense : and this because the waste that attends the excr.
cise of the lungs calls upon the digestive organs for fresh supplies,
thereby quickens their function, and thus prevents that congestion
of blood in them which constitutes their own chronic di~ordcr, and
maintains that of the brain or of any other part.
Such are the causes which tend to the establishment of chronic
disease in any tissue or organ of the body. They all become
causes by inducing or implying a ft:cblcncss and irritation of some
portion of the centre of the organic system of nerves, and
especially of that which corresponds to the starting point of the
body's nutrition, the stomach and liver; and it is the vitiation of
the nutritive energy at its source and core which keeps up a
similar vitiation of nutt·ition, called chronic disorder, in distant
parts of the frame. ':Vithout it there is no chronic disease: with
it, such disease is inevitable and incurable.
Of the progress and terminations of chronic disease in generat
much need not be said in this portion of the work, as I shall have
to speak of those which mark individual diseases, in another por.
tion. Dividing the latter into internal and external, a few ouser-
vations may be made on each group.
Chronic disease, which is confined to some internal part, is
usually the most destructi\'e. It has no counteractina irritation
t:)
on the external surface, but concentrates the whole morbid action
within. Pulmonary consumption is an instance of this · so is
neuralgia cfthe stomach, a form of nervous dyspepsia ; ul:eration
of the bowels; and that irritation of the small bowe]s which
causes atrophy : in none of which is there any external eruption
fERMINATIONS OF CHRONIC DISEASE. 49
or pain to diminish the destructive work going on within. Dis-
eases of this kind, therefore, have a certain and rapid progress
and termination. Failure of the digestive energy is the cause
of death in all. In pulmonary consumption, for instance, the
patieut suffocates for want of mu!:icular energy to exp0ctorate,
which fceulcness is due to deficient nutrition of the nerves and
muscles that arc used in expectoration, whilst the deficiency in
point is the result of mal-digestion in a stomach in a state of
chmnic irritation. Had the stomnch been in sound digesting
on)l:'r, the patic'nt would have lived on, notwithstanding the drain
by <'Xncctorat.ion. In the othe1· instances quoted, the same failure
of nlltrition is the reason of the downward progress and extinc-
tion of the individual.
But, although in ~uch internal chronic diseases there be no
external counteraction of skin or othet· disease, an attempt is
frequent}y mu.dc, in the course of them, by the disordered organs,
to throw a portion of their in·itative action on the external parts,
or upon those parts less essential to life, such as the lower bowel.
Under this head come the hectic fcl:er, that so often accompanies
chronic disease of important organs; and the sweatings and
diarrhrea. F ebrile attacks, also, of a more ordinary kind, the
simple intlun1mutory and bilious fevers, mark periods of internal
malady when the vital organs stri\'C to cast theit· mischief from
them; and more or less successfully, too, if they be not meddled
with by ofli<:ious medication ; in which case the chronic malady
is re-concentrated internally with augmented fixity. Patients
are always better after such an outbreak: it is more or less
critical; but the condition of this is, that it be the result of the
natural efforts of the diseased part, not by forced means of stimu-
lation. Sulphate of iron will wind up the stomach in nervous
dyspepsia to the feverish eflort ; but woe to the patient who flatters
himself that it is critical of his dyspepsia! Like all forced
crises, it inveterates the mischief.
These feverish uprisings in the progress of internal chronic
malady are coincident with a lighting up of an acute condition
in the diseased organ. The symptoms are all those of that con-
dition, and the usual chronic symptoms are wanting. The suf-
ferer from chronic dyspepsia, who had a good appetite, loses it in
this acute stage, becomes thirsty, having previously had no
thirst ;-exhibits, in short, all the differences between acute and
chronic indigestion. The same takes place in long-standing in-
4
50 THE CAUSES, PROGRESS, AND
flammation of the air-tubes of the lungs, the patient now and
then beinrr threatened with suffocation from acute inflammation
extendina
0
lower down the tubes towards the spongy substance of
those org
0
ans. The internal cond~tion which i:s essential. to gout
and tic douloureux is likewise subject to these exacerbatiOns, ae-
companied, of course, with increase of the gouty or neuralgic
pains. . .
It is by no means easy to explam these exploswns of acute
disorder in the progress of chronic disease : the more, us they
very fre<1uently occur without any detectable cause whutcrcr.
To me they appear as so many cfiorts of tho vital ot'gans to re.
cover themselves by bringing about some critical tcrrnination,
and re-establishing the balance of circulation anu nervous power,
for such is not unfrequently the result; and where it is not,
some new, and, mostly: improved feature is given to the chronic
malady. Further than this it is mere conjecture to speak re-
garding the cause of these acute attacks. They evidence the
restorative power of the body ; and as they do not occur when
the exciting causes of the disease are continued in full operation,
it may be said that such power accumulates for healthful pur.
poses whenever those causes cease, even in degree, to operate in
exhausting it. The dyspeptic patient who per.sists in the use of
irritating food gives no pause for this accumulation: he is wast.
ing the power as fast as it can be generated ; and a time comes
when it cannot be generated, and then comes o•·ganic disease,
wasting, and death ; whilst if the food be changed in quality anc.l
diminished in quantity, the restorative effort is sure to be made,
sooner or later, with greater or less vigor and effect. And ac-
cording to the degree of these is the fact of a broken or unbroken
constitution: in the one, the effort being feeble and ineffectual;
in the other, powe1·ful, and making some step fol'Ward. In tl1is
view these uprisings of the constitution under chronic disease are
important to be observed, affording to the physician a criterion
of probable success or otherwise, L·om the ncuteucss or atony
displayed by the body; and in speaking of the modus opera1ldi
of the water treatment, I shall have occasion 1o call attention to
them as almost invariable attendants of its course.
In a previous part of this volume I have shown that the nerv-
ous system first involved in disease is the ganglionic or that which
h~s its central portions in the abtlomen und chest. 'In very acute
diSeases-such as are ulmost ~ure to,.pl'ove fatal-the implication
TERMINATIONS OF CHRONIC DISEASE. 51
of the animal nervous system, the brain, and spinal cord, is rapid ;
and complete prostration of will, delirium, more or less paralysis,
convulsion, spa~m, or ~:;tupor, attending the latter stages of the
disease. In chronic disease, the same implication usual1y takes
place, sooner or later. But here the phenomena are more varied,
because they have a less violent and more varied cause, are pro-
duced more slowly, and can be observed more deliberately ;
indcpcnc.Icnt of all which they are different from those which ex-
hibit the implication of the brain in acute c.Iiseasc. Morbid ana.
tomy c.Iemonstrates that a vast amount of chronic disease of the
organs of the abdomen and chest is compatible with total absence
of disordered phenomena of the brain. 1\ien have died of stomach
disorders that, from their state, as shown after death, must have
existed for years, and yet were never felt by the brain, nor even
produced in it an ache, giddiness, confusion, nor any other mor-
bid sign. In such persons there can be no doubt that a congeni-
tal deficiency of nervous communication between the vi~ccra of
the abdomen and chest and the brain obtains, or that a want of
vivid nutrition obtains in the latter. But this is the exception.
The rule is that the morbid irritations of the organic nerves are
transmitted to the brain and spinal cord, becoming more intense
in character as the chronic malady inveterates. The variety of
the phenomena is great, and depends on the ganglionic viscus
affected, and on the numerous gradations of that affection. Thus
one sort of stomach irritation generates that peculiar brain it·rita.
tion which is accompanied with the mental symptoms of llypo.
cl1ondriasis; whilst another sort shall gradually induce apoplectic
fulness, anothet· paralytic congestion of the brain. So chronic
irritation of the womb involves the brain, so as to cause the ca.
pricious storms of hysterical passion; or the spinal cord, so as to
produce ltysterical palsy. These are the extremes of the scale,
below which we find simple headache of a nervous or mucous
character, confusiO?& of head, irregular vision, hearing, taste, or
s-mell; dreams, both sleeping and waking; irritability of temper,
twitchings of the limbs, asthmatic breathing, irregular neuralgic
pains, &c., &c. All these and many more are symptoms of that
disordered nutrition of the brain and spinal cord which sooner or
later takes place in the progress of chronic disease of oth& parts.
I say "sooner or later" only with reference to the varied sus-
ceptibility of individuals, and the varied amount of original gao.
glionic, visceral disorder ; the implication of the brain taking
52 THE CAUSES, PROGRESS, AND
1 'dl h that orrran is hicrhly susceptible than in
p nee more rapt v w en o 0 .
1
f
1
d'
I 1 · · ~ B t s re{Tards the actual pcrao' o sue 1 IS·
ot 1ers, ant v1cc versa. u a o:-• • • •
d ·1 1 · 1·es the brain after it has exastcd for some tune,-
or er, 1 on y lll\'O '
that is, later rather than sooner. It would appear t~nt the gan.
l. · · cl1ief is confined as 1·egards symptoms, to Its own ~ys.
g lOlllC ll11S · ' • • •
t r nerves for a certain time and up to a certam stage of u·r•-
em o . . . .
1
. · h
tation. Arrived at that :stage, 1t 1s sufhCiently strong to e JCit t e
phenomena of the brain and spinal cord, mentioned in the last
paragraph ; and then nervous symptoms, as affections of the ani.
1nal nervous system are peculiarly called, arc added to the pre.
vious ganglionic irritation. Doubtlessly, from the very onset of
the latter, morbid sympathies were sent up to the brain-it is im-
possible to suppose otherwise, in such a complicated and highly
organized frame as the human ; but these are not of sufficient
intensity to be shown in the form of symptoms. Once established,
however, they complicate the chronic malady, hasten its progress
towards organic disease, and multiply the obstacles to the success-
ful appliances of medical art.
Further, there is a gradation of nervous phenomena observable
in the progress of chronic disease. At first they are those which
indicate augmented circulation and nutrition of the brain mattcr,-
such as headache, disordered external senses, want of sleep, men-
tal irritability, hysterical sensations, &c. But as the mischief
increases, symptoms indicating oppressive circulation of blood in,
and diminished and vitiated nutrition of, the brain are observed,-
such as depression of spirits, unwillingness to move, hebetude of
mind, amounting sometimes to stupor, hypochondriacal brooding,
&c.: the rationale of all which may be given in a supposed case,
as thus:-
A person has a chronic, mucous indigestion-that is, a chronic
inflammation of the mucous membrane of the stomach. For
some time there are inappetence, fulncss, constipation, thirst, &c.,
symptoms referable to and residing in the disordered viscera
themselves: after a time, and consequent on the continuance of
the causes, and, perhaps, the additional irritation of tonic and
purgative medicines, the mucous inflammation becomes so intense
and fixed as to invade and involve the nervous networks and
gnnglions that pervade the digestive viscera : nervous indigestion
is superadded to the simple inflammatory. Then be(J'ins the
series of symptoms which show the implication of the b~ain and
spinal cord-symptoms expressive of increased quantity of blood,
TERMINATIONS OF CHRONIC DISEASE. 53
in those great nervous centres. This increase goes on until the
pressure of Llood upon the matter of those organs interferes with
its functional activity; sensation, thought, and volition become
more and 1.10rc ol.Jtusc and slow, until you may have total suspcn.
sion of all of them in apoplectic stupor, or of sensation and voli-
tion iu paralytic helplessness.
Such is the too frequent history of chronic visceral disease,
complicated with brain disorder. The confirmation of the view
just taken of the progress of the complication in question is
curiously l'nough exhibited by this fact,-viz., that in the first
8tnge of nervous complication all that goes on in the digestive
viscera, the irritation and weight of every meal, the rolling of
every volume of air in the bowels, and such like dyspeptic signs,
are accurately and acutely felt by the sensitive and morbidly
active brain, the patient complaining of them, and often dreading
to cat from fear of these consequences; whilst in the second, or
oppressive stage of brain complication, these abdominal sensa-
tions arc infinitely less complained of, the patient mostly ass011ing
that he has no stomach disorder, because he has no uneasy sensa.
tions after food, &c. In the former we have excessive activity,
in the latter tlcficicnt evolution, of brain power: in the former,
sufficient blood in the brain to augment its function ; in the latter,
suflicient to oppress it. And we shall find, further on, that in
retracing the steps to health, these two degrees of brain irritation
are retraced also.
There arc several more circumstances in the progress of
chronic disease which might be mentioned, but which, ns they
occur exclusively in individual maladies, arc better postponed
until thesn last are treated of. Instances of these circuml:itances
are the variations of cough, and expectoration, in certain stages
of chronic 1ung disorder; attacks of jaundice, and variations in
the bile in the excretions of the bowels and kidneys, in chronic
li\'er disease ; and the appearance or non-appearance of chalky
dPposit, in the course of gout. 'Meantime, the phenomena com.
mon to all chronic di!"eases in their progress having been given,
I pass on to speak of the terminations to which they arc liable.
These, the causes not being removed and irritation not avoided,
are inevitably fatal, if the scat of the chronic malady be in the
viscera alone. If there be skin discase-z. e., an external irrita.
tion, at once symptomatic of and counteracting to that internal
irritation which is the main disease-not life perhaps, but life's
54 THE CAUSES, rROGRESS, AND
comfort is more or less destroyed, similar negligence or mal.
'
practice as to causes being suppos~<.l. . .
The death of the body in such mstances ts mduccd-
lst. By ol>::;tacles to the nutrition of the body, the process of
waste, meanwhile, going 011 • • • • • •
2d. By the pussagc of ch~omc d1seusc ~nto orgnmc d1scase.
3u. By apoplectic congestiOn and functional stoppage of some
important organ. . . . . . . .
·lth. Bv cfrusion of thuds mto d1tferent cav1t1es, e1ther With or
without ~lceration of the Yiscera.
1. In many cases these two first causes of death are com.
bincd, the organic disease being the obstacle to the body's con.
tinued nutrition. Thus cwzcer of the stomach, by causing the
incessant rejection of food, precludes the renovation of parts
which the process oi' absorption and waste is incessantly carry.
ing off. Organic disease of t!te mesenteric glands stops the pas-
sage of the chyle from the alimentary canal to the circulating
blood, tl.nd, by thus arresting the renovation of the latter, leads to
the death of the functions. Stricture of thr. gullet JdllR, likewise,
by stopping the supply of food. And there are a few more ex-
amples of the same kind.
But obstacles to the nutrition of the body sufficient to produce
its death exist in chronic disease without the intervention of or.
ganic disease. The fitilure of ganglionic nervous energy is
attencled with failurc of all appetite for food ; nnd not only that,
the same nervous exhaustion lenvcs the animal chemistry of the
stomach without clue control, and sC'cretions are poured out which
render the digestion of whatc\'er aliment is taken bad, the subse-
quent ulood-making imperff'ct, nncl th~ nutrition of the body,
therefore, imperfect nlso. \Vaste, mP-antimc, proceeds, and the
i()(lividual perishc". This mode of death obtains in various forms
of uyspP.p~ia, eRpccially the 1101'\'0US. Emaciation may go on to
a great extent bc·fin·c this tcrmin:1tion, out not nccess:uily. If
the brain cchsc to lJc supplied with suflicient blood, of proper
quality, for its offioe, fainting may occur on !!omc exertion of
mind or body; the heart: imperfectly nourished and deprived of
its ganglionic FOWer, rnay be unable to renew the circulation
of the brain: the animal being dies in consequence, and the or-
ganic being soon follows; and this may happen ]on(T before the
patient reaches the point of atrophy, and it dcmo;strates the
TER?tllNATIONS OF CHRONIC DISEASE. 55
practical necessity for rest of the animal nervous system in such
maladies.
Again, in chronic diseases of the small intestines, whence the
chyle is absorbed to be carried into the circulating mass of blood,
the inflamed and gorged condition of the mucous membrane upon
which the chyle ducts deoouche, suffices to stop up their orifices
nnd tlm~ to }JJ'C\'Cnt the recruiting of the blood by the chyle.
'l'!Jis is the cause of death in what is called atrnphy, both of
ndults and of inf:lllts ; in the latter it is a frequent occurrence.
\Vhat is called "dying from nervous exhaustion," means that
n long course of imperfect nutrition has gone on; that poor and
deficient blood has dPposited poor and deficient solids; that the
nervous sc.,lids have partaken of this imperfection to such an ex-
tent, that they nrc unable any longer to impart that energy to the
muscular unu other moving solids which enables them to continue
the cil'culation of blood. This last failing in the brain, the ani-
mal, and then the organic being dies,-not so much of nervous
exhaustion as of insufficient nutrition. It is the kind of death
which terminates the chronic sufferings of those whose over-
wrought intellect or feelings have annihilated the digestive powe1-s
of their bodies, and of others who have arrived at the same end
by the mom material excesses of child-bearing, child-nursing1
and amorous propen~ities: all act by impairing the digestive en.
crgy. In short, in this and the two modes of death previously
cited the patients die orstarvation.
2. The passage of chronic disease into organic is not difficult
of explanation, according to the doctrine laid down in the earlier
pnrt of tl:is Yolume. The morbid nutrition going on in the dis-
cas d organ, wherever that may be, and dependent on the vitiated
vitality of its blood-vessels and organic nerves, is aided by disor.
det· at the centre of nutritive life, the digestive organs, where
morl:id coction of the food entails morbid blood to flow through
the syst~m nnd nourish the ot·gan already exhibiting an unnatural
~t. te of nutrition in its tissue. If the patient have no hereditary
tendency to deposit tubercular or schirrous tissue, simple excess
of dl posit of the natural tissue (simple hypertrophy) generally
cnsu s and constitutes the organic change; in which case the
mass of cia·culating blood not being so much diseased as in the
constirutiouul tendencies alluded to, the localt1erangcment of nu.
tritiou suflices fot· excessive deposit of the natural tissue alone,
and not for unnatural deposit. Hypertrophy of the brain, 6ztnple
56 THE CAUSES, PROGRESS, AND
active enlargement of the heart, szcoll~n liver and spl~en, ~nd thick.
ening o/tlte mucous mem,brancs, are mstances of tlus kmd of or.
ganic disease ; the effects of which on the g.eneral system may be
palliated for years, and even some r~duc~10n may be made, b!
nice art, in the enlarged structure 1tself. \Vhen the hour 1s
come for it, hypertrophy qf the brain ldlls by causing pressure on
and excitinu inflammation in the brain and its membrailes, the
result of wl1ich is also effusion and pressure ; so that the animal
is extinguished, and the organic parts, losing the vital stimulus
from that source, rapidly, though sometimes very gradually, sink
too. Enlargement o/the heart, swollen lirer and spleen, destroy by
inducing congestion and dropsy of the trunk and limbs; they all
obstructing the free return of blood to the heart and through it, the
blood therefore remains in the small vessels, which become con.
gcstive, and relieve themselves by pouring out the watery parts
of their contained liquid. But the fonner of these diseases also
l<ills by the lungs, the return of blood from which being ob.
structed, the patient is suffocated eithea· by their inflammation or
by pulmonary apoplexy, that is, effusion of blood into the spongy
texture of the lungs. It is OUViOUS that thickeni/l,g n_.f the 1nUCOU8
membranes is fatal, by virtue of preventing the functions of the
important viscera in which those membranes play the most es.
sential vital acts; upon these individually it is at present unne-
cessary to expatiate.
Where the organic disease consists not in a simple enlargement,
but in utter disorganization of a part, ueath takes place in conse.
quence of excessive irritation and oppression of the bmin and
spinal cord, or by similar oppression induccu by the retention in
the bloou of elements which ought to have been eliminated by the
morbid organs. ln!:itanccs of this ar~ the disor,.onized and hard-
o
cned lil•er and disorganized kidney. ln the former, the elements
of the bile-in the latter, those of the urine, are carried round
with the circulating blood, and Pithcr prouuce inflammation and
efi~sion.on the br~in, or else the uile and udno arc actually de.
posited. m the bram matter, whose function they elfcctunlly stop
by the1r presence. In the one case, lJilc is seen in the other
urine. is smelt, in the brai~. !t should not be kc~t out of sigh;
that, m such cases, .chrome dJgf'stivc disease has long preceded
~nd now accompames, and that deficient nutrition plays a art
m the fatal result. p
'l'hat result is, if possible, still more certain, where the organic
TER~UNATIONS OF CHRONIC DISEASE. 57
disease is of tubercular or cancerous character; for in that case
the whole mnss of blood is diseased-the whole nutrition of the
body is unnatural, and even if it were practicable to change that
ma~s, the o1·ganic tendency remains and cannot be changed.
Yt;t the mere deposit of tubercles and schirrus is not in itself fa-
t'll : if by any means the inflammation of those morbid structures
could be prevented, they would be compatible with life. Un-
furtunately, the very fact of their m01·Lid character renders them
1Pss able to resist the causes of inflammatory action than the nor-
mal tcxtures of the body. 'fhemse1ves the product of deteriorated
vital energy, they exhibit the least possible energy in opposing
and casting off irritating agents, even the least so. Slowly in-
flammation i-:; established in them, and surely it saps the founda-
tions of life. No matter where the morbid deposit be,-tubercles
in the knee joint (while swelling), or cancer in the nose,-an ex-
quisite sympathy with the stomach is maintained, a stomach that
had long been in a state of chronic dism·der.
The immediate process by which life is extinguished in such
cases is a periodical attack of fever ending in profuse perspira-
tion, and by the generally enormous discharge of fluids from the
diseased points. The waste consequent on these two exhausting
processes leads to an increased activity of the digestive organs to
replace it. In tubercular consumption of the lungs, of the knee
joint (white swelling), of the bones of the spine (lumbar abscess),
as well as in open cancerous ·ulceration, the appetite is ofttimes
very great, and not unfrequcntly extends to alcoholic stimulants.
After a time, however, the digestive power of the stomach, un-
naturally taxed as it had been, gives signs of diminution; add to
which, that the excess of labor to which it has been subjected
tends to increase the inflammatory irritation of the stomach which
preceded and now accompanies that of the diseased tissues. The
event is, that waste by the lungs, &c., goes on faster than supply
f•·om the digestive apparatus ; blood becomes deficient in the sys-
tem ; the animal nervous system, the brain and spinal cord, feels
this the first, having the greatest need of a full supply of it, and
dies from want of nutrition. In pulmonary consumption, more-
over, the failing nutrition of the brain and spinal cord causes
failure of the nervous energy sent to the muscles which move
the chest and effect expectoration, until some large quantity of
secretion rising into the air-tubes, the patient is unable to disen-
gage it thence, and suffocation takes place.
4*
A"'
5S TilE CAUSES, FROliRESS, AND
Such 15
the end of chronic disease tcrminatdin~ in horg~nic
l d · b . out the assertion that, as urmg t c tune
c mnge: an 1t cats . ·. f h
h d
. · a Functional one, 1t does so by vntuc o t e
t e 1sease remams J · . •
b
.d · ·t t. 1
of the central nutr1t.1vc organ, the stomach; so
mor 1 un a tot . .
1 ·t h as"ed into the slao-e of orgamc dtsease, death takes
w 1en 1 as p .., o .
place from exhaustion of that organ, and consequent fatlure of the
process of nutrition: . . .
3. The terminatiOn of chrome d1sease m apoplectic congestion
and functional stoppage of some important organ is instanced in
apoplexy of the brain and of the lungs. The former supposes a
long previous irritation of the stomach and liver, the organic
sympathy between those parts and the brain maintaining the lat.
ter in a state of super-vitality and drawing to it an excess of
blood, the pressure of which at length annihilates the brain func-
tion; or the sympathies with the stomach induce slow inflamma-
tory action in some portion of the brain, disorganization takes
place there, and rupture of more or fewer blood-vessels ; and the
outpoured liquid acts, as the excess within the vessels did, by
pressure and extinction of the cerebral function.
A process in some degree similar takes place in pulmonary
apoplexy, in which the outpouring of bloody secretion or the
bursting of sundry blood-vessels into the spongy texture of
the lungs renders that texture solid, impedes the entrance of
air, and respiration-prevents, therefore, the chemical changes
necessary to be operated by the air in the blood so as to ren.
der it fit to nourish the body, thereby stops the brain function,
and kills the animal. The rapidity of this morbid act varies. As
a consequence of chronic disease of the lungs only, it is often slow,
and in that case it is more usually brought about by a gradual
:secretion of sanguineous liquid from the inflamed air-vesicles of
the lungs; but it is sometimes the consequence of organic obstruc-
tion in the heart, in which case it is generally fatal in a very
short time, not unfrequently in a few minutes. The organic
change in the heart which causes this catastrophe is for the most
part ossification of the valves of the aorta, and thickening of the
muscular substance of the heart.
4. Chronic disease of the abdominal viscera sometimes ends in
ulceration oftheir mucous or lining membrane, which eats through
its substance and allows its liquid and solid contents to be poured
into the cavity made by the peritoneal or investing membrane.
The result is immediate and ra~inflammation of that membrane,
TERl\llNATIO,NS OF CHRONIC DISEASE. 59
vomiting, fever, and death, in a few hours. The most usual
localities for this ulcerative inflammation are the stomach,
t!~pecially towartls its lowct· or duodenal end, and the lower or
great intestine. From the former the food and mucous secretion
is poured out through the ulcerated orifice, and from the latter the
mucus ami freces. Sometimes volumes of air escape from the
bowels into the same cavity, or are secreted in it; but this is not
necessarily fatal.
In the lungs, chronic irritation, especially if accompanied
with asthmatic breathing, sometimes ends in perforation of the
sides of the air-tubes and vesicles, and the escape of air into one
of the cavities of the pleura, the consequence of which is con-
tinually increasing oppression of breathing, the air outside of the
lungs pressing upon them so as to prevent their expansion, and
this goes on to suffocation.
In these various terminations of chronic disorder we have the
exemplification of the fact insisted on in these pages, that "death
comes only by the viscera;" and that, as the disorder of those
organs, in their character of centres of nutritive activity, main-
tains chronic disorder in other parts, by maintaining nutritive
disturbance there, so, when their own chronic disease terminates
fatally, it is by arresting their own nutrition, and, ipso facto, that
of all other parts of the economy. It is reasonable to suppose that
the same central nutritive organs which have for years kept up
morbid sympatl1ies all over the frame, should, when worn out of
their nutritive energy, draw all other parts with the111 into extinc-
tion. Gout in the foot never kills, but gout in the stomach does;
and why 1 Because so long as the irritation of the digestive
organs, which is the essential of gout, is thrown upon the foot,
those organs are safe. But when they have no longer energy to
do this, the disease oppresses and arrests their nutrition, and all is
darkness and destruction for the rest of the body. 'l'ruly these
viscera and these visceral ganglionic nerves deserve more notice
and better usage than they generally get! And they should
always be thought of in conjunction. It is because "the stomach
and bowels" are in view, and not the myriads of exquisitely sensi.
tive nerves which endue them with life, that such monstrous
medicinal extravagances are practised on them for months together
as to astound one at the reckless courage that prescribed them.
One stand8 aghast at some of them!
So much for the fatal terminations of chronic disorder, to which
60 TilE CAUSES, PROGRESS, AND
it is most ordinarily driven by the irrational system of meddling
with every symptom, great or small, which may arise-that nimia
dilil(enlia for which both patient and physician nrc often responsi-
- ,
ble ; the latter listening to the impatience or prejUtlice of the
former rather than to his own judgment. To this may be added,
the persistence in the causes of the malady, improper diet, bad
habits of life, excessive mental toil, &c. Indeed, the two play
into each other's hands ; the essential of the di~ea8e inYeterates,
and the symptoms multiply because the causes nrc maintained in
action ; and patients are led to continue, or to make no effort to
cease, these last, because they find in medicinal means a way to
lull for a time the urgency of individual symptoms. And so the
mischief accumulates, until an organic disease puts the long.
cherished self-deception to flight, and places death vis-ci-t:is the
alarmed and doomed sufferer.
But where nature is afforded the opportunity of exerting the
strong conservative faculty she possesses, by withdrawing the
exciting causes on the one hand, and by ceasing the perturbing
influences of complicated medication on the other, she not unfre·
quently brings about a recovery, more or less complete, accord.
ing to the quantity of the faculty in question that remains. If
the organization, and, consequently, the vitality of the viscera,
which arc the seats of this faculty, have not been already too far
deteriorated by the agencies just mentioned, an effort is made to
transfer the chronic irritation of the viscera to some less impor.
tant organ or organs, which usually relieve themselves of this
transferred action by the outpouring of some secretion, generally
excessive in quantity and morbid in quality. Thus it is that
sweating, purging, and large secretion of turbid urine terminate
certain chronic diseases favorably ; the irritation of some vital
organ being thrown respectively on the skin, the lower bowel and
the kidneys, and the gorged skin, and mucous membrane of the
colon and kidney pouring out excessive materials in order to re-
lieve themselves. Sometimes the effort of removal is so sudden
and great as to excite perturbation of the entire nervous and cir.
culnting systems, and the series of turbulent phenomena called,
collectively,fever, are exhibited; which end, however, in sweat
bowel, or kidney secretion, or occasionally in all three. At other
times, the internal congestion of blood which constituted the
c_hronic disor~er is, by a slow ~rocess, converted into a conges·
tlon of the skm, and more espec1ally in certain points of it, form-
TERl\IINATIONS OF CHRONIC DISEASE. 61
ing, if the congestion be superficial, some efflorescence or erupt·
ive display; or, if it be more deeply seated, collections of pus,
boils, &c.
It appears, then, that spontaneous and extraordinary secretion
from the skin, from the mucous membrane of the lower bowel,
from the mucous membrane of the kidney, an attack of fever,
various eruptions of the skin, are the most ordinary of thefavor-
ablc terminations of internal chronic disorder. I have not men-
tioned in detail the cases in which each of these terminations is
most common and most effectual, because I shall have occasion
to tlo so in speaking of the individual chronic maladies. Mean-
while, let it be borne in mind that each and all of these termina-
tions have occurred, and may occur, witlwut tlte inlcn,ention of
any art, save that of removing the causes, and by the sole effort
of nature. The annals of medicine afford abundant instances
of the removal of inveterate and serious internal maladies by
the supervention of itch, of external abscesses, of small-pox, of
inflammatory fever, and of copious sweating, purging, and mic-
turition, at a time when all remedies had been laid aside as
useless, and attention paid only to the avoidance of those things
which palpably exasperated the malady. This was and could
only be the result of that uprising of nature to throw off the dis-
case which, if continued, must prove fatal to vital parts, to which
allusion has been already made; and which, often before but
unsucccssful1y attempted, at length did rid the vital organs of
their "perilous stuff" and destructive action. And remark,
that this conservative power can only be successfully exercised
when the original irritating causes are removed, when the addi-
tional irritating cause of medicmal meddling with the viscera is
avoided, and when the viscera, at rest from excessive stimulation,
and called upon to enact only just so much of their functions as
is necessary for the maintenance of the organism, accumulate
in time sufficient vital energy to make the final, the critical effort
for their own preservation.
Now, this natural effort, this self-preservative process, is pre-
cisely imitated and aided by the rules and appliances of the
water cure: imitated, inasmuch as, observing what is the natural
crisis of each disorder, the means are applied which tend to the
production of it; and aided, inasmuch as, in consequence of the
artistical and strict removal of exciting causes, by which the
body is placed in the best condition to aid itself, and in conse-
62 THE CAU>:)ES, PlWGRESS, ANU
<tUencc of tho auuitionul tone given to the fmmc generally, and
the derivation muue from the cliseaseu organs by the details of
the water treatment hv which the dforts of the body arc seconded,
' .
the time necessary for the prouuction of the natural favorable
termination is consiJeruu1y reduced. All this will receive fur.
ther developmcut in these pages. It is mentioned here, because
it is impossible for one ,.,ho knou•s the agency of the water treat.
meut, to avoiJ allusion to the complete parallel between the ways
talwn by nature, and the means ineludcd in that plan of treat-
ment whenever the subject of the natural and favorable termi-
nations of chronic <.lisease is brought forward.
Other favorable terminations of chronic disease are to be
noted, which are, or appear to be, independent of any transfer to
lhe external surface. Internal ulcerations are known, on some
occasions, to have healed. Thus, the inspection after death of
the stomachs of individuals who had suffered long from dyspepsia
has exhibited in the mucous lining of that organ marks of heal.
ing after ulceration ; but it does not appear that any notable ame-
lioration of the dyspeptic symptoms attended it, and it may be
quoted rather to establish the possibility of the healing of inter-
nal ulcerative inflammation, the tendency of which is mostly
mortal, than for any practical application that can be made of it.
We can only give a wide conjecture, during life, that such a
saving process is going on; and, if we knew, it would only alter
our prognostication of the result of the malady-not help us in
the treatment of it.
'fhe same applies to tubercular ulcerations of the lungs, traces
of the healing of which, at some long period before, have been
discovered after death. These are the only instances of pulmo-
nary consumption being cured,-cured by nature, for the physi-
cian was not even aware of what is going on in these cases. It
is, therefore, impossible to say under what circumstances this
favorable event of a deadly malady took place; but it should be
stated, that the ulcerated cavity in all the cases on record must
have been very small, judging from the mark of the cicatrix left
behind-in no instance larger than a horse-bean. Scant ground
this on which to build a hope in so invariably destructive a
disease!
There is one organ, the liver, which occasionally rids itselfof
chronic disorder without transference of irritation to other or-
gans; and it does so by the simple outpouring of its own secre-
TEftj\lJNATIO.NS OF CHRONlC DISEASE. 63
tion, the Lile. This is shovln in the improved character of the
C\'ncuations from the bow , which come to contain more bile
than heretofore-of the urine, which now contains less--of the
!'kin, whi<.;h, fron1 yellow, bccor.oes clear-of the taste, which
ceases to be pervnd~u by bitter, &c. ; and all this without any
diarrhcea. or swPa.ting that could call attention. The organ woulu
seem to have accumulated sufficient ganglionic vigor to recom-
n•encc the due perfot·mance of its function. The circumstances
which bring this about will be given when 1-ipeaking of the chronic
rnnlacliP.s of the liver. Meantime, it may be mentioned that the
morbid condition '"'·hich can be obliterated by this process, inde-
pendent of all critical transfer, is, as might readily be supposed,
of uo very intc:>nsc o1· long pNsistcnt character.
This terminates what is necessa.t'y to be said on the subjects
iocluucd in this chapte1
·. These subjects-the causes, progress,
nnd terminations of chronic disease-might be made to occupy
the entire of ~uch a volume as this ; but besides that, in such
case, much verbosity would be perpetrated, the treatment of a
subject generally, calls only for the enunciation of points of simi-
larity, leaving the points of divergence to appear in treating the
different parts of the subject individually. The general facts of
chronic disease have been here announced without any attempt
at extension, which, after all, might only have rendered the
matter more obscure by complicating the manner; whereas, as
they stand, they will be found, I believe, sufficiently intelligible.
ne~ides which, the pretensions of this volume altogether are only
those of an elementary, not of a systematic treatise. Yet is the
subject of chronic disease well worthy of the latter ; and it is to
be hoped that 11 writer worthy of the subject may be found.
The outlines, at least, will be found in the preceding pages.
•
PART II .
OF PARTICULAR CHRONIC DISEASES, AND THEIR
TREATl\lENT.
CHAPTER I.
DISF..\SES OF THE PRIMARY NUTRITIVE ORGANS.
Reasons for placing the digestive or prima1·y nutritive organs in the first
place fo1· consideration-Basis of arrangement for disl'ascs of other or-
g.ms-l\1 u<·ou!l and ncn·ous indigf';;tion-Fallacy of old dcfinitions-
Eil'l·cts treated as causes-Rationale of symptoms- Sinking, fulness,
~nawing, and spa.:;m of stomach-Flatulencc-Exccssi,·c and deficient
appetite-The throat, tongue, gums, and teeth, in dyspepsia- Symptoms
in eyes allCl cars-Symptoms indicative of morbid sympathy with brain
ancl ::~pinal cord-Comparative results of mucous and nervous dyspepsia-
national~ of treatment-Cases in illustration.
THE general development of the subject of chronic disease given
in tbc antecedent chapters affords a sufficient reason for the ar-
r.wgement of the indivitlud diseases which it is tny purpose to
mal<e. " 1
c have seen how disease commences, in the great ma-
jority of instances, in the central organs of life-the digestive or-
gans; and how, when it commences elsewhere, its chronic cha-
racter is determined by the implication of the digestive organs.
No pathological fact is better established; and it would suffice to
place their maladies iu the first order for cxa111ination and eluci-
dation. llut physiological considerations also strengthen their
claim. Dependent as the entire organism is for its functions on
the due supply of blood, as regards quality and quantity, the di-
gestive organs, in which the primary elaboration of that liquid is
66 DISEASES OF THE
efFected, necessarily influence the very first condition of vitality
in all other or"nns. If the condition of the stomach be such as to
preclude the dlgcstion uf food, o1· to produce a bad di~estion of it,
either no blor>
d at all 1s furmed, or blood of a bad lund, unfit for
the pUI·poses of nutrition, and the organs of the whole body lao.
guish, or nrc cli:-;cased in their nutrition. In this manner they go
far to regulate the nutrition of the rest of the body; and as the
pabulum for nutrition is first made in them, they claim the appel.
lation of" primary nutritive organs."
Further, the digestive organs influence the other parts of the
body by the fact that in and about them is the central portion of
that ganglionic system of nerves whose office it is to regulate the
distribution of blood in, and therefore the mode of nutrition of,
each organ, however near or distant. By virtue of this system,
not only do organic sensations proceed from the stomach to the
remotest portion of a limb, but the nutritive activity of this last is
conveyed to and recognized by the stomach. \Vhen the stomach
has been for a long time without food, the feet become cold-in
other words, the circulation of blood in them is diminished, and
the heat, given out from the blood, also diminished-an organic
sensation has proceeded from the stomach to the foot. When in
such a state the limbs are exercised in walking, &c., the want of
sufficient nutritive liquid in the limbs so in action is announced
to the stomach by an organic sensation transmitted to it by the
ganglionic nerves, and the result of which is to beget hunger in
the stomach in order to urge the formation of more blood. And
so of every organ of the economy. So that whether the digestive
organs be looked upon as the primary laboratory of the blood
which is to nourish the whole frame, or as ihc centre of the sys-
tem of nerves which is to regulate that nutrition, we behold in
them the starting and converging point of all healthy, as of all
diseased life, in the \'arious viscera, limbs, and covering of the
body.
On these grounds I propose to speak, in the first place, of the
cltronic di:Jeases C?.f the upper organs nfdigestion. In the preceding
chapters, the extension of disease thence to other parts is dwelt
upon and expluinPd. The arrangement of this part will proceed
partly on the facts of that extension, and partly on the physiolo.
gical processes of nutrition ; and doing this, I shall speak, in the
next place, of the maladies attached to the heart and lungs,
those being the organs which come next in the great process of
PK!M.AR.Y NUTRITIVE ORGANS. 67
nutrition, and towards which the extension of digestive disorder
is first and most frequently made. After these will come the
chronic diseases of the clrest ; then those of the nervous system ;
afterwards, the extension to the limbs, as shown in gout, rheuma-
tism, nnd simple injlamT,zation of tlte joints; next those of the lou:er
organs ofdigestion, the colon and rectum; and, finally, the exten-
sion to the outer mucous membrane of the body, as shown in skin
diseases.
I hnve no intention, however, of entering upon all the diseases
incidental to the organs above enumerated, but only such as have
fallen under my observation, nnd been treated by the appliances
of the water cure. But ns each disease comes to be treated of, I
shall first give a history and explanation of its symptoms, so as to
render the application of the remedial means, subsequently de-
tailed, intelligible to all readers. One great object, in my view,
is to nffonl such readers a. truthful and rational exposition of
the chronic maladies that nrc most commonly met with in civil-
ized society, and, by that means, to enlighten them us to the mode
of preventing as well as curing them, by natural rather than me-
dicinal mean~, though not as to the mode of being their own phy-
SlCtnn. This, I apprehend, will be done by ex.hiiJiting the origin,
tmcing the progress, and giving an explanation of the phenomena
of cac;h disease under notice; to which will be appended one or
two cases in point. ns pmctical examples of the previous general
hi~tory nnd exposition. This will form the subject matter of the
pt·esent part. The thil·d and last part will come in aid of it, in
the aim of prc\·ention ns well as cu1·c, not by mere enumeration
of the processes of the watct· treatment, but by showing how the
cmploymeut of thern, nt an early period, eradicates the predomi-
nant mischief ~rrcdily, and, what is almost of more consequence,
tcnt1s to the getwrntion or habit:; anrl tastes that arc altogether
alien to tlw recurrence of the causes which originally produced
the disease. For the water cure diflbrs from other modes of
treatment, by its much gre-ater stl'ingency regarding the with-
drawal of causes, nnd by i!s strict reduction of habits of life to
the simple natural stand.1rd, which both leaves the system free to
relie\'C itself from the disease thnt weighs upon it, and rids it of
the slnvcJ'Y of artificial excitants under which it groaned.
The first diseases of the primary nutritive organs which come
to be mentioned, are-
68 MUCOUS AND NERVOUS INDIGESTION•
§ 1. ]Jfucous and Nervous Indigestion.
Undcr the generic name of Dy~pepsia, these two .forms of indi.
gestion arc very commonly ~pol\en of and pract1cal1y treated.
Yet there arc ~\·ell maa·ked pathological distinctions between
them; they demand different treatment, and they lead to different
results. Thi::; I shall be able to show; but I would de~ire first
of all to dis~ipate some vulgar errors that obtain regarding this
wide-spread plague of civilisation-dyspepsia.
A man with CuLLEN's definition of' indigestion in his head-
" loss of appetite, nausea, acidity, flatulence, &c."-is firmly
convinced that he has to treat every one of these symptoms; and
he does so treat them, giving a separate remedy for each-Litters
for the appetite, effervescing draughts for the nausea, soda for the
acidity, ginger for the wind, and so forth. In his mind the ag.
grcgntc of these symptoms makes an entity which he calls dys.
pcpsia, a sort of being which he is to annihilate with varied
weapons. This is one error: it is held by many medical men,
and cherished by very many patients, who admire the complex
medication to which it leads.
As a ldncl of pendant to this, is the error of fixing on one symp.
tom, and calling it the cause of the disease-the old error of
short-coming knowledge, of taking the effect for the cause. One
~ays the flatulence causes his disease, another the nause~ a third
the acidity, and so forth. This leads to the lay treatment with all
manner of alcoholic, peppery, and cordial stimulants, alkalies.
magnesia, &c.
In some forms of dyspepsia there is loss of appetite and loss
of alacrity of limb. The one is attributed to "want of tone" in
the stomach, which is true as regards the capillary blood-vessels,
as I have shown, but erroneous in the sense in which it is said-
namely, as denoting a necessity for tonic stimulation. The other
is attributed to debility, and upon this erro1· is built the necessity
for high fvcding.
In another fol'ln of dyspepsia the appetite is excessive-far ex
ceeds the digestion. Yet this, too, is looked upon as a reason for
hecatombs of food ; and, as the limbs become less powerful un.
der this diet, the erroneous conclusion is arrived at that enough
has not been eaten !
Lastly, there is the error of mistaking fat for flesh, and volume
for vigor. A fat red-faced dyspeptic, suffering torments whi~
MUCOUS AND NERVOUS INDIGESTION. 69
his face belies, but with which that face is, as I shall show, closely
connected, is generally much pitied by friends when the redness
and bulk diminish, though it is often accompanied by diminution
of suffering; so that just when nature is curing },is malady, she
is marred by the recommendation of anxious people to " talm
something to get up his looks again"-that something " getting
up" the old irritation also.
These era-oneous notions are sad drawbacks to the successful
treatment of indigestion. The prejudices which they represent,
if opposed by the medical attP.ndant, arc too strong not to throw
disorder into the nervous system. The patient fidgets ubout the
"acidity" or the " flatulence," because his old remedies for them
are withdrawn; and this fidgeting induces nervous unsettlement
and increased stomachal sensitiveness. And if not opposed, or
if seconded by the attendant, the same result comes more speedi-
ly and more intensely. The only remedy for this state of things
is to describe to the patient, as clearly as may be, the cssclltial
11ature of his <lisease; to show him how these various symptoms
which he mistakes for causes, spring from that essential nature ;
and thus to draw the ground from under his prejudices, and pre-
pare him tor rational instead of empirical treatment. Let us
procee1l to do this.
Reverting to the first part of this work, it will be found that acute
disease always pr·ecedes chronic disease (page 2); and that the
great churncft•ristic of acute disease in a part is an excess and con-
gestion of blood (page 6); that chronic disease is an extension in
dt•gree of the acute (page 13); and that in both, but in different
degrees, there is a loss of organic sympathy between the blood-
vessels and their contained blood, leading to an imperfect vital
chemistry, and consequent bad nutrition and secretion (page 14).
Now, what is called chronic dyspepsia means, when reduced to
its essence, a chronic excess and congestion of blood in the nutri-
tive blood-vessels of the mucous membrane of the stomach, or of
the ganglionic nerves that surround and supply the stomach.
The effect of this congestion is to interfere with the quality of
the blood, and its organic sympathy with the vessels which con-
tain it. As all secretions are derived from the blood, we might
expect that they would not be of a proper kind when proceeding
from blood so circumstabced. Accordingly, instead of the ordi..
nary insipid mucus, there is at one time acid mucus poured out,
forming the acidity so much talked about by dyspeptics, and
•
70 MUCOUS AND NERVOUS INDIGESTION.
which, as the membrane which secretes tho spittle is n continua.
tion of that which lines the stomadl, is al:so experienced in tbe
mouth. At another time the power of the ganglionic nerves over
the vessels of the gastric mucous membrane is R<> irregulna·ly ex.
erciscd, that, instead of mucus, the clements of mucus, in the
shape of gases, ure poured out from the blood, nnd the much.
dreaded jlatuh-nce is proouC£d.
Now, suppose a quantity of this acid, or volumes of this nir,
secreted in a stomach lined with mucous membrane, on the outer
side of which is a thin layeL· of muscular, moving fibres, whose
oflice, in health, is to contract unu move the food about in the
stomach. The acid anu the aia·, being unnatural matters, bring
the~c muscular fibres into an unnatural state of contraction, nod
spasmodic contraction of it takes place ; according to the degree
and exact locality of which is the sensation produced. If the
middle part of the stomach is the seat of spasmouic contraction
(as usually happens in acidity), there is a sense of dragging or
gnawing at the pit of the stomach, or a pain in the breastlxmt
above the pit of the stomach. If the great sac or left end of the
stomach contracts morbidly, it drags upon the passage from the
stomach to the throat, and the sensation called heartburn is expe.
ricnced -a mh:eu sense of acute pain at the pit of the stomach
and drawing in the throat, and occurring mostly when wind is
present. Sometimes these pains arc sufficiently acute to be felt
completely through to the back, between the shoulder blades.
The spasmodic contraction of the stomach thus produced has
various degrees. One of these causes the sensation of llunger.
Natural hunger is nothing more than a greater than usual con.
tractile movement of the empty stomach, a sort of slight cramp,
which is relieved when the hollow muscle, the stomach, has some.
thing to contract upon. For this purpose anything will do, from
water to pebble stones. In confirmation of this view of the phy.
siology of hunger, it is found that pressure on the pit of the sto-
mach, with the hand or a bandage, suspends the sensation by
allaying the crampish movement, just as pressure on the calf of
the leg subdues the cramp there. Also, it is known that smoking
tobacco or swallowing opiates, or any other antispasmodic reme-
dies, suspends hunger. Instinct, too, leads many hybematiog
animals to swallow rosin and other indigestible matters previous
to entering on their long torpor, which might otherwise be dis-
turbed by the spasmodic cravings of an empty, hungry stomach.
•
l'tlUCOUS AND NERVOUS INDIGESTION. 71
Well, then, we have a dyspeptic, irritable stomach, containing a
mass of undigesteu footl, or a quantity of acrid, irritating mucus,
or a large volume of wind, or all three together; any one of
}hese may suffice to violently irritate the muscular coat of the
stomach, and produce the amount of spasmodic contraction which
corresponds to the sensation of hunger. Hence it is that dyspep-
tics so often have craving for foorl immediately after a large meal
of it, and at the time when it remains untouched by the digestive
office of the stomach. Ilcucc it is that itmnense appetite is so
often a symptom of the most intense dyspepsia. But reference
must be ever had to the antecedent cause of the acid or wind, and
the spasm they induce; antl that cause is iuflammatory conges-
tion of the mucous membrane, or of the nerves of the stomach.
The want of this is the foundation of all the gross errors that
distinguish the ordinary treatment of indigestion. A stimulating
antispasmodic gives the whole stomach the temporary power of
getting rid of wind, or a dose of soda neutralizes the acid, which
then ceases to irritate, and the gnawing, dragging, or hunger, dis-
appear. Not so the cause of them, which these remedies have
rather exasperated ; us is shown in the fact that the doses have
to be repeated more aml more frequently, until soda is taken in
every beverage, and sal volatile, ginger tea, or pepper lozenges,
at cyery hour of the day.
Anothct· and greater degree of spasmodic contraction of the
stomach causes the sensation of nausea; and this degree calling
the surrounding muscles of the belly and chest by sympathy into
a similar state, the act of vomiting is produced. But between
that and nausea there is the partial contraction, which suffices to
throw some food, sometimes insipid, sometimes aCI·id, back into
the mouth, constituting the eructations that form one of the great
distresses of dyspeptics. Hiccup is when the spasm is about the
upper orifice of the stomach, where the gullet expands into that
organ ; it then involves the midriff, and that powerful muscle aids
in the violent convulsion that marks the act.
Lastly, there is the actual spasm of the stomach, where every
muscular fibre of it is in the most intense state of contraction,
precluding the exit of anything whatever, solid, liquid, or aeri-
form, from its cavity, and inducing the most alarming sympa.
thies in the organs of the chest, and in the brain. It is most apt
to occur in gouty persons; but others are liable to it.
But sometimes the congestion of the nerves of the stomach ie
72 MUCOUS ~ND NERVOUS INDIGESTIO:'t.
so great as to oppress their function, to prevent them from send
ing to the muscular coat of the stomach the due contractile
energy. In this case there is loss of appetite. Between this
state of the nerves and that which causes craving, there is th\
same difference as between the condition of the brain which
causes delirium, and that which is nccompanicc.l by stupor; in
the former there is an excess of blood, enough to produce exce~
of brain function ; in the latter there is a greater excess, enou(Jh
• 0
to oppress the bmm.
Thirst is an occasional symptom of indigestion. \Vhcn the
irritation of the stomach is greater than usual, it nets ns n ~timu.
lant to the blood-vessels of the membrane which lines the throat
'
causes them to contract, and thus diminishes the secretion of that
membrane, which becomes dry. That such is the fitct is shown
by another fact, namely, that washing the mouth, or gargling the
throat with cold water, will relieve the thit·st. It is a more con.
tinucd symptom of mucous, than of nervous dyspepsia; but when
it occurs in the latter, it is much more intense and pressing for a
time.
With the deranged ganglionic power, derangeu secretion tal,es
place, as we have seen in the stomach itself. But the same
holds with regard to the membrane which lines the fauces, the
mouth, the tongue, and the eyelids : for it is a continuation of the
same which lines the stomach. Accordingly, we find in dyspep-
sia, either deficient or diseased spillle, very frequently thick and
tenacious, less frequently thin and acrid-the former in mucous,
the latter in nervous indigestion. The spittle also tastes acid,
bitter, metallic, sweet, mawkish, &c. ; which no doubt is owing
in part to the disordered sensation of the nerves of taste, and
partly to the morbid secretion. Further, the vapor from the
membrane of the throat and jaws is more or Jess fretid, causing
a tainted breath; though this symptom is often wanting. For a
like reason, namely, the congestion of the membrane in question,
dyspeptics are much liable to sore-throat, both relaxed and in-
flammatory, from variations of weather.
Following the membrane from the throat forwards, it covers
the tongue,-the well.used indicator for the doctor. To go into
details on this point would be tiresome, and I shall content my-
self, and the reader too, probably, by stating the general result
of my experience of the tongue as a symptom in chronic in·
digestion.
1\lUCOUS A~D NERVOUS INDIGEST!O~. 73
I. \Vhcn the tongue is not much, or not at all increased in
redness or volume, but has a thickish, whity-hrown fur upon it,
without any great amount of dryness, we may infer that the
stomach irritation is of the mucous membrane, and not of an in.
tense nor ancient character.
2. \Vhcn the fur in question is slimy, and the tip and sides of
the tongue that arc uncovered IJy it present a vivid redness, the
uy pcpsia is of the mucous kind, is intense in character, and is
of longer duration.
!3. If, with this last appearance, the fur be yellowish, though
more dry, the liver and duodenum are involved in the dyspeptic
di13orJer.
4. \Vhen the tongue is clean, but vividly red, with the pa.
pillc.c ut the tip elevat('ld, and of the ordinary moisture, a recent
nen·ous dyspepsia may be predicated.
5. \Vhen this red tongue is dry aml glazed, a more intense
degree of the same dyspepsia exists.
G. \Vhen the very red tongue has a slight degree of whitish fur,
and is enlarged in volume, it bespeaks a very intense nervous
dyspepsia, ::;ufficient •o involve the brain, which, in such case, is
congested.*
7. The most intense degree of nervous dyspepsia, however,
show~ a considerably enlarged tongue, the face of which is split
into furrows in all directions, so deep sometimes as to give the
appearance of seveml small tongues just holding together by
thcia· edges.
8. \Vhen nervous and mucous i a
·ritation are both intense, and
have endured for a long time, the tongue is red at the tip and
sides, covered in the centre with a very thin, white, shining mu.
cous coat, and is enlarged. This silt·ery tongue (literally, not
figurath·ely) df'notcs a great amount of long-standing dyspeptic
irritation to be eradicated. It is a common tongue with hypo.
chondriaes, e~pecially such as have undergone courses of mer.
cury, and is always connected with morbid action of the brain.
Thi~ enlargement of the tongue is so strictly connected with stomach
irritation that the tongue will sometimes s\vell after each meal, and de-
crease when digestion i~ over ; in coincidence with the excitement or rest
of tht• !li~<>~th-·c organs. Moreover, a process of the water cure will cause
a contraction of the ton~ue for tb\! time, by decrensiug the stomach irri·
tation. A medical gentleman now under my care has remarked both
these facts, and reported them to me.
5
74 MUCOUS AND NERVOUS INDIGESTION.
Other peculiarities of the tongue are its indentalio~t at the sides,
which implies its augmented t'olumr, an~ pressure ~ga~nst the teeth;
and its tremulousness on pt·otrusion, wh1ch usually mdacates nervous
dyspepsia, that has involved the s~inal corJ.. But. of the si~ns
above-mentioned, one of the mm;t Important IS the mcreascd saze
of the tongue, which so often goes unnoticed. Yct have I seen
cases of the most distressing indigestion, where the tluekrming of
the tonauc was the only sign it afforded, being in color, moisture,
and cle~nness, perfect; and, what is more curious, in these cases
the dyspepsia diminished with the diminution of the tongue,
which, however, became furred and rather clammy, seeming to
show that this latter kind of tongue is that of a mi11or degree of
stomach irritation. It is too much the custom to look for fur of
the tongue as the only sign of chronic diseased digestion; whereas
it is the accompaniment of the least tedious and intractable forms
of it; your silvery, or your clean, red, swollen tongue, is far
more difficult to manage than the ordinary foul "wash-leather"
tongue.
The gums and teeth afford signs of dyspepsia; the same mucous
membrane which covers the tongue, and lines the stomach, passing
over the gums, dipping down the sides of the teeth, nnu sending a
pulpy prolongation by the root of each tooth into its centre. This
arrangement renders it sufficiently easy to explain the redness,
swelling, tet~ikrness, sponginess, bleeding, and fwtor of t!te gums j
symptoms which attend, in great or small array, most forms of
indigestion, especially of the mucou~ character. In nervous dis-
pepsia, the gums often lose their nutrition, and shrink from the
teeth, leaving their roots bare. Neither is it difficult to com.
prebend how, with such a prolongation of the mucous membrane,
aching, decay, and discoloration of the teeth occur in dyspcp::in.
Besides this, the nerve which passes directly from the brain to
the stomach sends branches, as it goes down the throat, to the
jaws, which branches give out a twig of nerve to each tooth. It
is easy to see how a draught of water, diluting some acid liquid,
or allaying some exasperated inflammatory action in the stomach,
may almost immediately soothe "a raging tooth," in which no
trace of decay could be found to account for the pain. Many a
noble grinder has been extracted, when the more pleasant opera.
tion of swallowing some iced watet would have allowed it tore-
main in the jaw, and do good service for years to come.
At the point where the inner mucous membrane ceases, and the
MUCOUS AND NERVOUS lNDIGESTlON. 75
outer mucous membmne or skin commences-at the Iips,-there
is, frequently, accumulation of blood in the spongy tissue which
constitutes them. This fiery red, spongy lip occurs in recent
mucous disease, or in nervous dyspepsia, at any stage : it goes
with the red and spongy gums. Sometimes its covering membrane
partakes of the nature of skin, and throws off mucus, which coagu-
lates in the air, and forms dry flakes on the lips. But when dys-
pepsia has been of very long standing, and has invaded the struc-
ture of the duodenum or liver, we have the lips at first marbled
red and white, and as the disease advances, the white predominates,
the lips, the lower one especially, becoming blanched, waxy, and
hard. This is the old drunkard's lip, and bespP.al<s irremediable
mischief.
Proceeding from the back of the throat to the nostrils, and
thence, by the passage for the tears, to the eyes, the nmcous
membrane lines the eyelids, and covers the eyelJalls to the extent
of the portion called '' the white of the eye." Hence the bl~ared,
suffused r.yes of many dyspeptics; the gorged, thickened, and
internally red, and externally d(/,rk eyelids; the inflamed glands
at the roots of the eyelashes, accompanied by deficient or tltick
gummy secretion there. And as these two surfaces-the inner
eyelid and white of the eye-work upon each other, the result of
their congested state is painful action, producing flow of tears, the
whole going by the name of ''weak eyes," a symptom of very
common occurrence in chronic indigestion.
ltclti11g of the nostrils, dryness, or, on the other hand, excessive
distillation from them, irregular sense if smell, all which take
place in dyspepsia, are accounted for by the extension of the gas-
tric mucous membrane to the nostrils. When the membrane is
gorged and thickened, the nerves of smell spread over it are
oppressed in their function, and deficient sense of smell is a dys-
peptic symptom. The same connection of membrane renders
dyspeptics very liable to take cold in the head, that is, to have
the lining of the nostrils gorged with blood, as the secondary con-
sequence of external cold.
Running up from the back of the throat to the Eustachian tube,
which is the avenue thence to the inner ear, the mucous mem-
brane here also is liable to variations with that of the stomach.
It may become drg, and then there is burning pain, and acute
sense ofhearing; or it may become gorged with blood, swelled,
and, stopping up the passage, produce one species of deafnus.
•
76 1\IUCOUS AND NERVOUS lNDIGJo;STJON •
Irregularity of hearing is a symptom very often complained of by
dyspeptic patients.
Finally, the gastric mucous membrane passes over the spongy
bones nt the back of the nostrils, and reacllf~g and lines the hollow
space which separates the two plates of the bones of the forehena
-the jro11tal sinus. This is the sent of sick lterulache, and of
bilious headache, as irritation of the membrane of the stomad1
itself, or of its extension to the liver, prevail~.
So far, it will be perceived, the symptoms of dyspepsia nrc
explicable by the continuation of the inner surface of the stomach.
But, in thus tracing them by continuity of m~mbrnnP., it should
never, fbr an instant, be forgotten, that the ~ympathics, healthy
as well u.s morbid, bet\\·
'een the diifel'ent pot·t ions of that mem.
brane, are due to the similar nutrition of them all uncler the dircc.
tion of the ganglionic nervous system. It is the nerves of this
system which should be ever present to the mental eye of the
practitioner when he beholds, in the varioua signs I hove detailed,
evidences of chronic dyspeptic disorder. Failing in this, he falls
into the worst errors of ontology, treating names instead of states
of action, and putting aside as non-existent the organic sensith·c.
ness of the most sensitive membrane of the body,-the mucous
membrane of the digestive organs. We know not of such mem.
brane without myriads of nerves of organic life entering iuto its
intimate texture, and regulating ail its vital actions. Not a tP.ar
distils from the eye, nor a drop of the wonderful gastric juice from
the lining of the stomach, save at the urgency ofthe ganglionic
nerves which supply the membrane of either organ.
Whilst morbid phenomena are proceeding in the extended
membrane of the <lyspPptic stomach, other symptoms, having no
dependence on such extension, arc pressing. Such are the signs
that are exhibited by the brain and spinal cord, and are culled
the nert·ou.s, or the brain symptoms of chronic indigestion. It were
vain to attempt the enumeration of all these signs, including, as
they do, every possible variety of sensation and diseased thought;
and there is scarcely one, however extravagant, which some dys-
p~ptic or other has not experienced. Pains, shooting, burning,
cutting, drawing, lacerating, &c. ; sPnsalion.~ of cold, heat, fu}.
ness, emptiness, creeping, itching, gusts of wind, opening and
shutting, gnawing, roughness, trembling, &c. ; thoughts, de-
pressed, impatient, suspicious, selfish ; the mind indolent, vivid
to the last degree, perverted, or, on the other hand, with excess
MUCOUS AND NERVOUS li'JDIGESTIO:i • 77
.
of natural tendencies; the volition powerless, or, again, great to
the point of constant restlessness. Such are a few of the pheno-
mena which show that the irritation of the digestive organs has
disordered the nutrition of the cerebral organs. But how diverse
soever they may be, they are all reducible, in their point of origin,
to three positions-viz., the spinal cord, the grey matter of the
brain, and the white matter of the brain.
As the spinal cord is the seat of the exercise of the will, all the
dyspeptic signs involving that mental function are referable to
morbitl circulation and nutrition there. Irritations proceeding
from the stomach to the cord alter its healthy action ; the nerves
which it sends out to the muscles of the body cease to receive
sU•ady energy from it; and thus, both in their sensations and in
their power in setting the muscles into action, they are disordered.
Hence the trembling of various parts which the will cannot com-
mand ;* the .{]pasmodic and convulsire movemelliS of a limb, or part
of a limb ; the occasional and temporary palsy and numbness of a
limb, denoting irritation to the amount of pressu1·e on the cord;
and hence, too, the cramJIS, sltooting, aml other pains, cold and hot
feelings, &c. And all of these may be confined to a small part
of the trunk or of the limbs, to a single joint, fi>r instance, because
only a small part of the spinal cord, whl'nce nerves are given out
which go to the joint, is involved in the irritative sympathy origi.
nally proceeding from the dyspeptic stomach. The long list of
Tlystcrical symptoms, so often attendant on chronic indigestion, is
more especially traceable to this morbid sympathy between the
stomach and spinal coni ; the starlings, shuJderings, uncontmlla-
blc laughter or werping, being indications of the lost controlling
power of the spinal nerves. A like sympathy between the stomach
and spinal cord is the means of inducing the malady called
asthma, and other forms of diflicult breathing ; us also stomach
cough, of the latter of which I shall treat more fully under the
head of disorders of the respiratory organs. .Meanwhile, as re-
gards the signs dependent on the sympathetic irritation of the
• That trembling depends on tlimini~hed power in the S('at of the will,
and cannot b~ resisted, these admonitory lines of Horace to Quintius would
imply:
"Neu, si te populus sanum recteque valcntem,
Dictitet, occultam febrem sub tempus edendi
Dislimulr,s..donec manibus tt·emor incidat unctis."
Lib. i., Epistol. 16.
78 !IIUCOUS .AND ~ERVOUS JNDIGJo:STJON•
spine, it mny be remarked how little is this ~ymp~thy recognized!
and how often ure the spines of dyspeptics blistered, leeched,
stretched, laid for months or years on i.nclincd planes, &c._, under
the plea of spinal compltdnt, when a httle more obs.ervation ~d
physiolocrical deduction would have spared the spme, and d1s.
covered~ stomach at the bottom of all the mischief!
It should be mentioned that these disordered spinal phenomena
are most commonly connected with nervous dyspepsia.
The grey matter of the brain is the outer layer of that organ,
and tho physical agent of the mind. In nervous indigestion, mor.
bid sympathy is propagated to it, and morbid nutrition induced in
it, and the mind thus has an unfit organ to work withal. The
consequence is a series of mental feebleness and contradictions
that form a large portion of the misery of the dyspeptic. The
impatience, irascibility, caprice, anxiety about trifles, and about
self, suspicions, groundless fears, and similar marks of morbidly
vivid mental action, are things for which the patient deserves
pity, scarcely blnme, for he knows their existence, and feels the
torment of their mastery over him. That dominion may increase
until moral or intellectual insanity is established-a result not un.
frequent, when, misled by the clean tongue of nervous dyspepsia,
to which insanity of this kind belongs, the practitioner has only
debility in his head, and prescribes stimulation as a remedy.
Such cnscs people the lunatic asylums.
But when the wltite matter of the brain is principa11y affected
by morbid sympathy with the stomach, we have, for the most
part, mental phenomena indicating oppression of the mind's phy.
sicnl requisite. There is slowness of perception, thought, and
action ; everything is troublesome or impossible; attention flags;
rearJing and talldng are alike irksome ; reverie takes possession
of the patient, and somnolence often steals on him. Besides
these mental symptoms: there is more or lejS giddiness, confu.
sion, s£>nse of weakness of the brain, expanding sensation of the
skull, numlmc.>ss of the scalp, intense aching, or simply malaise
of the whole head. The external senses also suffer; humming
and other noise;; pervade the ear, and deafness invades it; the
t•ision is disturbed Ly ulack spots, dark crape, steaming vapors,
spn1·ks nnd Jla:;hcs of red ; the taste is obliterated, or is pervaded
by ncitl, saline, rnawkish, putrid, or metallic savors; and the
smell, though the least Hable to distortion, is sometimes crossed
by disagreeable, and occasionally agreeable, effluvia, which do
l\IUCOUS AND NERVOUS INDIGESTION. 79
not exist in the atmosphere. These perversions of the external
senses are rather referable to the disorder of the spinal cord,
whence the nerves of those senses arise, than to the brain itself.
But besides that they arise from the cord within the skull, the
congested state of the brain suffices to explain the deterioration
both of the sensual and mental operations. For when, in conse-
quence of loug continued il'l'itation fro111 the stomach, the brain
becomes the recipient and the retainer of an undue quantity of
blood, its distended blood-vessels press upon all the nervous mat-
ter contained within the skull, white, grey, and spinal, and in
this manner interfere with the activity of each and all. Pressing
upwurds and lutcrully, the disten:-;ion affects the grey matter, the
physical organ of tho mind's activity ; hence the slowness of
perception and thought. Pressing on the mass of white matter
itself~ nnd uownwurds, upon the upper portion of the spinal cord,
whence the nerves of the senses originate, the deficient volition,
the irresolution, and the perverted or deficient external senses,
nrc readily accounted for. And such pressure may go on to
apoplectic suspension of all the faculties, sen~ific, perceptive,
thinl<ing, and moving, or tell only on some one, causing deficient
merraory ou particular subjects, palsy of some particular limb or
set of muscles, or c~nnihilation of some sense, as of vision in
amrmrosi.s.
I·'uhwss of the white portion of the brain may be either of a
c·l nJ'n<'tcr to induce ~udtlen apoplectic seizure, or gradually to sap
the integrity of the functions, and cause slowly-coming imbecility
nnd J>al~·y. The different conditions of circulation in the head,
1( adiug to such terminations, will be stated when speaking of
these two maladies. 1\lcnntime it should be mentioned that mu.
reus indigestion is the most common originator of the fulness in
que >tion.
In spealdng of these ner\'ous phenomena of chronic indigestion,
und of tht?ir production from disordered circulation of blood
in tl1c great centres of the animal nervous system, we are never
to forget, thnt such circulation is carried on under the control of
the ganglionic nervous matter distributed in those centres. The
brnin, in fact, may be regarded as one large ganglion. The
most minute change in the sensific, motific, or mental acts, is ac.
companied by a corresponding change in the circulation, and
therefore in the ganglionic influence. Looking back to the start.
in~ point of the whole of the symptoms, the digestive organs, the
80 MUCOUS A!"lD NERVOUS INDIGESTION.
great centre of the influence alluded to, we_can~ot fail to rem~rlt
the importance of keepina in view the physwlog~eul fact to wh1ch
1 have called attention.
0
lt has the strongest bearing on the treat.
ment since in the regulation of the mental and bodily exercise,
we a~e rem
7
inded of the mode of connection between the brain,
which is to perform it, and the stomach, which i~ to keenly feel
what aoes on in the brain. :Moreover, this feeling is an organic
one . it is one dependent on the organic, the ganglionic commu.
'
nity of nerves between the two points, the stomach nnd brain; it
is one which may exist to the degree of the most intense disease
without eliciting any animal feeling whatever, and which, there.
fore, is only explicable on the ground of the ganglionic connec.
tion. Ulceration of the stomach may exist without an animal
sensation ; and not a pain, ache, or any other feeling, may pre.
cede an apoplectic seizure.
The symptoms of chronic indigestion which refer to the skin,
are those denoting irregular and deficient circulation in it. The
sensations of the outer surface show this in the great suscepti.
bility to cold, the incapability of reacting against the elements.
DyRpeptics are always more or less "coddles," and that instinct.
ively, for let a breath of 40° of Fahrenheit blow on the skin, the
little blood that is in it leaves it, and the internal organs, already
congested, receive it without the power of returning it; and the
consequence is, increased irritation of the spinal cord, and shiver.
ing, and a feeling of misery tl"ansmitted from the skin to the
same point, and to the brain. In this manne1· it. is that cold so
often begets intense headache in dyspeptics, and occasiona11y even
apoplectic pressure on the brain: winter is wc11 known to be the
season for frequent apoplexies. Creeping sensations, and those
ofpricking, are referable to the same irregular circulation in the
spinal cord and the skin, and in both it is induced hy the tempo-
rary increase of irritation of the digestive organs. Flushes of
lteat and ofredness acknowledge the same cause; the power of
controlling the equilibrium of the circulation is partially lost by
the disorder at the gang1ionic centre, the stomach, nnd the blood
is urged hither and thither, according to the phase of irritation
existing within. .Most commonly, however, these flushes are in
the face and head, those parts receiving more blood in health,
aod sympathizing mm·e directly in disensc, than other parts, with
the digestive apparatus. Stagnation of blood in spots also
takes place, and pimples then appear, chiefly in the fac:e also,
MUCOUS AND NERVOUS INDIGESTION. 81
nnd for the reason given in the last sentence. Symptoms of this
kind are most common in nervous dyspepsia.
Yet thf'sc irrc(Tular distributions of blood on the surface are
0
rude but laudable r if.Jrts of the internal organs to throw their
disorder on the less important organ-the skin; and as long as
they continue, the patient may be said to have an amount of vis
1·itm in him sufficirnt to act upon in treatment. In such cases
there nln·ays remains sufficient blood in the skin to invest it with
some of the color, softness, and elasticity appertaining to life; it
look!-i like the covering of a living frame. But in many cases of
c!Jronic c!yspPpsia the internal rnischief has rxisted so long, or
has been of such a destructive character, that the skin has lost
nll its vitality, and is like, in appearance as well as in activity, a
surface of parchment. It docs not feel or look as if it were
alive; its reactive agency is suspemlcd, ami, except for cold, it
has hut little sensation ; there is very deficient circulation in it.
At othP-r titncs, the skin, though dirty-looking and without a shade
of healthy hue, is nevertheless possessed of the clastic feel of
life. This state is oft£'n present as the result of purging with
Yegctable npcricntR, cnlocynth, aloes, &c., and implies a vitiation,
n deterioration of the blood, that deprives it of its healthy scarlet
hue, n·td endues it with the unnatural shade of which the skin
partake~, which is not so much deficient in blood as supplied with
ba1l blood. A col'roooration of this I have seen in many instan.
ce~ whc.'rc, in female patients, as the sl\in became more clear and
ru•idy, the periodical ilJness, which had been, in the outset, of a
dnrk unhealthy color, passed into the vermilion, which speal\s
fot· n more wholesome condition of the blood. This state of skin,
therefo1·e, is mort"' to be relied upon than the dead condition last
described, which is more ordinarily the result of great abuse of
the nervous system in excesses of the passions, and of prepara.
tion10; of meretn-y and iodinP. For the rest, the irregular distri-
bution of blood to the skin, as shown in heats, flushes, pimples,
eruption~, &c., is more frequent in the nervous form of dyspep.
sin ; the (lrficit•ncy of blood on the surface, as shown in the in.
ncti\'c, parchment t-Okin, is more frequent in long continued
mucou~ indigestion ; and as the muddy, yet lively skin, indica.
tive of vitiateJ blood, is a sort of passage towards the dead skin,
so is it to be found in certain phases of the nervous, as well as
the mucous dyspepsia.
In this exposition of the symptoms whose aggregation consti.
fi*
82 i\IUCOlTS A~D NF.RYOU!' INDIGESTION.
tutcs indigestion, I have confincll myself to such as may arise
from disorder of the stomach and its nerves alone. Otlwrs there
arc which, though very often sPcn accompanying the abov(', are
by no means essentials of tlyspcpsia; I allude to disordered se-
cretions of the liver, kidney~, and bowels, ns also of the genital
organs. Of the~c 1 shall have occasion to spcal< hereafter. But
even of those which I have enumerated, let it be understoo<l that
only a portion can be present in the same individual, according
to constitutional predispositions, nnd the pha!=~e of stomach irrita.
tion that obtains. In some the dyspepsia originates head symp.
torns, in consequence of the large and active development of the
nervous system ; in others of scrofulous habit and contracted
chest, the stomach is the author of chronic inflammation of the
air tubes, cough of various kinds, &c. ; whilst in others, again,
sldn disease is the chief evidence of stomach disease. The same
applies to the symptoms in the organ itself; they may be few or
many, so far as the sensation is concen1ed, according to the or.
ganic connection between it and the brain. But in diseased
sensations, secretions, and movements, there is always a sufficient
number of symptoms to determine the existence of indigestion,
mucous or nenpous.
Which of these kinds of disorder it is, may be in a great mea.
sure ascertained by reference to the above detail of signs, where
I have mnr]{ed the head under which each symptom comes. But
it may be profitable to place the distinction in a more concentrat.
£'<1 form und<'r the eye of the reader ; the rather as it has au
important bearing on the treatment of each.
Around nnd especially underneath the ~tomach there is a
thickly-meshed network of nerves of organic life (see frcmtispiere
engrat,ing), from which, after infinite subdivisions, myriads of
twigs proceed into the substance of the stomach and endue its
inner or mucous membrane with organic sensibility and secre-
torial power. Intertwined with this network arc nerves from the
spinal cord and brain, whose office is supposed to be the convey-
aoce of sympathy and animal sen~ation to and from tho~e organs
ami the stomach : the quantity of these nerves of communication
varies in indh·iduals. Now, by nen·ou.s indigestion I mean those
symptoms which indicate irritation of the nervous network about
tl1e stomach ; and by mucous indigestion those which point at the
lining membrane of the stomach as the seat of the mischief.
Such a distinction unquestionably exists and influences the treat.
84 MUCOUS AND NERVOUS INDIGESTION.
minute signs which make the line of demarcation still more pro.
nounccd. They are important, inasmuch as they indicate, on
the side of nervous dyspepsia, excessive, irregular functions with
mal-distribution of blood; whilst, on the part of mucous d!J$Pfpsia,
the phenomena point to oppressed function with stagnation and
congestion of blood in important organs: considerations which
must necessarily have much influence on lhP. treatment.
To this TREATl\IENT OF INDIGESTION we at length arrive; in
which we have to refer, as might be expected, to the nervous or
mucous character of the disease. Not that ( would have those
epithets treated, which mean nothing save ns they are represen.
tatives of states of vitality; these are what we have to deal with.
Accordingly, if with mucous disorder there be some of the signs of
nervous irritation, such as the sharp pulse and clean red tongue,
as sometimes happens, this evidence of the irritation in question is
to be met by appropriate measures, notwithstanding the prevail-
ing character of the disorder. Such a complication, though not
unfrequent, is generally temporary, and is traceable for the most
part to some passing mental agitation. So also the addition of
mucous is often, indeed more frequently, made to nervous irrita.
tion, and by repetition at length involves the lining membrane of
the stomach in permanent disorder. In such case there is a third
state of digestive derangement to treat.
The TREAT.l\IENT OF NERVOUS DYSPEPSIA has in view the reduc·
tion of a purely nervous irritation--of a chronic inflammation of
the nerves of the stomach. These last are exquisitely sensi.
tive ; and as all excitements applied to any part of the body are
re-echoed, as it were, at this centre of all nutrition, it behoves
to be very careful as to the means applied. As regards the
stomach itself, therefore, the remedies should be chiefly negative
-the withdrawal of irritating food and beverage. And this kind
of indigestion is more exasperated by the bulk of food than by the
highly nutritious character of it: hence the moderate use of ani-
mal diet is more agreeable to the stomach than the larger quan-
tity of vegetable food that would be required for the good appe·
tite which usually attends this form of the disease. A smaller
bulk of animal food suffices for nutriment, and does not distress
the stomach so much; besides which, the irregular and deficient
ganglionic nervous power causes a bad analysis of the vegetable
diet, which, instead of being converted into healthy chyme, has its
gaseous elements let loose ; and these aid much, but do not stantl
;:\IUCOPS A:.iD NERVOUS INDiliESTIO.:"i. 83
mcnt and the result; but, as may be renJily conceived, wJ1ere
in one case the root· of the nerves, in the other the extremities,
nrc points of disorder, one ofttimes runs into the other, and each
nt nll times more or less affects the other, the nervous irritation
occu iounlly disordering the mucous surface, and the latter, when
oxasp~rnted, involving the whole plexus of nerves, and by the
junction e.xcitillJ a most formidable species of dyspepsia. Such
is the organic ui~tinction ; the functional one will be best express-
ed in thP following parallel table.
NF.R VOUS DY"'PEl'SIA,
Qr,cm·,.; in pcr~ons of vivid nervous
syst«'m; large h~ads an<l active hab-
it ; in wumcn and youth.
The result nf mental shocks, tense
C(lllditiou of lho11~hL CXCC5SCS Of the
pa~ ion::;, llil'rcmy, ioJinc, opium,
lufter tonic,, s.!l volatile, &c. Also
follo\\S on lH~rvotH fcvet=- treated
hu,lly, and on blooJleUing.
In itg course is a~cotnpaniccl with
more nnimal p.1in, spasms, cructa-
tiufl:-;, 11alulcnce, sinking, gnawin~,
great and frl!qucnt, l>ut ollt•n capn-
('lnii S app( lite, di,tn•-..s after eating,
·l•crlat thirst. bu\\ cb JITt•gular, fa·ces
some! imc.-. l>iliuu..;, sometirncs other-
" lSC.
The tongue generally rl.!cl, cl~an, anti
!'lWoJl,·n, or CO\'ercd with a white,
sih'i' I'Y mucns, the lips and gums red
and ~Wl•llen, crelid~ red, skin tlnsh-
t·u in pl.t~·c:-:, "subject to eruptions
and pimple,., tle"h emaciated and
wiry.
Hc,tl ~ness of mind and body, im-
pah•~ncc irascibility, pain, and
gichline~..;, and we.1km•-.s of head.
l'roduces atonic cong~·~tion of head
and gratlnal pahy. Catt~t·s palpi-
t.lti<•n ul' hc;.1rt, stomach cough, and
t\1'11 tuht-rclllar deposit in lun6s.
'l'h~.: liver only irregularly anu for a
ttme im·olred. Pul:tc generally
cptick and :.harp.
.MUCOUS DYSPEPSIA,
Occurs in persons of slow animal
sensations, medium heads, steady
minds ; in middle age.
The result ofsedental'y habits, study,
excesses of diet, especially eating,
saline pur~atives, arsenic, and other
mineral tonics.
!11 it~ courc:;e begets scarcely any
animal sensations, is accompanied
by little flatulence, much rising of
food, deficient appetite, great thirst,
bowels torpid, evacuatious white.
Tongue flabby, covered with color-
ed fur, red <'dges and points appear-
ing at the sidl·s and centre of 1t, lips
marbled or like yellowish wax, eye-
lids tbc same, skin like parchment,
body turgid with unhealthy fat.
Tendency to somnolency and inac-
tivity of body, irresolution and de-
pression of spirits; dull pain with
confusion of head. Produces apo-
plectic seizure and sudden palsy.
Excites but little morbid sympa-
thies in the chest, but is :!enerallv
allied with considerable disorder oi·
the liver. Pulse generally dull-
hard, and. comparatively slo'''·
These will suffice to mark the pathological differences between
the two states of dyspepsia; nlthough there are other more
TP.EATl\JENT OF NERVOUS INDIGESTION. 85
alone in producing the flatulent distension sa distressingly promi.
neut as a symptou1. llut it must not be supposed that concentrated
nnill)al di t i:s herebv laiJ down a;; the invariable rule of diet. Of
ol
a] I the fiJI'rns of indigestion the nerrous requires the most accu.
rnte adaptation of c.liet to the Protean changes of the functions-
changes which no writing could convey to the reader. In these
rctnarks I only pretend to give the leading indications of dietetic
manngemcnt; professional experience alone can detect the causes
for its daily or· weekly alteration.
For a similar reason with that above given-namely, the irri·
table aJICl feeble state of the organic nerves of the stomach, liquids
of a high tcn1peratur·e are very prejudicial in nervous dyspepsia;
altl1ough fo1· the purpose of quieting some symptom, flatulence,
~JlaSitto(lic pain, sinking or gnawing, recourse is usually had to
Jw hottPst tea or other vegetable infusion, sometimes to hot water
alone. This destructive practice inveterates the irritability of
the ~tomach, and relaxes its powers to such an extent, that many
pnticnts coming to Malvern are utterly unable to take food with-
out hot water, and the introduction of the smallest quantity of
cold water brings on acute spasm of the stomach. Hence, it \vill
be ft)llnd that the part of the water treatment which consists in
(lrinh:ing cold water requires in many instances to be withheld
iiJr a time, or· to Le very gradually applied, the patient taking
only a winPglassfull at one time; and even this I ha\'e been
obliged to prescribe at a tempPrature not lower than 550. In
proportion as the positive remedies produce a sedative effect on
the stomach, the quantity of water may be increased and its tern.
perature dccrcasec.l.
Tl10st.: po~itivc mcasur~s should have, for aim, the reduction of
local il'ritntion by local remedies, and the establishment of a
countemcting irritative process in some organs distant from the
~tomach.
The first of these is effected by fomentations with hot water
over the pit of the stomach, once or twice a day, from half an
hour to an hour and a half, according to the condition of the
pulse, u strong one justifying more fomentation than a weak one.
The temperature of the water varies with the intensity of the
symptoms ; the more acute the painful ones, spasm, distension,
&c., the ncnrer to the boiling point should the water be. During
the fomentation the ~tomach will bear cold water more patiently,
and, accordingly, it should be then given in frequent sips. In
8G TREATl\IE.NT OF NERVOV::i I~DIGESTION.
the intervals between the fomentations, a compress should be
worn on the stomach, wrung out of warm or cold water, accord.
ing to circumstances.* \Vhere the animal heat suffices, the com·
press should be cold, and frequently wrung afresh.
Anothea· aim, the establishment of a counteracting irritative
process in some organ distant from the 8tomach, is compassed by
wet-sheet packing, rubbing with the dripping sheet, long sitz
baths, and foot baths; the two former inducing the blood towards
the skin, the sitz baths deriving towards the lower organs of di-
gestion from the upper, and the foot baths acting in a more tran-
sitory way as derivatives and stimulants to the abdominal con.
gestion. And it should be kept in mind, that the object is to
produce a counteraction, resembling as nearly as possible in its
character that which it is intended to remove-namely, a nervous
irritation. For instance, it is not desired to produce a suppura.
tive congestion of the skin,-such as would generate boils,-but
that amount of cutaneous irritation which is exhibited in a rash
or itchy eruption. A good deal of friction is therefore desirable,
and thence the use of the dripping-sheet is mostly preferable to
the shallow bath, the rather if the patient is much shattered.
Nor ~hould it be employed after the packing-sheet only, but the
skin should be excited by it alone, once or twice a day, besides,
it being peculiarly grateful in its results to nervous dyspeptics.
The long sitz baths, besides drawing blood towards the lower
bowels, and creating an irritation there, also excite the nervous
irritation of the skin of the loins, the itching of which very often
makes the patient forget all his sensations about the stomach.
The foot baths, besides being derivative, afford, by the combined
cold and fl'iction, an amount of nervous stimulation to the centre
of nutrition, which tends to dissipate the congestion of its nerves;
and thus it is that this simple remedy so often brings instant
relief to malaise, or pain of stomach or head.
But it is in the employment of the wet-sheet packing that the
greatest discrimination is required in this nervous malady. Al-
though, in the great majority of cases, It is necessary, yet does
its prolonged use appear to aggravate many of the brain symp-
toms of the disease, the patient becoming more fidgety, hypochon-
driacal, sleepless, and tremulous. It is true, that irritation can.
• To prevent repetition, the circumstances requiring a difference in the
details of treatment will be stated in the third part, which treats of such
details. The rationale of them will also fall into that part.
TREATMENT OF NERVOUS INDIGESTION. 87
not be subdued without lowering the energy of the brain; but
this may be done in a more gradual and less painful way, by
moderating the usc of the sheet; packing, for instance, only
every other day, and using more of the dripping sheet. But
should the signs of its trying the frame too much come on, there
only remains to desist from it altogether for a few days or a week,
to take more f1·equcnt foot-baths, and to diminish the amount of
exercise. Indeed, as regards all the positive means recommend-
ed, the practitioner will find it necessary, from time to time, to
vary the application, suspending some and augmenting others, to
meet the cndJC'ss vagaries of a nervously morbid stomach.
A very nice part of treatment to adjust is the amount of exer-
cise. In the majority of cases, it should be very sparingly used,
because in exercise there is an exertion of the seat of the will,
the brain, and spinal cord, which arc already kept in an irritated
state by the digestive disorder, and whose excitement in the act
of locomotion is, by the strong sympathy between the parts, pre-
judicial to the ncrve>s of the stomach; it, in fact, sends new irri-
tation to a set of nerves already oppressed with a morbid amount
of it. These cases require all the acumen of the p1·actitioner;
for on the question of exercise hinges that of' the amount of
water treatment, much of thn latter demandmg more of the former,
nnd t,ice versa. Nor should he be led away by the locomotive
energy of the patient, for that is for the most part fictitious, and
depends on the unnatural excitement of the brain and spinal cord,
urged in their office by the unnatural irritations propagated
towards them by the digestive nerves. Patients in this state
have, in fnc:t, impulse, not sustainerl energy. They talk, walk,
and eat rapidly, but each has the effect of thickening the spittle,
drying the tongue, anu rendering the pulse sharp, hard, and
rapid. Neither Joes exercise increase appetite in them; it rather
annihilates it.
The rule to determine the amount and kind of exercise in
nervous dyspepsia is to watch the effect of walking on the visce-
ra. If it produces any of the following symptoms, sinking or
dragging at the pit of the stomach, nausea, loss of appetite, thirst,
dryness of mouth, fretid breath, hard, edged pulse, and shrunk
countenance, it will not advance the disease towards cure, but
rather exasperate the nervous congestion at the pit of the stomach;
for it cannot be too often repeated, the digestive organs pay for
the rest of the body; exert what part soever you may, they hav~
88 TREATi\IENT OF NERVOUS l~DJGESTION.
to find the materials fo1· the exertion. Now, nervous indigestion
very rarely bears exertion of the limbs, without some of the nb?ve
signs of its disagreement ; and it is, therefore, generally n?''_ISa-
ble to refrain fi·om much walking, and to lmve recourse to dnvmg,
or, if the weather permits, to sitting in the air, for that is always
necessary. Above all, the patient shouh.l refrain from exertion
immediately befi11'e a meal, and should remain seated for at least
a quarter of an hour previous to eating. Similar reasons forbid
the wasting act of talking, as well as the close application of the
mimi to any one subject, whether it be abstruse or superficial.
This, indeeci, ranks among the frequent causes of nervous dys-
pepsia.
Sleep is very uncertain in the disease, and therefore should, in
my opinion, be caught whenever it can, in dny or night, even
after a meal, if the brain tends towards it. The stomach gains
thereby so much absence of excitement from the waking brain,
which also is recruited. I constantly recommend it to patients,
and never found any but agreeable consequences from it. Tor-
ment is cheated of the time spent in sleep. But, except in the
extreme cases where the brain and spinal cord are seriously com-
promised, and tremors, giddiness, and faintings prevail, early
hours of rising should be observed, nor should breakfast be taken
in bed.
The clothing of nervous dyspeptics must vary with the weather,
until the internal irritation has been subdued to the extent of al-
lowing of better sleep, fewer morbid sen~ations at the pit of the
stomach, and more exercise. Cold damp is the most intolerable
to them ; the east wind is, also, their misery ; and nt periods
when either of these is likely to prevail, silk or some fine woollen
texture shoulcl be worn next the skin. It mu"t be remembered,
that they have a congestion and feebleness of reaction in the in-
ternal o-rgans, and that when external cold is applied continuously,
as the atmosphere is, blood is driven in upon those organs, they
not possessing the organic energy to react and drive it outwardly
again. Dry friction with hair gloves or rough towels is beneficial,
and may be practised either after the baths or at any other time.
It is well adapted for the feet, when, after a foot-bath, walking is
found to be impracticable.
After the.se outlines of t~e treatment of nervous indigestion, I
proceed to 1llustrate both It and the ordinary symptoms of the
disease by a case treated by me at Malvern.
TllEATME~T OF NERVOUS I~DIGESTlO~ • 89
CASE I.-NERVOUS bDIGESTlOY.
In the spring of 1843, a gentleman came to me complaining of. in·
cessant sensations of various kinds in the pit of the stomach: gnawmg,
sinking, &c., but of no actual pain. Pressure there caused no pain, but
almost made him faint. He mistook, as all the world does, these sensa-
tions fur hunger, and was chewing biscuit all the day long, undnr which
diet they flourished and increased. His appetite was good, as ~ny o.ne
would have a11owed \Vho saw him eat his ordinary meals as he dtd, wtth
amazing rapidity. But after its gratification came distress, dist~nsion of
f;tomach, flushing of the face, restlessness, &c., &c., and contmued for
two or three hours. He had a clean, red, tongue, swollen and deeply
split in all directions, a chronic irritation of the tonsils, gums that were
receding from the teeth, and breath hot but not frutid. Bowels irregular
as to time and quality, but, on the whole, rather constipated. 'fhe pulse
was sharp and rapid. The heart often palpitated. He slept exceedingly
badly, his thoughts being rendered most vivid and painful by the vigils.
He bad humming in the ears, and occasional slight obscuration of vision.
Flying pains, stitcl1es and cramps in tl10 ribs, between the shoulder
blades, about the hips and in the fingers, teased him, and gave him no-
tions of rheumatism, scarcely believing that with such an appetite he
could have dyspepsia ! His mind was on the whole irritable, but he had
sometimes fits of depression of several hours' duration, in which he made
no complaint of sensations in the stomach. He could not apply his mind
long to any one subject, but that was more from restlessness than ina-
bility. He could walk any distance, but Joss of appetite, sinking of tho
stomach, and shrunken face, were the consequences. The feet were
constantly cold, and the skin, highly sensitive to cold, often took on tho
~tate called "goose skin." It had, however, too much color aiJout the
head and f<
tce. He had been suffering for more than five years,and not-
withstanding his appetite, had become thinner and softer in fle~h . He
had all the active habits of a mercantile man, and it was the long, uu·
ceasing anxieties of his avocation which gradually sapped his digestive
powers. Of course he had taken all the aperients, tonics, alteratives,
&c., that could be devised. •
\Vhat I did to this patient was as follows :-1 had him fomented for
three-qttarters of an hour every night with \Vater at about 150°. On
rising, he was well rubbed with the cold dripping sheet, the same at noou
and fiver. M. He drank a small tumbler of \•;atcr in sips, whilst dress-
ing in the morning, another in like manner after the noonday rubbing,
again about two hours after dinner, taken at two P. :1'1., and one between
tea-time and bed-time. He wore a cold wrung compress on the bowels
all day, nnd wrung it afresh after each rubbing. He walked half an hour
after each dripping sheet. Cold water, cold toast, and a very little but.
tcr, for breakfast. About five ounces of well-done meat, and some stale
bread, and salt, for dinner ; and the same food as at breakfast for half.
90 TREATMENT OF NERVOUS JNDIGESTION•
past six P. 1\I. After four days of this, he was ~eked in the h~f wet-
sheet every mominu and rubbed with the drippmg sheet after It. All
the rest as before. ~~the course of three weeks, he began to feel weaker,
but more quiet in himself His sleep h~d improved, :]so. He th~n dis.
continued the fomentations, and took a s1tz bath at 60 for twenty mmutes
at noon in place of the dripping sheet. I ordered him more water, espe-
cially b~fore breakfast. The bowels had become more constipated than
beforf!, but although opening very slightly, only every three or four days,
no ~ign of fever appeared. Two weeks of the sitz bath, which had,
meantime, been taken twice a day, made impression on the bowels, which
graduaJly became more free, with a previous degree of flatulence that
was astounding. In the seventh week, he was considerably relaxed in
his locomotive powers, and much preferred rest to movement. But with
all this apparent loss of strength, he was actually, organically, stronger;
his pulse was rounder and soft, and he had no sinking at the stomach.
He now left oft' the morning packing, and took only a cold shallow bath
then, the two sitz baths, cold, in the course of the day, for thirty minutes
each, and two foot-baths of ten minutes each. Under this regime, he
began to regain his alacrity in eight or ten days, when he was suddenly
seized with giddiness, nausea, and tremblings, which in the course of
eighteen honrs terminated in a copious diarrhcca. This continued for
four days with varied intensity, the appetite remaining good all the time,
and the nervous system quiet. This internal crisis took away some of
the more distressing symptoms, the flushing of the faceo, the palpitation,
the cramps about the hips, and it increased the warmth of the feet.
During ils continuance, the patient ceased to take the sitz baths, but
made no other change in this treatment. During the previous fortnight,
also, I had improved his diet by a greater quantity of animal food, and
simultaneously with that had increased the amouut of exercise. Every
now and then there would appear some sharpness of the pulse and heat
of throat, against which I employed a single wet-sheet packing, which
Jle\·er failed to reduce the reviving irritation.
Circumstances obliged this patient to lea,·e l\Ial\'(~rn in the eleventh
weelt of his sojourn. He left it with this gain-better sleep, quieter
nencs when awake, spasmodic sen~ations of the ~tomach and limbs gone,
bowels regular, pulse larger, breathing deeper awl longer, palpitations
gone, flesh firmer and fu1ler. But he was sti!l f:tr from well, for his sto-
mach was very touchy; under the greatest care of his food, there still
remained ~orne feeling of distension and signs of flatulence after it, and
then, too, he did not feel so quiet as he had done before the meal. How-
ever, I gave him full directions how to proceed, desiring him to pack
once a ~·eek, take the cold shallow bath for two minutes every morning,
a cold flttz bath for half an hour once daily, to wear the stomach com-
pres~, and to dri~k six tu~blers of wat£'r daily. HP continued this plan,
n.s well as a stnngcnt d1ct I prescribed, for four or five months after
quitting Malvern, corresponding with me meanwhile, and at length
TREATMENT vt:' MUCOUS tND1GESTJ01(.
gained his end in the restoration of a stomach and nerves which were
conducting him, with unerring certainty, to the dangers of brain con-
gestion and palsy, or to the horrors of hypochondriasis.
Cases of the above kind are very common in persons of
business, and of active and anxious minds-a large class in
English society. The usual mode of treatment is to add fuel to
the fire at the stomach, in the shape of tonic and alterative medica-
tion and stimulating diet. Yet it is not the less true that the
pati£'nt must be made apparently weaker in order to be made
absolutely stronger. That irritation of the stomach nerves which
disorders the brain, now causing violent impulsive and fictitious
energy, and again tremblings, must be reduced, and this done, the
brain loses its old irritant, and returns to what it really is, a very
weak, disabled brain, sending a very small amount of sustained
energy to the limb~. This lowering part of the process is effected
hy the fomentations, wet-sheet packing, and diet, which, while
they seem to enfeeble the brain, relieve the viscera from oppression,
and enable them to act more forcibly and healthily. Hence my
saying that the patient is "absolutely stronger," though "appa-
rently weaker;" real strength is to be found in the healthy viscera
alone.
The building up in such a case as the above is a very nice
process, so small is the irritation that is capable of arousing the
old mischief again. With all the care possible, some of it will
return, as the .reader observes, in the necessity for occasional wet-
8beet packing far on in the treatment. The tonic effects of the
water-cure require to be temp::-red ever and anon by its anti-
phlogistic parts, when it has to deal with such a malady as nervous
dyspepsia, and this is one reason wherefore so much time is re-
quired to overcome it. And it is the great reason wherefore the
ordinary medication and diet fail to overcome it at all ; their
etfect:; are wholly irritating. For the rest, six months is a
sufficiently short period to conquer so slippery an antagonist as a
morbidly ncntous stomach, which has generally endured for more
than as many years, and I will caution the reader against recorded
cases of the disease cured in five or six weeks. Such cases never
have occura·ed, and never will occur, save in the advertisements
and pamphlets of charlatan writers.
1 now pass on to the TREATMENT OF Mucous DYsPEPSIA. At
an early stage, not long after it has deserved the epithet "chronic,"
9J TREAT:dENT OF 1\IUCOUS INDIGESTION.
h d. · b t ...rrcd by moderate wet-sheet packing-that
t e tsease IS es mun..o .
is, every other morning; the cold shullow bat~ eve~y .mornmg;
· · b tl f llalf' a11 hour twice a day, wtth frtctlon of the
s1ttmg a 1s o
abdomen during the last ten mi?~tes of each; and abundant
ddnkinrr of water. But the practitioner of the water.cure must
not cxp~ct such easy cases. He ~,·il~ fin~ those only seck his aid
who have had the simple acute mdtgcstiOn exasperated by bad
treatment and by continued excesses, until the former has ceased
from shC'er exhaustion of the means, and the latter from the sheer
impossibility of committing any more, the jaded stomach revolting
against everything ofllired to it. In the great majority of the
cases which I have seen here, the gastric mucous membrane gave
evidence by the tongue of utter loss of tone, with great perversion
and sometimes suppression of the mucous secretion. The want
of appetite and the deficiency of biliary and frecal secretions also
pointed to the oppressed and obstructed function of the digestive
nerves generally. Nor do the brain phenomena lead to any other
conclusion, for there we behold depression and stupor of mind,
irresolution and loss of volition, dull, heavy pain, and dulled
s~nscs. The skin, too, partakes of the same inactivity, and is
bloodless, harsh, inelastic, and altogether obstructed in its per-
spiratory office. In addition to all which, it will be found that
the patient is of rather a slow than a vivid temperament of body,
has a slow pulse, slow movements, and but a small degree of
mental vivacity.
Taking these facts into consideration, the indications of cure
ar~, to remove obstruction of function, and to give tone. Before
prescribing, with a view to the former, it is necessary to ascertain
well whether there be no lingering of active irritation in the diges-
tive organs, or no commixture of nervous disorder with the mucous.
Reference to the subject of nervous dyspepsia will show how this
is to be ascertainP.d. If such is found to Le the case, it forms a
third indication, and the first to be attended to. This is done by
the daily usc of the wet-sheet packing, and, perhaps, of nightly
fomentation too. 'Vhen by these means the pulse has lost all
sharpness, and pain and gnawing of the pit of the stomach, &c.,
arc reduced, we proceed to remove the obstruction to the function
of the mucous membrane. This is done by rousin(J' the outer
m~cous met~brane, the skin, to re-assume its office by bringing
to 1t a quant1~y of blood-of blood whose excess is oppressing the
office of the mternal mucous membrane. The sweating process
TREATME:'<fT OF MUCOUS INDIGESTIO:-l. 93
is one of the means employed for this purpose, with the cola
shallow bath for three or four minutes after it, so as to produce a
vehement revulsion to the skin. Sweating should be used every
day or every second day, according to the effects of pain or palpita-
tion it produces in the head and heart, and it may be done either
before breakfast or a couple of hours after it. As the object is not
to lose a quantity of perspiratm·y fluid, but to draw blood to the sur-
face, the patient may go into the cold hath when the moisture has
been on the skin eight or ten minutes. Twice in the day he
should take a cold sitz bath for thirty minutes. And after the
bowels have been brought into action, the douche may take the
place of one of the sitz baths. At this point, also, the sweating
may be relaxed for a period. But as the effect of the sweating
and douching is to rouse the system to extraordinary efforts, it may
be well now and then to take a wet-sheet packing, in onJer to
obviate the generation of constitutional irritation, into which those
efforts may run. To further them, the patient, during the above
treatment, should drink water copiously-that is, from seven to
ten tumblers daily, by which he both quickens the chemica-vital
changes of the body, and dilutes the morbid secretions of a di:reased
membrane. Indeed, water-drinking is a very important part of
the treatment of mucous dyspepsia, in which the mass of the
blood is always more or less diseased, as a consequence of bad
gastric juice and imperfect digestion, not to mention the drugs
that have been absorbed into it during years, and taint its
current.
Meantime, this copious water-drinking and these long sitz
baths demand a good amount of exercise to promote the absorp-
tion of the one, and to produce reaction after the latter. And in
this form of dyspepsia walking should be practised for an hour or
more before each meal, and may be beneficially varied by horse
exercise. Sedentary, silent, and idle practices are most preju-
dicial here. Even in the house, the mind of the patient should
be occupied with conversation, games that interest without
stretching the attention, and books of fancy rather than philoso-
phy.
The diet must be regulated by the amount of appetite, espe-
cially at the outset of the treatment, when it is, for the most part,
very deficient, and is even replaced by loathing of food. It would
be absurd, in such case, to put strong food, or much of any kind
of aliment into the stomach, when there is neither muscular
94 TREATMENT OF MUCOUS INDIGESTION.
movement enough to aid in, nor hcalth_y gastric juice to ?ffect, ita
diaestion. It is better to withdraw ammal food for a time, and
gi~e the patient farinaceous and milk di~t, .for _milk generally
n(J'rccs in mucous, but seldom in nervous mdJgestiOn. The same
objection to hot liquids which obtains i•.• n~rvous, applies to mu.
cous irritation of the stomach, though hquu]s generally are more
udmi...5 ible here than in the former instance. But as this implies a
low derrrec of nutrition, so, while such diet is in usc, modification
c
must Le made in the rule for exercise just propounded. During the
first week or two oftrentmcnt, small diet and short exercise must go
together. At the end of that tune, the appetite very rarely fail:i
to appear; and then is the period to make a gradual improvement
of the quality of the food, giving white m~at every other day,
then red meat in the same manner, and by degrees, as more ex.
crcisc, more air, and more water treatment are quicl(ening the
waste and inducing appetite, allowing meat once daily, and aug.
menting the quantity of it. Details of these general directions
must be regulated by the practitioner according to the fluctuating
vitality of the patient; he is a very coarse manager of disease
who gives a diet table, and leaves the patient to it through all the
varying circumstances of a bodily frame under potent medical
treatment-treatment which is daily and hourly effecting changes
in that frame. But in any case, the quantity of food should be
lmpt under, particularly as in mucous dyspepsia the sympathy
with the brain is great, and the circulation of blood there tending
to fulness. In fact, chronic mucous dyspepsia is the great parent
of apoplexy.
\Vhen stronger food and more exercise are taken, the clothing
should be decreased, and flannel underclothes dispensed with. In
a few cases, cotton drawers and waistcoats may take the place
of flannel, if it be the winter : but if warm weather is expected,
it is better to give up both. This lifeless skin must receive all
the stimulus which air as well as water can afford to it, and it
must be made to perform its full share of the functional changes
which constitute life, and which, in this kind of dyspepsia, are
almost wholly performed by the wearied and congested internal
skin, the delicate and highly sympathizing mucous membrane of
the stomach.
The following case is in exemplification of what precedes:
TREA.TMENT OF MUCOUS INDIGESTION. 95
CASE H.-Mucous INDIGESTION.
A gentleman, thirty-nine years of age, after masking acute attacks of
indigestion for years by the usual means of a mercurial and a purgative,
and indulging freely, meanwhile, in the causes of it, namely, good lunch-
eons and dinners, and bad hours, at last came to a stand still from sheer
loathing of food. 'fhe most potent condiments would sometimes enable
him to get down a small quantity of meat, or a larger quantity of scald-
ing soup: but spite of these and of innumerable tonics, vegetable and
mineral, be went from bad to worse, slept incessantly, but with horrid
dreams, was either listlesf,J or irritable, when awake, complained of dull
headache, thirst, and bad mouth, became corpulent in the body, puffy in
the face, emaciated in the limbs, and dirty-skinned all over. The kid·
ncys acted little, the bowels less, and the skin not at all. No exercise,
no medicine could make him sweat, and he expressed his total disbelief
in my power to produce it. His pale gums, red aud yellow tongue, and
almost bloodless lips, showed the stoppage of blood-making, and the con-
centration of what blood there was in the internal parts. As usual, he
had taken infinite mercury in different forms, and tonics of all kindt"O after
the establishment of the chronic disease, and it was the alarming effect
of one of these, iron, in the shape of chalybeate water, on the head,
which alanned him, and induced him to try the water treatment as a
tonic without medicine. In fact, the tendency which this kind of dys-
pepsia has to cause apoplectic fulness, was fearfully aggravated by the
iron water ; which had been prescribed because the patient ga\'e signs
of deficient blood-as if iron without digested food could supply it!
For the first five or six days I restricted the treatment of this patient
to rubbing with the cold dripping sheet, morning, noon, and evening,
one or two foot-baths daily, six or seven tumblers of water, the compress
on the bowels. about three hours' walking. I allowed him to eat what
he could, within the limits of plainly cooked fresh meat and farinaceous
matter: but he got no hot or alcoholic liquid. My object was to accus..
tom his skin to the shocks of cold, and by the friction and exercise in-
duce some circulation and development of heat in it. When I thought
this was sufficiently attained, I had him packed with a damp towel in
front of the body every morning, followed by the dripping sheet.: which
last was repeated as before in the day. As he warmed the towel well, I
entered upon another phase of the treatment, the reduction of the inter-
nal irritation. Hi~ food was made entirely farinaceous, and if there
was no appetite for that, he took none. As a consequence of this diet,
exercise was forbidden, except for a short space after each bath. He
now went on from the towel packing, to the partial, and then the entire
sheet packing, at first once, and then twice a day; in which he gradu-
ally warmed more and more quickly. After thrt:-e or four and twenty
days of this, his sensations were much improved: he had mvre elasticity
and less somnolence. His tongue, though more moist, was even more
96 TREATl\tE:'lT OF 1\IUCOUS lN DIGESTION •
furred than before; but his appetite was improved,-not so his diet. At
the end of the fourth week, however, this cheering prospect was over-
} d d. frequently recurring nausea and bitter riF-ingR troubled him:
c ou e , '-l · r. •
the water he drank rose into his mouth: he felt feeu e, sometames &&lDt;
yet his appetite remained through all this, not great, but better than for
many month~ before: the bowel:; were more. obstinate than ever, and the
e\·acuations ahno::)t totally colorless. All thae; told me that the procef.s
of reducing the irritation had gone far enough, and that the digestive
organs were making an effort to throw their miRchief _on Rome other or-
rrans, which effort made the present tumult of sensations. Now, there-
fore, was the time to aid those efforts by the sweating process,-by
inducing a transfer to the skin. I therefore sweated him, and this was
effected in three hours, notwithstanding his defiance to the contrary.
Three successive days of it seemed to free the liver from irritation, for
the bowels opened, and bile began to appear in the evacuations. He
also took two sitz baths daily, of half an hour each: wore the compress:
drank eight or ten tumblers of water. The appearance of bile induced
me to give him a small quantity of meat every other day ; and with this
augmentation of food, to augment the amount of exercise. This treat-
ment did very well for a week: at which time it seemed to tax the head
somewhat, wherefore the sweating was discontinued for two or three
days. Again, after its daily resumption for five or @ix days, the head
Eiuffered: and l therefore had him sweated and packed in the wet sheet
alternate days, the latter being intended to modify the exciting effect of
the former. Under this plan he got on admirably; the bowels acted
every second day; the tongue cleaned gradually from the tip backwards
(an excellent sign-much better than when it suddenly cleans all over) ;
thr. strength improved, as did also the appetite, which was soon gratified
with a small quantity of meat daily ; coincident with which he was told
to take as much walking exercise as he could. During all this time the
color of the skin had been steadily improving, whilst the bulk of the pa·
tient had been rapidly decreasing-in fact he had grown thin: be had
lost a quantity of puffy, diseased flesh, and was gaining some useful
muE'cle and healthy nen·ous matter. He was not, however, without bad
days. when nausea would prevail, and even end in biHous vomiting: but
this never lasted beyond the day, and was an indir.atinn of the continued
efforts of the internal organs to rid themselves of their irritation. Ner·
vous headache would sometimes occur too, which a foot bath took off.
So the patient went on until nine weeks had elapsed. I then allowed
his system to rest for a week, gi\ing him only a shallow bath in the
morning. Three weeks after he had resumed it, and when the bowels
were in perfect order every day, he took the douche at noon, one sitz
bath of fif~en minutes in the afternoon, the cold shallow bath for three
or four minutes.every ~orning, and the sweating only twice a week, the
wet-sheet packmg bemg ~!together discontinued. The object of this
~lan was to produce the thard, or tonic effect, after the reduction of irri-
TREATMENT OF MUCOUS INDIGESTION· 97
tation. In the fifteenth week of treatment, after a few hours of malaise,
a small boil made its appearance in the fleshy part of the loins and grew
to a good sized one in four nr five dayl'l, but with no constitutional dis-
turbance, though with a good J~>a) of incomrenience in movement. Ap-
petite nntl all the funt;tion5 went on w_ell the whole time of this boil,
\•;hich suppuratc•cl, d1schargcd, and after a fortnight dried up. Immedi-
ately after this the ratieut left me, and a.t IJis home only took t11~ morn-
ing Hhallow hath, and fi\'C or six tumblers of water daily. Ne\crthdcss
he had, from time to time during the following four months, a boil occur-
ring in diflercnt parts of the body, which teased him for a few days by
impeding some mO\·ement, but the inflammation of which was cfl'cctnally
prerented from being excessive by the application of wet cloths to it.
Altogether this patient was under my immediate care eighteen weeks,
and the action of the treatment remained more or less for four months
afterwnrdH: so that I look upon this case as under trcatmeut for eight
months. He had been more than that number of years getting worse.
The above cusc pre~cnts a more complicated and a more seri-
ous :;tatP of clisorcloa
· than the preceuing one, ami, in fi.1ct, mucous
<lyspepsiu is always a more unngerous malady than the nervous
form, which, howeYcr, is usually more tedious ami rec1uires more
nicety of tmatmcnt. In mucous indigestion there is first of all an
infiammatiou of the lining membrane of the stomach to subdue,
1owards which fulllf!ntations nnd the wet sheet arc uia·ected; then
thel'e is blood to be made to nourish t:~e exhausted body, particularly
its cxta·cruities uud sl\in7 and the appetite, whic.:h grows as the in-
ilamrnatiuu dimini!jhcs, cni--cts this, aided uy the copious takiug
uf colcJ watcJ'; and lastly, but simultaneously with the formation
of blood. there is the necessity for directing it towards the exterior,
so ns to pn·vent it:--~ conge:;;tion in the vet·y internal organs which
it is the aim to r1 liev<', an(l this the sweating and douche tend to
cffi ct. So that it will be seen how complicated the indications
of treatment are in such cases, and how much patience, both on
the part of the patient and physician, is nccessat·y for cure. You
may give fictitious, temporary appetite, by bitters, &c.; you may
St>nd blood to the surface for a period with various stimulants, but
you can neither maintain appetite until you ha\·e got rid of mu-
cous inflammation, nor keep blood on the surface until you have
mncle it, nnd directed it thither, and these two ends can only be
fulfilled by the hygienic means of the water treatment. But
another feature of these cases which requires much judgment to
detect and manage, is the tendency towards fulness of the head,
6
98 TREA.Tl\lENT OF MUCOUS INDIGESTI•)N.
in proportion as he finds the predominance of which, the physi-
cian must relax his measures, the sweating more particularly.
The liver, too, is gc·nerally gorged, if not more dePply involved;
but the sweating is most powerful in relieving that condition. Of
course, if there be signs of ~of1ening or any other organic change
of the brain, m· permanent hardening, or enlargement of the liver,
the case is not one for treatment, except, in the latter event, for
mere palliation; when the brain is organically affected, it is dan-
gerous to meddle with any treatment.
Nervous dy::-pcp~ia very often generates mucous dyspepsia, ju~t
as, in the che:-:t, nervous asthma, by constantly irritating the 1ungs,
and bringiug them iuto excessive and irregular play, gives ri::.c to
inflammation of the air tubes and mucous Ol' humid asthma. Even
whilst the nervous ~tate alone predominate~, the mucous lining
undergoes sudden changes of secretion indicative of very irregu-
lar circulation of blood in it; and the occa:s10nal dryness, thirst,
and foulness of the mouth point to passing inill4mmatory conges-
tion in that men1brane. Repeatell through months or years, and
exasperated by indiscreet gratification of the appetite which gene.
rally attends ncrYous intligcstion, this conge~tion !.>~comes more and
more permanent and intense, until a condition including the
symptoms of both kinlls of indigestion is establi:;hcd, and renders
the life of the patient a scene of continual ~uffel'ing. Into t;w
details of the signs of this combination it is unnc·ccs:"'nry to enter
after what hns been said of its two clements. Many dyRpeptics
appear at .Malvcm with this miserable colllplivation, which, from
the histories thc>y give of themseh·es, is wost conuuonly the result
of neglected diet and excessive medication-facts, fur the most
part, connected, the medicine sweeping away the evils of the
feeding, and both plunging the stomach iato more iri'CmcdiaLle
disorder. However, there are ,·cu·icties of intensity, and the ma-
jority can walk about and occupy themselves in Home way or
other. But the following is a case of the most extraordinary
character; and the result is not a little extraordinary also. It is
one of the most striking illustrations of the powc1· of the water
cure in stomach disorders, and the subject of it, who has taken up
her permanent residence at :
Malvern, is delighted o.t any opportu-
nity of testifying to others the resurrection of all her nutritive,
moving, and thinking powers, which she owes to tho.t mode of
treatment.
COMBINATION OF NERVOUS AND MUCOUS INDIGESTION. 99
§ 3. Co~IBINATIO~ OI-' NERvous AND Mucous DYsPEPSIA..
CASE Ill.
ln 1818, P. S-, a member of the Society of Friend~, who was then
in her nineteenth year, after suffering many dyspeptic symptoms of a
minor kind, wa.s attaeked with vomiting of no ordinary character. It
was not a mere rejection of food, but a straiuing until the face and
longue became purple. Neither was it an occurrence of any particular
part of the day ; it was at times nearly ince::;sant, and at least five or
six times a d1Ly. She has been a::; long as eleven days continually with
a ua~in ncar to her head, l"O preFsing and tmecaging was the sickness,
during which time she took no food whatc\'C'f. In this and in many
other attacks of similar inten~ity, she was under the necessity of taking
sustenance uy iujections of broth, &c., so utterly incapable was the
stomach of retaining anything. This state continued from 1818 to
1833. Throughout the whole of these fifteen years very few days pass-
ed without the sickness. On one occasion only, it failed to come on
for nine consecutive days, and on two or three other occasions she got
over five days without it. It was not so constant and bad in the first
year or tw(l, but gt)t very rapidly to its worst degree. The prostration
induced by thi::~ vomiting and incapability of retaining food obliged her
to 1
·emain in hell always; day and night for fifteen lo11g years she kept
her bed-u·as nercr dressed duri11g that time. All manner of medicines
were administered, but with no good result. All kinds of diet were
also tried to no purpose. At first it was very low, and after a time this
was abandoned, and she was made to swallow meat three and four times
a day, with brandy, wine, &c. Her appetite was capricious.
At length, in the early part of 1833, the vomiting relaxed in degree
and continuance without any appreciable cause, and for six months ~be
was comparatively free from it. At the latter end of the year it re-
turned, and grew gradually worse, until it was as bad as ever, and con-
tinued so until July, 1843, when I first saw her. Of these last ten years
she was compelled to remain altogether in bed two years and a half,
the rest of the time was spent between the bed and the sofa; she never
put her feet to the ground. During the whole of the above period, the
bowels had inclined to relaxation rather than constipation.
So far for the previous history of this extraordinary case, which I
have given in almost the very words in which she delivered it to me.
Being in Birmingham on professional business in July, 1843, I was re-
quested by one of my patients there to call on P. S-, who, with
considerable hesitation, had agreed that I should do so. She had every
possible prejudice against the water treatment, had long given up hope
of alleviation, not to speak of restoration, and was infinitely distressed
at the prospect of beholding another doctor who could do her no good.
Strange to say, however, before I had been half an hour with her she
100 COMBINATWN OF NERVOUS AMU !llUCOUS INDIGESTION.
consented to reach l\fnh·ern in some way or otl,C'r-a resolution so un-
expected by herself. !'O oppo~ed t.o a1l that she h~tl. been told to dread
from the water cure, and :-;o unl1kcly at the fir:-t nsat of a strange phy-
F:iciln. tim~ she eyer l'ince declares it, looking to the C\'Cnt, to be a
spe"mi hterro ition of Pro\·idence for her reco,·ery.
,,.it:1in a week after this intcr\"icw, P. S. reached Mah·em. I shall
not enter into the detail of symptoms; she had eYcry bart flymptom
that coulu be drawn from either kind of dyl'pepsia. Two of them de-
l':-Crrc mention. The tongue was enormously swollen, fiery red at the
tip and edges, and coYered with a thick brown fur-signs highly indica-
tive of the complicated character of the malady. So great wa~ the
sensibility of the pit of the stomach, and, indeed, of the whole abdomen,
that passing the hand over it at the distance of two inches, produced
convul~ion of the whole surface and vomiting. This will give some
idea of the intense irritation which must have exi~;ted in the network of
ganglionic nerves within.
I began the treatment with hot fomentations on the abdomen for two
hours night and morning, a light compress over the same part being
worn in the interval!'. Her food was confined to a wine-glass of barley-
water, and the same quantity of cold wnter at alternate two hours. The
vomiting dimini::;llCd in frequency e\·en under this partial trcalmcnt.
At the end of three or four days, I packed her in a wet sheet for half
an hour, and immediately on coming ont of it, in another one for three
quarters of an hour, sponging with cold water being used after them.
'l'he eficct on the nervous Rystcm was immediate; she declared she l1ad
uot known such calmnc~s for thirty ye:1rs. ~he was packed in this
uouble manner again in the middle of the day, and a third time in the
evening, making six wet sheets and three ablutions iu the day. She
was fomented for an hour at night, and \\'ore a compress on the stomach
day and night. 'l'he food was gradually advanced in quantity, but still
limited to barley-water, arrow-root water, and gruel. 'rhe quantity of
water was also gradually advanced, until at the end of three weeks she
was able to take four or fh·e tumblers daily. By the end if those th1'ce
weeks, the t·omiting had ceased, and has nerer 1'Clurned for one second
of lime since, now two years and a half. I must here remind the reader,
that for twcnty-fiye years this vomiting had been nearly incessant. I
must further remind him that "air and exercise," which are said by
the opponents of the water treatment to do all, and the water, in its
various applicationf;, nothing, in that treatment, had no room for opera-
tion here, the patient having been in bed the whole of the three week~,
during which the same number of wet sheets was continued, and the
whole treatment persisted in, except that the fomentations were discon-
tinued at the end of the second week. The wet sheet was the principal
agent in this wondeful change.
But broken as she was by long illness, the blood and nervous energy,
and muscles of the body exhausted, the restoration of the locomotive
COMBINATION OF NERVOUS LND ftiUCOUS INDIGESTION. 101
power might be expected to be a very forlorn hope. Yet so admirably
did the wet sheeting and cold shallow baths (for !'he was soon able to
take these) act in bringing the stomach into better digc::,tivc order, and
tlmlo> in forming nntritirc blood for the ncrYcs and muscle:;:, that at the
cud of two months :5hc was able to walk three hundred yard!!, and be-
twc,•n the third nnd fourth month ftom her commpncemPnl ofthe treatment,
sl1e 1wlkcd a few yard.o; Mnrc than a mile rifgentle descent, rested an hour,
and u:a!ketlthe same, ascending, back again. Here, again, let the reader
rccal that this patient had, for twenty-five years, been unable to walk,
had pa"-sed the whole of that time in the bed and on the sofa. To bring
her to this power of walking, I had, of course, taken advantage of the
augmented power of cli~estion, and had given her gradually increased
quantities of chicken, mutton, bread, and a small qmmtity of butter;
this was the whole of her aliment. Under its operation and that of the
active treatment, the tongue gradually threw off its brown coating; this
was the first change, and it showed that the mucous irritation was the
fir:;t to dimini:-.h, as it generally does; for the diminution of the swelling
and redness of the tongue, the indications of nervous disorder, remained
long after the fur had disappeared, as did, also, the exqui:sitc tenderness
of the pit of the stomach, another nen·ous symptom.
It is ne,...dless to dwell on the prolonged treatment of this case. Suffice
it to state, that the wet sheet, the chief agent, was increased or dimin-
ished in frequency with the exasperation or lulling of the internal irrita-
tion, that the cold shallow bath was in daily requi:;ition, that the cold
sitz bath was taken as a tonic twice a day, and that she drank from
eight to tt'n tumblers of water daily. This continued for a. year, with
various degrees of assiduity; but long before that time J1ad expired, P.
S. was one of the most peripatetic persons in 1\la.h·crn, walking from
three to four miles with ease. She bas neyer ':looked back," but has
gone on from good to better. Lately she has been visiting near Bir-
mingham, has gone ont to dinner pa1tics, kept the hours of the bous£-,
nnd came back protesting she nc\·er was so well in all her lifo.
Now, had I never seen but this one case illustrative of what
the water treatment can do, I should have considered it very
good ground for reliance on that plan of treatment in diseases of
this class. A more intense dcgt·ee or mucous and nervous irri.
tation of the stomach it would be difficult to meet with, and this
wns further shown by its effects on the animal nervous system
which, for twenty-five years, had been almost entirely paralyzed
by the excessive irritation radiating fi·om the stomach. I con-
fess that, armed only with the old mode of practice, I could have
done nothing with such a case, and no wonder, when so many
leading men, both of the metropolis and the provinces, hnrl failed
in the attempt to do something.
102 NERVOUS AND 1\lt:COUS DYSPEPSIA.
But this is only one of very many instances which I could give
of the extraordinary results of the water treatment in this compli-
cated form of indigestion, in which I regard it ns all but infalJible.
In the case just given, the eflcct upon the brain and spinnl cord
was determined nncl great; but this is not necessary; the stomach
irritation rnny play chiefly on the nerves which are given out
from the spine to the scalp, the trunk and the limbs; whilst the
stomach it:->clf may be the seat of phenomena in many respects
ditlcrent from, but scarcely less intense than those detailed in the
last case, althou(J'h rccoanizinO' the same morbid condition of the
n o o
mucous and nervous tissues of the digestive organs. The follow-
ing case will show this, and it will also show how such frightful
amount of mischief is genm·ated.
CAsE IV.-NEnvous AND l\lucous DYsPEPSIA.
The lady whogc case I now give is at present twenty-nine years of age.
Being at boarding-school in this country, in her sixteenth year, she had,
as girls during the growing age often have, a sJight stomach disorder, an
ordinary passing dy:-;pepsia. She was inordinately dosed with medicine
for it; upon which headache commenced, with pain in the right side.
This lal't was trcatetl as liver disease, and enormous and incessant doses
of calomel were adrnini::;tered in combination with strong purgatives:
blisters were applic«.l over and o\·er again to the right side, and kept open
with tartar emetic cerate; and mercurial ointment was rubbed into the
::;ide. The headaches, which were di8tracting, and came on after eating
meat or after IJcing in a hot or crowded room, were treated by bleeding
from the arm, which operation was performed twice iu one year, the
eighteenth of he1· ag('. Treatment on this plan ltas pU7·sued during four
years that she remained at school! long before the cud of which time the
Fimplc indigestion had been converted into an irwetera.te chronic one, as
may readily be conceived. Could the blindness of ignorance, could the
infatuation of drugging go beyond this? The sequel will show tl!at it
could.
She left the Rchool with confirmed chronic dyspepsia, liable to blaze
into an acute form 0n the smallest provocati\'e. Being a girl of great
natural l'-pirit, her auima.l nervous sy~tcm was not rendered incapable of
its fnuction:-;, notwith:standing the irritation that had been deeply lixed in
her organic nen·cs. She went to Torqnay. took purgatives>which had now
become necet":-ary li>r her: and gentle exercise. In an evil hour, on a :.--light
increase of t!.e dyspeptic symptoms: the doetor wa:-t ::-;cnt for. Drugging,
more violent than C'. cr, began: every ~pccies of medicine was tried on
her unfortunate Etomach, and aH in the ~tmngest doses ; until after eight
months of this dc::;tl ucth·c proce~:.:, the medical attendant declared " he
could do nnthiug more, for he had gone through the entire Pharmacopreia:"
NERVOUS AND MUCOUS DYSPEPSIA.. 103
the ipsissima rerba of this candid confession !-a confession, too, made
to one who came from his hands much worse than when she came into
them! the absurd part of this treatment (a stronger epithet applies to the
treatment generally) is th:tt, whilst this monstrous array of irritants was
being applied to the ~tomach, the diet was brought to the lowest sustain-
ing point. les£ tileJood s1
wtlld irritate the stomach!
After tl1i;) as:-ur:mce of having swa1lowed the whole Pharmacopreia,
the lady's parPnt had faith enough to try the circle again, and the patient
was taken to Leamington. There the diet was reversed, and was ordered
to he highly anirnali;;:cd and concentrated. The strongest preparations
ot iron and powerful mineral acids, as well as other tonics, both mineral
ami vegetable, "ere givcn, to cure a stomach in the depths of inflamma-
tory action! But i [ the purgatives of 'forquay had been strong, they
were mild compared with those she now took; they kept up incessant
drastic purgation; between whieh and the iron, acids, &c., her monthly
illnc~s, whi<'h had l1itherto been regular since her thirteenth year, stopped;
whilst her dysprpsia steadily grew worse. From this unpromising prac-
tice, which she persevered in for ten months, she passed to that of ano-
ther practitioner in the same town.
Now again the lliet was changed from flesh, and made to consist prin-
cipally of fish. The physic was also changed, and strong alkalies were
snbstitntetl for ~trong acilk But lest they should not suffice, it was
deemed expedient, with what rational view does not appear, and it would
puzzle the profoundest pathologist to discover, to maintain a state of con-
stant nausea with a variety of emetic medicines. Yet whilst it is univer-
sally acknowledged that nausea is a state of excessire stomach irritation,
aud "l1il::.t it wu:s maintained by the emetics alluded to,- at the very time
it wa~ deemed rll'cc:;sary thus to keep up excessive irritation of the
ston~<tch, it was aiFo deemed essential to apply burning moxas over the
rt:>gion of the stomach to counteract irritation within! Aloxas externally,
ami emeticf', purgath·cs, and fi~h internally, were persevered in for one
year: for one whole year the patient was kept in a state of incessant
nau~e<t! I~'urtlwr, a:-; by the former treatment, the monthly illness had
hecn stopped, and the present one did not restore it, artificial relief was
attcmptccl hy opening a vein in the foot, and allowing a free bleeding
once n. mont11. Till' result of all which was a reduction of strength, both
organic and animal, which was alarming. It should be noted, that on
ot!e occa~ion both practitioner and patient were frightened at the symp-
toms of prostrr~tion c·an~ed by the nausea and purgation, and agreed to
eight c.lay::o' respite from all treatment; to this hour she speaks with
cncrg) of the immense relief she experienced during those days; they
formcll an oasis in her yC'ar of misery.
One ) car and ten months of Leamington treatment was deemed a rea-
eon·lile trial. She was now taken to her native place, Dumfries. Her
atten ant there, addressing his skill to the restoration of the monthly ill-
n~~s, was so successful in that particular as to bring on the opposite
104 NERVOUS AND l\IUCOUS DYSPEPSIA.
extreme, and she was drained of blood. The medicines by which this
was effected caused her exquisite internal pain, which was not improved
by the violent purgati,·es that were liberally given. ll~l\ve.ver, the illness
rc8tored, no opportunity was given for prolonged med1cahon. She was
t~kcn to the hle of Man for change of air. There ~'he remained between
eight and nine month~; but her dyspeptic sufferings led her,-for when
docs hope of relief cca:-;e ?-to seek medical ad,•icc again~ notwithstand-
ing the s;ul experience of the In~t six years and a half~ and for monlhs
she took hlue pill::; daily; for by thi::; time f.:o exhausted was the power
of all the digc:-;ti\'c organ::;, tlJat sume such :::;timulant to ::::ccretion was
uctnally nccesf!ary, and the medical men who prcscril.Jed it lmd no other
altcmati\'e iu the list of the usual remedies. It i~ necessary to adfl, that
purgative:; always were in requisition. At the end of nine montl1s she
married-Lcing in her twenty-third year-and went to Gerrnnny, where
she travelled aLout for several months, staving oJT lwr most distressing
symptoms with soda., sal-\·olatile, opiate:-::, &c. Slto returned to Dum-
fries, and was confined with a female child. During her pregnancy her
dyspeptic signs were much relieved, the organic irritation being trans-
ferred, for the time, from the stomach to the womb. After confinement,
they returned with renewed intensity~ and now l'howed :o:igns of extension
to the air tubes of the lungs. The inflammation of the ganglionic ner\'es
of the l')lornach CJ.J::o now caused great and cotbtant plin between the
:-honldcr blade~. The attendant (rd10 I hope and prc:sume was '· inno-
cent of the knowledge" of the stethoscope) matte up his mind, from the
cough, expectoration, and pain in the bad<: that she was far gone in pul-
tuouary consumption, and announced it so. lluw did he treat thrtl J She
was confined to a lwatetl room, wore a respirator, l1ad leeches aud cup-
pings between the shoulder bladcH, and con::tant h!isterings! Strange
enough trculmcnt fur con~umption! Lut how much strauger for indiges-
tion ! which it was; for on taking courage and getting a way to the Isle
of 1\Ian once more, all the chest Hymptom~ c.li::;appcarcd, but the dyspeptic
Wt•re there as before.
From this period she truyellet.l auont and ::-tayed at home alternatrly,
nlway:; ::Htflering from inten:"c dp;pep~ia, alwuys taking purgati\·cs, soda,
tonics: &c., but nerer one bit better. At one date she was induced to try
"l1at houH.uopathy could t!o fur her, and the result, as far as the headache
and so111e other nenous ~ymptorns went, was very satisfactory. It does not
appear, howe\·er, that circum~tance3 allowed of her giYing it a long trial,
nur of her being ncar the medit:al prescriber. Still humu::opathy was the
fir8t treatment that had done her any goot.l; that had not: indeed, done her
positire harm. But to crown the history of this mo::;t unfortunate case,
a :-cries of fereri~h symptoms broke out, a short time Leforc she carne to
1\lalvern, which were mistaken for rheumatic ferer, for which she was
bled in the arm, frightfully dosed with calomel and opium, &c. After six
days of this mistake, an eruption of mea:-;lcs took placc, of which all these
feverish signs had been the forerunner; and there is little doubt that had
NERVOUS AND MUCOUS DYSPEPSIA. 105
the body not been interfered with, and its powers depressed and mis·
directed by the treatment just mentioned, the eruption would have taken
plar.e much earlier, and the constitution have been sparPd the prolonged
1-itruggle to throw out the measles, th<> debilitating effects of the bleeding,
ami the irritatiug effects CJf the calomel. However, her elastic nature got
ht-r round, and it was on her recovery that she cameo to Malvern; not
with a view of remedying her now complicate:d ailments-for she had
gi,·en up all hope of that,-but with the desire that her husband should
trv tht· water treatment against a formidable amount of nen·ousness with
• 0
which he was troubled.
Here: then, is the instructive history of a diseas2 which commenced in
a ~:-:irnple atta.ck of indigestion in a growing girl of excellent constitution·
IIacl comparati\'e, or, if necesMry, total abstinence from food been practised
for twenty-four hours, and only dilution with thin gruel and toast-water
allowed, th('re can be no rear:;on to doul>t that, in such a constitution, the
dige~tive organs would have recovered themselves, and all would have
been well ; hut tlu~ tlr::-t nnnece:-;sary docs of calomel led to all the subse·
qnent mischief; it f'Ct up the irritation upon which all the subsequent
practitioner:; played, each one having hi~ own tune, the discord and con-
tradictions of ::,ome of which I have l>riefly exposed en passant. No
apology is necessary for the length of this account; it is not often one
g-et:;: ~o complete a narrative of the growth of a long illness; and a great
deal may be )flamed from it. I may stutc, that it is from the lips of the
patieut her:;;clf, who, Hummoning up the treatment she had undergone,
cxclusive of medicinc.~, tells CJf nine bleedings from the arm, bleedings
frcm the foot every month for a year, leeches without number, and to all
pnrt~ of the abdomen and che:st, cupping frequently, blisters innumerable;
and. adding up the medical men ~he consulted during those years of
Bnt1ering, she finds them reach the dreadful number of twenty-two! In
the above account~ only those are mentioned under whos(' care she re-
mained lor a prolonged pariod.
To return. This lady reached 1\lalvern in the month of !\larch, 1844.
The account of her at that time is as follows. Incessant and frequently
very viole11t headache, at the back or the top of the head, or over each
eye. Sleep most uncertain, always broken and busy. Vision constantly
annoyed with black spots. Pulse small, hard, rapid, having all the signs
of intense irritation. Tongue fiery red, split in all directions, and swol-
len; not often dry and not much furred; gums very red and spongy;
throat always more or less sore, and exhibiting small blisters or pustules,
wl1ich, after causing immense irritation, came off; constant and intense
burning in the stomach ; extreme tenderness on pressure over the pit of
the stomach; acute and constant pain in the back between the shoulder
blades ; appetite \'ery capricious, but, when present, always small nnd
requiring tempting cookery. Pain after eating everything, with fluid
risings ot extreme acidity, which obliged her to take soda after every
meal ; even a. wine-glass of spring water rose a.cid in the mouth soon
6*
106 NERVOUS AND l\IUCOUS D\' SPEPSIA.
after beiug swallowed. Tndeetl, this had been the case for twelve yean,
during all which time also she had been altogether unable to take cer-
tain article:; of diet, :;:o great was the pain they caused, among which
were especially bread nnd /erz. The whol(• abdomen was enlarged by
flatus at all times: but especially after eating the ~rnalle~t rnor:::eJ. There
was no action of the bowels whatc\·er, without the a~$istancc of medicine.
The ltiducys showed morbid action in the character oftheir secretion,which
w~L'i charged with pink sediment and gravel. The montWy discharge
was efic<'led with extreme pain, was scanty and pale, and never continued
longer than two day!", Ycry often not more than one. There was great
:-en.:;c of bearing down of the womb, which, in fact, was considerably
fallen down, swollen, and heavy. Thus there was not any part of the
abdominal viscera which the digestive irritation had not reached and
iuvol\'ed. lts extension to the brain was shown by the extreme nervous-
11Css under which the patient constantly labored, as well as by the want
of sleep, &c., already recounted. The chest had escaped the mischief:
nur, although she harl been treated as one 1~tr gone in pulmonary con-
snmption, could any the least disease of the lungs he detected.
Extcrrmlly, the frame gayc C\·erywhere l':ign::> of Lad nutrition. The
f'kin was pale, and the flesh ~oft and inelastic. 'J'he walking power was
in keeping with the innate and the morbid ncn·ous character of the
patient; she could walk ~trongly and quickly for a short timo-this her
impulsive nature permitted ; but exhaustion soon followed; there was no
sustainment of the power-this her morhid nervous system did not permit.
lndcrd, throughout her long illnes:-, the elastic nature of this patient had
been exhiuitcd ; and witlwut it, without the ~pirit it imparted, she must
have ~Sunk under the multiplied ailments, or been the victim of some in-
ternal organic disease.
The treatment of this compli "ated case by water was spread over many
months; au<l I shall, therefore, not attempt any detailed account of it, but
recite the chief stages of its progress. It commenced with only the rul>-
bing sheet every morning: tl1e compre::;s on tlu! abdomen day and night:
the restriction of diet to cold liquids, and the simplest solids : and the
taking of two or three tumblers of water in the day. Fomentations for
an hour at night were added to these ; and, soon after, packing in the
wet sheet, which at fir~t was practised once and afterwards twice a day;
the colJ ~hallow bath being u~cd after each of them. The sitz bath was
prescribed uuce and then twice daily, so soon as the walking power
~howed signs of lllOre continuous energy; and this it did, by the fact of
her being able to take exC'rci.se before breakfast for a half aud then for a
whole hour-a feat she had never been able to compa~s : for although
much urged to do so when at Leamington, the attempt even for a few
minutes always ended in faintness and total loss of appetite. During
the period when these processes \Vere being gradually increased, the
quantity of water was also increased, until she took from twelve to fifteen
tumblers daily ; and for several days she took, without my direction,
NERVOUS AND MUCOUS DYSPEPSIA. 107
however, as many as twenty. It should be stated, howm•er, that some
of the water she drank wa~ always rejer-tctl from the stomach in a per-
fectly acid state: this continued for many weeks. It was al~o during
the proccs~ of wet-sheet packing, that the appetite underwent a marked
impro\'Cmcnt, it became more decided and more steady. The bowels re-
mained exceedingly torpid now that they were dcpri\·ed of their usual
purgntive etimul:tnt: still they acted to a small extent, and I was con-
tented with that, as the general treatment obviated feverishness, and it
was essential: at al! o'"llCr risks, to withdraw utterly from the digestive
canal the drugs whic:h had ~o grievously damaged it.
\Vhen it appeared to me that the active irritation had been subdued to
a certain extent, I hoped, by the sweating process, to rouse the secreta-
rial acti\·ity of thP liver, and genNal mucous membrane of the digestive
canal. That process wus therefore tried with the effect of bringing
about a somewhat better action of the bowels. It was alternated with
the wet-sheet packing, and at the same time the sitz baths were con·
tinued, as also the compress: and the copious water drinking.
Such i::; an outline of the treatment which was persisted in for nearly
six months, with the striking results of rendering the stomach far more
tolerant of food, reducing the acidity, gnawing, and burning of the sto-
m:lch, inducing a state of bo\vcls, not quite satisfactory, it is true, but
which allowed of their occasional action always without medicine, procur-
ing more sleep, and generating an amount of walking power to which she
had long been a stranger. Her dyspepsia-the accumu]ated dyspepsia
of so many years of bad treatment-was indeed far from being cured;
but it had gone infinitely further in that direction than hitherto, and all
the patient's sensations announced it. In the midst of tl1e general
orrranic excitement which the treatment had aroused, whilst all the
0
organs were laboring to relieve themselves, a strong mental agitation
occurred to her, and nerrousjere1· announced itself in her unlucky frame.
'Vhethcr a fever would have been the crisis of her complicated and pro-
longed complaints, as I often anticipated, or whether this particular one
stood in that character, it is impossib1e to say, inasmuch as the coinci-
dence of a mental agitation loaves the possibility of its originating from
that cause alone. It was, however, the most violent and perilous I ever
beheld. How it was treated is not germane to the history of the dys-
pepsia; but some idea of the activity of the treatment may be gathered
from the fact, that on one day she was folded in twenty-one successive
wet sheets between 6 A. M. and 11 P.l\1. At the end of six weeks she
was tolerably well recovered, and I r<'commenced the treatment of the
dyspepsia. As excessive irritation no longer existed. I did not urge any
great amount of treatment. She was only packed once a day with n.
towel in the front of the body, the cold shallow bath after it, and sitz
baths of twPnty minutes each twice a day: the quantity of water was
moderated to fh·e or six tumblers in tbe day. In this manner, with the
addition of occasional fomentations, she went on gaining in her gastric
108 NERVOUS AND 1\IUCOUS DYSPEPSIA.
sensations until the month of .1\Iarch, 1845: just one year after her
arri\'al at 1\fah·crn, when she became e11ceintc. As no reliance could
be placed on the !'trength of the uterine organ~, ~t w~ deemed best
to gu~pcnd all treatment, except the morning ablution wtth cold water.
The period of pregnancy was entirely free from suffering, save from
occa~ional bad headache, and pains down the legs. Bnt she ate and
drank of anything with impunity, and she gained flesh. This, no
douht, was dne to the transfer of all visceral irritation to the womb,
and I did not expect this perfect state of digestion to continue after
deli,·ery. That event happened in December, 1845, and the child was
a superb one, weighing twelve ponnds at the birth. Now that she has
reco\'cred, shP. sums 11p her gains to this date, in the abolition of all
painful and distressing sensations after eating, in a better appetite, in
the total rcmo\'al of acidity of stomach, in the capability of taking a
number of articles of diet which her stomach has not been able to
tolerate for many yrors, in the improved state of the bowels and eman-
cipation from drug~, in a much healthier state of the monthly discharge,
and absence of all morbid sensations about the womb, in better sleep,
and in firmer flesh. Against these are to be placed the occurrence,
from time to tim~, of !:'evere nen·ous headaches, such as she used to
have almost continuously, frequent tic pains about the hips and legs,
and rare paroxysms of nervousness. Still her 'tiscera, her t'ital parts,
ha\'e been saved from organic disease, to which they were hurrying;
the snb8tantia1 malady, the diseased circulation of the internal parts,
has been snlxlned. The sensations, the nerves, are always the last to
yield in all maladies, and I fully expect they will do so in this trying case.
Be it remembered, meanwhile, that the whole time occupied by the
patient in the active and steady pursuit of the water plan docs not ex-
ceed ten months. She is now recommencing its active employment,
with the aim of ridding herself of the morbid nervous phenomena which
still remain out of the long list of dangerous symptoms which she had on
coming to me, and which she very reasonably attributes to the atrocious
drugging to which she had been subjected.
If the reader would heat all the " previous histories" of cases
that are detailed to me, and which all resemble more or less that
just given,-histories of violent and irrational experiment, not to
call it treatment-and then could see the appliances of the water-
cure calming down morbid sensations, and abolishing morbid
actions that had existed for years, and had been intensified by the
l'UUC attempts o( aimless medication, he WC'ald Wonder how this
last continues to flourish, whilst the simple, yet potent hygienic
plan of the former is pointed at as certainly destructive of health,
if not of life. Here is another case in which all treatment,-at
least, all the treatment which two and twenty medical men could
NERVOUS AND l\IUCOUS DYSPEPSIA. 109
propose,-was essayed, and from each one the patient camn out
worse. Now, hud she only not become worse by the water treat-
ment, the superiority of the latter would have been demonstrated :
it would have been autant de gagni instead of so much loss.
But with such a result as this patient can vouch for, it would be
preposterous to deny the immense power of the water plan, and
its far greater certainty of action in dyspeptic cases, over that in
ordinary usage. In short, in the three kinds of dyspepsia which
hnve been treated of, this hygienic treatment is the only one that
offers any probability of cure. Relieve, palliate, wind up the
stomach to the digestion point as you will by medicines, it falls
hack to its old point of irritation and its former bad habits the
moment your remedy is suspended, and, after a time, in spite of
your remedy being continued. The stomach is not allowed the
opportunity of recoveri-ng itself, the only recovery that is worth
anything: it will not, it cannot be forced into recovery. Even
when that most rational part ofthe ordinary treatment of dyspepsia,
rest of the stomach, country air, and regulated P.Xercise, is had
recourse to,-and it is seldom advised until medicinal remedies
are exhausted, although it ought to be the first to be tried,-the
beneficial consequences which might .flow from it are constantly
obviated by the mischievous superfluity of some medicated water
or some cordial bitter, in deference, very fl'cquP-ntly, to the strong
prejudice and feeble understanding of the patient. But however
strong, however general, the prejudice, and however true it may
be that, in diseases of organs distant from the stomach, medication
may be curative : I cannot but repeat the strong conviction I have
that medication nct·er ditl, never u•ill, never can, cure a case of
chronic dyspepsia : and that, short of organic change, the hygienic
water treatment seldom if et·crfails to cure it.
~ 4. GASTR0-1-:NTERITIS.-CHRONlC lNFLAl\ll\IATION OF THE
STOMACH AND S?.IALL BowEL.-ATROPHY. The two former of
these terms signify the same thing, the first being the technical,
the second the vernacular expression. The third, atrophy, or
u·asting, is the consequence of the double inflammation of the
stomach and small guts. I will endeavor to render the connection
between them clear.
The mucous membrane which lines the stomach continues its
course downwarJs to the bowels, lining them also. Arri\'ed at
the first, it is pierced in innumerable points with small orifices,
110 CHRONIC IYFLAl\DlATION OF THE
which are the mouths of most minute tubes, the insides of which
are also line<.l with prolongations of the common mucous mem-
brane of the bowel. Now the office of these mouths, of these
tubes, is to ~elect and absorb the chyle or white ulood as it
dcsccn(ls from the ~tomach after digestion, an<.l after the a<.l<.lition
of the bile en route,; nnd the office of the tubes themselves is to
convev this white blood into the great Ycin which finally pours its
conte1~t~, as yet unfit to nourish the body, into the heart, which
propels it into the 1ungs, there to be exposed to the atmosphere,
to ul..!comc red bloo<.l, and to be rendered fit for the purposes of
nutntwn. It will be plain, from this sketch, that whatever
prevents the free absorption or the chyle in the small bowels,
prevents the nutrition of the whole body: and as the woste ofthe
body of necessity goes on, the \vant of a recruiting supply from
the organs of digestion is the exciting cause of its atrophy.
l\Iorc or less atrophy al\vays attends the chronic inflammation
of the small bowel;;, because the mouths of the abs01·bcnt tubes
alluded to, arc more or less inflamed and swelled in common with
the lining membrane of the bowels on which they debouch, and
the pnssagc of the chyle through them is more or less prevented.
This isolated disease of the small bowels is more commonly seen
in growing children, probably in consequence of the excessive
labor of those parts necessitated by the proeess of growth. But
in adults it is more frequently accompanied by a similar inflam-
mation of the stomach : hence the compound technical name it
bears. This of course complicates the malady : for in such case
there is not only obstructed absorption of chyle, but chyle of a
badly elaborated kind, unfit for the healthy nutrition of the frame,
which thus suffers both in deficient quantity and quality of
nourishing liquid.
The symptoms, as far as the stomach is concerned, are those of
nervous and mucous dyspepsia, the appetite being capricious,
ofttimes voracious, with sometimes suffering, at other times none,
after eating. But, in so far as the small bowels arc implicated,
the symptoms vary considerably, except in the emaciation, which
is always in greater or smaller degree. 'Vhen the inflammation
is less diffused over the lining of the bowels, more concentrated
in one spot, and more intense, as evidenced by feverishness, the
wasting is not so great (the reason for which will be clear from
what has preceded), but the brain phenomena of irritability,
restlessness, sleeplessness, and headache are more decided : for in
STO~IACH AND SMALL BOWEL. Ill
that case the brain is tolerably well nourished, and is therefore in
better state to recognize and react upon the irritations proceeding
from the disordered viscera. The circulation of blood also is
lllore vehement, the pulse is more excitable, and fever is thus
more readily induced. Hence the sleepless feverish nights of
JMticnts sunf~ring Under gastro-enteric disorder of this kind.
The skin is dry and hot, especially of the palm of the hand.
The tongue is of the kind called "strawberry," that is to say, its
pnpillre are very red and clevatP.d, and between them there is a
whitish mucus, the two giving the appearance of a ripe straw-
berry; it is also inclined to dryness. There is sometimes, but
by no means invariably, a degree of tenderness on pressing the
bowels, which are shrunk, giving the abdomen a constricted, hard
feel. Constipation is usual. This kind of gastro-enteric inflam-
mation may end by wasting fwm continued, smouldering fever,
or the sympathy with the brain may render that organ too full of
blood, and apoplectic or paralytic seizure may take place.
'Vlten, on the other hand, the infla~mation is general over the
surface of the small bowels and of a very chronic character, the
atrophy is decided and great, and the brain phenomena less
urgent; on the contral'y thet·e is generally a tendeney to
somnolence and inactivity and depression of mind. Neither is
there mueh f(~vul', and what there is of it is of a fitful, hectic
charaetet·. The skin is devoid of moisture, but not without soft-
IH'ss. The bowels are irregular; being sometimes in a relaxed
::itatc, which is duC' to the f.'lct of chyle, and other matters, reaching
the lower bowel, in which, as it wus never intended to receive
them, they act as unnatural stimulants, and provoke it to
excessive action. At other times they are very torpid. The
abdomen partakrs of the general emaciation, and feels like a
board lying close upon the spine, so contracted is the calibre and
substance of the bowels. The evil termination of this state is by
fhinting, the brain ceasing to receive sufficient blood to perform
its functions, and the heart, de-ficient in energy from the same
cause, failing to send ulood towards the brain.
In deciding on the treatment of this chronic inflammation of the
stomach and small bowels, we must ascertain which of these
phases of it exists, and I have given the chief differences by
which each may be known. The gastro-enteritis without much
emaciation and with fever, admits of more decided treatment than
the atrophic kind. Besides fomentations, the wet sheet is appli-
112 CHRONIC lNFLAl\IMATION OF THE
cable : the water drank rnay be more copious : and exercise more
extended thoucrh ne\'er lono- continued. In atrophy the wet sheet
is scarcelv ad1~issiblc, the ~is l"ita being insuflicient, in the first
instance, ;t least, to react upon it; and for some time all that
can be done is to foment, compress, and usc friction over the bowels;
to apply friction over the whole body, with cloths wrung at first
out of water at 90°, and gradually diminish the temperature:
to give water to drink sparingly, and not under 50°: and to
observe the most perfect rest from exertion, the frictions being
a substitute for exercise. It is a condition rcquiring the utmost
nicety of treatment, so small and easily overwhelmed arc the
organic powers on which we have to depend for self-restora-
tion. I hrsitate not to say, were the water treatment applied
in this malady, as it was recommended when first introduced into
this country, that is to say, with mcessant wet sheets, cold baths,
and numberless tumblers of cold water to drinJ\, every case of
this malac.ly would end fatally.
On one point in thP treatment of this disease, it is very neces-
sary to dwell,-thc diet. It might be supposed that as much food
us possible should be prescribed in wasting, especially as there
is, very commonly, appetite for it. Yet it is very imprudent to
permit any but mild articles of diet, and those in small quantities
only, for a time. It should be remembered that we have to denl
with the cause of the wasting, and that cause is inflammation of a
membrane to which the food, both before and after conversion
into chyle, is a stimulus : on this score, then, it is c.lesirable to
limit the quantity and quality of food. But, moreover, it may be
asked, of what avail is it to give the stomach large quantities of
strong food to convert into chyle, when that chyle cannot only
not be absorbed, but will pass down to the lower bowels, produce
irritative diarrhrea there, and in this mannet· actually hasten the
dilapidation of the body it was intended to maintain 1 Plainly
enough this ought not to be done. The patient should take the
milc.lest farinaceous diet in small and oft repeated quantities: but
whilst thus reduced in diet, he should also be reduced in the wast-
ing act of physical exertion : his exercise should he quite passive,
and the repose of the body complete. By this means, whilst the
active treatment is gradually withdrawing irritation from within to
the exterior, the nr.galit:e treatment ofdiet is withholding irritations
which would be applied to the internal morbid part itself: the
cessation from exercise rendering the restricted food sufficient for
STOMACH AND SMALL BOWEL. 113
organic support though not for animal exertion. By commencing
the treatment thus we are enabled gradually to steal a march on
the inflammation, which produces all the wasting, and, though a
long and tedious operation, to get rid of it. In the form of the
disease where the emaciation is not so great, and the fl"'verish-
ncss grc·ater, both these precepts of negati\'e treatment require to
be modified in favor of better diet and some exercise. In fact,
this latter malady demands, with very few and trifling variations,
the snme treatment us the ll(·rvous ami mucous dyspepsia.: and,
though many cases have come before me, I need not illustrate it
by one of them, involving, as it v;ould, some tedious repetitions.
I shall, however, offer a bdef account of a case of atrophy, or
wasting, which terminated well under tuy care.
CAsE V.-ATRoruv on \VAsTING.
Great mental distress was the exciting cause of the gastro-enteric in-
flammation which led to the atrophic wasting of the patient in this case,
who was a man of twenty-~ix years of age. (I would here remark how
often mental causes induce inflamm:ttion of the bowels as well as of the
stomach.) Commencing as simple dyspep::3ia: the disease ::>oon gave the
signs of the extcmion of the mischief to the sm:1Jl bowels. Headache,
irritability iu place ofdepression of mind, restlc3SllC3.5, unquiet and short
sleep, fe\·erish l'kin increased by food, obstinate Lowels, &c., all indicated
the more circumscribed irritation. All thi.s was going on some time be-
fore he saw me : and against it opiates for the sleeples::;ncss, purgatives
for the bowels, a course ofmercury to do somctltin;; (it was not clear what),
and a courl"c of iodine in the shape of hydriodate of potas~a, to do some-
thincr·still more obscure', were tried in succe8~ion, and each found wantina.
~ 0
Strong aliment too, and strong tonics, \Verc givcn to prop the failing flesh
ami strength, and change of air to change the etimulus: all to no pur-
pose. The youth went from ba.d to worse, and at length c~mc to me in
a state of half stupor, volition almost gone, and the limb$ o\·er which it
was to be exercised reduced to skin and bone, the skin bloodless, the
tongue, gums, and roof of the month whity-brOWJ1, and having a lifeless
appearance, the aWomen sh::-nnk to the smal!ctit dimensions, cold fla.bby
hands, dull eye, weak voice, short breathing~ small slow pulse. He had
frequently purging of the bowels for a day, accompanied by swimming
and f,tintness of the head. Appetite of the same irregular kind, though
mon• n:-u:LIIy great than otherwise. Altogether he had been ill for up-
ward8 of four years.
His horror of cold was so great, and his reactive power so small, that
I could not for nearly a month do more than foment the abdomen at night
tor half an hour, keep the compress wrung out of tepid water on it, have
the limbs and trunk well rubbed night and morning, with towels wet
114 DlSORDERS OF THE LIVER AND DUODENUM.
with warm water, and keep him on the sofa; the only exerc~se he took
was an airing in a Bath chair for an hour daily, and luckaly the fi.ne
weather rendered this pleasant. The only food he had was cream wtth
tepid water and sugar, biscuit, rusk toast, the various farina.cea and
rice. flower of c:wliflower, and occasionally grapes : all taken m small
quantities at a time. Before the month was out, and by a graduated
process, I had got him to bear friction with a. cold wet towel, and to feel
so much better for it as to desire it. He drank a wine-glas~ of water
frequently, bnt altogether not more than two tumblers in the day. I now
di:--continucd the fomentations, and used the frictions three times a day;
gi\'ing him more time for passive exercise in the air: the compress was
worn night and day: the food the same. After a fortnight of this, I
ventured on the towel packing in front of the body : he was obliged at
first to lie as long as two hours in it, without thoroughly warming it:
but by degree~ this was shortened, and by the end of the second month
he warmed a towel placed behind as well as in front. Another month
bronght him to the em•elopment in the entire wet sheet, once at first,
and then twice a day. At thiR point he began to usc the shallow bath
in~tead of the rubbing sheet. Previous to this time I had allowed him
to take ~orne mutton: chicken and veal broth, thickened with rice or
barley, once a day : but still forbade walking exercise. Neither this,
nor a ~mall quantity of boiled mutton, was permitted until towards the
end of the third month: neither agreed with him, and they were discon-
tinued for nearly three weeks longer, when he was enabled to take the
equivalent of a mutton chop, and twenty minutes' walk with impunity.
After thi:-; point it is needless to give details The above will afiurd
an idea of the gradual and cautious manner in which the treatment of
such cases require:-; to be entered upon, and to throw considerable doubt
on the :-;tatcmeut:-; imported from Germany, of persons with ,·ery little blood
in them, and ]c:-;s fle~h on them, being plun~cd into cold baths of all
kinds at the very out:-:ct, and picking up t1c"'h a. rw' d'a:il; all which is
exaggerated rubbish. Of this I am certain, ti.at had I done so with this
and two or three other patients in nearly the :-amc plight. I f'lhould have
extingui:-!hccl them, and the little fle~h they !tad would have gone its
u::-ual way. As it wa::-: it required full ~C\en month;-, of the water treat-
ment to place this patim•t in anytl1ing like condition : he had regained
the nutrith e power: but cYen then he had a gn·at deal to regain to reach
ltis formt>r :•talus. Thir- I aticnt lmu no criiical ;-,•tion: from which I
conjel'lurc that a Jlatnra!lv vivid con:-titutinn h·td enabled him to throw
otl' the mercnrv and iodine as he tool> them. thev not rcmaininCT in the
• • 0
circulating- bloo<l: but helping to e::;tab1ish the \'isceral irritation which
had in(errnptcd tlJC nutrition of the body in the manner I have explained.
§ fJ. DrsoRD':v.~ OF THE LIYER A~D DuoDENUl\I. I have been
desirous to exhibit in an isolated form the phenomena which are
DISORDERS OJ THE LIVER AND DUODENUM. 115
attached to the pure irritation of the immediate primary organs of
nutrition, the stomach and small bowels. It must be remarked,
however, that cases wherein those organs exclusively exhibit a
morbid condition are rare. By far the greater number of in-
stances of dyspepsia involve the great accessory organ of diges-
tion-the liver, in degrees that vary from simple irregularity of
function to enlargement and hardening. Irritation of the duode-
flUm (the short bowel which is between the stomach and small
guts), where the gall ducts empty the bile to join the chyme as
it flows from the stomach, is also a not unfrequent element in
dyspepsia, and is always more or less connected with chronic
diseased action in the liver. Still. nervous or mucous disorder of
the stomach itself always precedes the malady of either and both
of these organs, and the consideration of it, therefore, naturally
antecedes that of the duodenum and liver. These last, moreover,
exhibit symptoms that are independent of the general symptoms
of dyspf'psia-symptoms which, added to those of stomach irrita-
tion, give origin to the state called biliousness: a term, be it said
in passing, used alike when there is too little and when there is
too much bile flowing : of which more anon.
The same nerves of the great ganglionic net-work situated at
the pit of the stomach which supply the latter, also by branches
supply the liver; and the same mucous membrane which lines
the stomach extends to line the duodenum, and thence, through
the common gull duct, to line every one of the numberless rami-
fications of it in the liver, terminating, after infinite subdivisions,
in the minutest points, where the great work of biliary secretion
goes on. In the liver, therefore, as in th~ stomach, we have to
view two kiuds of derangement: one dPpcnrlent on disordered ner-
vous supply, the other on fixed mucous irritation. As regal'd~ the
duodenum, we ha,·e no means of ascertaining its nPrYous disorder
as distinguished from its mucous inflammation, which is one of the
mo~t formidable aml intractable of digPstive disf'ases. Still, as
duorlcniti.-.;-as chronic inflammation of the duodenum is callt d-
nr~ver exists apart fi'Om disorrl~>r of the liver, I ~hall sp:-'ak of
both at once, only stating, as I proceed, what additional sign::;
marl\ its co-Pxistencc with diseased liver; which may exist with-
out duodenitis.
Disordcrcrl supply of ganglionic nervous energy to the secret-
ing capillaries of the liver is caused by sympathy wnh some
other organ, and almost entirely by the brain and stomach. Any
] 16 DISORDERS OF THE LIVER AND DUODENU.l\1.
mental shock on the brain is reverberated on the great dige~tive
centre of nerves and tells immediately on the stomach, and very
frequently on th~ Jivcr also. In fact, some passious arc said to
act more exclusivelY on the latter organ, such as vexed amour-
propre and jealousy: The nen·ous shoek thus prop~gatcd_ de-
ranges the secretory action of the blood-vessels of the IIvcr ctther
to iliminish, to increase, or to vitiate the bile. Thus we see pow.
erful mental emotions sometimes arresting the flow of bile into
the intestines, and causing its retention and appearance in the
f:kin iu 1be shape of jaundice: or in other cases the shock causes
augmented action, as evidenced by bilious vomiting or dianhcea,
.c:rcncrally of a diseased character. These arc severe cases: but
.?
that shocks of a mino1· degree produce biliary disorder of a minor
degree is certain. That disorder claims the epithet bilious, and
it behoves the physician to ascertain whether the fact of suspended
oa· augmented flow of bile is attachable to the term.
Sympathy with a dyspeptic stomach is another originator of
nervous dcrangemPnt of the liver. It may be presumed, and facts
show it, that, at all times during dyspeptic irritation, there is a
stream of morbid sympathy flowing thence towards the liver, and
maintaining there more or less morbid action. But it is equally
demonstrable that when temporary exasperation of the dyspepsia
takes place, an acute attack ofnervous biliousness also supervenes:
and this moa·c especially in nervous dyspepsia. The process
consists generally in first diminishing and subsequently augment-
ing the secretion of bile: the reason for which is plain from what
was said in the first part of this work on the subject of extension
of diseuse.
A similar, though a more permanent irritation is cstabJished
when the mucous disorder of the stomach produces mucous dis-
order of the hver. This occurs more especially when the right
or lower end of the stomach is the scat of disease : and as, in
cxteuding to the membrane which lines the gall ducts, it has to
pass by that which lines the duodenum, the mucous dyspepsia is
that v,rhich usually originates inflammation of the duodenum.
\Vhether, therefore, there be nervous or mucous biliary dis-
order, the nerves or lining membrane of the stomach are first of
all affected. This ilwolves the question of the modus operandi
or medicines called antibilious. As I have said before (page 11),
no internal remedies can reach the liver save through the stomach:
to rouse the former to action you must rouse the latter: you
DISORDERS OF THE LIVER AND DUODENUM. 117
strike at the liver through the stomach. So that whilst you think
how cleverly you are urging the liver with calomel, you should
also remember that the spear is being driven into the stomach,
which may, nay certainly is, irritated before the organ you desire
to act upon. Antibi!ious is thus synonymous with irritating tlte
~·lonwclt : and those vulgar dietetic remedies against "bile" (a
wild sort of term, used to express all and everything concerning
the liver), viz. bacon and brandy-and-water, are the hest remedies
fin· perpetuating dyspepsia, at the same time that, by causing a
temporary stimulation of the stomach, they are esteemed and
taken hy the populace, not only as antibilious, but anti-dyspeptic!
At ]east, it would be well to ascertain first of all in what the
biliousness con~ists : is there too much or too little bile ~ for the
term is applied to both facts, and although bacon, &c., may rouse
a torpid liver, is it pretended that it will calm an over-active one 1
The folly of all this lies in the treatment of a word, .hiliousness,
instead of looking into the state of the biliary organ. One man
with a. yellow skin, and another man with a. florid clear skin, com-
plain of bitter month and biliousness~ and would treat themselves
or be treated in like lllanner; the fact being, meanwhile, that
thei,. livers nrc in diametrical1y opposite conditions, the former
Lcing too torpid, the latter too active. There is a great deal of
pig-head1 duess abroad on the score of this "brealdi.1st bacon," and
if the reader beheld the tenacity with which patients cling to their
bacon, he would acknowledge the necessity for these animadvert-
ing remarks.
Biliousness, then, signifies disordered action of the liver of a
nervous or mucous character: and that action may cause deficient,
exccssi\'C, or vitiated bile. The signs of deficient bile arc, yellow-
ness of the white of the eye, and of the skin generally, if the stop-
page be great; yellow, bitter tongue, thick saliva, acid breath,
and sour risings, deficient and highly colored urine, deficient and
pale evacuations from the bowels, dry, obstinate, itchy skin, inap.
petcnec, dull headache, somnolence, slow, laboring pulse. The
signs of excessive activity ofthe lit•er are, flushing of the face, espe-
cially of the nose and chin, some bitterness of mouth, clean red
tongue, with red pimples along the sides, sore or relaxed throat,
hot breath, bitter risings, copious urine, especially at night, bright-
yellow evacuations, of a very small taper-like calibre, piles, dry
skin exceedingly sensitive to changes of weather, great appetite
but with occasional fits of nausea; acute nervous headache, irri~
118 DISORDERS OF THE LIVER AND DUODENUM.
tability, restlessness, rapid pulse. The signs of vitiated bile being
secreted are those of the lust-named condition, except that the
appetite is indifferent, the u1·ine rather high colored, the intestinal
evacuations dark or rrreenish, and burning as they pass ; there is
0 .
more or less spasm in the region of the stomach, and sometimes
piles, at others only itching of the anus. It is in this state that
the !Jile sometimes is so thick or so acrid as to produce vehement
f-'J1asm of the gall ducts in its passage; and that the concretions of
bile called gall stones are formed, and cause the same spasmodic
state in their passage into the duodenum.
Irritnth·e action i::. the bm;js of the two latter of these states, am]
congestion of the former. \\' hen the liver cannot secrete Lile, it
is because it is opprf'ss<'d Ly a load of Llood throughout its whole
substance; it is a state of feebleness from oppression, and requires
a diversion to be made in its favor. The diversion which nature
mukrs is most commonly by sweat, rarely Ly the bowels. \Vhen
the liver acts too V(·hcmently, or S(·e;retes bad matter, it is because
the ruinute extremities of the gn1l tubes, and, in the case of exces-
si\'e action, the larger tuhcs also, nrc in a state of inflammatory
il'ritation, the rest of the lh·er being in its usual state. Here the
aim is to lower, to reduce redundant action, to calm the functions
of the Jivcr. Fmm all which it will be perceived, that it is of
importance to determine what is meant Ly biliousness, and that
one remedy will not do for all kinds of it.
A disordered liver generally begins with excessive and ends in
deficient action. The repeated attmctions of blood towards its
secretory tubes, caused Ly stimulating food, the passions, &c.,
each time more and more enfeeble the self-restorative power of
the organ, whilst as, each time, more and more blood accumu-
lates in it, in consequence of this waning power, the whole mass
becomes at length congested, and the passing attacks of bilious-
ness become a permanent state of jaundice. 1 need not remark
how much the usual treatment of those attacks by mercury must
tend to hasten the feebleness alluded to, by the over-stimulation
and the exhaustion of the capillaries of the part ; until at last,
when they most need to be stimulated, the medicine to which
they have been so long accustomed fails to excite, and leaves
them helpless. In this helpless 11tate it is that so many livers
come to the water treatment.
Congestion once established, it goes on to swollen. liver, a con
dition which I would compare with that of a sponge expanded
DISORVERS OF THE LIVER AND DUODENUM. 119
with water: there is no actual addition of substance, but only an
expansion of the natural cellular substance of the organs. This
state is curable. But if it pt>rsist for a long time, and be still
irritated by attempts to force it to secrete bile, the accurnulated
blood in it begins to deposit additional substance ; sometimes like
that of the liver, at others of a yellow, tallow-like appearance,
and hard, or a mixture of both. This is enlarged liver: it is not
curable, and can only be prc,·ented from extending further.
1\lany of the symptou1s it gi\'es rise to may be palliated, and the
portion of it which is only swollen may be reduced, by the water
treatment; but the chanf!ed structure can in no way be removed.
This applies still more to the last stage of liver disease, hard-
ened liver, which is a wasting of the ccllulur tissue of the organ,
and an encroachment of the morbid structure already mentioned;
so that all its secretory parts arc annihilated, and it remains a
hard inactive mass, dangling under the right ribs, am) acting only
the part of a foreign body, irritating the rest of the body di•·ectly
by its presence, and indirectly by the non-fulfilment of its import-
aut function. The ::;i~ns of each of these conditions are suffi-
ciently decided; but the enunciation of them here woulJ be too
long for the aims of this work. But such as I have described it
is the progress of disease of the lin'!r. At first an attack of
biliousness, connectecl, probably, with nervous dyspepsia; then
the mucous membrane becomes involved by repeated attacks of
that kind, anJ by repeated treatments; next, the mucous attacks
at length involve the cellular tissue, aud congestion is established,
which, in process of time and of further irritation, passes into
swollen, thence into enlarged, and finally into hardened liver.
Let the reader, meantime, picture dyspepsia in its various de-
grees of intensity accompanying these phases of biliary disorder,
and aggravated, pari passu, by the irrational plan of stimulation
generally pursued, and he will fintl abundant cause for the haggard
looks, the failing strength, the irritable temper, or indifferent stupor,
and the annihilation of all enjoyment, which mark the biliary dys-
pr•ptic. And the end of all this 1 In some, the stoppage of the bilia-
ry secretion causes the elements of the bile to be retained iu the
circulating blood, and to be presented to tissues to which it is alien,
and therefore irritating, and among others to the brain: add to
which, that the long existence of irritation in the liver had al.
ready maintained a sympathetic one in the brain; so that this
last becomes at length the seat of irregular circulation and a.po-
)20 DISORDERS OF TilE LIVER AND DUODENUltl.
plexy closes the career of many n bilious patient. Or, the pas-
saae of the blood from the lower limbs and the viscera of the abdo-
m;n throurrh the liver being impeded, the blood-vessels of those
parts heco~1c gorged by the gravitation of their contents; and, to
relieve thenu;eh·es, pour out their watery parts, and thus dropsy
of the nbdomcn and lrgs takes other bi~iou_s persor~s off.. Or ngai.n,
the retention of the elc.•meiJts of tho l.Hlc m the CirculntlOn, entail-
ing the otiicc of their elimination on some othet· organ, the kid-
neys in this manner become diseased, refuse their onicc, and thus
dropsy l!f tlte head, chcst,-uni,·ersal dropsy in short,-kills the
patient by apoplexy or suffocation. Or finally, the want of bile,
added to the wretched !:ltnte of the stomach which attends it, so
deteriorates the blood-making process, that the body sinks from
mere atrophy, the clements waste it, nnd it goes out, as a candle
deprived of air.
I have been speaking of liver disease as it originates from ini-
tations applied to it through the medium of the stomach. But it
may be well to mention another moLle in which it may originate.
\\
1
hen, from organic disease of the /:,:art, the passage of the mass
of blood from the liver upwards through it is impeded, thnt blood
returns upon the liver, is retained therP, and prorluces all the
evils that congestion or itTitn.tion r1f its tissue entails. This, of
course, is a case quite out of the reach of any renwdial measures.
There is another condition in which the liver fails to secrete bile:
which has no immediate reference to irritation of the organ- 1
allude to the state of ancemia, or bloodlessness. \Vhen from any
cause the body has been drained of its nutritive liquid, and all
the functions languish in consequence, the liver sharC's, of course,
in the deficiency : deficient blood is here the cause of deficient
bile. How, then, can urging of the liver with mercurials be
justified in such a case 1* Yet it is very commonly done, to the
further draining of the body and wasting of the patient, the want
of bile increasing with the means tr.ken to produce it. The fi>lly
and superfluousness or the proceeding is the more flagrant here,
* A medical acquaintance, in a state of exhaustion, complained of this
to me on one occasion, and told me he could not get bile, take blue pill as
he would. I referred him to his bloodless skin and thready pulse, and
asked where the blood was whence the bile was to come? This had never
oc_curred to him~ and astonished him much. However, he came to agree
w1th me, that d1gested mutton chops were, in his case, much more anti-
bilious than the blue mercurial.
DISORDERS OF THE .LIV,gB. AND DUODENUM. 121
u there is not one symptom of biliousness, save the non-appear-
ance of bile in the evacuations.
Much of what has been said concerning the liver, applies to the
chronic inflammation of tlte duodenum. There are the same
derangements of the biliary secretion, at first excessive, afterwards
deficient, but always more or less vitiated,-the same sympathetic
pains of the head and right shoulders, the same disorders about
the lower bowel, the irritability or indifference of mind, &c., &c.,
according to the phase of the irritation which obtains in the differ-
ent degrees ofliver disease. In fact, the duode'1lum. is at once the
exit from the stomach and the entrance to the liver, whose great
duct, down which all the bile pours, empties itselfinto it. hrita-
tion applied to the orifice of that duct is like the same applied to
the throat: irritate the throat with a feather, and you sicken the
stomach ; inflame the mouth of a gall-duct at the duodenum,
and you excite the liver on its minutest secreting extremities.
There are a few symptoms, however, which mark this disease as
distinguished fmm liver disease alone. I. Some time-generally
about two hours and a half-after a meal there is nausea or actual
vomiting: this is due to the passage of the first chime through
the inflamed duodenum into the small bowels: being the exit
from the stomach, the excitement produced in the morbid part by
this passage, throws the stomach into a state of convulsive action.
2. Again, the mental irritation from duodenitis, before it has
caused biliary congestion, is extreme, and incessant: the fiend of
quarrelsomeness seems to have entered the patient, and taken
possession of him: his mind is one universal sore. The first
years of NAPOLEON's residence at St. Helena gave abundant
evidence of this : he found insult and outrage in everything.
'' A bust denied, a book refused, could break
The sleep of him who kept the world awake."
And all this time the slow process of duodenal irritation was
laying the foundation of those organic changes in itself, the
stomach and the liver, that were to lay him low-changes which,
I hesitate not to say, after a perusal of the details of his treatment
from beginning to end, were hastened, and all chance of avoiding
them removed, by that treatment. 3. At all stages of duodenitis
there is more or less tenderness over the region of the organ, that
is, a little to the right of and below the pit of the stomach, and
deep down upon the spine: and as the disease proceeds, a dis-
7
)22 DJSORDEBS OF THE LIVER AND DUODENUl\1.
tinct feeling of a tumor is added to the tcnde~ness, bespeaking
the gorfTinO' of the whole of this short bowel with blood, or even
its orgn~lic
0
change. 4. The form of the freces is ~cc_uliar, !he
cy Iinder being very narrow and flattened, a peculmn_ty.w~tch
,·aries with the decrease or exasperation of the duodenal untatton,
as confirrned by the :;;ubsiuence or increase of the other symptoms.
It would seem as if the disease in the upper bowel caused sympa-
thetic spasm, or tumefaction of the lower one. 5. The duodc~wl
(;ouglt is very striking,-cspecially to the drum of the car, on wluch
it rings bard, sharp, shrill, yet deep. That it is duodenal may be
rcatlily proved by pressing on the bowel in quC;:stion, ·wlJCn the
cough will be instantly produced.
Stl'angC', that this frequent, formidable, intractable disease,
should pass unnoticed by so many English medical authors. Yet
so It JS. You will seck in vain for it in our standard w01·ks on
Practice of Physic. The fact is, tbat it is constantly spoken of
and treated as liver disease : whereas I would rather undertake a
dozen cases of the latter than one of dztoclenilis, so practical do I
hold the difference between them to be. It is possible by regulat-
ing the quality of the dit:t, &c., to afford the liver some rest;
but for the duodenum then~ is no cessation of irritation : chyme,
mostly of a morbid kind, is passing through it eighteen out of the
twenty-four hours: its own malady excites the liver to pour out
bile, frequently of an acrid kind, into its diseased cavhy: the
stomach, extended with food or ail·, or moving in the act of diges-
tion, draws it mechanically in one direction ; the vermicular
motion of the small bowels dtaws it in another; and it lies
close down upon the hard, unyielding ~pin£>, w.ith a weight of
superincumbent viscera above it ; so that very little opportunity
of self-restoration is given to it; and it seems altogether unneces-
sary to decrease its chances of this by passing purgati\'es of all
kinds over its sore and irritable sul'f~lCe, as is commonly done.
But, as has been obsen·ed, the disease was scnn.:ely known to
the English medical world until a very few ycal's ago. The
French recognizt.:-d it as an important malady twenty years since;
and I was the first to give a detailed account of this and other
chronic malatlics of the digcsth·c surface, as delivered from the
lips of the great Broussais.* I believe that very many persons
• See my translation, with notes, of his " Lectures on General Pathology
and Therapeutics," in the " London Medical and Surgical Journal"
1835·36, of which I Wa3 at that time co-editor. '
DISORDERS OF THE LIVER AND DUODENUM. 123
who treat themselves for disordered liver labor under this more
dangerous malady : I have found several who announced them-
selves as "liver patients," but proved to have chronic duodenitis.
Is chronic inflammation of the duodenum curable 1 The an.
swer is rerrulatcd as in disease of the liver : irritation, inflamma-
o
tion, congestion, and tumefaction of the organ arc curable : not
so the enlargement and hardening of it. The two first stages
arc coincident with ordinary biliousness, with excessive bile: the
two next with the vitiation and deficiency of bile, though not in-
variably: and the last with utter stoppage of the bile, the waxy
lip, the bloodless, dropsical skin, and other signs of lapsing vitality
and aJ'fested nutrition. The fatal terminations resemble those of
liver disease : in fact, duodenitis kills by disorganizing the liver.
The TREAT~lENT OF LIVER DISEASE and DUODE~ITIS varies with
the stages. Common biliousness, with bitter rising, &c., is best
treated by hot fomentations over the pit of the stomach and liver,
continued for an hour every night; by the long sitz bath; wet-
sheet rubbing ; and the compress over the regions just named,
changed every two or three hours. The quantity of water for
drinking should not be large, as much water rather excites the
liver; only a small quantity at a time should be taken. The
food should be chiefly farinaceous, and sparingly given ; it should
be quite free from any fatty material; milk should be avoided, as
the clot it makes in a bilious stomach is exceedingly solid; the
exercise should be moderate, and the mind should avoid exciting
subjects and objects. The aim of all this is to reduce excessive
action, a state borrlering on the acute, and for the most part con-
nected with a highly nervour;; disorder of the stomach. The fo-
mentations do it by drawing blood to the exterior opposite to the-
irritated parts. The sitz bath acts by derivin~ blood from 1 1 •
upper to the lower organs of the abdomen. The wet-sheet rub-
bing soothes, by taking the caloric from the nerves of the skin,
which is very irritable in the bilious state; and by doing so, tends
to quiet the excitement of the brain, also attendant on that slate.
The frequently changed compress produces a frequent revulsion
of blood to the surface, diminishing the febrile heat within. The
ner\·ous condition of the digestive organs will not allow of large
draughts of water, both because their bulk is irritating, and be.
cause they especially excite the liver. Animal food being too
stimulating, and succulent vegetables being generative of strong
bile, the farinaceous are used as least exciting, both from the
124 DISORDERS OF THE LlV.ER AND DUODENU.l\1.
small quantity of nutriment they contain, a~d thei~ sli~ht action
on the liver: fatty matters having an exce.ssl\"e ac.uon m t~e co~­
trary direction. The sympathy between the lH'i.Uil an? liver 1~
one of the stron(l'est in the body, and, as hus been saJ(I, strong
passion is a ver; common cause of a bilious attack. Hence in
chronic biliousness, the activity of the brain, as shown in great
amount of ~xercise, and in the consideration of exciting subjects,
should be avoided.
Such is the style of water treatment in ordinary cases of chronic
biliousness, where the irritation is general1y ofa nervous character,
but sometimes also of the mucous kind, or where duodenal irrita.
tion prevuils. Of course, variations of management occur with
slightly varying indications; such as great hcudachP, when foot-
baths are necessary, or great febrile heat, when the wet-sheet
packing will be necessary, &c. \Vith regard to this last named
remedy, I must state that I have not found it of good effect in the
general run of these cases, except in the instance just mentioned;
it appears to augment the tendency to headache, to enfeeble the
head, in fact ; the hot fomentations answer better, a tumbler of
water being sipped whilst they are going on. Scrofulous and
languid temperaments require modification of treatment also;
but such are rarely seen to suffer under this sort of liver com-
plaint. The great point is to rest the nerves of animal and or.
ganic life, and gently to aid them, by the appliances of the water
treatment.
But it is otherwise when the liver has reaclu'd the point of
torpid congestion, of obstructed function. The object, then, i~ to
rouse it, on the one hand, and to effect a powerful div<'rsion in its
favor, on the other; taking care, meanwhile, that neither in doing
the former, nor in rousing other organs in the lattcr,fcbrile ex-
citement be allowed to predominate. Excitement of a 'lle.n:ous
kind always attends more or less the successful treatment of this
case, for it is through the instrumentality of the nervous system
that the efforts at self-restoration are made ; and this 1wrvo~s ex-
citement produces phenomena of various kinds. Sometimes,
when, as a result of the water treatment, the obstructed liver
begins to be roused to action, the patient experiences dyspeptic
symptoms such as he had not hitherto felt; there is heartburn,
swelling after eating, extreme flatulence, even tenderness of the
pit of the stomach,-all indications that the organic nerves of the
digestive apparatus are laboring under unusual excitement, and
DISORDERS OF THE LIVER AND DUODENUM. 125
that the brain, too, is roused to a recognition of what is going on.
At other times, this last-named organ, the brain, becomes the seat
of such phenomena of excitation, and the patient, whose torpid
liver had hitherto stupified his brain, and rendered him nearly
insensible to everything, finds himself nervous, almost hysterical-
ly sensitive tQ every wind of circumstance. I shall speak of this
more at length in the succeeding part; it is alluded to here in
order to explain the difficulties which attend the treatment of con-
gPsted liver, and the necessity now and then of varying it, and
sometimes suspending it for a period.
Another consideration attaching to the treatment of congested
liver is the presence or absence of duodenal irritation, and, if
present, of its character and duration. If coeval with, or antece-
dent to, the liver derangement, the same treatment may be fol-
lowed for both. If it is of more recent commencement (and
sometimes duodenitis succeeds, instead of preceding, liver disease),
and therefi)rc in the active inflammatory stage, modification of
the plan against the liver becomes necessary.
A third consideration is the condition of the brain ns regards
apoplectic fulnPss; and this is a very disagreeable complication
to deal with, retarding, as it does, the active treatment necessary
for the reduction of biliary congestion.
Congestion is the stage of liver complaint which is by far the
most frequently presented for treatment by the water cure, the
patients having passed through the previous stages, and been
hastened towards this by the medicinal means I have already
mentioned, before coming to Malvern. The treatment com.
monces well with a day or two of wet-sheet rubbing, in order to
excite and prepare the torpid skin. After this, if there be
duodenal irritation of recent origin, it is well to pack in the wet
sheet each morning, and to foment with hot water each night for
a short time, until tho tenderness over that organ, and the other
signs of its active disorder, be subdued. From the commence-
ment, however, there should be excitation of the skin with the
sheet-bath three or four times a-day; and the abdominal com-
press should be worn, and frequently changed, day and night.
'Vater should also be copiously drunk, beginning with six or
seven, and getting on to ten or twelve tumblers daily. Jn very
old cases, much more than this is required, and a good part of it
should be taken before breakfast. In the majority of cases, this
preparation with wet-sheet packing is not requisite for mol"e than
126 DISORDERS OF TilE J.IYER AND DUODENU.l\1.
a few days, in order to carry off sm~e _tri~ing feve.ris~ness of
action, the result, mostly, of the late 1rntatmg mcdacatlon and
diet to which the patient has been subjected ; and the. t~m~:ary
relief it affords is great. But to contin~e it would be InJU~lclous,
as it is a Iowcri1w rather than a rousmg process, reducmg the
activitv of the ner~ous and circulating systems. Sweating is the
naturai relief of congested li\·er; and as the principle of the
water treatment is to imitate and aid nature, that process of the
treatment should be employed so soon as all considerations regard-
incT the duodenum and head are removed. For this congestion
0
and torpor of the liver is very often accompanied by tendency to,
if not aetual apoplectic fulness of the brain; in which case, also,
preparation for the sweating must be made by the wet sheet,
fomentations, low diet, and only a sparing fJUantity of water to
drink. The pulse and other signs evincing a safe state of the
head, we proceed to sweat the patient every day, or every second
day, according to the powers of the brain and circulation to bear
it ; it must not be allowed to excite either to excess; and it is the
physician's part to watch this well. Giddiness and tension of
head, and palpitation of heart, require temporary suspension
of the S\veating and water drinking. Slight accessions of fever-
ishness may be produced by the treatment, and these are to be
quelled by a wet sheet or two, and by fomentations. All this
time, the sitz bath should be taken in its derivative character, for
twenty, thirty, or forty minutes, once or twice a day. Passing
headache is to be met with foot baths, &c., &c. Thus the treat-
ment goes on; and in the course of a per·iocl var
·y ing in different
individual:,, the douche is added, and gradually curried to the
extent of six or eight minutes. The abdominal compress is worn
day and night; a considerable quantity of d r·y friction with
brushes, &c., should bo used over the limbs and abdomen after
each process.
The diet in hepatic congestion should, as a general rule, be
devoid of fatty and spicy materials, because, ulthouah such
things stimulate the liver, the object of cure is to make it~ct with-
out such tcmpomry expedients of stimulation. A little more
latitude in taldng of vegetable mattet·s may be allowed; cauli-
ilower, young peas, and Jerusalem artichoke beino- admitted in
a~dition to the farinacere. But as in the former ~hase of li'ver
dtscase, bulk must be avoided; thereforP, if some farinaceous
pudding Lc taken after meat, both must be eaten sparingly.
DISORDERS OP THE LlVER AND DUODENUM. 127
For the rest, paste in any shape, fried meats or vegetables, duck,
goose, anti twiee-cooked food, are inadmissible. Hot liquid and
milk are bud ; still, upon the whole, thn rules of diet arc not ex-
ceedingly string,~nt as to quantity in this malady, and therefore
the rule as to eJ:ercise is to walk as much as possible, short of
feeling fittigue at the pit of the stomach. Even violent exertion
is good, the airn being to relieve the swollen torpor of an internal
solid organ, and this being assisted much by expediting the whole
cireulatiou of the body.
Indeed. such i.s the aim of the entire treatment. The sweat-
ing hoth causes a diversion in favo1· of the liver and quickens the
circulation throU£!h it. The douche docs the like, vehemently
ruusing the activity of the heart and exciting the sldn. The
long sitz bath dnt\\ s blood down from the upper organs of diges-
tion, and nece:-;::,itutt:s a long and brisk walk aftpr it; the dry
frictions arc artificial exercise as regards the circulation. Last,
not least, co.nc the large doses of water, the effect of which is to
hasten those chrmges of the vital chemistry which shall both
quicken the circulation of the blood and change its mass, render-
ing it more fit for the secretion of healthy digcstiYe liquids.
The crisis of the first phase of chronic hepatic disorder is
most t:ommonly bilious vomiting or diarrhrea, or both; sometimes
slight and long continued, at others, sudden and great. Glutin-
ous and ill. sn;clling sweatings at night not uufrcqucntly accom-
pu ny litis ~ignal of relief in the liver. Of the swollen liver, the
cuu1mon crbis is of IJoils, occasionally over the region of the liver
itself: gentle hut continued purgation of the bowels attending
tlwnt. But both mPy go off with vet·y large frecal evacuations
only, di~enscd in character at first, lmt gradually improving; not
at all It o:,e in consbtcncc, but small in calibre at first, and gra-
dually augmenting iu cyliudrical volume.
The palliation-for cure is out of tile question-of the cnlnrged
and hardl'1:crllivcr consists in artificial sweating, repeated as fre-
quently t.s the head will allow, a great amount of dry friction of
the whole Lody, nnd copious water drinking. It is wonderful
how much the S\\ eating relieves for a time. Under its influence,
I have seen n hard and contracted liver nfiord si,rns of some sliaht
1':1 0
secretion in the frucal matter, which the same sweating very often
causes tltc uowels to secrete and excrete. This retards the cer-
tninly fntnl termination of this form of organic liver disease, and
l~eeps off some harassing symptoms. Beyond thi~, it is impossible
128 DISORDERS OF THE LIVER AND DUODENUM.
to proceed, whatever cnth usiastic writers on the water-cure may
assert.
CASE VJ.-NERVOUS DISORDER OF THE LIVER..
A middle-aued uentlcman, who, fifteen years before, had been subjected
to two sever; co~r~es of mercury, for a syphilitic affection, had, since
that time, been a prey to a train of bilious symptoms, generally exas-
perated once in two or three \Yeeks into the form ~f inten.se headache,
which prostrated him for two cr three days. The ordmary s1gns changed
frequemly in degree, and now and then left him altogether for twelve or
eighteen hours, or, at lea~t, were 80 slight, comparatively, as not to be
complained of. GrPat appetite, especially for snch improper things as
the burnt part of meat, fat, &c., consiJerablc thirst, clear, fiery-red tongue,
bitter tastE>, foul breath, sore throat, heartburn, acid and bitter risings,
tenderness of the pit of the s~omach, irregular uowels, varying urine, dry
hot skin, esrecially of the paims of the hand~, florid complexion, red nose,
emaciation, sleeplessness, and great irritability of temper,-these left no
doubt of the existence of chronic nerrou.o.; irritaJion rf the lir-er. The re-
mission of more or fewer of the symptoms, and the exaggeration of them
all, from time to time, in the intense headache, which itself terminated
in bilious vomiting, came in confirmation of the nervous character of the
malady. l\Iorcover, as is usually the case, the signs of dyspepsia at-
tended; that form of dyspepsia which is so frequent a result of mercurial
medicines. He had had these disagreeables to some extent for fifteen
years, but for the last four years, they had become so intense as to dis-
able him from busine::s, from. which he had been, accordingly, obliged to
withdraw.
Nightly fomentations of the abdomen with hot water, wet-sheet rub-
bings twice a day, a sitz bath of half an honr once a day: the use of the
compress frequently changed, and about six tumblers of water daily, con-
stituted the active treatment for nearly three weeks. The food was con-
fined to the farinacere and bread, the latter being eaten with ,·ery little
butter. Exercise was limited to half an hour three times a day. The
eficct of this became very e\"ident in the paling and shrinking of the face,
the reduction of the sore throat, the diminution of appetite and thirst, and
the improvement of the sleep and temper-the latter not much, however.
Desides which, no violent headache had Rnpen·ened; and the patient,
though feeling himself weaker, felt himself quieter. The fomentations
were continued, the cold shallow bath in the morning was substituted
ior the rubbing-sheet, and in place of anything else, two ]ong sitz baths
were taken. I advi::;ed him to try to take more water, and impro\'ed the
diet by the addition of some meat at dinner every second day. Exercise
was augmented. By these means, the bowel:; were made to act more
regularly, the bile always appearing in them, in~tead of caprictously, aR
heretofore. Desirons to bring all the anti-in·itativc means of the water-
DISORI>Blt~ OF THE LIVER A~D DUODJo;NUl\I. 129
treatment to vlay, I tried the wet-sheet packing, but it produced one of
the violent headaches, followed by copious \·omiting of bile, which, though
it left the patient better, so disheartened him: that I did not again give
it, hut tried the towel packing in front. This suited very well, and as-
sir;;tcd the fomentations in reducina the nervous irritation of the lh-er.
0
'Viti. the:::c two remcd:c::; for ~eJativc~, with the sitz baths for derivatives,
the diet regulated so a:s to oppress the stomach and excite the liver as
little tts po.siiJlc, the water drinking to cool the stomach and dilute its
contPnl:-:, the <
"ompre3:-. to countera.ct and soothe the irritated nerves
\v·ithin. aud t!Je excrci.:se sufficient to waste the food and prevent reple-
tion \\ ithout :siraiuing the uenons syt>tcm, t1Ji~ patient, in the course of
frmr IIH>nt hf.l, rccorercd a state of health to which he li:ul l)ccn a. stranger
for nearly fifteen y~an;. During tlw treatment, hu had only one head-
ache, induced hy the wet-sheet packing; and since he left .l\Ialvcm, now
• tltirteen months, he has ouly experienced ~·light headache on two occa-
sions, once aftcl" fimr glas~e~ of \\·inu (prolnbly of a b:td kind), and an-
other time in :1 hot room. \\'hibt here, nuder active treatment, he had,
~cveral times for SC\'Cra1 o:tys together, ri:::.ings of mouthfuls of bile, and
also c.l tys uf turbid urine loaded w.ith salts : but except the~e, he testified
no critical action, and the di~case seemed to disappear by a simple altera-
tion of the nervous influence communicated to the liver.
This is an illustration of the ordinary " biliousness" for which
such arna~ing quantities of mercurials, tonics, alkalies, greasy
food, &c., are administered for successive y ears, without the
smallest nmeliorntion, but with the greatest deterioration, of the
:;;ymptnms. Gradually, the redness of the fucc grows more dim
and dingy, l>ecomes mixed with yellow, the tongue endues a coat,
fixed pain in the right side supervenes, the appetite fails, &c., all
signifying that the livet· is more deeply implicated, and that
mucous disorder, congestion, swelling of its substance, have takeu
pluce. Here is a case in exemplification of this.
CASE VII.-COXGESTED A~"'l) SW'OLLEN LIVER.
A lady. fifty-five years of age, of a llighly ncrvou~, anxious mind and
bilious constitution. became sufficiently disordered iu her dige:-;ti\·e po\''l-
crs to nC'ed medical advice, about three years ago. She was treated
secundum artem for bilious dyspepsia, but went from bad to worse. From
being a plump, rnddy-fa.ced person, she became pufly and deeply yeJlow.
A swtlling under the right ribs was detected by the medical attendant;
appetite was gone ; nausea ince~sant; bowels utterly sealed, save under
the ac.tion of a t:trong aperient ; urine exceedingly seanty, and actually
thickened with a load of salts, urea, and bile, in color and consistence
being Eke a large qunntity of dark clay suspended in a ~maiJ quantity of
7•
]30 DISORDERS OF TJil·: UYER .AND OUODENUM.
. . 1 ad •
water; inc,.ssant fc\'cr. &c. The best London and provmc•a VIce
only sn~gcl~ted fr~sh mcrctlrial::~, which w.ere introduced ~rofusely both
b\· the ~tnmach nnd skiu. with the only eflcct of augmentmg th~ tume-
f~ction cJf tLc )i,•cr, arre~ting tl1~ process of digc~=;tion, and prostratmg the
animal pO\\ c..s.
\ \}'en :-11e came to l\hlvcrn, ~he was under Dr. 'Vilson's care, and
cuutinurd F> fo: ncnrly two months; during which time, as I was told,
the wct-,heet packing w.t~ the principal remedy employed. She did not
flourish under it; on the contrary, it produced violent disorder of the
ncrrous and circulating, as well as the digesti\·e systems, evidenced by
~leeplcs::-ncss, terrors, faintings, vehement flushing and palpitations, and
incessant nausea. And this I have constantly ob~erved in tumefied and
obstructed liver; a very small amount of wet-sheeting is tolerable, only
f'nfficient to reduce some feverish irritation which sometimes exists at
the out~ct of the treatment, when patients come with the effects of stimu-.
lating medicines and diet fresh upon them. This overcome, further
wet sheeting is harmful. The patient was in the disorder I have stated
when she placed herself under my care at the desire of her son, who is
a physician ; and I accordingly undertook the case myself. Vie\\ing it
at once as one of obstructed and oppressed function, I saw the necessity
of abandoning the lowering process of the wet sheet, and adopting that
which ,-.·ould cause a transfer of irritation, and thus bring about a diver-
sion in favor of the oppressed liver. This was to be effected by the
sweating process, which was practised in her case with the spirit-lamp,
the long imprisonment in blankets rendering her nervous. Further, as
there was a good deal of duodenal irritation, and as after the rousing
process of sweating, and the tmavoidable fatigue of digestion, noise, &c.,
during the day, some nervous congestion took place in the ganglions
about the stomach (the invariable result of animal and organic fatigue),
I directed a short fomeutation with hot water to be applied every night
over that region. After the sweating, she was rubbed with dripping
towels. She wore the compress constantly. She drank freely of water,
but in small quantities at once, as flatulence and spasm were easily ex-
cited. Her f00d was farinaceous for the first few weeks, very carefully
given, and as carefully and gradually improved to animal liquid, and then
solid diet; on this score, the utmost nicety was required. Last, not
least, the recumbent posture in bed was strictly enjoined.
Had this lady not been previously exhausted, and rendered exceedingly
nervous by the medicinal treatment and the wet sheeting she had under-
gone, I ~houh.l ha\'e hesitated to enjoin perfect inaction in a case of ob-
structed function. As it was, the smalle~t exertion of the brain sent
~dditional irritation and afllux of blood to the digestive organs; so much
~o, th~t, as I ba~·~ eaid, ~ven the unavoidable excitation of that organ by
swcatmg, the trJfl.mg n01ses about her, and some talking, caused such
afflux towards the close of each day, and demanded fomentation. Rest
of thr. hrain and ~pinal cord: therefore, withdrew a source of irritation
DISORDERS OF THE LIVER AND DUODENUM. Ull
from the morbid organs ; then the sweating transferred irritation
to the universal skin. The compress did the same continuously over
the digestive organs. The nightly fomentations, by dispersing the daily
congestion at the pit of the stomac.h, allowed the brain to go to sleep.
The water cooled and diluted the contents of the stomach, assisting also
the action of the bowels and of the kidneys. The food, from its mild and
slightly nutritious character, gave the digestives but little to do. And
thu~, in every way, opportunity was given for the oppressed organs to
recover their action.
This they gradually did, effecting for themselves, when thus placed in
a favorable position, what all the mercurials had been unable tofurce
them to do. By degrees, the urine altered in quality and quantity, until
the fir:;t wat:~ perfect and the last great. By degrees, too, the fmcal eva-
cuations augmented in cylindrical calibre, in quantity, and from perfect
whiteness, became healthily colored. Then, after some weeks, sponta-
neous sweating came on, and continued profusely each night for two or
three week~. And, as all this was going on, the knotty surface of the
li\·er, and then its size (which reached to the right hip and to the navel),
diminished in proportion; so that at the end of seven weeks, she was
seated in the drawing-room, and three weeks afterwards was driving out
daily. Meantime, also, her appetite and digestive powers had amazingly
increased, and the meat she took once daily, and the farinaceous food she
had in good quantity, were digested without the smallest inconvenience.
From an early date of the sweating, too, the complexion and the eyes,
which were actually of a mahogany color, so charged was the skin with
bile, had commenced to resume their respective white and ruddy colors.
The sleep, with very few variations, was good, and the spirits excellent.
I have given the general treatment adopted; but it must not be sup-
posed that no modification, or even suspension, of it took place all this
time. On the contrary, from time to time, the sweating was reduced to
twice a week; and on one occasion altogether suspended for a fortnight:
this was the period when the spontaneous perspirations were going on at
night, and which were, in fact, critical. Nervous headaches appeared
now and then, requiring the foot bath; and the occasional dryness of
the mouth demanded increased fomentation and water, and decreased
animal food. Bnt when th~ patient was enabled to go out daily, and to
walk for a short time together, the tonic part of the water treatment was
applied more freely ; she took a cold sitz bath for ten minutes twice a
day, and the shallow bath on rising, and at bed-time; the sweating being
reduced to hvice a day. Under this regime, she gained strength and
flesh, and at the end of three months from the time of her coming under
my care, she was enabled to tra\'el upwards of a hundred miles to the
sea coast, where she remained for three months longer, pursuing the
same treatment as nearly as possible. At the present moment, it cannot
be said that the liver is reduced to its natural limits, but it is gradually
tending towards it; and in the meantime, the patient, whose caae bad
132 DISORDERS OF THE J.IVER A~D DUODENUM.
been regarded by her previous medical attendants a~ .necessarily (atal, i&
fully restored to the dutie~ of her position: as the wde of a zeal_ous c~er-
. h · · b" offices to the poor of h1s par1sh
gyman, whose coadjutor s e IS lll IS '
and as the mother of a large family.
Au illustration of another fonn which obstructed liver takes is
given in the following case:-
C.A~E Vlli.-OBsTRUCTED LivEn.
After many years of service in the East and \Vest Indies, the subject
of this case, a military otlicer, returc.ed to Europe, as many do, with in-
veterate dyspepsia and a gorged liver. This last was exhibited in a
mixed pallor and yellowness of the skin, eyes, the very blood-vessels of
which were orange-colored; lips, that were in places of a dirty red; in
Others re:;emblina harll wa..x-candle. The limbs were shrunk, the abdo-
' 0
men enlarged. In th<' state of the bowels, feelings after eating, bitter
taste, &c., the symptoms were those of ordinary biliousness. But the
brain and nervous signs demanded more partic.nlar attention, as they in-
(licated pressure in the head. The f:ight was tormented \vith never-
ceasing black spots, with occasional and momentary extinction, accom-
panied by giddiness. Hissing, clanging, and humming noises invaded
the ears. In the skull itself, duU headache alternated with feelings of
tightness; or, on the other hand, of bursting extension. Sleep fre-
quently stole on him in the day, and was very deep at night, but molested
by dreams. His will was almost extinguished; left to himself, he would
never stir from his chair, and scarcely from his bed. His mind would
have fallen into the same lil'itless state, had not pain and temporary alarm
at the giddiness roused it every now and them ; although occasionally a fit
of almost insane irritability would blaze up for a few hours. The pulse
was generally hard, slow, and laboring, but would sometimes become
quick, simultaneously with palpitation of the hcatt, and also with the irri-
tation of temper. He had neuralgic pains in various parts of the body, but
more especially in the right arm, down to the fingers' ends. Dull, heavy,
but at times also acute pain occupied the region of the liver, which was
somewhat, though not much, larger than natural; it was, however, very
hard to the feeling. There was enlargement of the duodenum, but very
ittle tenderness on pressure. There were large hemorrhoids, but they
did not bleed.
All these symptoms showed two principal points of disease intimately
connected-the liver and brain. The latter, in fact, was threatened
~·ith apoplectic seizure, to be followed, probably, by paralysis. But as,
m the body at large, there was rather a deficiency than a redundancy
of blood, it was plain that the flow towards the head was the result of
the strong morbid sympathy with the liver, and that active lowering
measures, to any great extent, were not indicated. From the occasion-
ally acute pains of the liver and excited state of the mind, it also ap-
DISORDERS OF THE LIVER AND DUODENUM. 133
peared that an interlude of acti\'e inflammation occurred in the chronic-
a~ly inflamed liver, corresponding with increased excitement of the
Circulation in the brai11, and of the temper. The tic pains showed the
continuous organic irritation of the spinal cord; and the piles were evi-
dences of the obstruction otlerP-d by the congested liver to the free
passage of blood from the contents of the abdomen to the heart.
In treating this case, it was essential, in the first place, to remove all
fear on the ~coro of the head; and the means to tlo this were fortunately
tho:,:e adapted fur the reduction of the tendency to the occasional acute
inflammation in the li,·er and duodenum. They conf-iisted in hot fomen-
tations o\·cr the stomach and }i,·er nightly, in wet-sheet packing every
morning, a cold cloth ucing kept round the head the while, in the con-
stant w<'al'ing nnd frc-quent changing of the comp1·cs~, the reduction of
diet to the lea\olt stimulating farinaceous materialR, and the reduction of
the time for sleeping. Vcry little water was given. In the course of a
month, these means had produced the desired result, as far as the soften·
ing of the pulse, the steadiness of head, the dimini:shcd sleepiness,
and calmer temper went. !\either had there been any acute exal'pera-
tion of the chronic disease of the liver and duodenum, which still, bow-
ever, gave a dull pain. The kidneys, previoul'ly inactive: now acted
largely; which was, no doubt, a dh·ersion in favor of the brain. Alto-
gether, in a few days beyond the fir~t month, there existed no reason in
the head symptoms against a more direct attack on the chronic conges-
tion and obstruction, which constituted the main disorder. I therefore
had the patient sweated daily, taking care to have a cold cloth round his
head whilst it was going on. Every fourth day, packing in the wet
sheet took the place of the sweating, in order to obviate any tendency
towards the head which might have increased. With a cold cloth round
the head, the patient also took two sitz baths daily of half an hour each.
He was made to walk from ten to twelve miles daily. Animal food was
given him every other day. The quantity of water he drank was appor-
tioned in strict accordance with the condition of the head, and, as fear
for it diminished, the water was increased, until at length it reached
from twelve to fifteen tumblers daily.
Such is an outline of the treatment adopted, and the reasons for it,
which the result justified. The constant diversion from the liver to-
wards the skin by the sweating; the constant action of the copious water
drinking on the liver, on the digestive canal generally, and on the
kidneys ; the daily withdrawal of blood from the upper organs of diges-
tion towards the lower by the sitz baths; added to the stimulus given to
the whole circulation by the great exercise, made this patient a new-
looking man in the course of nearly four months from the commence-
ment of the treatment. At that time, a great deal of com.;titutional dis-
turbance took place--sleeplessness, want of appetite, U.:.c., all which was
t!xplnined iu a few days by the appearance of three boils in different
parts of the right side of the body, which immediately took away the
134 DISORDERS OF 'IUE LIVER AND DUODENUM.
disturbance and brourrht about a better state of the liver, as regarded
pain. Still': the tic p:ins in various parts remaine~; and.it was ~lain
that a good deal of conge::;tive disorder of the laver stall preva1led.
After suspending the greater ~art of the treatment, therefor~, for ten
days, until the boils had cmptted, I recommenc~ the sw.eatmg every
other day, ordered the douche for two ~r thre~ mm~tcs dmly; the two
sitz baths as before; the diet improved mto uatly ammal food; the water
and exercise as before. After thre(> weeks of this brisk treatment, the
piles began to bleed freely, and continued to do so, more or less, daily,
for a fortnight. The effect on the tic pains was immediate; and all the
black spots in the vision, the noises of head, &c., disappeared altogether.
Thus, after having these two crises-boils and bleeding hemorrhoids-
the patient had only left behind some nervousness of stomach, which
required care as to the quantity of food taken-care which he must be
content to exercise for the remainder of his life, fortunate in having
escaped apoplexy, with years, probably, of paralysed helplessness. He
can now walk with any one, does with very little sleep, has a clear head,
a clean tongue, and a temper which is not bilious.
At this point, I terminate the subject of the chronic diseases of
the primary digestive organs. There are several diseases involv-
ing those organs which I do not mention, although I have bad
experience of their treatment by the hygienic water plan. Cases
of water brash, of gastralgia, or tic ofthe stomach, of cltronic heart-
burn, have fallen under my notice,· and been successfully treated.
But they arc only modifications of the conditions which constitute
nervous and mucous dyspepsia; there is still the chronic irritation
of the nervous or mucous texture, in the phases which produce
respectively excessive secretion of mucus, nerve-pain, or spasm
of the stomach ; and to treat of each at length would be book-
making. As it is, I have depicted the chief traits of the chronic
disorders of the organs in question with reference to the practical
differences between them in the treatment; and under one or
other of the heads thus formed, all minor dyspeptic disorders will
range. Nevertheless, every one must expect to meet cases in
which the symptoms of nervous and mucous indigestion, and of
irritative and congestive liver disease, are so comminaled as to
0
defy arrangement, and to require the greatest discriminative and
practical tact on the part of the physician. Into such cases it is
impossible to enter in print, the signs by which they are distin-
guishable being far too numerous and minute for written enume-
DISORDERS OF TllE LIVER AND IfttODENUl\[. 185
ration. By having a clear idea of what constitutes nervous
dyspepsia, as distinguished from mucous dyspepsia, and of irrita-
tive liver disease, as distinguished from congestive disorder, it
becomes more easv to detect, in a mixed and complicated case,
how far the elcme~1ts of any of those states predominate, and to
practise accordingly. For this reason, also, I have given cases
in illustration of each, which are of a grave, and, one or two,
almost desperate character: the differences are thus shown more
prominently. Happily, such serious instances of digestive disease
are not of very ordinary occurrence; but inasmuch as the water
treatment is able for the cure of such, it is certain, on the logical
principle that the mnjor includes the minor, that it is adapted for
the cure of less serious, though perhaps as tedious cases-cases
so tediou~, indeed, that it would be a serious undertaking to write
or read them. 'Ve therefore pass on.
136 DISEASES OF THE SECmWARY NUTRITIVE ORGANS.
CHAPTER II.
DISEASES OF TIIE SECO~DARY NUTRITIVE ORGANS-DIS-
EASES OF THE LU~CS AND HEART.
Rationale of the Secondary Process of Nutrition in the Chc$t-Diseascs of
the Chest in which the '\Vater Treatment is not Curative-Ncr\'ous
Cough-Stomach Cough-Chronic Inflammation of the Air Tubes-
Chronic Bronchitis-Pulmonary Con'5umption, incipient and confirmed-
Palpitation of the Heart-Organic Disease of the Heart.
As changes in the nutrition of parts arc the bases of all diseased
actions, it is physiologically correct to treat of them in the order
of the organs whieh minister to nutrition. Natural as this plan
is, I am not aware of any medical writer who has proceeded on
it; probably (among British authors especially), because the act
of nutrition has been but little thought of, and still less has the
sympathy between that act at the extremity of the body, and the
same at the great centre of the stomach, been sufficiently recog-
nized. But it is my desire to exhibit this sympathy in the strongest
light, and I cannot do so more effectually than by treating of dis-
eases in the train \vhich nutrition takes.
Nutrition begins at the stomach ; there the first step is taken
in the formation of the nutritive liquid-the blood; hence the
name of "primary nutritive organs" l\·
·hich I have given to the
stomach, and to the liver, its coadjutor. These cease where the
absorption of the crude blood, called chyle, takes place-namely,
at the small bowels. This chyle is carried up iuto the heart, and
projected thence to the lungs, where its exposure to the atmo-
sphet·e causes its transformation into fully elaborated blood, fit for
the nutrition of e,·ery tissue of the body. In the chest, therefore,
the second part of the process of nutrition tak{'S place; and the
organs which effect this deserve the epithet of "secondary nutri.
live,~' which I have given them.
. The fact, which every day's experience of an observant physi-
ctan must demonstrate, thnt the liability to disease, the tenacity
to disease, and the curability of diseaf,e, in any part of the body,
NERVOUS COUGH. 1ST
depends upon the healthy or unhealthy state of the primary nutri-
tive organs, has caused me to dwell at greater length on their
maladies than it will be necessary to do on those of other organs.
In fact, many diseases of which I shall have occasion to treat are
merely symptoms of some phase of disorder in the digestive ap-
paratus, to which I shall have constantly to refer. Without this,
there is no sound view of disease; every patient of chronic dis.
order confirms my conviction of this.
Not many chronic lung diseases admit of cure by ihe water
treatment. Considerable relief is obtainable in cases of asthma,
which is connected with a nervous condition of the stomach, and
I have effected so much in three or four instances. But when
mucous and nervous dyspepsia, with, as not unfi·equently happens,
disordered liver, are added to it, even relief is rare and small.
Cases of this ldnd, therefore, as well as any cases where the pa-
tient is past the fiftieth year, or where the disease has existed
more than five or six years, I consider unfit for treatment, and
am in the habit of declining to treat; and I utterly disbelieve the
tales that have been printed about the cure of old asthma by the
water plan. Pulmonary consumption is, of course, incurable ;
but I shall offer a medical curiosity, in the shape of a case where
the water treatment decidedly prolonged the life of the patient, as,
indeed, I have seen it do in two other instances : besides that, by
reducing the hectic, and quieting the nervous system, it smoothes
the path to the inevitable grave. Senile bronchitis, ot· old m.an's
cough, is not a disease for water treatment. The bronchitis con-
nected with organic disease ofthe heart I have somewhat alleviated,
together with the irritability of the heart itsdf; but I apprehend
this is rare. I will proceed, however, to speak of that which is
within the scope of treatment.
§ I. NERvous CouGH.-STol\tACH CouGH.
It has been already stated, that a sympathy exists between the
stomach and the lungs, by virtue both of the continuity of their
mucous surface and the prevalence of the same system of nerves
in each. This nervous connection renders the cause of stomach
caugh sufficiently obvjous. Food irritating the digestive organ,
the branches of the ganglionic nerves convey the morbid organic
sensation to the windpipe, where an irritation is also excited, which
puts the respiratory nerves and muscles into the convulsion of
ISS STO.;\IACH COUGH.
fi 1 It IS•
cough. Hence stomach cough i::; so frequent a ter a mea ·
not, however, requisite that 1ood ~hould ent~r t_he. stomach; c~ugh
is often present whPn that organ in empty. . flu~ Is more especially
when the duodenum is the seat of chrome disease; and when,
therefore, the li\·cr is more or less irritated. I have already re-
marked on this cough (fol. 22). This is the sort of cough which
spi1
·it drinkers have, as '"'·ell as they who usc large quantities of
cavenne ami other hot condiments. .Moreover, acid Rccretions in an
cn;pty stomach, or even flatulence, suffice to produce the sympathy
with the lungs. Nay, the long fasting of the stomach renders it
irritaulc, and thus induces cough. Hence the taking of \'later or
food sometimes stops such cough. When also spirit drinkers have
established a chronic irritation of the stomach, they, at first, are
incessantly clearing the throat, save for a short time immediately
after the renewed stimulus of the alcohol, which seems to dis-
perse the irritation for the time, only to make it worse afterwards;
for, in the end, this clearing of the throat augments into a regular
cough, which also i:s subject to the same itlfluence of alcohol, and
its withdrawal.
But further: with the stomach in a state of irritation, mental
emotions often play an extraordinary part in exciting a cough:
but inasmuch as without such state of the stomach, no cough is
thus caused, it is plain that the mental act tells first upon that
organ, and only mediately on the lungs. Surprise, anger, a pain-
full recollection will do this: and because they do so, the cough
has been called "nervous," whereas it, in truth, acknowledges
the same nwruid origin as that called "stomach," and is to be
trcateu inn similar way. \Ve shall afterwards trace this so-called
"ncnous" cough up to the consummation of pulmonary consump-
tion, the whole proeel:is and its mental excitant forming the too
frequent trugcdy of a broken spirit and bruken heart.
It is not oficn that chronic nervous or :storna<.:h cough is pre-
sented for tnmtment at 1\Ialn~rn : patients have for the most part
passed through it and attained a mo1·e deep seated and serious
implication of the lungs with digestive disorder. I have had,
howeve~·, three or four cases, and I select the worst of them to
illustrate the treatment.
CAsE IX.-STOl\IACH CouGH.
In th~s case the ~atient, a gentleman twenty-nine years old, had in-
dulged m the excessiVe use of hot condiments, cayenne, mustard, horse-
STOMACH COUGH. 139
radish, &c., and had for some time past Jabored under nervous dyspepsia,
with a slight degree of mucous inflammation as well : a state which, be-
getting sinking, gnawing, and craving in the stomach, led to still larg-er
quantities of the:;e dietetic stimulants. He was a man of vi,·id nervous
system and quick sent)ations (as, by the way, most people who desire
highly ~timulating food are). \Vhen, therefore, in the midst of this dys-
peptic !-ilate a severe mental shock came on him, a train of nervous symp-
toms preseHtly appeared. One of these was cough, which, as it persisted
for se\'Cral month~, notwithstanding a \'ariety of treatment, began to be
dre:u.led by himself and his friends as an indication of serious mischief
in the lungs: and as other remedies had failed, water was tried, amid the
jeers and warnings of those interested in him.
It \vas fortunate for this youth that the cough had appeared : for I
found him on the high road to a most serious and inveterate dyspepsia,
which his mode of diet was daily augmenting. 'rhe mucous membrane
was inflamed in the stomach, and vividly at the back of the throat. The
breath was foul, as it generc.11ly is in stomach cough, the tonsils partaking
in the disorder. The cough was convulsive to the last degree, came in
long and frequent 1aroxy~ms, and left his head gorged and aching wiLh
the retention of blood in it. There was not the slightest expectoration :
although occa~ionally the mechanical violence of the cough would abrade
the mucous ~urface of the organ of voice, and cau~e some blood to rise
into the mouth. The stethoscope gave no signs of disease of the air
tubes or spongy substance of the lungs. In short. it was clearly and in-
dubita.bly a titomach cough, which had been considerably exasperated by
the it·ritating medicines, antimony, squills, &c., usuaJJy given for pure
lung coughs, for which it had been mistaken.
The result of the treatment soon showed what it was. The patient
was confined in his diet to farinaceous food, except a small quantity of
chicken every other day; all condiments but salt and sugar were with-
clrawn, as wpJl as all warm liquids : the stomach and bowels were
fomented with hot water every night for an hour: he was pacJwd in the
wet 1-lhcct every morning for the same time, with a cold shallow bath
after it: he wore the abdominal compress day and night: and he drank
seven or eight tumblers of water daily. In ten days the cough was
gone, and has never since re-appeared, although, for want of time to give
to the cure of his stomach, the gentleman still remains dy:spcptic, but to
a much less degree than formerly. For, he learned when at )falvcrn
that drug tonics do not always give tone: that stimulating food docs not
nlways nouri:;h nr ~trcngthen. and that enough of plain nutriment and
pure water carry the body further in power than either. 'fherefore,
although he has not got rid of the old digestive sore, he has taken care
not to increase it.
It is not ,·cry often that a cough is allowed to be a stomach one
at all : and when it is, the medicinal applications generally allay
140 STOMACH COUGH.
it for the time and exasperate its cause in the stomach in the
]ona run. B;t so much is there in words, that "cough" being
pro~ounced ,, lunO's" are also uttered : they are joined together,
treated toae,ther n~d not a thought is given to any other organ in
0 ' • 1
the body. yet for want of this thought many a s1mp e nervous
couah has become an irremediable bronchial, or a fatal tubercu-
lar ~ne. The passage towards these two conditions will be seen
in the two following sections.
§ 2. CHRONIC INFLAl\11\IATIO.:i oF THE AIR TuBES OF THE LuNGs.-
BRONCHITIS.
Nervous or stomach couah would be too trivial a disorder to
0
dwell upon, were it not a sign of morbid sympathy established
between the digestive organs and the lungs. During a period
which varies much according to individual tendencies and some
accidental circumstance~, the sympathy is only exhibited period-
ically, the cough coming and going without any "taking cold,"
but the dyspepsia always persisting. Almost imperceptibly the
patient becomes more susceptible of cold than heretofore : night
air, cold and damp air, change of clothing, &c., bring on cough
which is hard and dry at first, but afterward goes off with expec-
toration, and is accompanied with more or fewer of the usual
symptoms of taldng cold. At this point the nervous cough has
ccaserl, and bronchial inflammatory cough has commenced : the mu-
cous membrane of the air tubes is now implicated. The attacks in
question become more frequent and more prolonged ; for, not only
do~s the extent of the bronchial mucous membrane involved in-
crease, but at each attack the part last affected becomes more
susceptible and Jess tmctable : until at length the inflammatory
action creeping down the tubes takes permanent possession of
their lining membrane, and cltronic broncltitis is established.
\Vhile all this goes on the digestive symptoms have increased,
but are very commonly overlooked, as they were at the com-
mencement, so intent is the treatment on eradicating the cough.
Indeed, they are not only overlooked, but denied at the outset,
simply because the patient can cat, som('timcs voraciously, as in
nervous indigestion : so coarse is the 01·dinary idea of that condi-
tion. NeverthelPss, I maintain that bronchitis in a chronic form
is never established without the aid and concurrence of the stom-
ach and other digestivcs. A man may take cold in the head; it
TH~ AUt TUBES OF THE LUNGS. 141
may c1·eep down into the chest, and thence disappear with ex-
pectoration,-it is an every day fact : but not if there be stomach
disorder ; it then becomes chronic, relaxes with the relaxation of
the indigestion, and augments with its exasperation. The conse-
quence of acting on a denial of this is, that the remedies em-
ployed against the cough feed its maintaining cause in the stom-
ach, and are thus actually increasing the mischief for which they
are given. It is thus that after years of this worse than fruitless
medication, the patient exhibits a complication of evils that is truly
appalling. Not only has he the immediate ills of dyspepsia and
bronchitis, but those arising indirectly from impeded digestion
and respiration. The former will be found in their proper place.
But the difficult breathing acts upon the head by preventing the
free return of blood downwards from it, whereby it becomes
gorged : this is seen in the puffy, turgid, and sometimes purple
faces of patients. In like manner it gorges the liver, by impeding
the return of blood upwards from the abdominal viscera through
that organ, and thus adds to the dyspPptic torments. Nor is this
all : this disorder of the liver leads to general abdominal conges-
tion of blood, which either induces dropsy, or, the blood gravi-
tating to one particular spot, piles and disease of tlte rectum are
gcncrated,-a complication very often seen in old bronchial and
tubercular disorder of the lungs. Finally, the accumulation of
mucus in the air passages prevents the free access of air to the
black blood exposP.d on their surfaces for the purpose of being
changed into arterial, vermilion blood, fit. for the healthy nutri-
tion of the body. That change is imperfectly effected, the nutri-
tion of the body is consequently imperfect also, and the functions
of the organs languish. The vis vita is depressed : the re-active
energy is diminished : and in this state the skin, unable to resist
the agencies of cold, lets in the plagues of rheumatism and other
maladies dependent on alternations of temperature. Hence it is
that old coughs and old rheumatisms so often are found in the
same person. The mischief begins at the centre of nutrition, the
stomach, and travels to its periphery in the skin and limbs.
The facility of expectoration varies with the exasperation, or
otherwise, of the stomach irritation. This being roused by food, or,
what is verycommon in this malady, by mental agitations, the cough
immediately becomes more frequent and more dry, the breathing
more difficult, and what expectorated matter there is more stringy
and tenacious. Under these circumstances I have repeatedly
142 CHRO~IC INFLAMl\IATION OF
tested the oriCJin of these lung symptom!'~ by applying fomenta-
tions to the s~mach only, when they invariably dissipated, which
they failed to do when the same remedy wa~ applied over the
ribs. Beside~, one has only to observe the ncu..l breath and cruc.
tations of persons with old bronchitis, to be assured of the gastric
disorder that accompanies and vades it. I insist upon this fact,
hccnuse it is the ordinary practice to place the digestive organs
oul of the question when lung disease is treated, and thus they
sullcr from the negligence of diet and the activity of the cxpecto.
rants and other irritants given for the lungs : whereas all the
lnngs require is withdrawal from exciting air and reduction of
the rnorbid sympathies transmitted to them from thf' stomach.
There may be one exception to this rule, when the broncltitis is
connected with organic disease of the heart : but even then, who
ever saw organic disease of the heart without deranged digestion 1
nay, this last inval"iably precedes it. Still with diseased heart,
the bronchitis would continue even were it possible (which it is
uot) to abolish the dyspepsia: the heart would be maintaining
cause enough.
Several cases of chronic bronchitis have left mv care cured:
"'
but I prefer to give one, the symptoms of which were far worse
than any of them, and which though, as will appear, consider.
ably relieved and indeed arrested in its fatal career, is not now
nor ever will be totally cured, thanl<s to excessive medication.
CAsE x.,-CHRoNw BnoNcntl'Is-
Is one of a gentleman, forty-eight years of age, in very extensive
business in the city of London, and who, being highly esteemed by hie
fellow-citizens, has had much to do in civic transactions. Between the
private and the public occupations, his stomach began to be disordered
eight or nine years ago. He acted as usual, took physic, worked on, broke
down again, physic again, and so on. At length dry stomach cough
commenced,-the morbid sympathy of the diget:ti,·e ganglionic nerves
had involved those of the windpipe. Cough medicines were given:
more ::o:tomach disorder, more cough. He took cold, as dyspeptics readily
do: acute bronchitis came on, was vigorously treated secundum artem,
and subdued : but,-and here is the point.-having a bad stomach, it
was only subdued into a chronic form. This went from bad to worse,
notwith:;t..'lnding a fearful quantity of doctoring, until the question aro~re
whether he would not be utterly incapacitated for business. He was
sent from home hither and thither: and at length came to Malvern:-
not with the intention of trying the water treatment, against which he
TilE AIR TUBES OF THE LUNGS. 143
had been specially warned. I saw him once, examined his state accu-
rately, and told him how the whole mischief had begun, progressed, and
would end, if not attacked at its source. That I should give him his his-
tory instead of receiving it, inspired him with sufficient confidence to
brave the warnings of friends and physicians, and after a brief time
to arrange matters in London: he returned to Malvern, for water treat-
ment.
It was high time. Without sleep at night he passed the day in cough-
ing, wheezing, suffocative breathing. He was the' color of whity-brown
paper, emaciated, haggard, his shoulders raised and back rounded with
the efforts of laborious respiration. He had the ordinary ~igns of ner-
vous indigP.stion, with flatulence of a most distrcs:::~ing kind: the appe-
tite generally good, bowels confined, kidneys acting \·cry scantily. Skin
quite without moisture, except some cold damp when the respiration
was more than usually bad. Intense headache from freljttent coughing
and impeded return of blood from the head. 1'he stethoscope gave evi-
dence of bronchial inflammation in every quarter of the lungs, and, in
se\·eral parts, of enlargement of the air tubes. To use the expres-
sion of a medical friend who saw him with me, "there was not a sound
square inch in all his lungs."*
The treatment was simple and uniform. At first he was fomented
morning and evening, and rubbed with tepid wet towels. He wore a
compress on the stomach, and drank a claret glass of water frequently
in the day. By degrees I got him on to bear cold rubbing; then he was
partially packed in a damp sheet; then entirely so, except the feet. The
shallow bath after sheet was taken at about 65'\ ;:;ometimes higher, some·
times lower, as I fou1.d his pulse and his general 8Cnsations. In diet, thP
object was to avoid bulk ; he took meat and bread for dinner, and only brea(l
at his other meals. Very little exercise was possible for some time, even
had it been desirable, which it was not; he drove out occasionally, and sat
• The medical friend alluded to is a physician of great attainments and
practice in London. Visiting me for a f~w days, he, in the course of con-
versation about the water cure, of wl1ich he had seen nothing, told me I
"daretl not apply the wet sheet in lung disease!." 1\Iy reply was to take
him to sec the subject of thi~ case, who allowed him to examine his chest
(the result being the exclamation above), and goodnaturedly offered, as it
was near the time for his packing, to have it done before him. He cough-
ed before getting in, but a_c;sured my friend that it would cease in three or
four minutl·~ after being packed; which it did. Returning from this scene,
my friend asked me if packing in the sheet was good for an incipient cold.
I told him it would cut it short. " Then I will try it to-morrow morning,"
said he. It was done, presto, and not only dissipated his cold, but opened
his bowels, which had not acted for years without a daily pill. Upon this
1 urged him to stay a fortnight, and continue it and the sitz bath daily.
He did so, and bas never taken medicine for his bowels since If medical
men would but •ee before they assert !
144 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF
in the air a good deal, it being summer time. By watching opportuni
ties aud careful examinations, I wa8 enabled to push the treatment up to
the point of his taking two wet-sheet packings in succession every mor-
ning and e\-ening, with the cold ~hallow bat~ after them. He also at-
tained to six and seven tumblers of water da1ly. He never could bear
the sitz bath, which I tried on several occa~ion~, and at several tempera-
hares ; it always disagreed, bringing on paroxysm of indigestion and dif-
ficult breathing; so I desisted from it, the rather as the bowels, to pro-
mote whose action I had prescribed it, gave way and remained active
always afterwards. He was also very uncertain as regarded the com-
press; at times it would not get warm, at others it became too warm,
and made him restless and nervous. Ever and anon fomentations with
hot water were necessary. All the~e small but really important points
of treatment being closely attended to, the main treatment, the wet sheet-
ing, prospered wonderfully. The fits of coughing diminished more than
one half in number,and much more than that in intensity. His face open-
ed: his spirits rose; his desire for and capability of walking augmented
daily; the indigestions were also much less frequent. There was
not much change in the treatment, except in its increase or decrease,
during the time he remained at 1\Ialvern; and it would be endless tore-
late the circumstances that arose demanding slight alterations. At the
end of four months, this shattered frame, for which the grave was yawn-
ing before he left London, and which had been given up as hopeless of
relief, returned to London strong enough to engage (much against my
advice, however) in the old turmoil of public and private business.
~ince then, nowtwo and a half years, he has persevered inthe regimen, and
occasionally in the active treatmentofthe water cure, giving himselfa wet
sheet or fomentations according to circumstances which I had indicated
ro him in writing. How he has fared since he left :Malvern, and the
upinion he holds concerning his recovery, will be best gathered from the
following extract from a letter which he wrote to me in August, 1845,
in answer to my inquiry whether it was true that he was ill again:-
" You are incorrectly informed as to my health. I assure you, since
my return I have been most decidedly better. I have been obliged to
attend very closely to business, but I am thankful to say I have been
enabled to do so.
"I wish, for the benefit of others, that the water cure was more gene·
rally practi!:led ; the more it is known, the sooner the prejudice that is
now kept up by interested persons would give place to confidence and
restoration of health to many who, like myself, have been the victims
of the drug system. I can, however, enter into the feelings of many ;
~o~ I m~self treated the whole water system as a piece of humbug, and
Jomed m the laugh and ridicule which the mere mention of lying in a
wet sheet produced; and when I first consulted you, at the urrrent ra.
quest .of my brother a~d sister, who had derived great benefi~ I was
told w1th much solemmty by my medical adviser here, 'that if I wu to
AIR TUBES OF THE LUNGS. 145
get into a wet sheet I should not come out alive.' Up to the time I left
Malvern for London I never missed one day (for some months prior)
taking medicine; and you may perhaps remember I had three kinds
carefully prepared for my w~e, in tolerably large quantities,-one to pro-
d~tce sleep, one to relieve a most distressing cough, and the third to
gt\·e tone to the stomach and produce appetite, besides pills to act on
the bowel::, which I was obliged every other day to take. At your re-
quest I 'threw phyl:liC to the dogs,' and it is now more than tu·o years
.··ince 1 hate taken a grain rifany sort or kind of medicine. My general
health is very much better; the compress at all times produces the re-
quired relief of the bowels, and although my cough is 110t gone, it is far
le'·s troubiPsome, anrl r;eldom disturbs me in the night. I had, as you
are aware, four wet :;;hects in the day, and always felt more reluctance
to leave their soothing influence than hesitation to envelope myself;
though to the uninstructed the thought is most chilling.
" If I could detail the complication of ills under which I suffered,
the simple cure would not suffice for most people; and if I can part
with my cough I shall e\'Cr consider it the most fortunate circumstance
of my life that I was induced to place myself under your most judi-
cious and skilful treatment."
Truly this patient had '' a complication of ills;" and although
he has still some cough, because there is organic enlargement of
the air tubes, I have more pride in relating the partial restoration
of such a desperate case, than the total recovery of a dozen
ordinary cases. It speaks volumes in favor of the water cure,
and has confirmed my faith in it more than any I have had.
Under the old medicinal plan, I must have done as the previous
medical adviser of this patient did,-give him up as hopeless.
The means were not in the Pharmacop(J:}ia, and none can be
blamed for that. Not the least pleasure derivable from the suc-
cess in this instance is, that a most estimable man and useful
member of society has been restored to the large sphere of his
utility.
Of brO"nchitis accompanying organic disease of the heart, I
have had three cases, in which the water tt·eatment was decidedly
palliative. In these the partial wet-shc<'t packing was used, with
t. pid ablution after it, and a compres~ was worn over the chest
night nnd day. I mention it here, both because ii. is a means of
smoothing the path of the doomed patient by diminishing the
hara~sinO' couah, and because I would record the perfect safety
0 l:l
of the application ; of which more in another section on heart
disease.
8
146 PUL.l\IONARY c.;O:-iSUl\11'1'ION •
§ 3. PuLl\IONARY CoNsUMPTION
Tubercle or tubercular matter, the inflammation, suppuration,
d 1 ra;ion of which constitute the different phases of pulmo-
an u ce ._
1 • 1
nary consumption, properly~ so callet~,. is a morb1u tissue, t lC
result of morbiu nutrition. fhat nutntwn dates from the stomach
and other digestive organs. Tubercle is never deposited unless
there has been, and is, disordered as~imilation of foorl, imperfectly
formed blood as a consequence of that, and, besides these, sympa-
thetic irritation radiating from the centre ofnutrition to the lungs.
If there be not these conditions, persons may take cold, have in-
flammation of the lungs, which shall dissipate or end in abscess,
but they will not have tubercular deposit. Tlterr. ne~Jer yet was
tubercular deposit with a sound digestion. As in the case of bron-
chitis, this fact has a highly practical influt'nce on the treatment
of persons who are suspected of a consumptive tendency. If the
condition of digestion is to be considered, it becomes a qucstion,
how far it is judicious to coop those so situated in one or two hot
rooms during six or seven consecutive months; whether it is
desirable to send them to the malaria of Rome und the dyspeptic
clime of Italy generally ; and how far the system of high feeding
and tonic mineral waters is effectual. Me judice, neither the
climate of coal-heated rooms, nor the scorching sun and freezing
tramontane of Italy, are at all adapted to overcome that infirmity
of the digestive organs which lays the foundation of tubercular
consumption; neither on the vital nor the chemical theory of life
do we find in these means the remedies for the enfeebled power of
blood-making, whence the morbid deposit in the lungs is traceable.
And as regards the plan of high feeding, the ''beef-steak and
porter" plan (which, by the way, acknowledges the deficient
vitality of the blood), it would be all very well if the stomach
could well digest the food-a question which is begged, but can
by no means be granted; else what necessity were there for the
tonic minerals that have been by many declared the true remedies
for the consumptive tendency, but which, in truth, only afford,
like all medicinal tonics, artificial and temporary energy to the
stomach, to be followed by augmented exhaustion 1
The two first of these means look only to the lungs, to the air
which they are to breathe; the food and physic in the latter have
reference to the stomach digestion only. Now, from what pre-
cedes, it is plain ' .1t both require attention, and the way to regard
PULI.\IONARY CONSUl\IPTION. 147
them is as two processes :)f digestion ; one, of food in the stomach ;
the other, of atmospheric air in the lungs. A physician of tact
would give the stomach just so much as, and no more than, it
could transform iuto healthy chyle. He would also measure the
capabilities of the lungs to analyze or digest the air presented to
them; and he would always bear in mind, that in each of these
organs there was a standing irritation, liable to be exasperated by
overworking of the function of either. Further, he would
endeavor, on the one hand, to diminish this irritation, and at the
same time to increase the extent, as well as impro,·e the charac.
tcr, of the digestion. Thus, he would keep down irritation in
both organs ; he would adapt the food and air to the power of
each, endeavoring to augment that power in both ; and as a
result, he would cause the production of a better blood, and have
it better distributed, instead of congesting in the two localities.
Suppose him to do all this, he will retard incipient consumption,
and postpone for some time the inevitably fatal event of confirmed
consumption. All medical men know that, so long as tubercle
remains unintlamed, it is harmless, and that it may remain so for
years; and the deposition of tubercle is synonymous with
incipient consumption.
Here is a case illustrative of the value of the water treatment,
in that process of gastric irritation which bears upon the lungs
with destructive tendency. On the one hand, the stomach irri-
tation arrests the monthly evacuation from the womb; and, on
•
the other, radiates towards the lungs, being joined by the addi.
tional irritation proceeding from the stoppage of the evacuation
in question. Between the two, the lungs are pretty certain to
become consumptively diseased, if the original disorder be not
arrested, as it was in the following case. Even as it is, I strongly
suspect the presence of minute patches of tubercles in the lungs
of this patient; but they are certainly not inflamed nor softened;
and, meantime, the process by which they are formed is no longer
in action.
CAsE XI.-THREATEIUNG CoNsUMPTIVE DISORDER OF THE LUNGs.-
INTENSE STOMACH IRRITATION.
The age of the poor woman in this case is thirty-two. She had
abundance of domestic troubles, privations, and ince~sant labor ; the
consequence of which was exhibited, fifteen months ago, in the appear-
ance of pawing at the stomach, distleaaio.g sinking sensation there, and
148 PTJLl\tO~AR y cONSU)lPTION •
tro 1 'tat' r tlte ltcart She had no appetite, but the craving
s ng pa p• 1ons o ' · . . .
d · k' bl'cred her to be c.:onstantly puttmg somethmg mto the
an sm mg o •t:> , ') bo 1 · r:
t ) ·l · h ancrmcnted the mi5chicf. 1 1e we s were 10 per,ect
s omac 1, \\ uc t:> • • l
order. She fonght, as l"he bc8t coulc.~. agau1st the dtscasc fort u.ee months,
by which time u10 monthly c~ acuat10n had cca.,cd. Upon tlus, and the
comincr on of cough and prolusc sweat~. ~he went to an apothecary nea,.
'Vorc~!:'tcr, who gave her drops, which, she sayro:, .: made me much worse.''
Jlowe,T
cr, she took drops and other physic for three month~, when: find-
ingall her bad symptoms on the rapic.l increase, she quitted the apothecary,
and for two months allowed matters to go on as they would. 'rhreo
months over, she came to me for advice.
I found a pale, ghastly, and emaciated woman; the skin constantly
bedewed with sweat, which at night streamed from her; strength gone;
pulse small, sharp, and beating 125 in the minute ; the heart making
frequent and violent leaps in the chest; breathing as short and bad as it
could be; cough hard, dry, incessant; tonglle fiery red, clean, and swol-
len ; feet swollen, and pitting on pressure ; bowels right ; no menses for
more than nine months; very little sleep. The old gnawing, craving,
and sinking at tlie stomach were worse than ever. The stethoscope
showed very feeble respiratory power all 0\~er the lungs, and great indis-
tinctness of it in two places, at which spots I believe that tubercles exist
in a crude state.
I had a bad augury of this poor woman, and it was not with any great
expectation of benefit that I desired her to pursue the following treat-
ment :-To pack the trunk e\·ery morning in a towel wrung out of cold
water, for three-quarters of an hour; to follow it with rubbing in the
dripping sheet, cold ; to take a cold sitz bath for a quarter of an hour
once a day; to wear a compr;ss over the ~tomach day and night; and to
drink four tumblers of water daily. Her diet was re~tricted to bread and
butter, and farinaceous food of different kinds. She has not tasted animal
food since she first saw me. She has continued this plan for nearly six
months, and has seen me three or fo11r times in that Fpace ; but, finding
her getting on well, I did not disturb the plan she was pursuing. The
sweatings were the first to diminish; next, the gnawing and craving of
the stomach disappeared ; the cough is quile gone-not a t·estige if it re-
maining; and during the last three months she has been steadily gaining
flesh. The breathing is strong enough to allow of her going well up a
hill, and the respiratory murmur given through the stethoscope is much
stronger. But in the former spots, where it was wanting. it is still de-
ficient; and thi::; confirms my belief that tubercular deposit exist:; there.
~he is saved, however, from pulmonary consumption, which sooner or
later was inevitable, when such intense morbid sympathies were all fixing
on the lungs together.
I am not about to say that, in the water cure, the means exist
of curing either incipient or confirmed consumption; such means
PULl\IONARY CONSUMPTION. 149
exist in no plan of treatment hitherto advanced; but, looking to
the aims just detailed, I know they may be, in great degree, ful.
filled, by a hygienic system of management. Thus the wet.
sheet packing, and the compress, arc adapted to allay irritation,
both in the stomach and lungs. The shallow and sitz baths, with
moderate water t.Jrinking, give tone to, and augment the digestive
power of the stomach, Lcsides aiding a better distribution of blood
to the surface. In fact, the quantity of aliment that may be
digested, without distrcs:c:, too, under this regime, is sometimes
cnormouE. All this is assisted by exercise. The lungs, mean-
time, being filled by an atmosphere which should be dry, and not
at any time below 4f>0 of Fahrenheit, and never range further
than thence to 60J in winter, would receive but small irritation
from vicissitude of climate (and it is variation more than co1clness
that harms), at the same time that the irritation, coming from the
stomach, would be diminished; so that thci 1· local excitement,
whether of a tuberculat· kind, as in incipient consumption, or of
an ulcerative kind, as in confirmed consumption, would at least
be modified, and its results prolonged. But in following such a
system, the greatest discrimination and tact is demanded, both as
regards the water processes and the other hygienic means. It
were impossible to go at length into the minutire of the subject;
and I would repeat that, although I know from the experience of
two cases, that incipient consumption has been retarded for more
than two years, it is altogether incurable by water, physic, or any
other known treatment. Neither the unintlamed tubercle can be
rrrnoved, nor the ulcerated cavity it has left, healed :
" u~ret lateri lethalis arundo,"
not to be withdrawn by human art. Yet I am so convinced that
the judicious use of the water treatment reduces the harassing
wils of consumption, the hectic, sweatings, bad sleep, and languor,
and prolongs existence to some extent, that I have judged it pro-
per to make these remarks, although they are not apropos to cure.
But is it not gain to be spared even a little of the stupor of opiates,
the exhaustion of bad sleep and sweatings, which are the "heavy
day on day" of patients in consumption 1 That these can be in
great measure a\'oided, notwithstanding the unceasing onward
progress of the miserable malady, is shO\vn in the following ex.
traordinary case, with which I close the subject :-
150 PULl\IONARV CONSUI\IPTION •
CAsE XII.-PuLl\lONARY Cosst'.l\IPTION.
A lad • aged twenty-five, three of whose sisters bad died or
young Y' M 1 · D be 1842 d
tubercular consumption, came to a vern m ~cern r, , an was
vh;ited by Dr. \Vilson and m~sel.f. \Ve as~ertamed by the stethoscope
that there was ulcerated ca.v1ty m the.left.s1de of the lungs, as .large as
a small orange. This, the only certazn s-rgn of true consumptwn, was
accompanied with cough, enormous expectoration, frequently bloody,
perspirations, aml so forth-signs that may exist without an ulcerated
cavity. In the course of the first three months after she came here, it
happened that four or five medical gentlemen from different parts visited
Mah·ern, and were taken by Dr. \Vilson and myself to examine this
patient. '!'hey all expressed themselves perfectly satisfied that she was
in true consumption, and spoke of her life's duration as probable for from
two to six months. \Ve had her wrapped in the wet sheet every morning;
a cold ablution after it; a cold sitz bath for fifteen minutes twice a day ;
and a cold ablution at bed-time. She wore a compress on the chest
and pit of the stomach ; and she drank seven or eight tumblers of water
daily. Under the operation of this treatment she got rid of all fever; her
rest at night was complete ; her cough became confined to about half an
hour on waking each mrJrning; when, however, she expectorated nearly
half a pint of pus ; the sweatings ceased ; and, from being oppressed and
distressed by food, she came into the most happy ignorn.nce of having a
stomach at all, save by the appetite that took possession of it three times
a day.
A year passed over. In December, 1843, she was more ruddy, more
stout, and more cheerful, than in the previous winter. But the stetho-
scope gave signs of a cavity in the lungs much larger than in the preced-
ing year: the main, the destructive diS('ase was steadily gaining ground,
notwithstanding the wonders the water was effecting in other respects.
The most extraordinary part of the history is, that even at that time,
when the left side of the lungs was nearly excavated, she would rlln up
the .1\lalvern hills with very little shortening of breath; and she could
read or talk for an hour together without cough or distress of respiration.
AH this gave her that hope which attends upon others afflicted with this
deadly malady, who have far less apparent ground for it than she had.
Few in this life were better prepared for another than she was; but this
absence of all bad signs, sa\·c onP1 came in aid of nature's yearnings,
and she clung, with a certain hope, to the prospect of recovery. But it
was vain.
At length, in ApriJ, 1844-seventecn months after her appearance at
1\falvern-she became aU at once nervous, sleepless, without appetite.
Some ga~tric derangement had taken place, and with it her hope fell to
the ground, as it doC's in aiJ stomach di~orders. She spoke of her ap-
proaching cud with the greatest compo.,:;urc, and expressed a wish that it
should take place among her relati\·cs in De\'onshire. Thither she went
PALPITATION OF TBE IIBA.BT. 151
in May, l84l. I gave her directions to foJlow out some parts of the
water treatment not so active as those she had already pursued. She cor-
responded with me on the subject of her disease; she rallied repeatedly
both in stomach and hope; sank again; in January, 1845, her letters
bon! the marks of delirium; but she did not sink into death until March,
1845, two years and four uwnths after she had been found to lvzve a large
co1lSt111lptire cadty in the lungs!*
§ 4. P.ALPJTATION OF TilE HE.ART.-0RGANIC DISEASE OF THE
IlEART.
HeLr·rdPn's rcmn.rk on palpitations of the heart, "Aut nulla
rt'qllirtmt, aut omnia t•incunt/' t is more epigrammatic than true,
whL·n tl.e water ~reatment is concerned. Ordinary nervous pal-
pitation does aJmit or cure by thut treatment, and it is of the first
importance trJ cure it. [t is ouly a symptom of irritation in the
great nervous net-work about the stomach, generated by food, by
alcoholic dt inh:s, by mercurial courses, by the presence of worms
in thP digestive canal, by accumulations in the colon, by retention
of the menstrual flux, by mental affcctions,-all acting on the
centre of uutrit~on, whence morbid sympathies are propagated to
the centre of cit·culution, producing irregular action there.
\ Vhet her such aciion owns this source, or is attributable to struc-
tural tliseas~ of the heart, can only be certainly determined by
the stethoscope ; the ': bellows" sound being the characteristic
of ncrt:ous di£onler there. But after all, the malady to be treated
is irritation of the ganglionic nerves at the pit of the stomach.
Accorclingly, the packing with a wet towel down the front of the
• This c:-,~e is gi\·en by Dr. ·wilson, at p. 18 of his pamphlet, entitled
"The Practice of the 'Vater Cure." He there says, "My opinion is, that
reparation will t<.tkc place, and Dr. Gully coincides with me. There is
nothing to pr~vent l1er going on with the treatment, until the desired
re:)ull is ohtained." And again, "The patient was put under a regular
ccllr~c of treatment, atul soon got into perfect health, in which she remains
at this mom,~nt" A:-; I am unwilling to see my name connected with these
statnme!ltl:l, it i.; uec~"S"ary to say, that I never coincided in the opinion that
reparation wo11ld take place,-all along I was convinced to the contrary,
and should b(• in rW.?f c::~se of consumption. As regards D1·. 1V.'s statement
rt•garding the "perfect health"' which this patient had attained, it must be
attributed to want of knowledge on the ~ubject, in consequcn~e of her being
under my l'olc care <luring the last eighteen months of her existence.
Hecor.linb a term; nation so oppo~ite to "perfect health" as I hwe done, it
became necessary tl.us to explain the discrepancy.
t " They either require no remedies or they conquer all."
1;)2 ORGANIC DISEASE OF TilE BEAUT'
t k r. t t' f the Jl.lt of tho stomach with warm, not hot,
run , tomen a tons o · .
t ld ·t d r< ot l>·1tl1s arc the remcd1es mo~t employed.
wa er co :s1 z an J• • ~,
Of ' h 1
.e 50 ,re·1t an orcTan as the heart is concerned, it
course, w e l':) ~ o
behoves to \vntch the treatment; in such a case, no remedy what-
ever is safe without minute attention. Thus the wet-towel must
be applied as the mucous membrane and skin are more feverish,
and in no case continued for a long time together: there should
be an intermission of a few days every now and then; and mere
sponging with water not lower than 60° should be· in place of the
cold shallow Lath. The fomentations should be ouly a good de-
gree of warmth, not hot ; neither ~hould any part of them touch
the ribs, for in either event they rather set the heart beating.
The same applies to the compress, which, however, should be
often changed ; otherwise it is apt to make the heart irritable.
The sitz baths at 600 should be taken fot· half an hour at a time;
they always reduce the pulsations of the heart; and the foot baths
cause a derivation that seldom fails materially to relieve the vis-
ceral irritation. In tact, the treatment should be sedative; all
vehement reaction should be avoided, since it is necessarily
effected by quickening the cit·culation, \vhich is as necessarily the
work of the heart. This is especially the reason wherefore it is
improper to drink large quantities of water, which are highly
stimulating to the general circulation. I have always directed a
large wine-glass full only to he drunk at a time, and not more
than from one to two tumblers in the Jay. To follow the Graefen-
berg rule of drinking as much as possible in all cases, would be
to verify the accusation which some have brought against the
water treatment, that it causes heart disease. Active exercise is
also bad. I think it very probable, that palpitation of the heart
has been induced by the indiscriminate watet· drinking and inces-
sant walking which arc inculcated by those practitioners who,
themselves lacking thought, draw all their inspiration from the
routine of Graefenberg. But, with care to avoiu all revulsive
effects, palpitation of the heart is a perfectly curable malady by
the water plan, as I have ascertained by several cases one of
. '
which I give briefly.
CASE XIII.-NER,'UUS PALPITATJOY OF TJJE HEART.
A youth of twenty-two years sought my advice in the summer of 1844
for palpitations, from which he had been suffering for between two and
three year~. They we~ exceedingly violent, and interfered with the
PALJ>ITATlO:"l O.F Tl E IIE.U1T. 153
circnl.ttion snflicirmtly to prC\·ent the rl::tttrn of blood from, and to con-
gc"t, the heat!. cau:-;iuO' heudache and to confl'est the liver also. They
0 ' 0
were. present, \\ ith greater or less ,·ehemcnce, when lying, sitting, or
walkmg: awl they were ag-gra\'ated by food. The pulse was generally
about 100. The pit of the stomach was sensitive on pressure, and
afi(,rtit•d ~f'nsation.;; of :::iuking and gnawing. The appetite was good;
the Lowcl.s tolernhiy regular; hut, as often happens in irregular action
I.Jl" tl1c heart, \\ h,.t]wr from organic or uen·ous disease, the kidneys acted
cnprkiou.·Jy. umvl'icantily aJHJ then cxce:;sively. His sleep was dreamy,
a:, i. u~aal in cerebr:1l congestion. A wake. },e was in a constant state
of trepidation, blu:-hcd. and was ready to ~ink when spoken to. The
tongnc was c1ca n. s\\'ollcn, and fiery red, bespeaking a high dcg!ee of
nNVOllt:i dy"P"'P:";)ia. Extreme flatulence was the most palpable sign of
imlige..,tiou lw c·xllibitcd.
The gradations of the tepid and cold sheet rubbing were passed through
by thi::! patient. Then fomentations were applied over the stomach for
half an honr ~very night. He took one sttz bath at 65°, and one foot
b~th daily. He was kept on \'Cry low diet, having a small quantity of
meat only en~ry other day. I directed him to take a wine-glass of water
when he liked, and only then; and I ad\'iscd gentle horse exercise rather
tfl::tll any walking. In the house I ordered him to keep the recumbent
position, with the head high. After a fortnight of this treatment, I had
him packed in a towel once and then twice daily ; but after four or five
days of the twice packing, I fonnd the daily double reaction becoming
too mnch, and therefore reduced it to one daily packing again. With
thi:-; he went ou ior three or four weeks, with intervals of a day now and
then. The warm fomentations, too, were continued ; but he was only
able to wear the compre3s a part of each day. No water that be used,
excf'pt that for the foot baths, was under 60°; and as it was the summer
sca~()Jl, no f:lJocks c1me from that source. By per:-;everance in the cau-
tious and accommodating course I had from the beginning pursued,
watchiug the capabilities of his body, and desisting from or augmenting
tht:> treatment in afcordance, this youth left Malvern, after seven weeks'
re,')idence, as nearly well as possible. I recommended him to take a
round in \Vales on his way to the North of England, and ga,•e him direc-
tionl'l how to proceed with a modjfied water treatment at home. Six
months afterward~ he wrote to me thus :-
'· It is so long t'ince I left Mah-em, that I feel half ashamed to commenee
a lPtter. I defcned it at first, in order to be assured of the permanency
of the cure. I am glatl to be able to ~ay that, if thou hadst told me how
I :-;hnultl have been three or four months after lea,·ing Malvern, I should
no tnore have bulicvcu it than if one t.'hould now tell me that, four month$
hence, I should be mayor of Sund~rland, or rather that I should be strong
cnongh to fell au ox with my fist, or roll up a pewter plate. I am fear-
ful of boa::,ting, but I consider it only due to thee to say whether thy
treatment be successful or not. 1\ly journey through Wales was very
8*
154 ORG.ANI; DISEASE OF TilE HEART.
beneficial as thou hadst prell;ctcd. I did not feel t·cry str~ng for. a week
f
· 1 e t1nt I ..:oon lC.Jttnd that I was unpro\'mg, and
or two a ter cotnlfl(J' 1om , ~
· · · tl ~:> d wci,rht I lli:=-continned the trt>atment after about
g:1tntDO' m !'-treng 1 an t:) • • • be 1 1h
l
::- 1 "th . me small exceptions, and am now 111 tter teat ,
t lrCC JUOill 1~, WI l'O . • •
I ,. . r 1 srt" than l haYe been tor some years. The palpttatwns
nm; sa1c y ·'' . 1
. · f · d" ·
t
'll"' u1e nvw cxcc•>t 1 get some m< tge~twn rom m Jscretton;
TIC\er T()U• ' • r •
~0 that I quite hope that, witlt due care, they may be entm~ly overcome."
Let us suppose that this youth had not been relieved, Lut, on
the contrary, had gone on with ii1discriminate eating, exercise,
and n1ental emotions; what would have ensued 1 The morbid
8ympathies sent from .the digestive organs to the heart, and
which, so long as they only am~c:ted the nutrition of the nerves of
the heart, would only cause varying palpitation, in the course of
time would have affected the nutrition of the muscular substance
of the heart, and thus organic disease ofthe heart. would hn\'e
been estaulished. It is ul ways so. First, there is the nervous,
or, as it is sometimes called, the functional, disease of a part, in
which the nutrition of its organic ncn-es is disordered, and this
affects the organic secretions, sensations, and movements. Up to
this point, the effect in the heart, for instance, is dependent on the
cause in the stomach, and intermits or increases with it. But
gradually the disorder of nutrition extends from the tissue of tbe
nerves to the tissue constituting the bulk of the organ, and then
b..:gin the phenomena of structural organic disease, which con.
tinue in spite of their primary cause. A new and an incurable
disease has Lcen established. ~umbtrless are the instances of
~tructural heart disease which might have been avoided had tllis
view of their origin been steadily maintained and acted upon,
whilst yet mere curable nervous palpitations existed, and were
dependent on digestive influence. But the minute ganglionic
nervous sympathies of the viscera are sadly overlooked; and no
better instance of such neglect could be offered than the Latin
axiom with which I commenced this section, and which proceeded
from the pen of a writer whose position in the medical world was
of the highest. Nervous palpitations do require remedies, and
ought to be tr,~at<'d, Ileberden's dictum notwithstanding. It is
only then that they arc curable.
Although most averse to having anything to do with organic
heart disease, I have Leen as it were compelled, in three instancE!s,
to attempt something for it. In each case, the amount of relief
obtain-.cJ astonished me. The remedy was a small wet sheet
PALPITATION OF THE HEART. 155
wrapped round the trunk of the body, or a large towel down the
front of it, and closely covered with blankets. This was done
generally twice daily; and sponging with tepid water of the parts
that had been packed followed. The general quietude and de-
creased nction of the heart was always striking, but did not last
more than a few hours; hence .he necessity for its frequent repe-
tition. And it was always practised once in the evening, in
order to secure some sleep, which it seldom failed to do. Its
action on the kidneys, which are generally torpid in this malady,
was most beneficial, altering both the quality and the quantity of
the urine fiJr the better; indeed, in one case it succeeded so far
us to trunsfonn legs that were as hard as marble, with accumu-
lated fluid, into flaccid masses of flesh. I believe all this to be
done by the soothing and alterative influence of the wet sheet on
the ganglionic nerves supplying the heart and stomach; for not
only was the action of the heart less irregular, but there were
signs of amended digestion in the tongue, feelings after eating,
dimini~hed flatull'nce and acidity, &c., which, no doubt, allowed
of the better action of the kidneys, intimately connected as the
functions of those organs are with digestive~. But the result on
tlzc air tubes C?_{ tire lung.r;, in one case, was the most satisfactory ;
the wet sheet and tepid ablution after it actually abolishing a
cough which arose from the inflammation of the bronchi, so
usually attendant on organic heart disease. This was in a case
of aneurism nJthe heart, accompanied by enormously enlarged
liver, di'Opsy in every cavity of the trunk, and of all the limbs;
yet did the wet sheet both subdue the cough and augment the
urmc.
In all the~e instances, the partial wet-sheet packing and tepid
sponging were the only parts of the water treatment employed;
no other~, not even hot fomentations, are applicable ; in fact,
these last increase the irregularity of the heart's action. It js
needless to add, that so soon as the wet sheet is given up, the
evils of the patient's lamentable condition immediately grow
ngam; nnd why 1 there is a standing, immoveable cause at
worlc* Still I have thought it right to note down the fact, that
• At page {ll of Dt·. Wilson's pamphlet, "The Practice of the 'Vater
Cure," an account is gi•;en of the disease and death of a lady of rank,
about which some explanatiiJn is nec('ssary. Hers was one of the cases
alluded to in my text; and she died at Malvern under my care, persisting
to remain here and be treated, notwithstanding my assurance, at the very
156 ORGANIC DISEASE OF THE HEART.
alle\'iation of some of the distressing symptoms of this incurable
malady may be so far obtained as to render life less intolerable,
and perhaps death more distant.
first visit, that nothing could be done. In speaking of her death, Dr. Wil-
son has expressed himself so unluckily as to make it appear that the lady
was under /u8 care; which wa~ so far from being the case, that he never
saw her hut once, when I took him, after overcoming the lady's objections
to it. It is but fair that he should be exonerated from whatever reproach
attaches to a medical man whose patient dies of an incurable disease. She
was my patient, died under my care, and hers is only the second death that
has occurred among those whom I have attem ed here.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEl\1. 157
CHAPTER III.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM
Regulator function of the Nervous System on Nutrition and Secretion-
• Functional and substantial Disorder of the Nerves-Distinctions between
Nervousne:'ls and Hypochondriasis-Symptoms of the miuor degree of
Neuropathy-Hypochondriasis and its Treatment-Essential character of
Ncuralgia-Tic Douloureux of the Face-Sciatica-Nen·ou~ Headache-
Distinctions between Apoplectic Fulness and Congc!ilion of the Brain;
Hcduction of both states-Paralysis and its treatment-Chronic irritation
of the whole ganglionic System-Spurious Palsy.
AFTER being formed by the stomach and the lungs into material
fit to nourish the body, the blood is distributed to every po11ion of
it, entering the ultimate blood-vessels or capillaries, where the
tltird process of nutrition takes place. But besides the nutrition
of the tissues which takes place in the capillaries, secretion, a
highly important function, is also there effected. The blood de-
posits the solids of the nerve, muscle, bone, &c., of the body, and
also the mucus, bile, tears, urine, freces, skin, &c. It might ap-
pear, then, more in train to treat now of the diseases incidental to
this third part of the grand process of nutrition. But it must be
remembered, that it takes place under the influence of that por-
tion of the nervous system called the ganglionic ; and it thus
seems more desirable first to mention the diseases of that portion.
This has been done to some extent in speaking oC the oigestive
organs, where its great centre is. But, as I have said before (p.
4), wherever the matter of the body is deposited, there are gan-
glionic nerves presiding over it. Now the brain and spinal cord
represent the next great mass of ganglionic nervous matter to that
of the viscera; and so close are the sympathies between these
two masses, the one in the viscera and the other in the brain, that
in treating of nervous diseases it is impossible to separate them.
Accordingly, this chapter is dedicated to the consideration of the
maladies which arise out of the sympathies between the viscera
and the brain and spinal cord. And let it always be borne in
Ni UVOUSNJ-:SS- N.EUIHJl'ATH \·-
mind, that inasmuch as the brain matter itself is deposited und~r
the aanrrliouic influence alluded to, all the phenomena of the bram
r:- o · fi I . 1
are attributable to modifications of the saulc m uence. t IS on y
by keeping this in mind, that the cxtruon.lin.aryyower o~ the brain
nnd spinal cord over the nutritt~n and secretion 1.n ~ther tissues can
be made clear. 1\Iental affectiOns cause cmactatlon of the body,
because the nutrition of the body and brain arc umle1· the same
influence. Terror causes enormous secretion of air or freces in
the bowels, because the same ganglionic system of nerves pre.
dominates orer the nutrition of the brain and the secretions of the
intestinal mucous membrane. It is, in short, impossible to ha':e
initation in the visceral ganglionic system, without having it
more or less exhibited in that portion of the system which regu-
lates the nutrition of the brain, spinal cord, and nerves thence
arising; and equally so, to have cerebral irritation without the
visceral nerves being affected by it.* The practical bearing of
this physiological conclusion is of the first importance, as will be
seen in the course of this chnpter.
In arranging the maladies to be treated of, I shall pursue the
same plan as heretofore; that is to say, I shall first refer to those
which exhibit.functional disorder, without any palpable substantial
change in the nervous organs; and next, to those in which the
diseased phenomena depend on evident fulness of blood, com-
pression, or change of structure. In this way we shall speak in
succession of 1U'rvousness, hypochondriasis, neuralgia, or nerve-
pain ; apoplectic fulncss ofthe brain, congestion ofthe head, para-
lysis. Finally, this will be the best place to give some account
of two maladies \vhich I have observed in my large opportunities
of beholding chronic disease at 1\falvern, and which I have not
seen described by any medical author: to one I have given the
name ofga11glionitis, or chronic inflammation of all the ganglionic
nerves of the viscera; and to the other spurious palsy, to which I
have alluded in the first part of this work. (See p. 7.)
§ 1. NERVOUSNESS- NEUROPATHY- HYPOCHONDRIASIS.
It is impossible to be afflicted with either of these disorders
without having the brain involved, but it is in very different do-
• In both cases, the diseased sensation of the body is built upon the dis-
eased irritation, as represented by the capillaries, as I have shown else-
where. (Seep. 4.)
11\"POCDONDRIASI~. lb9
grees. In both, tlw starting point is in the visceral nervous sys-
tem. In simple nervousness, the brain circulation is kept in an
il'rcgular conJition hy the irritations proceeding from the viscera;
the patient ,.a1·irs exceedingly in his sensations; his mind is
'"i\'idly alivQ to al. subjects, and full of passing imaginations;
cxquisitc seusitivcncss to all external (&ings is his torment ; and
his ~ccrctinlls vary as much as his sensations. There is as yet
nothingfi.red/y wrong in the head. But this persisting for a long
time, and aggravated by treatment, may, and constantly does,
pn~s into the rnore intense degree of nervousness to which the
name of hypochrmrlriasis is given. In it the patient is only alive
to one train of thoughts, which refer to the health and safety of
the individual; external things only act upon him as his diseased
fancy pictures their action on his health; his secretions are con-
stantly deranged ; C\'crything announces a continuous derange-
ment of the circulation in the brain.
In this work it is impossible that I should enter at length into
the multiform symptoms of either form of neuropathy; they
"hom it concerns will find the subject treated in full in another
of my writings.* A resume of those of the ordinary nervousness
may, howe\'er, be rnade in the following manner :-Indefinable
uneasiness; despondency or irritability of mind; diminution of
physical ~trength ; yielcJing and tremblitlgs of the limbs; start-
ing at noises and sights; giddiness, and tendency to faint ; sense
of siukiug or cJragging at the pit of the stomach; sensitiveness,
oa· pain in the abdomen; pains, generally of a transitory nature,
in various parts of the body; partial and occasional obfuscation
of sight; numbness, or, on the other hand, preternatural sensi-
tiveness of some point ; partial sensations of heat, as in flushing
of the face or burning of the eyeballs; creeping sensations;
itching sensations, particularly of the eyelids, nose, or scalp ;
shuddering, with or without external camses; involuntary twitch-
ings of the limbs and face; palpitation of the heart, and at the
epigastrium; sighing; hard cough ; sense of dl'Cad or shame
without definable cause; tendency to incessant motion and change
of pluce ; sleeplessness, ot· broken, dreamy, unrefreshing sleep;
appetite capricious, sometimes, however, unchanged and steady;
nausea, or vomiting; secretion of the mucous membrane of the
eyelids and nose generally diminished ; eyelids red and turgid ;
• Exposition of the S~ rnptom~, &c., of Ncm·opathy, 1 vol., Svo. 1840.
)(jQ :NF.R\'Ol"SNESS-:NEUROPATHY-
the tongue sometimes foul, frequently otherwise, but for the most
part redder or more turgid tlwn usual, witI~ tcn(!cncy to dryu_ess ;
bowels costive. but frequently di:stended wllh au·, und rumblmg;
urine varying with the nervous symptoms or the ~ood; count~­
nancc ofttimes unchanged, but more frectucntly anx10us, or, as It
wen" 011 the qui rice; complexion often florid ; emaciation
rarel~ to anv extent; feet nud hands almost invariably cold and
. -
<:l:HlllllV.
Sucl; is the cohort of morbid signs under which individuals
may continue to drag on a feYerish sort of life for weeks, months,
or years; moving among their fellow-men ":ith a constant dread
of collision, physical and mental. To them, excitements come
as shocks; wl!ich to others more happily circumstanced are the
pleasing stimulants that render delicious the cup of life. To
them, new acquaintances, novel scenes, va t·ying modes of life,
the motley and complex associations that keep the normal ncn·ous
system in active though healthy play, are, for the most part, elec-
tric impressions, which, after elevating the feelings '· Olympus
high," and engendering a painful excitement, "leave the flag-
ging spirit doubly weak." Yet are the nervous ever craving for
excitement : it seems as if they secreted an immense quantity of
nervous energy which must be wasted on some object or other,
cl~e it would prey upon themseh·cs. They seck society, and
come out of it exhausted; they st?ek continual food for their pe-
culiar sensations; they yearn towards excitement, even as the
moth towards the consuming flame : they are leaves that tremble
with every wind of circumstance, yet to whom a calm is desola-
tion. The unceasing stream of sellsations from the viscera is
ever acting on the mental organ, maintaining it in a state almost
of orga~m, o1· at least of super-vitality, rendering it thereby con-
stantly prone to the exercise of its function, and that function ex-
ccs:sive-a convulsion rather than a well-ordered operation-an
involuntary, rather than a voluntary act. It is because the hrain
is kept in a state of vivid perception, by the i:Titations proceeding
from the ganglionic viscera, that all the external senses nrc so
sensitive. and all the internal senses and the thought are so pain-
fully busy. Did not such irritations play on the brain, it would
be calm enough in its perception of outward, and its regulation
of inward sensations. Behold a man before and after dinner:
his brain feels and thinks differently, Lecause his stomach does.
Nor are the phenomena of nervousness merely mental, nor the
11\'POCHONDRLASIS. 161
results of mental agitation alone. Restlessness, fidgetiness, im-
patience, tense eountenauce, tremulous movements, &c., &c., are
truly c\·idcnces of u brain in a state of vehement excitement.
But examine fu1·ther into the pcculiaritie~ of one so affiicted, and
you shall find him pos~csscd of an excitaule heart, that begets a
changeable pulse, and palpitates with the slightest mental shock :
of a tongue and mouth which become dry from the same cause;
of a stomaeh who.sc function is disturbed by the smallest cimum-
stancc, tls'.! app<:titc of which, though good, is ~pccdily satisfied or
annillilatctl, u·bich sinks and yearns from trivial causes; of in.
tcstinrs, that, on the operation of similar eauses, secrete volumes
of air·, nrc agitated, rumble, or, on the other hand, give the sensa-
tion of n vacuum in the abdomen. And thesf' are only a few of
the gangliouie symptoms which aid in making up the net·vous
condition. ,
But this is not all. A nervous brain not only owes its comli-
tion to the ganglionic irritation, but the amount and character of
the nervousness is regulated by the amount and character of that
untation. It~ for instance, the womb add its excitation to that
of the stomach, we have the characters of hysteria j if the li\:cr
be disordered as well, we have the utmost amount of impatience
and suspicion imparted to the nervou~ness, &c. In short, the
brain only feels as the viscera dictate; nnd none know this better
than nervous people themselves, who seldom spenk of their cere-
• bral, but invariably of their visceral sensations.
The l.Jrain, tht;n, in the simple or minor deg1·ee of nervousness,
receiving exciting sympathies fmm the viscera, is itself excited,
nnd reacts upon those viscera, and a morbid interchange of sen.
sations is thus established. If the attempt to remedy this by
stimulants, dietetic, medicinal and mental, be persevered in, the
circulation in both points of excitement becomes more and more
deranged, the morbid sympathy between them becomes more and
more firmly estal.Jlished, until the brain becomes at length inces-
santly bent in its thought upon the viscera, whence it derives so
much in·itution ;-when this takes place, the seeond or major
degree of ncrt·ou.sness, commonly called hypochondriasis, may
be said to be c~tnLlished. Then commences that life of mise-
rable anxiety about the health, and, for the most part, the
health of some of the viscera, which the sufferer cries to
be rid of, and which the phyiician can so seldom allevi.
ale. The brain is more fixedly implicated in the mischief, its
162 NERVOUSNESS--NEUROPATHY--
circu1nt!on and nutrition continuously deranged, and its morbid
mental phenomena incessant under all circumstance~ : in fact, i~s
function is now as much disordered as that of the VIscera, and It
preys on them as much as they prey on it. Further, the cha~ge
in the character of the nervousness ~eems to show an oppressiOn
of the brain and of the spinal cord, the scat of the will ; for
whereas in simple nervousness there was much flightiness of
thought and vivacity of the will, in hypochondriasis the former is
Lent with unswerving fidelity upon one subject, the health, and
the will is almost annihilated. Even the fiwt of incessantly
thinking on one subject exhibits the small degree of volition, of
command over the thoughts ; and this want of command descends
to the external senses, and to the limbs. Nothing is more com.
mon than to sec hypochondriacs who cannot, because they will
not, see and llhear, or !"ho protest they cannot get out of bed, or
rise from a chair, simply because they will not. A 11 the facts of
this miserable malady go to prove the obstructed function of the
brain and spinal cord, their oppression by the stream of morbid
irritations al'ising from the viscera.*
* The following are the conclusions to which I have come, after a full
examination of the facts regarding the healthy and morbid function of the
nervous system. The facts as well as the conclusioras are to be found at p.
126 of my work on Nervousness.
1. Morbid impr('ssions commencing in the brain are re\·erberated, more '
or less rapidly, on the visceral ganglionic system, exciting in the Yiscera
sensations and movements
2. Morbid impressions commencing in the viscea·al nervous system are
rcflectPd on the brain.
3. Anormal sensations and movements in the viscera, however generated,
arc rc·flectcd on the brain.
4. The brain has no cognizance of a morbid impression except by the
scn~:tt.ions excited in the viscera.
5. The degree and ~pccies of the morbid visceral ganglionic sensation
regulates that of the cerebral sensation.
6. In neuropathy, the brain is the medium by which the unusual s~nsa­
tions in the vis~era produce their effects on the economy at large.
7. The sen:;ations of the \·isceral ganglionic system rnoa·bidly irritate the
ln·~in, and, acc?rding to the degree of that irrjtation, produce either the
~ntnor or more antense degree of neuropathy, the brain being more involved
111 the: iltter than in the former.
S. Tlw essential nature of nervousness is therefore to be found in the
morbi~! irt·iLtion of the visceral ganglionic' system; ~nd as the anormal
scnsatJOhs are more especially referred to it:; epigastric centre, this would
appear to be the most seriously implicated.
RYPOCRONDKJASlS.
Nervousness, therefore, and hypochondriasis, are different de.
grces of the same morbid state; the latter being the aggravated
form or the former. y ct the difference is sufficient to make a
distinction of great consequence in the treatment.
In nervousness, the soothing processes are the most desirable,
for in it the symptoms nrc those of highly excited vitality; per-
ception, sen~ntiou, thought, volition, as well as the organic func-
tions, arc all rampant, restless, and irregular ; the nervous sys-
tem is strung to the tightest pitch, and vibrates painfully to the
~lightest touch. So much is this the case, that even the most
moderate treatment ft·equently requires to be intermitted from time
to time, to afford rest to the organization ; even it is too much to be
continuously applied to a body which is like one vast sore, so ex.
quisite are its sensations. If in commencing nervous cases the
amount of treatment be one jot too much, too stimulating, too
straining in £'xercise or the water applications, the nervous sys-
tem "o'erleaps the sell and falls on the other side," and things
are worse than before. Hence the impossibility of successfully
treating any two cases exactly alike; and the absurdity of the
routine of large water-drinking, everlasting walldng, indiscrimi-
nate diet, and pell-mell and hap-hazard packing and bathing,
which marks the practice of those whose easily-earned diploma
dates from Graefenberg, after a short residence there. It is not
so that the ever-varying disturbances which constitute the minor
degree of ncn·ousness are to be quelled.
In hypochondriasis, on the other hand, all the functions-men-
tol, motor, and organic-arc working slowly, as if under a load;
a load which may be thrown off by the mind, if the organic powers
resident in the ganglionic nerves can be made to relieve them.
selves. To do this, they must be rou~ed by the stimulating appli-
ances ofthe water cure, both external and internal; by alternations
of treatment, in order to have changes of stimulus; whilst, to
avoid interference with the organic efforts thus attempted to be
excited, the digPstive organs nrc allowed to have as little as pos-
sible to do compatibly with the maintenance of the body. Nor will
~. This irritation of the visceral ganglionic system most probably con-
sists in an increaliled influx of blood into, and nutrition of, its tis~me.
10. It is highly probable that congenital or constitutional nervousness
consi:sts in an unusual development of the visceral ganglionic system, and
consequent unusual su::~ceptibility to impressions from the brain, the equa-
ble function of which is disturbed by the vehement sensations that are at-
tendant on such susceptibility.
161 NER\•OUS!'\ESS-N IWROP.ATH \'-
this be t'ery small ; for in order to excite the s.a~c org~nic effort
in the brain and spinal cord which I have sa1d Js an n1m as re-
gards the visceral ganglions, consi~lerable ex~rcis~ shoul~ be prac-
tised both on horseback and afoot, lil proportion with wluch should
be the amount of food. This gymnastic of the limbs is only of
u::-.e as it is the gymnastic of the will, which it brings into play,
thcrc•by convincing the patient that he can wall\. The same must
be done for the lflind. Every one about him should be instructed
not to hold converse with him about his ailments, but toforce him
into some other subject of thought, and, if possible, such as shall
most absorb atteution. In short, the wJJolc treatment should aim
at exciting the organic and the animal nervous systems ; that is,
the ganglionic nerves both of the viscera and of the brain and
spinal cord.
Sometimes, however, patients come here with an amount of
feverishness of the mucous membranes and the pulse which re-
quires to be removed in the first instance. It has, for the most
part, been induced by violent medication and dietetic imprudences
prnctised whilst refusing to take exercise to countcrbaln.nce them;
and it is removed by the wet sheet. F or, although an attack of
fever is actually curath·c of hypochondriasis, and very many have
been cured by the ~upervention of small-pox, scarlet fever, and
other febrile eruptive complaints, yet no fever will avail for so
desirable an end which is not the product of a natural effort of the
body, and not of irritants introJuced into it. In this instance,
then, the soothing wct-shctt packing forms an exception to the
general practice in hypochondriasis.
All the cases which could be related would scarcely include
the infinite picture of simple nervousness. I here give one of the
most gTievous that 1 have met with, premising that, happily, not
many of those presented for treatment at Malvern are nearly so
barl.
CASE XIV.-MINOR DEGREE OF NERVOUSNESS.
A young gentleman had too early and freely been thrown into the
gay world of London. Constitutionally nervous, a vast amount of mor-
bid nervousneE=s was soon added to it, in consequence of the excitements,
both coarse and refined, into which he plunged. Late hours, women,
a11d their result~, in the ~l1ape of a mercurial course, made up
the bead-roll of cl.use~, and he became a neuropathic. Terror of some
unknown evil was always upon him; he almost ran through the streets,
Ill l'OCHO.:'\I>HIASIS. 165
as if f10m somc: pursuer; lac was always in a fidget and hurry; his face
bespoke the moi't intense anxiety. although full and sufficiently colored;
there was a con~tant frown over the nose. Three or fonr times daily he
was seized with trcmuling~, fainting, cold sweat, and a sinking of the
bowels. a::; if thcv w~re fallin" down abont his feet; at such times he
• 0
was utterly paralyzed wit!1 fear. Luckily, the seizure gave him two or
three minutes· "arninrr. in the growinll' sinkin1r of the stomach, and he
C • C 0
would fly into a druggist's shop or a public-house, and swallow some
ether or urandy, though he had, otherwise, ceased the use of stimulants.
In cou~equenee of these attacks, as well as the cmz~lanl terror that beset
him, he never dared to be many yards distant from ~orne one; he was
theretorc compelled to keep within the streets of London; he dared aa
soon ha.ve walked into Vesuvius as go, alone, upon a large common.
At night he was two or three hours before he could get to ~Jeep. but
slept well, when once off, for about five hour:-. IliH mind was clear
enough on most subjects intellectually, but morally it was quite without
power; touchy~ impatient,yet without a particle of courage or firmness;
as might well he the case, seeing that the picture of impending evil was
always over him. His volition was inexhall~tible; he wa~ driven, by
an impulse within him, to walk incessantly; but this it was which, in
my belief, brought on, or at least made more frequent, the attack::; above
mentioned. lie ate and drank nervously, bolting his tOod as if he had
uot C'aten for a week; yet his appetite was not always good-ne\·er
large. The tongue was large, split, and clean. He was troubled with
imtnen~e \'olumes of wind rumbling about the bowels; which, however,
were in tolerably good order. The kidneys secret~>d a vast quantity of
limpid water, especial1y in the night time. The pit of the stomach was
the 1-iCat of great sensitiveness, sometimes on pressure, but always exhi-
Lited in ~inking, feeling of a ball, &c.; aud there it was that, as he said,
everything he thought was felt ; and thence it was that all his disagree-
abies !o<prnng. 'rhe Rkin sweated copiously with the smalle~t exercise,
and the hands were always wet and cold.
Against this array of miseries, I did not anticipate any speedy action
of the water treatment; but I was wrong. Nightly fomentations with
hot water, and packing in the wet sheet, at first once, and soon twice
daily, immediately produced a soothing effect. The former made him
f.'lll to sleep, even whilst they were going on. And both in the !'heet on
waking in the morning, and in that at fi\'e o'clock P.J\1., he ~lept. He
changed the abdominal compress frequently in the day, and was always
quieted by the change. Five or six tumblers of water was his daily
do::ooc. l torbad more than half an hour's exercise at once. and this he
took before each meal. I..ean meat, bread, a small quantity of butter,
and t;alt, constituted his whole diet; I e\·en prohibited liquid at any of
hi~ meals; and he reclined for nearly an hour after them. The first
t;ymptom which disappeared was the sweating of the skiu, which be-
eame more turgid. 'l'he sleep followed, but more slowly, being every
166 NERVOUSNESS-NEUROPATHY-
now and then deficient for a night. After he bad been under treatment
about three weeks. he took the cold ::;itz bath for half an hour at noon,
and from that day hi:; sleep impro\·ed. Occasionally his head ached or
felt weak after tilC wet sheeting, which was then remitted for a day or
two, and a ~ecoml ::;.itz bath, or a. foot bath in the evening, taken instead.
\Yith these exception::;, the treatment continued as at fir:;t laid down, for
nearlv six week:'. bv which time this neuropathic had again and again
rcacl;cd the top cf the \Yorcestcr:::hire Beacon alone, and remained there
alone for half an hour or more, without a single tremor or mental quak-
ing. He had now licence to walk, and took advantage of it to such ex-
te;t, that he once or twice came home quite knocked up in limb, but no
ner\'otts sensations accompanied it. This showed me that the wet
sheeting should be dimini~hetl. and he therefore had it once daily instead
of t\\ ice. Having subdul'd irritation by its mean~, the object now was
to giro tone. ·rhe doucl1e \\·as therefore employed at noon for half a
miaute, and gradually long·er; with the cold :-itz bath in the evening.
\Vith these he gained power wilh astonishing rapidity ; he took long
walks and rides alone ; he became cheerful, even to boisterousness,
which implies that the imaginary yet undefined evil had vanished from
his contemplation; and though he was easily excited, it was quite within
the iunate, and therefore unchangeable, uen·ousnsss of his constitution.
He left me at the end of ten weeks, a happier man than he had been for
the previous six years, between three and four of which had been spent
in destroying his nerves, and the rest in nen·ous meditations on their
loss. He left me a happier man, not only l>ecause he had lost a train of
miserable sensations, but because he had gained the wholesome know-
ledge, that tawdry excitement is not true excitement, and that as much
real fun is compatible with early hours and sober habits as with their
contraries, and does not leave one quite E<O nervous. Perseverance in
his old course, and in the remedies he took for the attack~, must ere
long have either made this patient an incurable epileptic, or the inmate
of a lunatic hospital. He quitted Malvern fifteen months ago, and has
had no sign of relapse.
CASE XV.- 1\IINOR DEGREE OF NERVOUSNESS.
I will briefly relate this case, because the subject of it is a female.
She is twenty·se\·en years old, of a nervous constitution, strong in her
feelings and affections. Two years before she came to me, a very se-
vere and sudden mental shock fell upon her. Hysterical, and subse-
quently more serious nervousness invaded her with intensity. This last
was experienced in fainting, death-like feelings, tremblings, universal pul-
sation and agitation; but above all, by the most frightful and almost un-
controllable sensation of impulse within her, as if, so she said something
would raise her out of her bed or seat, and dri\·e her out of the door or
window, or through the wall even: there was also in this dreadful feelinc
llYPOCHON DRIA.SIS. 167
a sense of impending insanity. These faintings and sinkings, the small,
exceedingly rapid pulse, icc-cold feet and hands, incapability of walking
above a very short distance, and want of sleep, set the medical gentle-
men whom she consulted on the path of stimulation-of supporting her.
She took every pos<:ihle anti~pasmodic and opiate; of brandy and wine
she was counselled to imbibe an abundance; and the diet Hhe followed
was in keeping-tnrtle and other strong soups, animal food twice a day,
coffee, cocoa, &c., being its con:"'ltituent:-;. Under this rlgime, to use her
own exprcHsion, "~he )mew no peace;" day and night were passed in
waking and sleeping tumult, the sleep being as busy as the vigil:3 ; the
total unrest, the incessant fears, palpitations, pulsations, &c., all aug-
mented, the more :-he took remedies against them; and when, after and
in f->pite of warning aud remon~trances, !:'lJe came to try my treatment, I
found as wretched a ueuropathic as could he \rdl imagined. Religion
had reconciled her to the bluw \\ hich the Author of religion had inflicted;
bnt its consequences remained in her p~-i.nc, aggravated by the irra-
tional means which had been employe .lin:-;t it. Every organ and
function were in a state of maddened excitement; looks, word~, moYe-
ments, were all those of impul~e and tli~qnietnde ; and ~he ::;topped seve-
ral times to shudder, whih..t she recounted her mental nervousness. Her
organic functions were disordered too ; appetite almost gone; all kinds
of l::iensations within her; pulse exce:,sively rapid and small ; slight ner-
\'OUs cough; bowels tolerably regular; kidneyA capricious in their action;
f'kin liable to cold moisture ; on the chin: and indeed any part of the face,
a tendency to small pimples: which arc so frequent in the nen·ous, and
often make their appearance in an hour after a more than usual degree
of nen·onsness.
Upon this lady, t11e soothing effect of hot fomentations at night, and
wet-sheet packing in the morning, was immediate. Nothing could be
more satisfactory than to hear from her, each time that I saw her, that
her sleep was improving, and the frightful impulses within her daily di-
minishing. 'Vithin the first week she felt infinitely more calm than she
had been for two years. For !:lome time her treatment was confined to
fomentation and wet sheet once daily, the latter being followed by rub-
bing with the dripping sheet. She took four tumblers of water daily.
Her exercise was limited to twenty minutes twice a day. Of course, all
stimulants were withdrawn from her diet; she took tepid milk and water
with cold toast morning and evening, and a small quantity of meat with
two potatoes for dinner; this was her food throughout. By degrees I
had her packed twice a day, the sitz bath for a quarter of an hour at
noon, and the fomentations omitted. All along she wore the abdominal
compress night and day. Foot baths were gi\·en once or twice a day,
according to the prcntiling sensations ; for it is not to be supposed that
the nervous feelings disappeared in a few days never to return; now and
then a " bad day " came, dependent as 1mch days \·ery often are in the
neuropathic, upon electric atmospheric changes, alteration of the wind,
168 NERYOUS1-fESS-XEUROPATH\"-
&c. Nay, even the prolongation of the_trea~mcnt, without cessation,
will somctim~~ excite the ncrH'S; and m tlns case I wa~ compell~,
twice or thrice, to gi,·e all up except the drippirrg r-hcct an~ a short !'ltz
daily. nut :o:till her" bad days~' were }~ly~ium c.:omparcd ,~·lth her er~rg­
day torment~ before coming to ~e, and she bore ?oth w1th a beaut1f~•l
8
pirit. Twice for a few successn·e days she c~pCrJ('nced nausea,. as 1f
!'ome internal cri::-is were about to appear; but 1t once went off Without
anv re~ult whatever; on the other occasion a slight diarrhrea followed
it.· \Vith trifling variations for these circumstance~, and an occasion-
al headache, the treatment of packing in the wet sheet was persisted
in dw·ing the whole time of her stay at 1\Ialvern, which extended to
fourteen weeks, when she was compelled to leayc tor home, but with no
nervousness save that which is constitutional and congenital with her.
These two cases will suffice to instance the phenomena of great
nervousncs~, as it occurs i c two sexes, and of its general treat-
ment by wate1·. But there is no end to the mingling of symptoms
in this distressing condition: and all that can be done, is to refer
to the resume of symptoms above given, and to the applications
of the different processes of the water cure, to be given hereafter.
There b; one kind of nervousness-that connected with what is
called, in females, "change of life," about the forty-fifth year,-
in which the treatment is only palliative; the nervous tumult
persisting more or less, in spite ofevery means, until the "change"
is effected. Still, this is a period of severe trial, and not unfre-
quently of danger to important organs, the usual monthly irrita-
tion of the womb being liable to be thrown upon the hea11, or
lungs, or head : and the sufferer will find in the appliances of the
water cure, a sure and certain way of preventing such danger-
ous transferR. I have had occasion to treat several females in
whom the extreme s€nsitiveness of the nervous system rendered
the period in question somewhat perilous on the score of this
transfer, and have succeeded in obviating it altogether, and making
the change of life less distressing. This may always he done by
the moderate use of wet sheet or towel packing, short sitz baths
at 55° or 60°, warm fomentations to the abdomen, foot baths, and
rest of limb. Here, too, the circumstances of women \'ary so
much, some having excess, others deficiency of the uterine dis-
charge, some pain, others none, &c., that anything like detail of
treatment is impossible. After stating the uses of the processes,
the practitioner must employ his discrimination in the particular
cases, and the fluctuating circumstances of each. It is the only
HYPOCHONDRIASIS. 109
treatment that I have ever found of the slightest use at the period
in question.
I now proceed to give a case of the greater degree of nervous-
ness. Vcry many patients afllicted with this terrible disease
have been under my care at Malvern: but with the proverbial
fickleness and restlessness attendant on their state, none of them,
save one: have remained long enough to enable the treatment to
act strongly and permanently on them. The consequence is, that
I am about to rdutc the only case of hypoclt01ldrias.-s which I have
had the luck und opportunity of curing: and it must be confessed
that it is not one of the mo::;t intense kind. But few medicbl men
can record even one instance of cur·e of this most intractable and
intolerable discnsc: the physician being generally as glad to be
rid of the patient, as the latter is prone to seek another adviser,
before any iuaprcssion ~,;an be made on the symptoms.
CASE XVI.-IIYPOCHONDRI.\.SIS. THE GREATER DEGREE OF NER-
YOUS~ESS.
This patient waH forty-seven years old when he came to me in Janu-
ary, 1843. For twenty years he had been occupied as a commercial
traveller, to the temptations of which avocation, in the way of dietetic
exces~es, he had not been a slave; certainly not, at least, in dri11k-
ing, his quantum being three or fonr glas:;;es of wine daily. Neverthe-
less, beiug a very orderly and a very anxious man, business was no play
for him, but a !'erions wearing and tearing affair, in the fulfilment of
which he neglected all regularity of times of eating, sleeping, &c.
:Meantime, the travelling, the constant change, and the exercise he got,
combined to keep up a great appetite, ·a morbidly great one in fact; and
it outran the digestive power, which gradually diminished. He had
arrived, in short, at the phase of nen:ous dyspe1Jsia. This was about
three years before he saw me. Di5tress after meals increasing, he had
recourse to phyl'ic-tonic, aperient, cardiac, &c. Temporary relief ob-
tained thence did not prevent, but rather quickened, the downward pro-
gresR of his health. He grew anxious about his health; consulted one
or two phy:;icians in en~ry considerable town he came to, took all their
prescriptions and went from bad to worse. Strange to sn.y, not one of
them ever ga,·c him rules uf diet, or dimini~bed his wine! Thi:; was his
history fur three years. He tried ab:3ence from business-no use ; it
rather made him worse. The fiend of hypochondria had fairly entered
him. and began to feed on his body, for he grew emaciated as well as
miser:tblc. At length a celebrated surgeon of London recommended
him to come to rne and try the water cure ; a!1d, with much quaking, he
came.
I found him with all the worst symptoms of nervous and mucous dys-
9
170 NERVOUSNESS--NEUROPATHY--
pepeia, except that the appetite was untouched ; a . swollen, split, foul
tongue fretid breath obstinate bowels, &c., &c. \Vathout mnch sensa-
t. · 'tl '--1 en' he alwa"·s said his malady was there; so truly does
aon tn te auuom , J • •
th b
· ·ate tl1e source of its malaise, although no pam 1s present
e ram appreca.
t k ·t LJ's skin was in miserable plight, colorless and dearl to the
o mar 1 • .c 1 •
but to his senses exquisitely alive to the smallest change ot temper-
eye, . .
1
· ·
ature; creeping, crawling, and cold tncklmg were a ways go~ng on an
it. He had the usual variety of nen·ous alarms about hts health ;
but, as regarded his mind, the prominent symptom!' were a loss of
volition that was truly distressing, and hysterical depression. His
want of will was exhibited in an almost incapability of getting out of bed,
declaring that he could not, and in the want of decision in the most tri-
fling aftairs, the choice of a chair to sit on, &c. He woultl come to see
me, weeping like a child, deploring the slow and certain death he was
dying, beseeching me to save him, yet vehemently contradicting me when
I assured him it was possible. Between the~e two weaknc~--es he fell
into a fear of the treatment, and went off suddenly, after about three
weeks' residence at 1\lalvern, during which time he had been rubbed with
the dripping sheet, taken foot baths, been packed in the wet sheet a few
times, and drank seven or eight tumblers daily. He went away, was
absent for a month, ran the gauntlet of two or three physicians in Lon-
don, took their physic, went :tgain to the surgeon before alluded to, who
again urged him to come to me. This time I refused to undertake him
at all, unless he pledged his word to remain with me four months at least.
In consequence of a considerable amount of internal mucous fever-
ishness, it was necessary to employ wet-sheet packing for a long time in
this case, and twice a-day after a little time. The cold shallow bath was
used after it. The cold sitz was taken once and then twice a-day. He
wore the compress on the bowels night and day, drank ten and twelve
tumblers a day, and was instructed to walk as much as posf'ible. As the
fever of stomach diminished, the wet-sheet packing was diminished also,
and the douche was commenced. It had a decidedly good effect in
raising the spirits, taking off the misery of the skin, and giving a
general feeling of bien-2lre. The quantity of water was increased to
fifteen or sixteen tumblers. He was next sweated in the blankets twice
and then thrice a week; the wet-sheet packing being only used occa-
sionally, to repress any feverishness that arm•e. This active practice of
sweating, wet-sheet packing, douche, sitz once a-day for half an hour,
and the large do~es of water, began to induce critical effects after he had
been with me eleven \Veeks. The bowels became very much relaxed,
and vomiting of bilious and acrid matters attended. This rejoiced him
exceeding~y, and f?r the first time he allowed the probability of recov-
ery ; ~nd m fact h1s ~ental symptoms recovered from that date, his bodily
sens~t10ns of the ~:>km, &c., and his sleep, having improved some weeks
previously. The treatment was persevered in notwithstanding, with now
and then a day or two of relaxation. His diet throughout bad been sim-
HYPOCBONDlllASIS. 171
ple, but I have since thought somewhat too full ; but it is of no use talk-
ing to hungry hypochondriacs, who have a great appetite and no volition.
The appetite is sure to have its own way unless the doctor is always
pre:rent. Throughout al::1o his exercise was great, and rose at length
to ten, twelve, and fifteen miles daily. At first, under the operation of
the wet sheet, hP lo~t flesh, as is usual; but he subsequently regained it
and more, and of a Letter quality besides. Much moral treatment was, of
course, requisite, and fortunately I obtained con~iderable influence over
him, RO that I was enabled to urge him to the exercise of his volition both
over the physique and over his tears. At the end of the four months
appointed I allowed him to go, deeming him sufficiently secure of health;
indeed he complained of nothing. However, he continued the dripping
sheet, sitz bath, and occasional packing for two or three months more,
when several boils appeared about the alxlomen and thighs; he wrote to
me about them, and treated them by my written directions. I heard
nothing of him for six or seven months afterwards, when he came to
Malvern to show himself, declaring that he "did not know what nenes
meant." He is still flourishing, and likely to do so, since he has learned
the necessity of sacrificing some of the anxieties of business to the exi-
gencies of health, such as regular hours of eating, &c.
§ 2. NEURALGIA-NERVE PAIN- Tic DouLOUREux-SciATICA-
NERvous HEADACHE.
In nervousness the visceral irritation preys on the brain and
spinal cord in such a manner as to pervert the mental operations
carried on through their instrumentality. The mischief in them
is of a character which weakens the power of the nerves Sf"nt out
from them to the muscles, and diminishes the voluntary action of
these latter : but no animal pain necessarily attends.
In neuralgia, on the other hand, there is the visceral irritation,
although of a ditfea·ent phase, which radiates to the spinal cord
and brain, but more especially to the former, and begets in them
an irritative action, which is exhibited in pain. The pain is
periodical, or rather intermittent, for it does not always observe
fixed periods. The intimate condition of a nerve in a state of
pain is known to be that of inflammation, that is, the blood-vessels
of the substance of the nerve and of its sheath are relaxed, gorged,
and, pressing upon the sentient matter of which the nerve is com-
posed, excite its sensitiveness to the amount of pain. It is true
that in many instances no trace of change could be detected in the
appearance of nerves that were the seat of neuralgia for years
before death : but this does not militate against the existence of
disordered circulation in them, since it was always intermittent,
172 NEURALGIA-NERVE PAIN-
and not likely, therefore, to leave trace bc~ind it: it is only ince1.
sant functional disease that produces orgnmc change.
But another irritation, namely, in the viscera, i:OJ connected with
this external one. Here, however, it is continued, lurking, liable
to be exasperated by a hundred causes, to ~uch a pitch, as to rouse
immediately the slumbering nerve, on which it is wont to expend
its morbid sympathy. This exasperation of irritation in the vis.
cera, and for the most part in the ganglionic net-work about the
stomach and liver, coincides, therefore, with an attack of neural-
gia: it is an invnriable concomitant and cause ; and you might
as well expect to find a brain without viscera, as a chronic nenre
pain without visceral i1·ritation. In fact, neuralgia is a rude
effort of the disordered viscera, to throw their destructive irritation
upon some external and less vital part; it is a process of salvation
to the centre of life, and we accordingly find neuralgic patients
the most long lived. Besides, it is notorious, that although tic
douloureux destroys the comfort of life, it never destroys life itself.
Were the internal disorder to be concentrated, then it would !;ap
the organs that are most essential to existence : a neuralgic out-
break prevents this.
As may be readily conceived, the frequent repetition of the
same irritation in a nerve, renders it more and more easily the
prey of the internal mischief: until the smallest possible increase
of the latter suffices to induce an attack : and the minutest causes
operate violently. The stomach being in a state of nervmu dys-
pepsia is astonishingly alive to dietetic irritatives, which are a fer-
tile cause. \Vhatever agents disturb the nutrition of the body,
be it for ever so short a period, are apt to bring on an attack : hence
the operation of mental causes, gusts of anger, sm·prise, &c.;
hence too the exquisite sense of barometric and thermometric
changes in thP air, and ofits electric vicissitudes, which tic patients
possess : these causes disturbing the general nutrition of the
frame, tell more especially upon the visceral centre of it, lighting
up its chronic irritation. I have known a neuralgic suffer('r, who
felt and predicted a snow storm many hours before it took place,
and at a time when the sky was clear and serene : but on looking
to the barometer, 1 found it had experienced the electric change
aB accurately as, but not more so than, the patient. In fact, the
nutrition ofthe skin-is always more or Jess deteriorated, and lacks
the power to react upon atmospheric conditions: dependent on the
internal state of the body, it is less able, in consequence of tb&l
TIC DOULOUREUX, ETC. 173
state being defective, to resist external impressions: and the
patient is often puzzled to account for an attack, when an accu-
rate barometer or electrometer would inform him of the exciting
cause.
\Vhat is the neuralgic constitution ? I have almost invariably
observed the disease among men in those of great muscular power,
and who have been in the habit of exerting it freely, and at the
same time taxing thcit· viscera with high living and venereal ex-
haustion-circumstances most likely to cr('ate irritation in the
viscera, and to render the spinal cord and its nerves the parts in
which to excite a morbid sympathy. But the malady is also
observable in persons who have worked thei1· brnins to the detri-
ment of their stomachs, which they at the same time worried with
stimulants. On these two grounds we find more of the disease
among military men, and hard-worked men of law, than any
others. Among 1comcn it occurs in those whose deeply feeling
minds have trenched upon the integrity of their viscP.ra ; or in
those who have strained the latter by rapid child-bearing, and
prolonged nursing of their children. The age most liable to it is
between thirty-five anti fifty years: but it begins at other dates.
Once established, it is generally worse in the spring than at other
seasons: stormy weather at any period of the year exasperates it.
Certain nerves of the body are more liable to neuralgic disease
than others; and these have been wl'itten and ~polcen of as dis-
tinct maladies. To the neuralgia of the ncr\·e whose branches
come out of the bone above the eye-ball, under the eye, and in
the lower jaw, sending branches to the whole sillc of the face,
and to the teeth, the specific term of tic douloureux is usually
opplied. \Vhen the large nerve which runs behintl the hip-joint
down the back of the thigh is affected, the disease is called sci-
atica. But tic also occurs and, indeed, is pretty frequent in the
nerves of the arm, especially of the fore-arm. As a transitory
sign of dyspepsia, it often is felt in the fingf'rs, in the shoulders,
and in the ribs; for the shoulder pain I have seen calomel given,
under the idea that the liver was at fault: and I have seen
lcechl's applied for supposed pleurisy which some sal-volatile im-
mediately removed : so little are these sympathies recognized!
\Vorst of all, tic is occasionally universal, every principal nerve
in the body being attacked in the course of twenty-four hours.
I have seen two cases of tic of the entire skin of the body, except
the face : in one case, to such an intense de~ ree, that exposure
174 NEURALGIA-NERVE PAIN-
of the hand out of a ulove for five minutes caused exquisite pain.
0
The skin, and indeed the whole substance of one or both legs,
arc occasionally the seats of severe nerve-pain. The scalp, be-
ina 1ar£Tcly provided with animal nerves, which, moreover, run
0 0 f 1 .
in a hard, inela~tic tissue, is the seat o most severe neura g•a,
which, under the name of nervous headac/tP, is the daily torment
of thousands. All these forms are connected with the same inti-
mate condition of the pained nerves, and with some phase of
visceral it·t·itution, always of a nervous kind, but sometimes with
the addition of mucous derangement. It is vain, in our present
knowledge of the nervous system, to speculate as to the cause
wby one nerve, rather than another, becomes the seat of mor·bid
sympathy and pain. We have some grounds for saying that
liver dm·angcment is connected with sciatica : that nervous
disorder of the stomach itself is mostly found with tic ofthe face :
and that, when irritation of the womb is superadded to that of the
stomach, tic of the scalp, or nervous headache, is the most com-
mon result. Yet all these are liable to exceptions: the great
point of practice is to know that visceral disorder of some sort is
at the bottom of them all.
The treatment of neuralgia is, in great measure, dependent
on the duration of the disease; for the longer it has existed, the
greater the probability that the visceral derangement has reached
the point of obstructed function, and vice versa. In recent, and
not very intense cases, the excited state of the viscera points to
the expediency of employing those remedies of the water cure
that dirninish irritation, such as the wet-sheet packing, fomenta-
tions, shmt hip baths, small quantities of water, gentle exercise,
mild diet. In the older cases, where mucous disorder and ob-
sfntcted function of the viscera obtain, it may be necessary to use
the wet-sheet packing from time to time, but the stimulating agen-
cies of the cure should especially be brought into play, such as the
sweating, prolonged sitz baths, the douche, large doses of water,
and, if the legs be not the affected parts, a good amount of exer-
cise: if they a1·e, a good amount of fi-iction. But these are gen-
cralitic~, and in this more than in any other chronic disease, we
find commingling of symptoms, and conflictinO' considerations of
age, the exciting causes, the constitutional ~endency, previous
treatment, and habits, &c., of the patient, which must sway the
practitioner when the details of treatment arc to be determined.
Thus, sweating may be indicatea, and to a certain extent should
TIC DOULOUREUX, ETC. 175
be practised; but the age of fifty-five years, added to mental
distres ·, as an exciting cause, may render the patient's head full;
in which case, the etfect of the sweating on the pulse and head
shuuhJ be watched, stopped immediately on fulness of the former
and tightucss of the latter, and the wet-sheet packing or fomen·
tation~ had recourse to, in order to reduce the circulation gene-
rally, and that ofth~ head in particular. Having done which, we
return to the 111ain indication. Of course these necessary wan·
de1·ings from that indication prolong the process of cure : but it
is few want of such precautions as I have just alluded to, that the
water OJ' m1y other treatment becomes a dangerous one, as it is
sum to do in non-professional hands. In the course of the treat-
ment, cc1·tain disagreeables are also apt to arise, which it is well
the pnticnt should under::;tand beforehand, so that he may avoid
t.Ji~con ragemcnt.
The first is actu~tl increase of pain. This happens in the earlier
part of the tt•t"")a.tnlCnt, and is accounted for by taking, as a basis,
tbe fact herc.:beiore mentioned, that neuralgia is itself a rude effort
of the viscera to save themselves by throwing their irritation on
the externul ncn•es. Now the effect of the water treatment is
exactly the same : it places the viscera in the best possible posi-
tion of vitality. to effect this diversion in their own favor. No
wond<:'r then that at first the effort thus encouraged should be
toward~ the nerve~, already the recipients of the internal morbid
~ympRtliy, u.nd that the old pain should be increased. But, as will
now be plain, this is rather a sign of the wholesome action of the
tn•utmeut, and should be a ground for hope rather than despon-
dency. For, as gradually the whole skin is brought into a more
ncti\'C state of function, the visceral irl'itation is thrown upon it in
it-:; extent, or upon the lower part of the digestive canal, in the
shnpc of diarrhrea.
ThE' sncond disagreeable is the nausea and general malaise
" hich attend the brisk action of the water treatment in this
muludy. Yet, without these there is little chance of cure; for
they arc the signals of that uprising of the digestive organs which
precede~ a critical nction in some other organs. The visceral
irritation that attends neuralgia is one of the most deeply seated
und inveterate in character, and the uprooting of it is therefore a
pct·turbnting process for the time being: the disjointing of a long.
standiug bad arrnngcmcnt iRnot effected without some inconveni-
ence; but the end justifies and compensates for that. For the
176 NF.URALGIA-NERVE PAIN-
rest short sitz baths or long f~t baths, relieve very much of the
' ' . d
nausea and malaise from time to time. As might be expecte ,
these sians are mot·e prominent in old than in recent neuralgia.
But I hcld that no tic of a fixed kind can be got rid of without
some critical action, and that generally a bilious outpouring by
the mouth and Ly the bowels, or sweating, or an itchy eruption of
the skin: but never boils.*
CAsE x·vn.-scuTicA.
This patient is brother of the most distinguished of the metropolitan
surgeons, who, indeed, recommended him to come to me for a trial of the
water treatment. He is fifty years of age, a person of most active mind,
occupying himself during a long day with matters of grave and complex
character, and even filling up hours that are not recognized as those of
business with botany, gardening, &c.; in short, giving his mind no rest.
Withal, his position brought him, as host or guest, into not infrequent
dinner-parties, where, though moderate, he could scarcely be as abstinent
as, considering the mental labor and slight bodily exercise he took, he
ought to have been. The consequence was, that the digestives began to
gi\'e way; he fell into ill health; and, after two years of dyspeptic disor-
der, the internal irritation attempted to relieve itself by the production of
tic douloureux in the sciatic nerve. He bore this for one year, trying,
meanwhile, a variety of remedies, but to no purpose. The pain drew the
affected leg up, so that in walking he could not put the flat of the foot on
the ground; and it also obliged him to stoop.
He had a variety of dyspeptic signs, although want of appetite was not
one. But a swollen tongue, somewhat split, inflamed back of the throat,
red eyelids, yellow white of the eyes, and general want of activity in the
skin, bespoke something wrong at the centre of nutrition : and in that
conviction I treated his digestive organs and skin, leaving the sciatica to
follow in their train. For nearly fi\·e weeks he was packed once and
tl1en twice daily in the wet sheet, the cold shallow bath, and sometimes,
the cold dripping sheet after it: he took the cold sitz bath once, and some-
times twice daily: occasionally, he h.1.d a dripping sheet instead of a sitz
bath : he drank ten to tweh·e tumblers of water: took horse exercise:
• In his paper on the water cure, in "Colburn's Monthly Magazine" for
September, 18•J.'l, Sir Edward Lytton says, " that neuralgia is one of the
diseases not curable by the water treatment." Ofcourse, his own experi-
ence is very small ground on which to frame this statement, which is
altogether incorrect. Had he been my patient, he would have had oppor-
tunity of hearing the contrary from one at least of the patients who are the
subjecu of the following cases. But this is one of several inaccura·acies in
the paper in question, inevitable by a non-profe:fsional per:;on writing on a
medical subject.
Tie DOULOUREUX, ETC. 177
and in diet aynided all hot liquids whateYer, taking only cold milk and
wa.ter, bread. butter. mntton, beef, poultry, potatoea, and rice. After a
month of tl.i~ sort 0f treatment. and when the tongue had diminished, and
the 'ntlammation of the throat much subsided, I began to sweat him and
dot~t·h•' him tlaily : he took the sitz bath nll'o: the dose of water was
incru.t.·Pd: and tlw f'ystcm was ,·igorously pushed. Under it he began to
han~ ' ' imrning..- in the head. occa~ional nausea, and" knocked up'' feel-
ing. and hi;;; buwcls acted for some time irregularly, sometimes torpid, but
more frcfplr·ntly relaxed. Such is the outline of the treatment which he
}Hir:med to t.he cncl or the second month, when all manner of engagements
ohligcd him to leave Malvern, although against my advice. It is proper
to state al:-;o, that in the course of treatment here, he ran up to London
fbr a tCh' days : RO that his residence ncar me was a trifle under two
months. At lca,·ing: I gn.ve him directions to pursue a modified treat-
ment at home. 'l'hc pain was as nearly gone as possible before he left
Malvern. 'fhis wa!" in the autumn of 18-14, and I heard nothing whatever
of him until Jnne, 1845, when the following letter from him gave me his
history in the interval, and confirmed the complete success of the
treatment.
" London, June 15th, 1845.
" l\Jy DEAn Sm,-T always intended reporting to you, sooner or later,
the regult of my consulting you, of my residence under your care at
Malvern tbr two months, and of my subsequent adoption, to a limited
extent, of the treatment you recommended. Tmight have reported my
complete restoration to health and strength, some weeks ago, but constant
aml prc~sing engagements left me no time to do anything which I could
po:-.tponc ; and furthermore, I thought it would be more satisfactory to
see how f;lr I could stand the trial of parliamentary work in London, and
not halloo before I was fairly out of cover. I was certainly sent to you
after two ycar:s' illness, and one year's sciatica, as one of the incurables.
1.\Iy general health improved greatly during my residence at Malvern. I
so far lo:-t the sciatica, that though I only walked with difficulty and con-
siderable pain when I went there, I walked perfectly free from pain when
I left. You told me I ought to have remained another month at least, and
I believe my cure would have been much more rapid had I done so. On
mv r<>turn home, I adhered pretty closely to your orders as to regimen
tiil Chri:stmas, abont ten weeks after I left you, drinking about six
tumblers of water per diem, taking a bath in some shape nearly every
day, and occa::'ionally a wet sheet under blankets. Though I was never
attcrward~ iuconvC'nienced by sciatica, I was occasionally reminded that
it had not b<>en fairly exorcised; but these sen:.ations very gradually
sub~idetl. I then occa8ionally felt lumbago when I got up in the morn-
ing, to a degree which, in former times, was generally followed by a
severe shock on a sudden, which laid me on my back for a fortnight; but
since I was under your treatment, this has invariably gone offafter brealc-
9* .
178 :S f.U RAI.GTA-~r.ltYE PAIN-
fast in a few minutes' walking-a perfectly new feature in my ca~e. I
have gradually r(•:;:nmcd my formt:'r occupations ~vitho~Jt inconvcmence,
with ::;om~what more indulgence than heretofore, m po:nt of hours, and I
haYc o-radnfdly dropped iuto my old habits of li\·ing, which we.re ~lways
mode;atc; that is to :-ay, drinking wine only in company, contmumg my
five or ~ix tumblers of water in the course of the hH~nty-four hours, and
dailv ~howl'r bath: or dripping sheet when from home, with a dry sheet
aftc~ward::-. 1 think I am now, in all re:spcets, as well as I e\·er was,
makiug due allowance for a diflerence of powers between twenty and
fiftv years of age.
,·, i nm told that a residence at Malvern, free from the cares and anx-
j('tics of bm~ines!'l, would account for this beneficial change, irrespective
of the peculiar treatment I underwent there. That may be; but partial
triah; of change of air aud scene previously had not produced any marked
eftbct, and I attribute my restoration from very serious derangement of
the nervous Ry::4em entirely to the very rational and intelligible mode of
treatment adopted by you. You explained the cau~e of my disorder; you
ga"c me the rationale of your treatment; you ~tated the effects that you
anticipated from that tret'ltment, and those effects resulted. I think it
therefore sound logic to refer the result to the treatment. 1\lrs. --'s*
case ,..·a~ most :mccessfullv treated, and the effect continues. I think it
therefore but clue to attribute our imprO\·ement of condition to your skill ;
and I have not hesitated, and shall not hesitate, to bear this testimony in
all quarters. \Vishing you every success,
"I remain, my dear Sir,
" J\Iost truly yours, ---,"
CASE XVIII.- NEURALGIA OF BOTH LEGS.
In the summer of 1843, a gentleman of thirty-two years of age, who
had formerly been in the army, and had then led a very dissipated life,
placed himself under my care at Malvern. He had drank largely of
spirits, had pa.c;;sed through the stages of nervous dyspepsia, and was now
arrived at a complication of irritated and obstructed function of the diges-
tive organs that was quite lamentable. He had also been twice salivated
with mercury. His skin pale as death; his !'oft, flabby limbs- small,
rapid, and compressible pulse- all bespoke the extent of the internal
mischief which originated this painful aftE.~ction of the limbs. These last
were racked with pain night after night, notwithstanding enormous doses
of opi~tes, and it was only towards morning that, between them and ex-
haustaon, he dozed for an hour or two. 'l'he pain frequently returned in
the day; but, oddly enough, he could then suspend it, by tightening a
cord round the uppe.r part ~f the thighs, the pain, however, returning
when he slackened tt. Thts was of no use in the night. The pains
• ThiR patient's lady had been und(·r my care fol' some minor ailments.
TIC DOULOUREUX, ETC. 179
commenced at the hip joint, and between that and the ankle there was
not an inch of the limb free from it; and it was of an intensity that made
the perspiration stand on his face.
1 have baid th,re was a complication of irritation and congestion within,
and I then•fore treated the case partially for both. He was packed in
the Wl't sheet twice n day for a week; the nf.>xt week he was packed two
succes::'h·e days and sweated the third, and this was continued for nearly
a month. :Meantime he had the cold shallow bath after each of the above
procc~l:iCl'i; the dripping sheet once or twice in the day, according to the
amount of pain ; every other night he was fomented on the stomach for
an hour at bed-time; he drank twelve to fifteen tumblers daily, and ate
Fparingly; his rxerci:;e was considerable, as the tic was quiet for hours
together, and ditl not interfere with his walking. This first month was
one of probation to him, for the pains were much increased ; but as I
lt:Ld anticipated and told him this, his confid(>nce and patience held out
ogainl"t it. Still, for seven weeks, they were severe; in the eighth and
ninth weeks they gradually diminished. In the tenth week of his treat-
ment a mo!'lt extraordinary circumstance occurred. One night the pains
were terribly aggravated-almost as bad as ever; he had F:hiverings, and
felt altogether ncrvons. After a few hours thir; was succeeded by an
excel'givc flow of pale urine, the pain suddenly ceased, and he nerer had it
afteru·anls! I have no doubt that, in this renewed disorder, there was
an effort made hy the viscera; that effort produced the l'hivering and ner-
vousness, and resulted in the flow of what is called "hysterical urine."
It is quite c~rtain, however, that the cure dateR from that day: he never
had pain afterwards. It is necessary to state, that during the last five
week~. he hacl been sweated and douched daily, besides a sitz bath of
half an honr, and large quantities of water : RO that the stimulus of the
treatment had had ftJil play. His spirits and general condition had im-
proved, but not sufficiently to satisfy me, and I therefore detained him
l1cre a month after the cessation of the pain, and continued the douche
and other tonic treatment: but nothing seemed to elicit more pain. I
look upon this as one of the best defined instances of organic effort on
the part of the viscera that could be produced, and altogether as an ex-
traordinary case.
C.AsE XIX.-Tic DouLOUREUX oF THE FACE.
The suhjcct of this case is a military officer, fifty-four years old, of
amazing muscular power, which he has always been in the habit of ex-
ercising to the utmost, in hard riding, hard walking, and athletic exer-
cisel'i. lie lived in the usual style of gentlemen of good rank and
fortune. dined on a variety of dishes, was fond of all manner of condi-
ments, drank seven or eight glasses of wine at and after dinner, strong
coffee, strong tea: but was not dissipated in other respects. A few
years back he had some mental distress. What I suspect to have taken
place iR thi~ : hi~ mode of diet irritated an excitable stomach : hie ez
180 NEURALCiiA-NERVE PAIN-
ce~sh·e exerci..:es irritated his spinal cord, the seat .of t?e. wi.ll; the
former played on the latter. w1ticb was rt>aJy to recPI\'C •rr1tatwn, and
tl f tl C left ..,:1de of tl•e face prorcedin!!' from thP. spinal cord,
1e ncn•e:: o 1 . · · .... . .
derived their morbid sen~atiun from it when it was thus cx7rtmg morb1d
S\ mpathies with the viscera. The tic commenced about tour years be-
f;m:: he came to me, and was at first confined to the gu~ of the upper
jaw, left ~iJl•, hut gradually t"pread to the lip. It very olten ca~ ~vtth­
ont anv moYemcnt of the lip or jaw, but was sure to come w1th 1t, so
tlaat t':;ting was a serious operation for him. He underwent a variety
of treatments for it: and among others, an attempt was made to sepa-
rate the nervous twigs of the gum from the main branch of the nerve,
hy cutting down to the bone: this seemed to take the edge off the pain
for a period : but it returned as before. Homreopathy was tried with
~orne success also: but several reasons ou1iged him to give it up. He
pasRed the greater part of the winter, 1844, on the shores of the Baltic,
in which he bathed daily. This bathing brought on diarrhrea and con-
siderable relief, in the midst of which he was called to England: con-
tinued his old plan of diet, and soon got the tic as bad as ever. He
then came to me. All the signs of nervous disease of the stomach
were ~hown in his tongue, throat, eyes, sensations, &c.: but his appe-
tite was good, which, no doubt, was the reason wherefore no restriction
had been hitherto placed on his diet, except by the homreopathic
physician.
His diet was immediately changed to the simple rule of my establish-
ment: and as his body had been we11 used to cold water, and was in
good condition, brisk treatment was applied at once. He was packed in
two successive wet sheets, morning and evening, with cold shallow bath
for six or seven minutes after each : and took the sitz bath for three-
quarters of an hour at noon. He wore the alxlominal compress all day;
drank fifteen tumblers of water, and walked six or seven miles daily.
After a fortnight he took the douche for five or six minutes at noon, and
the long sitz bath in the evening, in place of the second packing. Some-
times the packing was omitted altogether for two or three days, and the
douche taken twice. This was done in order to give respite from the
pain, which was roused each time he laid in the wet sheet. In fact,
the phenomenon of increased pain to which I have alluded in the text,
\Vas very palpable in this gentleman, whose excellent reactive power
was thus exhibited. However, he was resolute, and did and bore every-
thing he was desired to do, and had his reward ; for at the end of four
U"eeks the tic was nearly gone. He went home for a few weeks, con-
tinued a modified treatment, but not the strict diet he had with me and
'
the tic remained just as it was when he left me, now and then" sim-
mering.". He retu~ed for a fortnight, took to brisk treatment again,
and got r1d of the pam altogether. As easterly winds had always ag-
gravated it, I recommended him (it being the month of September) to
spend a few weeks at some place on the Devonshire coast, until the
TIC DOULOutUmX, ETC. 181
middle of October, and then to migrate to the south of France for the
\tinter, so :tfil to e.·tahli~h the freedom from pain which his treatment at
1\lal\'crn had ctli•ctctl. Hincc he left, he has sent me repeated accounts
of llimsclf, each announcing that" all is right;" at which I rejoice, as it
Epcaks of the wt•ll-hl·ing of an excellent man and pains-taking patient.*
It should l.Je added that diarrham. of two or three days, repeated
several times, was the only critical action that marked this case.
It must not uc <•xpected that all cases of facial tic are curable
so soon as this. In this instance much hue] no doubt been done
by the pre\•ious bathing in the Baltic, and its result in diarrhrea;
anu the constitution of the patient was excellent. Generally it
rcquircs many months of a~siduous water treatment to under-
min<' this tctlious 111alady : and in many cases it certainly fails,
though as often, I think, from the want of patience of the suf-
ferer, as incflicacy of thP. treatment. Still, it does fail, and the
well-known case of a popular nobleman, who was a long time
under treatment at Malvern, is a notable instance of this; he was
not one jot better. Altogether, it is the most inveterate of neu-
ralgic complaints.
Flying neu1·algic pains of the ribs, especially over and about
the heart, of the fingers and arms, arc always symptomatic of
passing increase of irritation in the viscera, and are best treated
with hot fomentations to the stomach, cold hip baths, dripping
sheets, or foot baths, according to the presence or absence of
mucous and feve1·ish sign~, the fomentations being most proper
when such are pres£'nt, and the other means if they are absent.
In violent fits of fi.t·cd tic, the fomentations, with copious water
drinking the while, are the best soothing remedy, and seldom fail
to alleviate, if not put down the attack. And this, which I have
proved in a great number of instances, forms a very strong argu-
ment for the origin of neuralgic ailments in the viscera. In like
manner toothache, which is very often a tic of the nerves of the
• I seize the opportunity of bearing this testimony to the fairness and
implicit regularity of this patient, who will smile to see it thus recorded.
flut most military men are excellent patients, anrl the physician may
always rely that his injunctions will be conscientiously fulfilled by them.
The same applies to members of the Society of Friends, and, to a great
extent, to Scotchmen,-all three well regulated classes. They only can
know the comfort of having such patients who are troubled by the in-
dolence, caprice, unreasonableness, and irregularity of the far greater
number, who thereby gain no health for themselves and no credit for the
phy51ician.
1~2 NEt'R.A T.GJA-NERYF. PJ\ IN'-
teeth is relieved Ly forncntino- the stomach, foot-baths, and drink-
• ' 11 °) tl1 .. r._.l·aC'f is owing to the
ma water freely. In n sue 1 cases c '"'
tr;nsfel' of irritation ft·mn the interior to the exterior.
Neuralgia is for tlw most part, as I have said, a tedious malady
to cure. ._At this moment, however, I have with me a gentleman
who offers another ex<:eption to this rul0. A few words will tell
his case, its trenttnent, nnd the result up tl) this time.
CASE XX.-SCIATICA.
The patient is thirty years old. For five years he has had severe
and increasing sciatica of the left side. Resident in Canada, he then
underwent all kinds of treatment, mercury, of course, in abundance, and
iodine, until his head and face swelled : he was poi~oned by it, in fact.
Besides this, he had been greatly given to spirit drinking. In Novem-
ber, 1815, he reached England, purpo~ely to try the water cure, and
came under my care the latter end of that. month. Detween his landing
and his arri\·~1 at Malvern, be was induced, during a short stay with
friends, to try acupunctm·t•: but the needles gave him exquisite torture,
and considerably augmented the neuralgic pain. In spite, however, of
the bad medlcin·tl treatment he had undergone, his constitution, naturally
of the strongc~t, retained a good degree of vigor. Yet to look at him
when walking, b.mt almost double with pain and limping, one would
not have gi,·en much for his chances of recovery.
The action of the treatment in this case was immediate. He wns
fomented at night, and packed in the wet sheet morning and evening for
an hour, with a cold ~hallow bath afrcr each. He drank twelve to
fifteen tumblers of water, and Jived on mutton, farinaceous puddings,
bread and butter. After two weeks of this, he was packed in two sheets,
successi\·ely, in the moruing and one in the evening, with the douche
for three minutes at noon. He wore a compress all the time. For the
first fortnight, the pain was somewhat rouf->ed whilst in the wet sheet,
but subsided immt.•diatclv in the shallow bath. In three weeks he felt
little or no pain at all, e~<'ept when he sat down on the floor, and tried
to stretch the n<>nralgic leg out as straight as the other. In walking he
felt none, nor \vas any halt in his gait or any stooping perceptible: in
short, he declared himself in all pa11iculars well, and that this sciatica,
which for five years had not only resisted all means, but increased not-
withstanding them, had in one month yielded to simple water. The
last I heard of this patient was, that he was the most vigorous dancer
of Scotch reels at a party for that purpose ; this was three months after
his first coming to me.
. Of NERvous IIEA~ACHE, the cause is still to be sought in the
VIscera; and the crises of the water treatment which effect its
NERVOUS HE.\DACBE. 183
cure are all produced in them. Vomiting, chronic relaxation of
the bowels, copious and loaded urine, attend its disappearance,
but never boils nor irritation of the skin : in many instances the
cause of nervous headache is to be found in disordered function
of the womb, and especially in excessive or difficult menstruation:
iu these the stoppage of the excess, or removal of the difficulty,
are C(tuivalent to a curative crisis. It cannot be denied, however,
that this last da~s of causes renders nervous headache exceedingly
unmanageable, by this, as it is by all other plans of treatment.
The uterine oa·gans acquire morbid habits of action, occurring
with periodical regularity, and it is difficult to break them. This
is more especially the case, when, with a proper amount of men-
struation, it comes slowly with pain, and is extended over eight
or nine days: these cases are often intractaLle. \Vhcn the head-
ache is connected with exccssi,·c and quickly flowing menstrua-
tion, the water treatment is much more certain in its curative
result. Arising from any cause, nervous headache, which keeps
n fixed period of accession, is much less readily curable than that
which is induced at uncertain times by varying perturbating cir-
cumstances; once break the period. and you have it under
command. And in all cases the patient must have patience: like
other tic disea~cs (for this is only a tic of the sealp) it is \'ery
rarely cured by a coup de main: indeed, the attempt to do so by
urging on excessive treatment, more usually exasperates the
complaint: the phase of visceral irritation on which it depends is
so precise as to require the nicest adaptation of the amount of
stimulus applied. Moreover, this is eminently one of those diseases,
the relief obtained for which from the water cure is more expe-
rienced after that treatment has ceased for some time, than in the
course of it.
There is the occaszonal as well as the curative treatment of tic
of the head, or nervous headache. To subdue it for the nonce, a
cold dripping sheet, well rubbed over the body for three or four
minutes, and repeated every two hours or so, is, with some, a good
remedy. A cold foot bath for fifteen minutes, repented every
three or four hours, succeeds with others. The cold sitz bath for
twenty minutes, or more, is often successful. Finally, hot fomen-
tations to the pit of the stomach are of the greatest benefit, except
when there is excessive menstruation, in which event they are
inadmissible. In trying any of the above, it is necessary to drink
water more ox less fa·eely, according to the fever present, and the
18-l ~EUH A I.GIA-NlmV& I'Al.N-
• f· uentlv chanpC' the abdominal com.
mucous symptomH, at~Cl t~ I cio trv.one nftl' ,. anot lwr of all these
P•·e~s 'Vc nrc often (>hltged · .
· · . '
1
- . . .· nee l:;pC'al<.s in favor of the fout baths nnd
remedies. 1\ V expet w · 1 ·
.
1
· t.l rrcntcr numher of cases: that 1s, w 1ere a tome
s1tz Lat 1s, m •e 6 • ~ .
f
r.
1 1
·
5
rC'quircd. ''here, together wtth the nervous
e 1ect a one . . .
t ,.. •l\crc is deficient secretion from the dt!!estlve mucous
symp om,.., · ·. . .....,
surface, ancl conHttpatiOn of bowels, d1·y mouth, hot breath, &c.,
attend, fomentations are preferable. The 1·ubbing sheet is for the
slighter heac.lachrs. But packing in the wet sheet, sweating, and
the clouche, are not aumissible.
The curative treatment of nervous headache is regulated, in the
n1ain, by the same circumstances as the occasional. It is neccs.
snry to ascertain the amount of ~ecrctorial disorder which is added
to the nervous ; how far mucous derangement, and feverish ex-
citement consequent on it, are combined with the nervous pain;
and the condition of the uterine functions. Generally there is
much disorder of the mucous membrane in this chronic headache,
owing, \'cry often, to the violent medicines that have been em-
ployed against it, and against the constipation of bowels which
almost as often attends. In this case, the partial packing with a
wet towel twice a day, gradually proceeding to the employment
of the sheet, should be used; with the ~old sitz bath for half an
hour, once or twice daily, the abdominal compress frequently
changed, and a somewhat copious use of water. The diet should
be chiefly farinaceous, meat being tnkf'n only twice or thrice a
week, and the exercise should be rather free than otherwise, pro-
vided the stomach digests a good portion of food. This sort of
treatment should be persisted in, until the reduction of the mucous
symptoms, for the most part announced by some internal crisis, is
well established. In the course of effecting this, it is more than
probable that cxa~peration of the headache may occur, and espe-
cially immediately preceding some crisis of the bowels: for the
efforts of the body to that end arc all made through the nervous
system, which is roused to them by the treatment. Accordingly,
when such occur and induce severe headache, the treatment must
be relaxed, or suspended for a few days or a week ; and the pa-
tient may be assured, meanwhile, that the pain is here of favora.
b]e augury, certifying the active operation of the remedies. In
fact, if the patient is pretty strong, I ·generally recommend him
to bear with it for a time, because a continuance of the nervous
excitement, of which it is a sign, is pretty sure to terminate the
NEE.VOUS HEADACHE. 185
sooner in critical relief: but this requires discretion. Supposing,
then, the mucous and feverish symptoms removed, and action of
the bo\\'cls obtained, the wet-sheet packing should be di:scontinued,
or only used now and then, as the pulse hardens and quickens
from the rest of the treatment. For a tonic and stimulating plan
is now advi:mbll! : besides sitz baths, the douche ~hould be taken,
and gradually increased to several minutes' duration; the shallow
bath in the morning should be had for four or five minutes, with
considerable friction ; foot baths should be takC'n once or twice a
day; the dose of water should be free ; a small quantity of ani-
mul foocl should be given once daily, and a go01l amount of exer-
cise taken. P<.•r.scvcrance in these means at length causes either
n dianhcea, or eruption of an itchy kinu, in various parts of the
skin~ with souwtim£'s a considerable exudation of glutinous liquid
under the abdominal compress, which I have found to smell
strongly of medicinal substances long previously taken. But as
I have said, stoppages in the treatment are every now and then
necessary and beneficial.
\Vhen, with nervous headache, there are signs of obstructed
action of the li\·cr, sweating will be required, with still a care not
to excite the circulation and nerves beyond the capabilities of the
organization, and any feverishness it may beget is to be subdued
by the wet sheet. And as regards the curativr. treatment gene-
rally, it must be remembered, that when a bad fit of hPadache is
on, it is to be suspended, and the occasional treatment already spo-
l<en of employed. Scarcely any disease demands more attention
of the practitioner, in order to make rninute changes in the treat-
ment, for the great benefit of the patient, than this troublesome
form of neuralgia.
Arising from the phase of uterine irritation: which begets slow,
painful, or scanty menstruation, nervous headache is treated in a
very similar manner to the above. \Vct sheeting and prolonged
sitz bath~ and foot baths are the principal remcdie~, and the douclte
should not be applied without care ; for in these cases there is
frequently, besides tic outside the skull, some fulness of blood
inside of it, in the brain ; for which reason, also, the quantity of
water should be carefully regulated. But where the pulse does
not indicate such fulncss, the douche is a very necessary part of
the treatment; and, played well on the loins, tends powerfully to
facilitate the uterine functions. The diet must depend on the
same circumstances of fulnE>~s of head, or the contrary. But in
186 NEURALGlA-NERVE PA\N-
either case the exercise should be considerable, ~or they both dir.
fer from the instance of suppressed menstruation from actual
b\ dl S Of Wl\ich 1 shall have to speak hereafter, and in
oo cssncs , . .
which much exercise is far from destrable. It 1s scarcely neces.
sary to acid, that sweating is out of the question in the headache
from the cause I am now speaking of.
In the contrary case, of nervous headache connected with
excessive menstruation, the tonic plan, and rest of the digestive
organs and limbs, are necessary. In all exhausting losses of
blood, nature, in order to save the vital organs of nutrition, con-
centrates the blood which remains about them, so as to obviate
the extinction of the being. Hence, with excessive menstruation,
we constantly see inflammation of the stomach coincident; and
hence also the necessity for avoiding stimulating or copious food,
although the body may be drained of blood at the very time.
But as food is to be very carefully taken, so exercise should be
carefully practised ; not only because there is small supply of
blood in the system, but because, whenever the will is exerted,
as in walking, there is a strain upon the nutritive organs, and
consequent increase of their congestion. So that we have abun-
dant reason for Yery careful dieting and for absolute rest, or at
most only passive exercise, in the headache connected with ex-
cessi\'e menstruation. Inasmuch, however, as exercis~ is forbid-
den, so should the processes of the water cure be of a kind not
to require it; and, in fact, those which are found practically to
be most efficient, require none, or at least very little, to cause
reaction. The sitz baths are very shm1, varying from two to
five minutes each1 and taken three or four times a day. I have
often prescribed such in the midst of immense menstrual dis-
charge, and always with decidedly good effect: of course they
are cold. A minuie or two in the duration is ofgreat importance,
as, if the patient be in the bath too long, it will rather increase
t)fan relieve the evil ; and the colder the water the shorter the
time. Experience alone of the individual constitutions can afford
n just notion of the requisite time and temperature. The cold
rubbing sheet is another remedy in the case in question. \Vater
should be drunk in very small quantities at a time, even so little
as a wine-glass fuJI ; nor should the whole quantity exceed one
o1· two tumblers in tlJe day. The reasons for low, farinaceous
die-t Jmve been given : ripe and cooked fresh fruits may be taken,
as also succulent vegetables. Bec;ides the most complete rest of
APOPLECTIC FULNESS OF THE BRAJN, Ere. J87
body which is attainable, it is a great point to avoid external
heat, and all hot liquids taken internally. Last, not least, as the
excitable character of woman is in this malady infinitely aug-
mented, it behoves to withdraw from the brain all subjects which
dec·ply implicate either its moral or intellectual faculties; and,
however distasteful to feminine mobility, the patient must learn
to take things quietly. By such simple and negative means as
these, I have cured old standing nervous headaches arising from
uterine irritation and hemorrhage, when all sorts of medicinal
and dietetic tonics, opiates, and astringents, had altogether failed.
I have dwelt somewhat at length on this malady, because it is
of so frequent occurrence, and because it is not my intention to
illustrate its history and treatment by the detail of cases. It is
one of those d!seasas of which it may most truly be said that
no two cases are alike; of which, therefore, no picture could be
given, by one or twenty cases, that should be a practical guide;
so much does the management of each one depend on small points
which appeal to the intuition, rather than the bare observation of
the physician. Meanwhile, it may be confidently stated, that
nervous headache is one of the maladies in which the judicious
use of the water treatment is most effectual.
§ 3. APOPLECTIC FULNESS OF THE BRAI~-CONGESTION OF THE
BRAIN- PALSY. •
In the preceding nervous complaints, the diseased circulation of
blood in the substance of the nervP--matter was not of a character
to disorder its functions by obstructing it; neither have we direct,
tangible evidence of excess of blood in it as the essential of their
presence, although, reasoning on sound physiological grounds, the
inference is inevitable. In the disorders which head this section,
however, there is every evidence that excess of blood, in a vary-
ing degree of stasis or congestion, exists-a congestion tending to
impede the office of the brain and spinal cord, and their com-
mands to the muscles of voluntary action.
The manner in which apoplectic fulness and congestion of tile
brain. are generated, has been already sketched (page 18).
Originating in stomach irritation alone in the first instance, it is
a simple extension thence to the brain; but when mental causes
have been at work, the shock or strain on the mind's organ, the
brain, is reverberated in the digestive organs; an irritation is set
)88 APOPLECTIC FULNESS OF THE BRAIN, ETC.
up there, plays upon the al~eady p~edisposed_ brain, a~d thus
chronic fulness of the latter 1s estabhshcd, wh1ch, as m1ght be
expected is of a more invete1·ate character than when the fault is
all in th: stomach. The man who has few mental cares or toils,
but who gives hi~ stomach a great quantity of work, will get his
hend too full of blood, and the fulness will be, in a great majority
of in~tanccs, of the apoplectic kind ; whilst he who drudges with
his head, swallows his food without chewing, or eats very little,
and perhaps takes stimulants to carry him on in his labors, will
have fulness of the head too, but it will be of the congestive kind.
The differe?ce betw~en these two is, however, in dP.gree only;
nn<.l the patient sometimes passes through the apoplectic and sub.
sequently reaches the congestive stage. In both, the blood-vessels
of the substance of the whole brain contain too much blood.
'
but in apoplectic fulness they still retain a considerable amount of
their vitality and contractile power, and there is not only too
much blood, but it is passed through it with augmented rapidity.
In congestive fulness, on the other hand, the blood-vessels have
lost their tone more completely, and the blood is not passed on
rapidly. But as the distinctions between these states have a
most important practical bearing, I will endeavor to render them
clear by placing them in a tabular form :-
APOPLECTIC ..UL:NEss,
Occurs in per~ons having a general
fulness of blood, and who make that
fluid rapidly ; who have great ap-
petite for food; and in whom there
is often hereditarv tendenc''· Catuel
are, excessive !:Ceding, stimulating
diet, alcoholic ftnids, want of exer-
cise, long sleep, hot rooms, sensual
indul~cnce; tonic medicine~, especi-
allv iron waters.
s.vmptoms are, turgi~ an~ red, or
puffy and pale face, proJecting eyes,
grca~y skin of the fa~e, whizzing
nois~ in the cars, flashes of fire be-
fore the eves, giddiness, and tight-
ness of head ; sometimes very bad
headache, fiery red throat, furred and
red tipped tongue, feeling of chok-
ing about the throat ; thirst, great
appetite, constipated bowel3, but
larrrely opened when they act, and
of dark color; urine scanty and high
colored ; seldom any pain or other
sensation in the abtlomen ; tender-
CONGESTION OF THE HEAD,
Persons of meagre habit and ex-
treme nervous action, both of mind
and body, whose tendency is to keep
both on the stretr.h, and eat not in
proportion to the waste incurred,
are the most subject to this state.
Cause8 are, excessive action of thr
brain and spinal cord in mental ex-
citement and venereal pleasures;
alcoholic stimulants, anrl small
quantity of, or improper food being
taken at irregular times, and eaten
quickly; tea, coffee, and other bot
liquids ; want of natural and regu·
larsleep ; tobaccosmokingand snuff'·
in~; losses by purgin~, bleedingand
urme ; mercury and Jodine.
Symptoms. Colorless or dirty·
look'mt( and anxious face, eyes sunk,
humnung and singin$' noise in the
ears, dulness of hearang and sight,
the latter being often clouded by a
cobweb or dark spots; giddin~ and
faintness, sense of weakness Ill the
APOPLECTIC FULNESS OF THE BRAIN, ETC. 180
ness at the pit of the stomach occa-
aionally; breathing strong and
wheezing, pulse large, hard, throb-
~in~, rather slow, frequent palpita-
tiOn ~ strong tendency to sleep, great
impatience and irascibility, restless-
ness of mind as tu subjects ; hot skin,
and small susceptibility to external
cold.
head, red and swollen tongue, re-
laxed throat, no thirst, appetite of-
ten small, more or less distre:)s after
eating, bowels constipated, but
quantity to be evacuated small,
urine copious and clear, especially
at night, nocturnal emissions ;
breathing weak and slow, sighing or
yawnin~, pulse small, soft, and often
slow; but little sleep, and broken
and dreamy ; mind depressed and
moody; no desire for exercise, and
the limbs soon tired; skin cool and
bloodless, feet icy, great suscepti-
bility to external cold.
These are wide differences, and fatal ones, to tho.:>c who treat
a name instead of a condition, who would bleed, or otherwise
reduce for a " fulness of the head," without inquil·ing whether
that means "apoplectic" or " congestive" fulness : many is the
unfortunate, it is to be feared, who has passed out of the world
after a bleeding, who might have been kept in it with nutritious
food, and rest of the nervous centres. But although the causes
and symptoms, and, as will be presently seen, the treatment of
these states diff('r, they nevertheless tend towards the same end,
if left to themselves. The fulness constituting the apoplectic
tendency terminates in sudden pressure or effusion of blood on
the brain, with apoplectic stupor: and the patient either comes
out of this with more or less palsy, or dies, the palsy sometimes
gradually disappearin~. In the fulness which 1 have called
congestive, the enfeebled and gorg~d blood-vessels of the brain
gradually press more and more upon its matter, oppress its func-
tion, and finally induce palsy of more or fewer muscles, but
without any such suspension of consciousness as that which
attends apoplexy.
Thus, then, the matter stands :-In apoplectic fulness there is
excess of blood in the body generally, and in the brain in par-
ticular and d fortiori; for, even in health, that or~an receives
one-fifth of the whole blood of the body. The vessels of the brain
not only con!ain too much blood, but that blood is circulated with
a rapidity and force, that renders sudden extreme pressure or
rupture of them very probable. Moreover, the body is in a high
state of nutrition, the blood-vessels themselves are highly nour-
ished, and therefore, although containing too much fluid, have not
so much lost their contractility, and are not in the state of extreme
190 APOPLECTIC FULNESS OF THE BRAIN, ETC.
d t · 1 t" as 1
·n the con"estive state. Accordingly,
an a omc re axa wn, o . . . .
ll th h are those of excessive action, as w11l readtly
a e p enomcna . . ~
,_ · tl bove tabular v1ew. In congcstwe .ulness, on the
ue seen m 1c a .
th l ) there bein<T rather a pauctty than ar. excess of blood
o er mnc, o . . .
in the entire frame, nature, actmg by her mvartable rule, sends
the greater portion ~f it to the centre~ .of life in the stomach and
the brain. But as m that case nutrJtton of the blood-vessels is
below par, they offer little vital contractile resistance to the blood
that oppresses them, and the circulation in the brain is thus en.
feeulcd, stagnant, congestive, with slight chance of causing sud.
uen, but with every probability of inducing gradual pressure of
the organ. The same deficient nutrition obtains in the heart,
which therefore fails to drive the blood to the head vehemently :
and thus between the deficient blood, its congestion in the brain,
and pressure on its nervous function, and the general deficient
nutrition as a consequence of both, the phenomena of this con-
gestive fulness of the head are those of enfeebled action, as the
table exhibits.
In a patient suffering with apoplectic fulness of tbe head, what-
ever suddenly reduces the general and local repletion, large blood-
letting, purging, sweating, or the immediate and complete with-
drawal of all stimulus of food, is apt to cause a transition from
that kind of fulness to the congestive. The rationale of this is
sufficiently obvious from what precedes: the sudden reduction of
stimulus, and of the vital fluid, takes from the vessels of the brain
their contractile energy, whilst the same reduction causes an un-
due proportion of blood to centre in them, and this excess and
their relaxation constitute the congestive state. This is constantly
occurring in consequence of the rough practice so commonly em-
ployed against what is called "determination of blood to the
head.~' But without that, the same transition is liaLle to take
place. If apoplexy does not happen, the rapid action of the di-
gcstive organs at length passes into feverish action, the appetite
diminishes, the Llood wastes without being renewed in proportion,
and the vessels of the brain undergo the same change as if sud-
den reduction had been effected. If apoplexy does happen, the
means usualJy ta]{en, and the starvation that follows the attack,
serve in like manner to convert the apoplectic into the congestive
state. Now, this transition state is often presented for treatment,
and requires considerable acumen, both to detect and to treat-to
steer between the tonic and the depleting plans. The enumera.
APOPLECTIC FULNESS OF THE BRAIN, ETC. 191
tion of symptoms already given will enable the practitioner to
ascertain the prcpom1erance of one or other condition, and his
remedies must be applied accordingly.
When the state of apoplectic fulness is to be combated, we must
have recourse to the luu:ering processes of the water cure. Hot
fomentations to the abdomen, the constant wearing of the abdo-
minal compress, packing in the wet sheet, the long sitz bath, low
diet, and strong cx~.;rcisc require to be used. But the tempera-
ture of tlte fomentations should be regulated by the pulse ; if this
be very hard and bounding, they should be moderately hot, and
may be increased in heat as the pube becomes softer. The wet-
sheet packing, too, must be regulated by the pulse and the sensa-
tions in the head : and the patient ought not to remain more than
thirty to forty minutes at a time in it, if the former be very hard,
and the latter distressing from giddiness, great noise, &c. ; it is
well also to have a cold wet cloth on the head whilst in the sheet.
In the cold shallow bath which follows it, the head should be first
wetted, ami n pitcher of cold water poured over it ; and this
should be repeated twice or thrice during the bath. The fre-
quency of the sheet will depend on circumstances, to be men-
tioned presently. It is as well to commence the sitz bath at
about 600 or c.mo, and gradually reduce it: the duration of it
should be from thirty to forty-five minutes, and a cold wet cloth
should be worn round the head whilst in it. The diet should be
greatly predominant in vegetable matters, animal food being
taken only twice or at most thrice a week, and of some of the
least stimulating kind, such as chicken. And as the object of
such diet is to reduce the quantity and stimulating quality of the
blood made, so is the strong exercise intended further to waste it
as it is formed. There can be no doubt that the bulk of circu.
lating fluid adds to the laborious character of the circulation, and
also quickens the activity of the functions, of the nervous parti-
cularly : and on both these accounts it is desirable to avoid much
water-drinking in this kind of fulness of head : in fact, except
to quench the thirst, the less water is drunk the better.
These means fulfil the intent of reducing the mass of blood
generally, and in the head in particular. But a body in this state
must not be rudely handled by the water plan, any more than by
the medicinal plan. If it be attempted to hurry on the process
of reduction, one of two things is liable to happen : either the
frequent processes excite the nervous system, before the quantity
}92 APOPLECTIC FULNES::i OF THE HRAIN, ETC.
f · 1 1· bl od ·5 reduced and thus endanger the brain, that
0 ClfCU a mg 0 I '
is the subject of treatment; or the reduction being suddr.nlg made,
the apoplectic is changed for the congestive state, by the means
I dy stated. So that the more full the head, the more care-
~'· rca · · h'
fully should we proceed in the endc~v?r ~o empty It:. m t .•s, as
in so many other instances, the phystetan s bc!;t part Is patiently
to watch nature's steps, and have a care not to exccec.l or hastP.n
them: the circulation should be carefully watched, and any the
lrast augmentation of it, in the form of nervous pulse, or any
other nervous sign, should immediately mal{e him pause for a
time, and relax the treatment. The pulae should br examined
daily, before and after the wet-sheet packing, and the quantity
and the frequency of the latter regulated accordingly; few will
bear more than two packings in the ·day : most persons not so
many. Fomentations, also, if too hot, or too often applied, make
the head throb instead of quieting it. Both these being power-
fully and positive lowering remedies, aid the negative depletory
measure of diet recommended, and if all be judiciously employed
they form the most certain means of permanently relieving the
apoplectic head, the long sitz baths, meanwhile, drawing the blood
downwards from it.
Under the most favorable circumstances, however, nervous signs
appear in the course of the treatment; indeed, they are indicative
of the passage of the cerebral fulness from the stage of oppres-
sion to that which is coincident with irregular function of the
brain; but if the tremors, fears, &c., arc very distressing, all
that is required is to relax or suspend the treatment for n time.
The sleep, too, from being excessively heavy, becomes broken
and dreamy: this acknowledges much the same cause as the
nervousness, but needs not any great attention. As the brain
empties, the circulation in it becomes more steady, and all these
symptoms dwindle down into quietude. One striking fact is, that,
'''hereas the patient had never before experienced any dyspeptic
uneasiness in the stomach, he now, as the head becomes more
light and easy, for the first time discovers that his food disagrees,
by a sense of heaviness, distension, &c. This is explained by
the oppressed state of the brain, which had previously rendered
it insensible of the irritation going on in the di(J'estives whose
b'd . 0 '
mor 1 sensations come to be appreciated when the brain is reco-
~ering its activity, by the withdt·awal of the load which oppressed
Jt. Much grumbling do patients make at this, to them, new
CONGESTIVE FULNESS OF THE BRAIN, ETC. 193
symptom : but they should welcome it, were it for no other reason
than that it lays open to them the origin of their perilous malady
of the head in the digestive organs, and tacks a dietetic moral to
the history of their complaints.
In congcstil·e fu,/ness of the head, contrary indications of treat.
mcut are pl'<''scntcd to those just considered. Here the object is to
gi,·c tone to the blood-vessels of the Lody generally, and of the
brain iu particular, so that these last may contract and rid them.
sf·lves of their load. As in all exhausted states of the nutritive
organs, so in this thci'C is congestion of the digestive apparatus as
well as of the l>min : hence the imperfect digestion and blood-
making, and the want of tone in the solids. To relieve the con-
g('stion of the apparatus in question, to obtain good blood from
better digested food becomes, therefore, the primary means of
giving tone and contractile energy to the blood-vessels: and whilst
blood is thus being made, a simultaneous aim should be to dis-
tribute it equally to the surface and the interior. and thus to free
the latter from its excess.
For these purposes, in a case of pure congestion of the head,
rubbings with the dripping sheet should be first used several
times in the day ; then the cold shallow bath every morning, with
one or two sitz baths of ten minutes each daily; foot baths of eight
or ten minutes, at any time of the day, are desirable; the compress
should be worn all the day, and changed three or four times; the
quantity of water drank should be very gradually increased,
until it reaches eight or nine tumblers daily. The diet, mean-
time, should be such as nourishes, without offending the stomach
by its bulk; and therefore bread, the highly nutritious farinacere,
and meat, should chiefly form it ; nothing is so bad for the
stomach of one with congested head as large masses of vegetable
food ; they distress and oppress that organ; and heat of head and
harass of mind immediately follow. Moreover, as the object is
to restore tone to the blood-vessels, the diet which contains the
greatest an\Ount of nutriment, without being actually irritating, is
the best, affording, as it do~s, the most nutritive blood. The
Juration of the above treatment will depend much upon the reac-
tive energies of the patient, which, in this malady, are often at a
low ebb. But when, from the pulse, the skin, the sensations in
the stomach, &c., it is inferred that the congestion about the
stomach is diminished, and the powers of nutrition increased, the
treatment may ~e augmented in proportion. The shallow bath
10
194 CONGE::>TIVE FULNESS OF 'filE BRAIN, ETC.
should be extended in time, and more effusion on the head and
more general friction practised ; t~1c ~itz baths mny remain as
before, unless there be great constipation, '~hen they may ~each
h\:enty to thirty minutes. It may uc expClhent, al~o, at thts pe-
riod to substitute a small douche for one of the sttz baths, nnd
oTadually increase the length of it; and, when the patient is able
fo take it for two or three minutes, to submit him to a large1· and
heavier douche. The foot baths will be found still of much usc:
they relieve the tightness, the darting pains, the fixed hcadnt::hc,
and the fidgetty stale of mind which so commonly attend cerebral
congestion. Bad sleep, another accompaniment, may be often
cheated by a short sitz bath at bed-time. In case of intense clis.
tress, or even pain at the pit of the stomach, fomentations of mode-
rate heat over that part are useful. T'he pulse being very small
and weak, the skin cold and very inactive, and the tongue moist,
it is necessary to put the patient in the sweating process now and
then- twice a week, perhaps. As the object of this is only to
give some artificial aid to the efforts of the interior organs to send
their blood towards the exterior, and to rouse them generally, the
appearance of moisture on the skin is sufllcient evidence of such
efforts having been successfully made ; and it is unnecessary,
and indeed would be harmful, to urge the process further. But
in some cases it is not needed aL all ; and when it is, a prolonged
cold shallow bath should succeed it. All these lJ1eans r~quire to
be modified in period and duration, and sometimes to be sus-
pended, when there is reason to think that they ar·e too much for
the reactive power of the system. In no diseases, so much as in
these head affi!ctions, is it requisite to calculate the capacities of
the body, so that no remedy s1m11 oppress, instead of niding them
in their strivings towards restoration; and in no way can this he
so safely done as by commencing very gently with the minor tonic
appliances of the water cure, and as gently increasing their
s.trength, until the frame reacts healthfully upon a long applica-
tion or the douche, or a shallow bath of ~ix or seven minutes'
duration. Should the e~orts of the body, at any time during the
treatment, generate fevenshness or mouth, pulse, &c., a towel or
partial wet-sheet packing may be necessary · thouah as a con-
tinued remedy, it is not indicated. '
0
'
The amount of water to be drunk is a nice matter in this dis-
order. Connected, as it for the most part is, with intense nervcnu
dyspepsia, large quantities of water are inadmissible, especially in
CONGESTiVE FUL:'iESS OF THE BRAIN, ETC. 195
the onset. As the circulation and blood-making improve, the
quantity should Le gradually increased. Further, it often hap-
pt)ns that the shock of half a tumbler of water, cold from the
spriu~, upon the stomach, produces immediate tightness and pain
iu the head, particularly at the Parly stage of the treatment; and
I have fintnd •11 inconve!li~:nce of this sort obviated by the simple
contrivance of raising the temperature of the water to 60o, until
n hcttcr state of things is established. Very heterodox this, I sup-
pose, with those who folhw the G~rman track, and cannot think
for themselves; hut it is good policy, notwithstanding, to avoid
disngreeablcs, even though the road be thereby made somewhat
longer, of which I am by no means sure in the p•·esent instance.
A similar rule of gradual increase applies to the exercise of
patients with congested head; the reason for which has been
more than once given in preceding pages. As the blood-vessels
of the brain and spinal cord gain in tone, and the whole circula-
tion improves in strength, the amount of active exercise may be
augmented ; but at first it should be as small as may be, or even
confined to the passive kind; generally, horse exercise is the
best.
\Vith these indicia regarding the treatment of the two kinds of
brain fulness, it is unnecessary to enter upon that which is fitted
for the state that partakes of both. I have had such under my
care, and have found it a most difficult thing to manage, as may
be imagined, when it is considered that the blood-vessels are in
the mezzo-termine between excessive and deficient nutrition, and
when that which is adapted for one is unfitted for the other. The
general plan in these cases is, to use the wet-sheet packing alter-
nate days with the shallow bath, and to have the sitz baths daily;
inclining, upon the whole, rather to the tonic than the lowering
applications; with, perhaps, the exception of the diet, which
should be rather on the side of fasting than feasting. For the
rest, the physician must exert his power of discrimination : and,
doing so, he will find this mingled form of brain-fulness a much
less tedious malady than the purely congestive state, though more
so than the apoplectic. Indeed, p~re atonic congestion of the
brain is, in it~ treatment, one of the most trying things, both to
the patience of the doctor, and the faith of the patient. Yet it is
one of the most common in this land of anxious heads, and aching
hearts, and sordid scrambling.
196 APOPLECTIC FULNESS OF THE BRAIN, ETC.
CASE XXI.-APOPLECTIC FULNESS OF THE HEAD.
The patient is a gentleman of forty-six y("ar~, who for some years had
done all he could to fill his body generally, and his head in particuliM',
with blood; he had eaten and drunk more than was good for his body,
and not bad care and anxiety enough of mind to mortify it. He had
been plentifully b1ed, purged, blistered, &c., but the causes had not been
remoYed; therefore all these means were una\·ailing; on the contrary, he
had been ordered by his medical attendant to take first one pint, and then
one bottle of ~herry daily! He came to me, wei6hing nearly se\·enteen
stone, although a short person, with a turgid face, bounding pulse, fiery
red and furred tongue; his sensations of pain, giddiness, swimming, &c.,
in the day, were bad enough; but it was at night that his chief miseries
came ou. He got to sleep well enough ; but horrid dreams presently
began, with startings and nightmare; he awoke biting his tongue, with
the saliva pouring from his mouth in large quantity, numbness of the
limbs, and fear of immediate annihilation. In the day, too, there was
frequent numbness of one or more limbs. Altogether, his life was one
of fear and misery, and of unquestionable peril, for apoplexy was immi-
nent, and might take place at any moment.
As he lived only five or six miles from Malvern, he proposod to come
and see me frequently, and carry on his treatment at home. This was
not very prudent, but relying that he would strictly follow my directions,
I consented to the arrangement. I ordered the wet-sheet p~tcking once
a-day, with a cold shower bath after it. He wore the abdominal compress;
the water he drank was not to exceed five tumblers daily; his diet was
reduced to a smaH quantity of animal food erery other day; bread and
butter, farinaceous puddings, green vegetables, and water,-nothing
more. He took abundance of exercise. He came to see me several
times, and announced a calmer sleep altogether, though still much dis-
turbed. He got to take two wet-sheet packings in the day, and fomenta-
tiom~ at night for an hour. 'l'he bowels were becoming relaxed, and the
kidneys were acting with extraordinary energy, although wh~n he came
to me a tea-cup full of blood-red urine was all he passed.in each tA·eh·e
hours. He waR thinning under these excretions and the diminit;bed
supply of stimulus and food; still he was nervous and hypochondriacal,
and g-ave signs which showed that congestive fulness of the head had
been established. It was plain that the lowering process waR going on
too fast, and I therefore diminished the whole treatment, and the quant1ty
of water especially. He went away, and I saw nothing more of him for
four or five weeks. At the end of that time I rode out to see him, and
was astounded to find a perfectly lean man, with abundant wrinkles,
where aU had been to the last degree turg~d. In fact, he told me that,
from the time of his first consulting me to that date-about nine weeks
-he had positively lost five stone weight. He further told me that,
after last seeing me, he had gone on packing and fomenting at the rate
APOPLECTIC FULNESS OF THE BRAIN, ETC. 197
of twice a day, had taken nn enormous quantity of exercise, and drunk
an enormous quantity of water ; that, in short,as regarded this beverage,
he had become infatuated, just as drunkards are with alcoholic drinks;
that he had got up at night, when not thirsty, to take it,-an irresistible
desire for it, as for a stimulus, seizing him, that when his wife remon-
strated with him on drinking so much, be had even taken it furtively,
unknown to her, and that the fear of my interfering with it had prevented
his coming to see me. Meantime, however, his nights had materially
improved; the nightmare was gone-the startings almost so; he rarely
hit his tongue, and the nightly salivation had stopped. The bowels and
liidneys had continn<'d to act briskly, and his appetite was great. But
hi8 hypochondriacal state had very much increa:sed, and hiK nerves were
quite l'ihaken. \Varning him on the folly of what he had been doing, I
desired him to leave off all treatmentexcept the shower bath in the morn-
ing, to take as little water as possible, to enter upon a full animal diet, to
walk less, and to amuse his mind by travelling about. He did so, and
gradually got round; but it took nearly twelve months to recover his
ncnou~ firmness. Recover it he did, however ; and at this time, more
than two years since he consulted me, he is one of the healthiest men
alive, without a single bad symptom about the head or any other organ,
weighing between twelve and thirteen stone, eating as others do, drink-
ing two or three glasscl3 of wine oceasionally, and a tumbler of bitter ale
every day.
The rationale of this case and of its treatment is as follows.
The patient, instead of allowing me to see him frequently, and
judge of the progress of his malady, took upon himself not only
to continue but to increase the amount of treatment prescribed
by me. The continued packing, the low diet, the excessive
exercise, and, above all, the enormous quantity of water he
drank (fifteen and eighteen tumblers daily), all conspired to
quicken the process of waste in the body, much more than was
proper. In fact, this waste was so great as to require constantly
the stimulating power of the water, to which he had recourse in
the manner I have ~escribed. The too rapid declension of the
bodv thus induced, proved a shock to the nervous system, en-
feebling it, and bringing about the hypochondriacal state alluded
to. The same sudden declension of organic vigor drove the
brain from the apoplectic into the congestive state, the utmost
amount of relaxation having possession of the cerebral blood-ves-
sels. So that when I saw him after an absence of several weeks,
what his nervous and other organs wanted was, rest from exces-
sive action, and tone, as I have already laid down, as essential
}98 APOPLECTTC FULNESS OF TUE BRAIN, ETC.
fc t. of the head 'l'he patient nccorc.lingly took a
or conges 10n • •
h 1 tl l....1
·1v n10re and stronger food, less exerctse, and
s ower m 1 c .~ J , ......
very little '"'at.er, arlJing to th~se the genial to.nic. of change of
scene and circumstance. Huvmg a good constitutiOn to go upon,
this succeeded, although it took a long time. Had he been
guided by me from the beginning, seen me oftener, and had his
symptoms closely attended to, and his treatment modified accord.
ing to them, he would have reached the point of health he now
possesses without the peril and disagreeables he passed through.
But whilst this case shows the danger of using the water treat.
ment wjthout advice and discretion, it also exhibits the very great
power it includes of permanently reducing a condition of brain,
which all other modes of treatment only relieve for a brief period,
nnd which in this case had not been relieved, even for a short
time, by any of them.
CAsE XXII.- APoPLECTrc AND Co~GESTIVE FULNESs or THE HEAD-
DEAFNEss-INTENSE HEADACHE.
For several year~, a. lady, of forty-eight years of age, had been subject
to most distressing anc.l alanning head symptoms ; intense, prostrating
headaches ; giddiness that caused her to reel ; bursting sensation of the
skull ; violent and irritating noises constantly in the head. To theso
were added, great nervousness, bound bowels, scanty urine, constant fe-
verishness, vehement flushings of the f.'\ce, ice-cold feet. The pulse was
large, but yielding and most irregular ; appetite small ; sleep very much
disturbed. She had undergone violent medication at the hands of the
first metropolitan and prO\rincial authoritie~, whose object appears to
have been to deri\·e powerfully from the head, by such remedies as five
grains of calomel at night, with some drastic draught in the morning;
whilst little attention seems to have been given to the diet. However,
between the original malady and the excessive irritation set up by the
medicinal treatment, the nerves, both ganglionic and cerebral, and their
centres, were in the most alarming condition.
All the symptoms evidenced that middle state of the cerebral blood·
vessels which I have mentioned as the transition from the active fu)ness
of apoplectic to the totalJy passh·e fulnC8s of congestive disorder, nnd to
the difficulty of treating which I have alluded. Accordingly, I com-
menced the treatment \'Cry carefu1ly. The details arc as follows:-
August lst.-Hot fomentations to the abdomen for an hour at bed-
time; the flannels changed every ten minutes, and a wine-glatiS of cold
water drank at each chnnge. Damp compress on the bowels, to be
worn night and day. F,rom three to four tumblers of cold water during
APOPLF.CTIC FULNESS OF THE BRAIN, ETC. 199
the day, to be taken in Rmall quantities at a time. Breakfast of cold
toa~t and a little butter ; no liquid whatever. For dinner, three ounces
of.animal food-mutton, beef, poultry. and game, three times a week,
wtth U.'- lit1 lc liquid :tS possible. On other days, the dinner to consist of
a cnp of cocoa, with t"okl toast and butter; or of some farinaceous
pudding. eaten nearly colJ. Very weak and almost cold black tea in
the evening, with colcl toaRt and butter. 'fhe pulse becoming less hard
and hounding under thi~, I proceeded with more decided treatment.
4th.-Packcd in wet sheet for an hour before breakfast. Dripping
:-hPct after it. All tltt:' rc~t as before.
5th.-'fhc same, except that the ~hallow bath was used instead of the
rubbing 1'1wet after the pacldng. The patient remained four minutes in
it, was well rubbed, anc.l had water repeatedly poured over the head.
Hth.-Sitz hath at 70°, lor a quarter of an hour at noon, was added to
tlu• above. Did not agree ; headache c:une an hour or two after it.
1~th.-PackiHg ami :-hallow bath bPforc breakfast; a foot bath of cold
water, with some mu~tanl tionr in it, for ten minutes twice in the day;
fomc~ntation~ a.t uig!Jt ~ aLJo.ninal compre:-;s; three to four tumblers of
water. This wa5 tlte trea~meut up to the
~7th.-1'he ltcad suflcring a g-ood deal. ordered foot bath of mustard
anc.l water ; also thnt the nape of the neck :-:hould be rubbed for fifteen
minutes with the r::.11ne mixtnre. Head immediately relieved. This in-
:::;tcad of tl1e p:tcking.
28th. Packing aM mmal. Three foot baths in the course of the day.
September 2tl.-Pul~e considerably reduced by the long-continued
packing. tclmcnt:ltion::., &c.; somewhat inclined to hysteria, too. Ner-
von~ head.tche. All the:-;c ~igns indicated that the lowering process had,
for the prc:-cnt. been carried as far, or at least as fast, as the system
co11ld ht>nr. Therefor<", on the
3tL-l only orderetl lhe cold shallow bath before breakfast, with the
foot bnthF; a~ u-=nal.
·lth.-Shallow bath on ri:-ing; foot baths as usual ; sitz bath at noon
for half :m hour. Rode out in a wheel-chair at two o'clock for an hour;
came home and \'omited copiously until five o'clock. Here was the be-
ginning of an internal cri.,i:;, which the packing, fomentations, &c., by
rt:'llll)\"iu lr the irritati\'C !'tate of the internal or!!<lns, had enabled them to
1., ....
cfiect. 'l'l1c nerrous condition of the 2d, was the £ymptom of the com-
mencinO" ,..flort which terminated in this manner. The matter vomited
cour.i:--t~ of a largP (ptnntity of clear, frothy mucus, mixed with an equal
qua.utity of n black, tt•nacious, and hravy substance.. A cold sitz bath
for a r1narter of an lwur after it, and fomentations at mght, removed all
traoC:':-; of the t~metic tumult.
5th.-Shallow bath in th~ morning; foot and hand baths three times
in the day; sitz b.tth for half an hour at noon, and a quarter of an
hour at fh.c P.ru. Di~charge of blood from the bowels in the morning,
200 APOPLECTIC FUL'SESS OF THE B'RAlN, BTC.
-another character of the internal crisis. Head altogether free from
pain ; and she said she felt lighter and bc~ter than sh~ had ever done.
6th.- Treatment as above. Fomentations at bed-tlme; walked more
than half a mile steadily; much better to-day. In the course of the
night colicky pains, followed by free diarrhrea, the bowels acting twice.
7th.-Treatment the same. \Valked ; and then drove out for an hour.
Felt better than she had done from the beginning.
Sth.-Nothing but shallow bath. But as she became languid from
going to church, she took a foot bath, which soon restored her. Quite
well in all other respects.
lOth.- Some little fe\·erish disturbance induced me to order a packing
to-day. Foot, hand, and sitz baths as before. Head became bad from
too long a drive. Fomentations at bed-time.
llth.-After a good night felt well ; ordered foot baths. Suddenly
seized with copious vomiting and purging. Took sitz bath after them
and went out, quite well.
13th.-,Valked out twice, and drove once. Packed in the morninrr
a
in wet sheet. Two sitz and two foot baths, and several band baths in
the day. A considerable quantity of blood passed from the bowels.
15th.- Sick again.
19th.- Head for the last week perfectly well, and admitting of a good
amount of excrch;e. This day, however, she overdid it, and the head
became bad in the night. Had not packed for three days, but, on ac-
count of the increased headache, she on the
20th,- Packcd ; did not walk out at all ; took one foot and one sitz
bath, and a drh·e.
From this time to the 24th, when this patient left Malvern, she conti-
nued to take the shallow bath in the morning, two foot baths, and two
)Jand baths. Throughout the latter month of the treatment, the vomit-
ing and purging, with occasional discharge of blood from the bowels,
continued in varied degree; but I have only noted the days when either
of these was excessive. Fomentations were frequently employed at
night for twenty or thirty minutes, according to the transitory condition
of the head; when it was worse, with increased strength of pulse, they
were used; when it was bad, without that sign, additional foot baths and
sitz baths were beneficially taken.
This lady )eft Malvern on the 2·1th September, taking with her the
following directions to be pursued at home :-
" Shallow bath at 58° every morning for two minutes.
Two foot baths of ten minutes each in the course of the day.
A sitz bath at 65° for half an hour every other day at noon, or any
time three hours after a meal.
\Vear the compress all day.
It would be well to pack in the wet sheet once a week or so, with the
tiha.llow bath a.s above ; but if aU is right in the head and bowels-that
APOPLECTIC 1-'ULNESS OF THE BRAIN, ETC. 201
is, if ~he l~cad i~ free from heat and pain, and tho bowels sufficiently open
-onut tl11~.
Vegetable diet. cxcPpt three times n W£'ek, when animal food may be
fAlkt'n at dinner.''
'rile deafi1c~s with which the patient was affected varied in the course
of her treatment at M:tl\·ern: but, on the whoiP, diminiE'hed so much that,
by tl1c time ~!1~ left. she could hear perfi•c>tJy wcJJ, if too many voices
\\ere not cros:-in~ each other at once. Pcrsc\·crance in the above dircc-
tio!l..: nt heme eompletdy restored it.
Tt dwuJ,l be reca llcd that. preYiousJy to trying the water treatment, this
lnr1y, whose po:-iiio!l in ~ociety is high, had ucrn ren•lcred incapahle of
cnlcriug- it : the excitement of the snulle~t. r~union was too much for her
head; be::;ides wliic!t: the headaches were m frequent and so intense, that
she could lorm no enrra(rcmcnt with the smallc:'it certainty of bcin[J' able
0 1:: 0
to fult11 it; \\ ithal, her increasing deafnc~s was daily rendering society
impos~iblc aml JLta~tcful to her. Xeither could she find pleasure in
travelling; for ten or tweh•c miles: in the easiest carriage, was more than
she could bear in one uav. nut after aoin[J' throu(Th the above treatment,
• ~ ~ 0
Hll this was changed. Her headaches had gone-gone so far, that be-
tween September, 18 1-1, when she left l\fah:ern, and 1\lay, 1845, when
~he rcturm•d, 8l!c had not more than three attacl{s for a few hours (in-
duced by mental excitement), and of a \'a~tly mitigated character, instead
of one or two bad attack:; every wel'lc, and more or less of it every day.
The restoration of her lwarin~ was her rel'toration to society. And the
certainly ::-he I.au that, at auy time when the head had been tired by talk-
in(r aml l:stPniwr. she could put lJCr~elf to ri.!!hts with a wet sheet and a
1::' 0• ~
foot L:lt!J, rendered the )i le worth po.sscssiug which had been for a long
t:uv• prm iously intolcratJie. In this altered state of circumstances she
pas::-ccl tJJrongh the winter of JSl-l-45. In the month of May of the last
yc;u·, a con~idC'ral1lc amount of me11L.1l excitement, experienced whilst
undergoing the physical f'xcitemcnt of tra\·clling- from place to place,
a'ldetl to irrc6nltritic:' of timPs of eating inseparable therefrom, brought
back :-ome of Iter ailments; that is to ::ay, some degree of flushing, and
a <.'onsiderable degree of decjitess ; in ·all other rc~pects she remained
well f:.howin" tl1c Jlartial c};aractet· of tl1C mischief. Still, the causes
l 0
had been rc-appl:~,l, and the ctlects were incdtablc; and I therefore re-
l ommcndctl her rt•tnrn to l\rahrem, for a short conr~e of more acth·e
treatment. Into this I need not enter; it was as nearly as possible the
f'amc as on the fonner occasion~ allowance lx·ing made tor the safer con-
dition of the brain, and the consequent possibility of carrying on the
t:-C'atmcnt more fully at once. Assiduous wet-~heet packing and foment&·
tiuns :;;oon hrot1ght on the ,·omiting and diarrhrea cri..is as before; the
d~afncss disappeared still more suddenly than in the previous year, and in
C\ ~ry other particular her ::;tate has been one of health since. Constantly
taking medicine for years, she has not taken one drop or grain.of any
sort of physic from the time she came under my care, nearly etghteen
10*
202 A'P<ll'I.ECTlC FUI.NF.SS OF TOE BRAIN, ETC.
th U d bt dlv b"in"' of an excitable and anxious nature,
mon s ago. n ou e • ' - o h '11 be bl' ed
d f r. ·1 ,"th tnm.lcnc'-· to cerebral fulness, s c WI o tg to
an o a 1am1 y v. 1 ~ J
1
· bl · · d ·
~
1
. . .:•·::;tcm Ilowc,·er, !" te 1s a e to vnnt an recetve
'me:narTtr lCT Jl('T\ 0\IS • J ' • •
0
1 cnJ·ovs life and is free trom all chance ot apoplexy; none
company, s 1e J : • •
of which points ::;he could nttain under the mcdtcmal plan of treatment
to which she had been :::o long subjected, but the enjoyment ofwhichshe
now owes to the water cure. It is very satisfactory to be able to add
to this case the following letter, received from the husband of the patient
in January of the present year:-
'"I am truly happy, at the commencement of the present year, to be
able to tell you that, during the space of the last eighteen months, my
wife has been in the enjoyment of good health, thanks to your kind and
judicious treatment by your excellent hydropathic system. She has
been seventeen years married, during which time I never knew her to be
even tolerably well, and latterly she had been getting worse and worse,
with constant pains in her head, tormenting her by day, and depriving
her of rest by night. At whatever place we visited, we were obliged to
call in medical advice; and I may say she had the first in and out of
London that could be obtained. Some of them attributed her complaint
to one thing, ~orne to another ; there was no end to the applications of
leeches and blisters, and her inside was literally inundated with a variety
of medicines, till she was visibly about to sink under her complaint.
When I took her to 1\lalvern, such was her distressing state, that though
the distance from my home is only thirty-five miles, we were obliged to
stop a night on the road. A two months' residence at Malvern under
your care worked wonders, and now enables me to say that she has been
ever since, and stHI continues, perfectly well, is quite free from all pain,
and is able to eat, drink, and sleep as well as any one could desire ; and
our neighbors who knew her former state look at her with perfect asto-
nishment. From the time she first commt'nced your treatment to tbe
present, she has not had recourse to any medicines or professional assist-
ance whatever. I cannot, however, conclude this letter withoutexpressing
to you my unbounded admiration of your skiU, and my sincere gratitude
for the very great and kind attention which you bestowed on my wife's
case; and my earnest wish is that you may prove equally successful in
c\·cry other case that may fall under your charge."
One of the accusations against the water treatment is, that it is
npt to produce fulness of blood in the heaJ, and apoplexy. This
is snid by pc1·sons who haYc no experience whatsoever of it,-
who have never seen a single case of any sort treated by it. I
who have treated disense in no other wny for the last three years
and a half, find a very different rcsu1t of large experience; and,
were the choice given me of diseased conditions, wherein I could
produce the most certain and satisfactory effects, and show in the
APOPLECTIC Fl LNESS OF THE BRAIN, ETC. 203
clearest manner the safety and speedy efficacy of that treatment,
r should, beyond all comparison of cases, choose one of apoplectic
fulness. The patient is full of blood, has good reaction, can take
exercise, and there onlv remains to reduce irritation of the c.liaes-
• 0
tive and cerebral organs, irritation, too, of the most tractable
kind ; all these render it one of the easiest and most satisfactory
cases to treat, and any one who knows aught of the water treat-
ment knows this.
As I have already said, pure congestion ciftlte head is s much
more tedious malady to overcome than apoplectic fulness. In
fact, so tedious is it, so constant is the necessity for watching the
case, and, in some particular or other, changing the treatment,
adapting the ldnd and amount of the remedies to the varying
capabilities of the patient, that to give cases of its treatment in
written form would he all but impossible. The temperature of
the day, the state of the barometer, the quarter of the wind, are
all circumstances which, influencing the patient's physical
powers, influence also the management ofhis physician. Being also
a condition which is very gradually established, it is of a very
chronic character when fully formed ; and its treatment is mea-
sured by months, and sometimes by years, so intractable is it in its
greatest degree. It is, unhappily, far too common a complaint in
this country not to have been often presented fi,r treatment at Mal-
vern : uut, to speak truthfully, out of sixteen instances of it,
whieh have been under my care, I cannot vouch for perfect cure
in more than one fourth of them; of the others, five were able
to rcn1ain here long enough to obtain considerable benefit, but no
longer; tlu·ce only could remain, and were sanguine enough to
expect restomtion in three or four weeks ; whilst in the other
cases I found the organic energy of the digestive as well as the
cerebral blood-vrssels too much exhausted for even amelioration,
and vPrV soon ll'a\'c them up. Still, connected as congestion of
. ~
the brain is with oltl-stanJina irritation of the viscera, I look
~
upon the careful application of the water plan as the most effi-
cient that can be employed, from its great characteristic of
saving the viscera. For a like reason, negative remedies are
imli~I;ensaule ; rigorous, though not necessarily low, diet is of
very grent importance, and abstinence from mental labor and
excitement not less so ;-conditions which many are not able to
fulfil through the necessary length of the treatment. Witho.ut,
however, a re~)lution to deal fairly by the stomach, and to g1ve
204: PAJ.SY.
the brain all possible rest, the wearied blood-vessels of neither
can be restored, be the water cure ever so skilfully administered:
let no one, then, attempt the latter, unless he i:; prepared honestly
to aid it by the former. As regards the water cure in this dis-
eased state, it has been already intimated, that its tonic appli-
ances nre those principally demanded, with certain modifications,
undet· circumstances that are mentioned a few pages back.
Either of the states now passed in review may terminate in
PALSY. If this ensue upon an apoplectic seizure, it comes sud-
denly, the patient, with returning consciousness, discovering the
loss of power in one or more limbs, or sets of voluntary muscles.
As a result of congestion of the bruin, palsy comes on more or
less slowly; and in either case it is to be understood that, to be
curable, the disease must be the consequence of disordered circu-
lation alone in the brain, not of previous destructive inflammation
and softening of its substance,-that comes under the category of
organic, incurable malady.
Palsy invades the moving or the sentient nerves, or both-most
generally both; next in frequency the power of motion is lost;
and lastly, that of sensation. .Apoplectic fulness generally abo-
lishes both motion and sensation; congestive jt£lness frequently
leaves sensation untouched. The probabilities of cure depend on
its origin from either of these states, on its sudden or slow en-
croachment, on the age and previous life of the patient, his present
organic power, &c. A sudden attack occurring at an age under
fifty years, in a person who had not been guilty of venereal ex-
cesses or spirit drinking, and not undergone mercurial or iodine
courses, and invading one side of the body or one limb, may be
taken in hand with a pretty sure prospect of recovery by the
water cure, provided the disease had not existed longer than four
or five years. In the opposite direction, the probabilities of course
diminish. Yet I have at this time under my care, a gentleman
of forty years of age, who, ten years ago, was seized with sudden
palsy of the whole right side, but who is slowly recovering the
use of the arm under the operation of the water cure, which he
has pursued steadily for two years, with occasional absences from
Malvern, and relaxation, not suspension, of the treatment. I have
little doubt that he will recover the use of the arm altogether,
though I have no such con1idence regarding the leg. Rarely,
however, does a chance exist of even bettering a paralysis of so
I .~LSY. 205
long standing: "'leithcr arc tlw pluck and perseverance of this
patient oft· n fom.d.
Tlw 'l'1u~ATNE~l' OF PALSY will be rerrulated in rrreat measure
• t:l t:l
by 1ts conneetion with the apoplectic or congestive fulness of the
brain, and uy its duration. In ca~es of long standing (and all
beyond a year may be so called), and arising from congestion,
all the stimulating applications arc advisable- the douche, long
~hallow and sitz baths, foot bath~, occasional swcatings, with the
plunge Lath, or douche after them, wet and dry frictions of the
limbs, large uoses of water, &c. If the patient has any dC'gree
of feverish action of the viscera, that must be first subdued by
fomenting, wet-sheet packing, &c., or, at least, remedies against
it must coalc~ce with those above namPd. If there be the sirrns
0
of apoplectic fulness, the depleting plan recommended under that
head will release thP palsied parts the most readily, to which
should be added, prolong£>cl frictions of those parts. But in this
palsy violent exertion of the limbs is not desirable, as it draws
blood towards the origin of the palsied nerves, where too much is
already collected : this is still more the case when the disease is
recent.
I give a case of palsy which I curcu, premising that it is very
rnr£>ly that the malady is brought under the op£>ration of water
treatment at so early a date, and therefore not so likely to be
speedily cured, people being generally taught and inclined to try
everything else, before they have recou r·se to that " dangerous"
trcatmcnt. This patient's poverty made him unable to cherish a
prejudice, nnd he " rushed in" where those with fuller purses
and fatter heads " fcarecl to treau."
CASE XXIJI.-PALSY OF THE RIGHT LEG.
A poor man, in his fifty-fourth year, had lost the u~c of his right leg
rapidly, yet not in con~equence of any apoplectic sciznrc. From the
date of his first feelincr some numbness of the limb, to that of its total
c
loss, both of movement and sensation, not more than ten days interven~.
He came to me when the paralysis had exi~ted between l'Cven and eight
months. He had tendcnc.y to fulncss of head by descent: he had
worked at a sedentary business, drank ale freely, but was not given to
intoxication : he had ~tsetl hot condiments to a great extent, and ~alted
meat: bacon formed a great part of his diet. Here, then. were causes
enough to beget and maintain an inflammatory condition of the diges-
tive organs : and thi~, with constipated bowels, snfficed to fill a head
congenitally prone to it. In fact, he had all the sign~ of intense irrita..
206 PALSV.
tion of the stomach, cgpecially of its nerve3: fiery red, ~artially furred,
and swollen tongue, red eye-lids, hot and red throat, thirst., &c.: hard,
large and frequent pulse : occasional had headache : sleepdtsturbed and
drea~y. All the gymp•o'lls, in short, indicated that the stomach irrita-
tion bad till~d the blood-vessel~ of the brain and spinal cord ; that in
some portion of that apparatus these overloaded vessels had pressed
upon the nervous matter, and prevented the message of sensation and
movement thence to the leg. Further, as the attack had not come on
with apoplectic s?'znre, yet neither had come on slowly, it might be pre-
dicated that some congestire fulness existed, although the greater part of
the blood-vessels were in the state of apoplectic distension ; and the con·
comitant signs showed this combination.
The treatment, therefore, was evident. After two days of preliminary
wet-sheet rubbing, I had him packed in a wet sheet for an hour, with a
shallow bath at 60o, with cold efliHion on the heaa.l, and considerable
friction of the whole body. He wore a compress on the abdomen, and
drank four tumblerR of \Vater daily. This was all his treatment for
nearly a fortnight. But, meantime, I had reduced his diet to vegetable
materials, except on two days of the week. Wet and dry friction of the
affected limb was employed twice a-day for a quarter of an hour. All
this materially reduced the symptoms of internal irritation, and improved
his sleep: it also began to act beneficially on the bowels. I had avoided
more a.ctive treatment at tLe outset, in order that the tendency of the
b!ood-vesscls of the brain to pass to the congestive state, might be o~
viated. Now, however, that the irritations coming from the stomach
were reduced, I ventured to carry out the deplctory process more fully,
and the patient was fomented at night for an hour, was packed in the
wet sheet each morning, and had a sitz bath at 60° of three quarters of
an hour at noon. Another fortnight of this brought him to two wet·
sheet packings in the day, and a long sitz bath. A good amount of
general exercise was taken, and the diseased leg was exercised artifi-
cially by considerable frictions with hard towels. rrhe treatment pulled
him down a good deal in appearance, but his sensations were those of
vastly increased comfort of h~ad. The pulse fell, the tongue and throat
paled, and all the signs of decreased irritation were present. As yet,
this is, nine weeks after the commencement of treatment, the only fresh
signs in the palsied leg were occasional achings. Regarding these as
efiorts of nature to re-establish the function of the nerves of the limb,
now that the internal cause had been reduced, I followed them up by
curtailing the amount of wet-sheet packing, and substituting a short
douche of half a minute daily, received on the loins and on the palsied
leg. .More water w.:ts drunk: the shallow bath was leugthened to five or
six minutes: the sitz reda~ed to a quarter of an hour: and both were
administered cold. The diet was tl1e same, only a little more latitude
wa~ given as to quantity. He continued this for nearly three weeks,
tho douchf' being meanwhile gradua1Jy extended to two and three
PALSY. 207
minutes. The )pg advanced in power of movement, but sensation
lagged much more. I now gave up the wet-sheet packing altogether,
and adhered to the tonic remedies ()nly, under which the patient got on
even rapic..lly, tor, in the sixteenth week of treatment, he was able to halt
a short distance '' ithout any kind of support. He continued to use the
douche, the cold l-ihallow and sitz baths, frictions, water drinking, to the
amount of SC\'Cn and eight tumblers daily, exercise, and diet of ani-
mal food three times a week, for a fortnight longer, when he wishing to,
und I judging that he might, return home, he left Malvern cured of his
pal~'y, though he still walked somewhat lame. This is invariably the
casP when palsy ha~ existed more than a few weeks, and is in great
part owing to the long disuse of the muscles : the accurate command over
them, through the ucn•e:1, is slowly recovered : the limb, in short, has to
be educated. In the present instance, it took a month to gain complete
and precise usc of the limb, after he had ceased active treatment.
This will give nn iuea of the proccs3 of cure in o.n ordinary
case of palsy. As I have said, the process is generally a much
longer one, because the palsy hns usually existed o. much longer
tiwc. On the other hand, I have had a case here wherein the
palsy had ful1owecl a slight apoplectic seizure only a fortnight be-
fi)rc, ami had possession of one half the body : here the whole
paralyzed parts were restored by three weeks of wet-sheet pack-
ing, the shallow bath, and two or three foot baths daily, and
appropriate diet. In such instances, the only mischief to remove
is, the ('xcessive irritation of the viscera, which lias caused con-
gesti\'C circulation in the brain and spinal coru : this last has not
had time to become fixed, nor the entire system accustomed to its
pr·csence, and it thcrcfot·e readily disappears with the disappear-
ance of its cause in the viscera. Similar to this is the hysterical
7mlsy. In it there is no general fulness of blood, but a highly
irritative state of the womu and its appendages, and more or less
of the stomach too, which oppresses the function most frequently
of the lower part, but sometimes of the upper too, of the spinal
cord. Such su~pension or pab:y often takes place suddenly, and is
ns sudJcnly removed, each time without any apparent cause ; but
it also occasionally remains for weeks or months. A high degree
of nervousness accompanies this kind of palsy, which, in fact, is
only liable to occur in women who are congenitally or very deli.
cute and highly sensitive nature. One ca~e of paralysis of the
left nrm, which had existed for several weeks, I cured in twelve
days, with fomentations, wet-sheet packing, nnd the long sitz bath.
In another case, where the palsy had come and gone frequently
208 PALS\".
during four ycnrs, never remaining awny more than six weel\s, I
succeeded, "ith pretty nearly the snme treatml nt, in keeping ofr
the seizures foa· more than eight months ; since which time, not
having heard from the patient, I presume she has been still ex.
empt from them.
In all these cases of palsy it will be seen, first, that disorder of
the organic viscera is the primary ~tep; second, that this disorder
causes apoplectic or congestive fulness and irregular circulation
of the blood in the animal viscera, the brain, and spinal cord ;
third, that, pressure on some portion of these inuuces pnl::;y of
tsome portion of the locomotive muscles and limbs; fourth, tl1
at
accortling to the duration of the pressure and palsy is the facility
of its removal ; fifth, that, as regards the water trcntmcnt in
palsy, its lowering appliances are to be directc,] first against the
irritation of the organic viscera, and in recent cases, and in the
hysterical palsy generally, suffices alone to restore the power of
limb; and sixth, that, after reducing this irritation, the stimulntinrr
- b
appliances of the water cure are to be directed to the excitation
of the portion of the spinal cord which has lost its function.
§ 4. SPURIOUS PALSY.-CHRONIC CoNGESTION AND IRRIT.ATIO~
OF ALL THE GANGLIONIC NERVES.
I am not aware that the precise ~tates of body to which I have
appended these names are fixed and described by any meuical
author. Practitioners have called and treated the former as
rheumatism; but neither the name nor the t1·catment were happy,
so far as my experience of the condition, gathered from cases ut
1\falvern, ~hows. And as regards the latter, it is nn accompani-
ment, and, in my belief, a cause of the former, for which reason
it is here placed in conjunction with it. Not that chronic irrita-
tion of all the ganglionic nerves necessarily begets spurious palsy;
it mav oriainate other forms of external dis01·der, as I shall ha\·e
.. e
occasion to state ; but there is a certa:n phase of such general
internal irritation, with which spurious palsy is invariably con.
nccted.
Spurious palsy is not ushered in with acute pain and fever.
Some degree of stiffness of one or more large joints, with pain-
less swelling, unaccompanied by bent, is the first that is seen of
it; nor is this invariable, for mere stiffhess, without swelling, may
begin it. After a time, the stiffness increasing, and the move-
ments of the joints being accompanied by loud cracking, pain
SPURIOUS PALSY. 209
begins to be felt in one part of the joint, and may often be CO\'ered
with the point of the finger. This pain yaries in degree with a
variety of external circumstances, but more particularly with
the electrical states of the atmosphere, being worse when the
barometer is low, b~fore the fall of rain or snow; an easterly
wind also influences it notably for the worse. Mental affections
sometimes, though not always, affect it. It is usuolly exasperated
at tho menstrual period. Standing and walking increase it; but
if the joint be worl\ed without the weight of the body on it, or
moved oy another persou, the pain is neither roused if not there,
nor augmented if present. External warmth aggravates, whilst
cold decreases it; yet, although the heat of a room or fire is dis-
tressing, that of the summer sun is not so; on the whole, how-
ever, bracing cold is more genial to the patient than heat. Fi-
nally, the pain may di:mppear for weeks or months.
\Vhat has oecn said of the pain applies to the stiffness, except
that this latter is never suspended, as the pain is. Left to itself,
or treated as rheumatism secundum artcm, it •·apidly increases.
But the peculiarity is, that whilst a joint is becoming more stiff,
it is also becoming more bent. The flexor muscles are in a state
of spasmodic activity; and if the elbow or knee becomes perma-
nently and irrevocably stiffened, it is always in the bent posture.
In fact, the flexor tendons of the muscles of the upper arm, and
those of the ham, urc, in the case of the elbow and Jmec, felt to
be ns hard and tight as if the patient were making violent exer-
tion to retain the bent posture of the joints in question. If you
attempt forcibly to extend the joint, the flexor muscles enter into
~till more violent spasm, until it makes you fea1· that their tendons
will snap asunder.
Pain, swelling, and stiffness, as regards the joints, and spasm
ns regards the bending muscles, these are the local attributes of
this malady. But only the stiffness and spasm are invariably
present; swelling may never have been at all, and pain only oc-
casionally, anti to small amount. In these peculiarities, as well
as in the mode of accession, without acute attack or fever, and in
the external circumstances that influence it, we behold startling
differences from pure h!flammatory rheumatism.
If we turn to the ~rucral attributes of this state, we find a skin
'-'
almost without circulation, dead, cracldng with dryness: flesh
that is flabby, meagre, c>xcept in the spasmodic flexor muscles of
the joints: nails that brenk almost into powder, and a want of
210 GENERAL GANGLIONIC IRRITATION·
vitality in the whole exterior appearance of the frame. As
regards the interior, the signs of gorged and feeble. mucous mem.
brane arc everywhere : but they are gorged wtth blood of a
tawnv not vermilion color, the eyelid8, fauces, tonsils, tongue,
and g~rns being all in a swollen or spon~y c~ndition: ~he gums
recede from the teeth, and the teeth rapadly mcrust With tartar,
and decay. The breath is more m· less fmtid. The mucus of
the mouth and nostrils is of a very thin l<ind, and from the throat
the secretion of it is considerable. There is seldom cough:
though the membrane of the air tubes gives one sign of the same
feebleness and gorging just spoken of in that of the mouth and
throat,- there is more or less expectoration, but without the effort
of actual coughing. The pulse is small: rather quick and soft.
Appetite good, but not large, neither is there uneasiness after
eating ; but flushing of the face attends it. Occasionally, though
not often, there is sense of sinking at the pit of the stomach, and
over the whole abdomen. Beyond this, there is no sign of sensi-
tiveness in the abdomen: on the contrary, there is a singular
obtuseness of sensation to pressure even of the most violent
degree : neither is the patient ticklish there. The excretion of
urine is larger than usual ; that from the bowels natural as to
quantity, but light in color, and unusually offensive. The monthly
evacuation is regular, painless, but thin in consistence, and tawny
in color: if anything prevents its appearance, the stoppage seems
rather to the advantage than harm of the patient. The spirits are
only not bad : there is a sort of listless indifferentism, except when
the nervous system is roused by more pain than usual. Sleep is
sufficiently regular, but very easily broken.
Of the seven cases of this malady which I have had under treat-
ment at 1\lalvern, all were females; nor ha\'e I ever seen any
similar state in the male sex. Of those I allude to, the disease
commenced in one, immediately in consequence of a violent men-
tal shock: in two instances, it followed on a mercurial course for
supposed liver disease: in two others, on courses ofiodine as well
ns mercurv: in another. it commenced in the convalescence from
"
typhoid fe\'eJ·: and in the last, it began after the internal employ-
ment of arsenic for an cxtemal eruption, the drug having been
given to the poisonous extent of swelling and stiffening the eyelids
and constdcting the throat. Up to that time, this last patient had
been the gnyest of the gay, an cntTmsiastie dancer, anc.I a daring
horse-woman : for the last six years she has gone on two crutches!
SPURIOUS PALSY. 211
In all these cases .he malady commenced when the patients were
young: the most advanced in age being only twenty-seven when
first seized with it. All had been perseveringly treated for
rheumatism or rheumatic gout, and all had become rapidly worse
under the discipline of mercury, iodine, antimonials, purgatives,
vegetable and metallic tonics, bleedings, hot baths, &c. ; the last
being singularly destructive in their effect.
In reasoning upon the appearances of this morbid state, I very
soon nrl'ivcd at the conclusion that it was not rheumatism, which
it n·s£>mbles in very few respects. In many points it is not unlike
'lll'uralgic rheumatism, that is, a combination of nervous and inflam-
lllatory irritation of the large joints. But the general constitu-
tional condition is very different : neuralgic rheumatism being
the pm1ion of persons of vivid nervous and circulating powers, in
whom the blood-making power is good, and who only become
affi·ctcd towards middle-life, and in consequence of external cold.
Neither is thr:re the peculiar permanent spa!=:m of the flexor mus-
cles, nor the concentration of pain in one small spot. The pain of
neuralgic rheumatisrn also is increased by movement, whether
voluntary, or induced by another person: it often is felt when the
limb is perfectly at rest, and is not, as in spuriou,s palsy, only eli-
cited by the weight of the body in standing, or pressure in lean-
.
mg.
Looking, therefore, to the causes of this di~ease, wl1ich all tend
to the establishment of a state of excessive congestion, feebleness,
and irritation of the mucous lining of the lungs and abdominal
visccm, and to the visible symptoms which all evidence such state,
I ha\·c no difficulty in assigning visceral congestion, feebleness, and
irritation, as the basis on which the subsequent phenomena of the
malady arc raised. It is not inflammation, but feeble congestion
of the mucous membranes, n want of power in the blood-vessels to
rid t hcmselves of their excessive contPnts: no local sign, such as
dry aud furred tongue, anti no general sign, such as fe,·crish ex-
citement, exists to give note of inflammatory action. It is one of
those infinite shades of congestion, whiclt the observer and treater
of disease may be perfectly cognizant of, yet be unable to describe
by words. But this feebleness, this c0ngPstion of the blood-ves-
sels, mu~t be due to a similar state of the nerves which preside
O\'cr th('it· orgn11ic vigor. but wl1ich, in this case, fail to impart it,
beCRti~C thci I' OWn f .)WCf is similarly oppr,·sserl and deficient.
With deficient nervous and circulating power in the centre of life,
. 212 GENERAl. GANGLIONIC IRRlTA.TlOM.
the digestive and blood-making viscera, it cannot be wondered that
the elaboration of the food should be bad, and the blood of a poor
kind. The secretions disclose this poverty in the thin mucus, and
the want of red particles in the blood. Yet as the same blood has
to supply the materials of the solids, we find a sad want of healthy
nutrition of the flesh, and all the signs offeeble nutrition ofthe
solid composing the spinal cord. Here, then, is one cause of the
failing power of the will over the limbs. But further, the same
want of organic vigor, connected with poor blood, prevails in the
blood-vessels of the spinal cord, and we have there, as well as in
the viscera, a greatly congested state: a congestion which also
aids to impede the free action of the will over the limbs. Thi~
impediment applies exclusively to the portion of the spinal cord,
which rules the action of the extensor muscles : these being para.
lysed in great degree- their antagonism being in abeyance,-
the flexors enter into vehement, spasmodic action, and the limbs
become permanently bent.
Imperfect nutrition is thus seen to be the source of this com-
plicated malady; and the organic condition of the viscera which
corresponds with that nutrition is the object of treatment, and has
been already signalized as one of feebleness, congestion and irri-
tation. All the cases that have come before me at Malvern had
been previously treated as rheumatic, that is to say, by sudorifics,
purgatives, mercurials, and hot baths: all which, the hot baths
especially, had considerably and invariably exasperated the dis·
ease. I never was inclined to try the common remedy for chro-
nic rheumatism afforded by the water cure, namely the sweating
process: but have no doubt that it would have proved detrimen-
tal, so clear is it to me that the disease is not rheumatism.
What treatment was pursued may only be briefly told, the ra-
ther as I have no cure to recite. In h'lct, this section is written
more with the intention of putting the reader on what appears to
me the right track, regarding the essential character of the dis·
case, than with the desire to connect the water cure with it as a
curative. It is the most intractable and tedious malady in the
list of chronic ailments. Of the patients to whom I have alluded,
one has persisted in the water treatment for more than two years,
nnd is certainly better in the limbs, and very much improved in
general health : whilst the other, who has been under treatment
about eighteen months, has had the progress of the disease towards
utter fixation, and }Jelplessness, which was fearfully rapid, fairly
SPURIOUS PALSY. 213
arrested: and both, as they stand, are encouraging cases. or
the other five patients I have lost sight: persons who have been
again and again disappointed, or rendered worse by various plans
of treatment, naturally become more impatient and distrustful : so
that wlwn they <:ome to the water treatment, and find no striking
alteration cffi•cted by it in a short time, they refuse to give it a
lengthened trial, and shrink from the annoyance of experiencing
another disappointment after another tedious process; and who can
wonder or blame them? However, I have every hope of curing
the two case~, in which a fair trial is being given. The treat-
ment of them has consisted in wet-sheet packing, daily and twice
a dray, the prolonged douche, sitz baths, and la1·ge doses of water,
larger, indeed, than in any other disease; compresses to the prin-
cipal joints, and to the abdomen have been inCC'!:;Santly applied:
the diet has varied between meat on alternate days, and total absti-
nence from anitual food, which is in no case taken daily: all
liquids are kept scrupulously cold : and passive exercise in the
open air enforced. The amount of these means has been made
to vary according to circumstances : sometimes three or four
packings in the day are had : the douche has extended from one
to twelve minutes, &c. Occasionally the treatment, except a
shallow bnth in the morning, and the large doses of water, has
been su!':pended for some weeks, to allow the system breathing
time, nnd enable it more freshly to react on the renewal of the
proces!:;CS.
With the organic feebleness so marked in spurious pal,sy, the
tediousness of the treatment, and the great difliculty of rousing
the :;ystem to critical efforts, might be predicated. And so it is :
in both the cases referred to there has been considerable swelling
of the feet, a dark red blueish swelling, extending some way up
the leg, which has persisted for many months; yet not going ..
further, nor issuing in any extraordinary secretion and exudation,
as happens in most cases where a crisis in the feet occurs.
There is also the greatest tardiness in the appearanee of even
superficial eruption underneath the heated compresses of the
joints. And it is equally difficult to cause augmentation of thP.
intestinal secretions, so as to constitute critical action in the in-
ternal parts. Still, inasmuch as an attempt is made by the
body, it behoves to patiently maintain and improve the power by
whic!l it was made, until it shall be made with sufficient effect to
relieve the internal congestion by which the nutritive energies of
214 GENERAL GANGLIONIC IRRITATION.
the body are oppressed. That this is to be done by the water
cure I Lelicve, from the experie•we of these two cas s; uncl that
all other modes of treatment not only fail to do it, Lut sub· t~m­
tially incr~..·ase the oppression, was almndantly proved in all the
cases which carne under my observation. Meantime, my hope
is, tl!::1t these few pages on the subject may at least "arn some so
affiictcd from boiling their bodies in baths and steam, under the
iruprcssion that they are suffering from mere rheumatism.
Other results ofgeneral ganglwmc irritation and congestiOll are
traceable in two or three chronic disorders, in which there is still
the want of nutritive energy that marks the disease last treated
of.
One of these disorders consists in an extreme sensitiveness of
the mucous membrane of the throat, mouth, and nostrils, which is
constantly gorged with blood, and comes off in shreds, but, withal,
is not parched nor affected with thirst. The mucous mem-
brane at the other extremity of the canal is in a &imilarly gorged
and sensitive state, and suddenly falls into excessive diarrhrea
with the smallest nervous cause, leaving the patient in the ex-
tremity of weakness. And the whole of the abdominal viscera
evidence a like congestion and irritation, by the extreme facility
with which morbid causes, of diet, and especially of a mental
kind, produce feelings of distress there, though not the usual signs
of dyspepsia. The head is most capriciously supplied with blood;
sometimes the rush towards it, and the irregular circulation in it,
known by giddiness, drumming noise, &c., added to the red and
turgid state of the face and scalp, show excessive amount of blood
in it; at other times, this will suddenly change into extreme pale-
ness and shrinking of the face, and faintness, showing the deji.
cie11cy of blood in the head. Palpitation of the heart, and a sense
of" stuffiness" and constriction in the chest, are oHen experi-
enced, though not simultaneously with the rushes of blood to other
parts. The limbs experience similar vicissitudes of power, hav.
ing now an almost supernatural energy, and again a tremulous
helplessness; whilst suddenly the feet or hands will become
swelled to stiffness, with or without shooting pains, but never with
redness, though with heat. The flesh is soft, flabby, and small
in quantity. Except in the face, the skin is everywhere pale,
lifeless; nothing seems to rouse it, or only for a very short time;
SPURIOUS PALSY. 215
but it is exquisitely alive to changes of atmospheric electricity
and temperature; it is scarcely possible to make it sweat. The
pulse i:s small and soft '"'hen there is no rush to the head, and
large and soft when there is. The sleep is a stupor; frequently
broken, howeveJ', bv some rushincr of blood to the head, to the
• 0
lower bowels, accompanied by pain, Ol' to the feet and hands ;
nnd then an universal pulsation is experienced. The mind is
irritable to the last degree, or else dc:-sponding ; rarely equable
ancl happy. In the midst of all this the appetite is tolerably good,
and its gratification tn the full may bring on general abdominal
sensations, blood to the hPad, to tlte lower bowel, or to the feet,
but never acidity, heartburn, flatulence, nor weight at the stom-
neh.
In all this we beholcl a want of proper nutrition of the gangli-
onic nerves of the viscera, a state of congestive irritation and
feebleness which renclcrs them unable to control the circulation
of blood, as is their function to do; hence the caprice of the
circulution. But throughout, in the flesh and the skin, we see
the marks of poor nutrition ; and the t•arying power of the brain
and Hpinal curd, in the state of the mind and the will, speaks to
the irregular nutrition of those parts. And although dyspepsia
cannot he said to exist, thcr(' can be no question that the process
of digestion, in such a condition of the nutritive nerves, is not of
the healthy character that ,.,.·ould insure good blood for the offices
of good nutrition; and no fact of medicine is better established,
than that great deterioration of the digestive blood-making
function may go on without excitiug any distrc~s, ot· other animal
sensation in the organs appropriated to jt; so fitr are we still
from the secret of the vital chemistry within us, although, as in
the state now under consideration, the effects arc exhibited in
enfeebled und il'regulnr functions generally, ami deficient nutri-
tion of the organs gr•ncrully. Neither is the state in question
referable to nervousness, for the patient is for long periods together
as steady in his nervous system as the most robust and the least
sensitive ploughman, the irregularities of circulation going on
with harassing vehemence meanwhile. In short, all we can say
of this condition is, that it is one of those numberless phases of
disorder of the ganglionic or nutritive nerves by which their
power of regulating the circulation of blood in, and their nutri-
tion of parts, is impaired; and that the blood, thus deprived or
its general regulator, is called towards and congested in this or
216 GENERAL GANGLIONIC IB.tl.ITATION.
that set of organs, according to the application of causes more or
less apparent. A peculiarity in it is the extreme susceptibility of
the viscera to the action of medicines of all kinds, the smallest
allopathic and all the bomceopathic doses producing the greatest
possible tumult and distress ; it is unparalleled in any diseased
state I ever saw ; thP smallest and the largest dose of an opiate
causes quite as much disturbance as the smallest or largest dose
of an irritant-calomel for instance. I have not met with a fair
description of this malady in any account of chronic diseases, and
that is my sole reason for mentioning it here ; for, as in the last
disorder treated of; I have no complete cure to record. Indeed I
have only seen two cases of it at Malvern ; one of which, after
years of medication, was considerably benefited by the water
treatment, is still pursuing it, and is now in better health than he
has been for ten years past ; and the other I lost sight of after a
trial of only a fortnight, the patient going home on some business,
and friends then persuading him, I presume, that water would
put an end to him sooner than physic. Should the former of
these patients quite recover, I shall make it known, as well as the
entire treatment of his case. Meantime, I trust that should the
account of this singular morbid condition call the attention of any
medical reader to it, he may add his quota of information to the
above. But he will not do so by calling up cases of what is very
indefinitely denominated "general nervous debility," and of
"general nervous irritability," states which differ, in many
essential particulars, from that which I have described, and the
treatment of which, by physic as well as water, also materiallv
di1fers.
•
DISEASES OF THE Lll\IBS. 217
CHAPTER IV.
DISEASES OF THE LIMBS.
Organs '\Yhich minister to voluntary motion-Rheumatism; how connected
with visceral disorder; and with excessive use of the limb-Passage
of acute into chronic Rheumatism-Neuralgic Rheumatism-Transfer
of Rheumatism ; objects and details of treatment-Cases of local, gene-
ral, and neuralgic Uheumatism-Gout; rationale of its inveteracy-
Nervous Gout-Chalky Gout; differences in character and treatment-
Is gout curable ?-Rheumatic Gout.
AFTER blood is formel1, it is distributed by the agency of the
nen·ous system, and the last chapter spoke of the maladies of
that system, a very important part of which is the brain and
spinal cord. As these last, by the exercise of the thought and
will, control the movements of the limbs, I shall now proceed, in
physiological order, to mention those chronic diseases of the loco.
motor organs of the body, which have fallen under my observa-
tion during my experience of the water treatment. In doing so,
the advantage of having just treated of the organs of the nervous
system will appear: so much are the diseased conditions of those
organs mixed up with those of the limbs :-a complication, which,
in my opinion, has not been sufficiently appreciated by writers
on the disorders which form the subject of this chapter.
The maladies to be now mentioned are not confined to the
limbs, although I have headed the chapter as if they were: yet
in the great majority of cases, they are so confined, only exhibit-
ing themselves occasionally, in the trunk and head. Still more
rarely l1o they appear in some of the viscera: but this is mostly
the result of improper treatment, that is to say, of excessive
drum7inrr, and is a superadded disease to that which shows itself
t:'b b
in the locomotor organs.
These locomotor organs consist of the muscles of voluntary
movem£'nt, the fibrous sheaths in which they run, the tendons or
sinews by which the muscles work, the general fibrous coverings
of the muscle~, the ligaments composed of fibrous tissue, which
surround and bind together the joints, the fibrous sheath of the
11
218 RHEUMATISM.
spinal cord, the fibrous sheath of the nerves of voluntary move.
ment; and, lastly, the nervous matter of the spinal cord, and of
the nerves which convey the commands of the 1oill from it to the
muscles. All these tissues and organs are included in the act
of voluntary motion, and all but one in the painful diseases now
to be treated of. That one tissue is the pure muscular fibre, of
whose capability of nervous or circulatory disorder, we have no
evidence whatever. Palsy arrests its contractile action, but that
is from want of the stimulus of the will, and has its source in
disease\ action in the seat of the will. Spasm and convulsion
exhibit 1ts excessive action : but the cause of these, too, is to be
found in the nervous matter of the spinal cord. A muscle wastes
because the cellular substance between its fibres is absorbed.
Or it increases because that substance is augmented : for if a
muscle be constantly and violently employed, it does not increase
in volume, but only becomes more compact, the great employment
of it causing waste of the cellular tissue, a tissue not necessary
for voluntary motion: really strong and active men having hard,
but not large muscles. So that palsy and excessive use of the
muscles both lead to slimness, the only difference being, that in
the former they are slim and soft from want of contractile action,
in the latter, slim and hard from frequent and strong contraction:
whilst, when moderately used, the cellular tissue is increased by
the augmented call of blood to the part, and the consistency of the
muscular fibre moderately increased. In none of these, nor in
any other case, have we proof of substantial disease of the true
muscular fibre,-that tissue whose intimate arrangement, mode
of growth, and vital action, are among the most obscure points
of physiology. In the diseases of this chapter, therefore, we
have to look to the fibrous tissues connected with the organs of
locomotion as the seat of their morbid phenomena, and to the
nervous matter of the spinal cord as involved, in a secondary
manner, in those symptoms.
Those diseases are rheumatism and gout : clumsy terms, which
give no sort of idea of the states they stand for, but consecrated
by time, although the products of a bye-gc:me pathological doctrine.
When signs of both appear, the disease is called rheumatic gout.
~ 1. RHEUMATISM.
Cold and damp are the ordinary exciting causes of rbeuma-
RlmUXATISII. ~19
tism. The proximate cause is an inflammation of the sheaths
and cov~rings of the muscles and large joints. But the predis-
posing cause is more deeply seated, and requires to be well kept
in view when reference is to be made to the treatment : indeed,
it is the most important consideration when we desire to cure, and
not merely relieve the chronic forms of this disease.
Supposing a man with perfectly sound digestive organs, were
to get wet when riding on the outside of a coach ; he might have
a slight cold in the head, or even a slight cough from inflamma-
tion of the mucous membranes of the nostrils and air tubes, or
he might have a febrile attack from congestion of the mucous
membranes generally, but he would not have rheumatism. But
suppose his stomach and liver, the latter especially, were in a
certain phase of disorder, the mouth bitter and hot, the throat in-
clined to be sore, &c., the same amount of wetting would cause
rheumatism. This result would further be aided, if the man was
in the habit of violently exerting his muscles. The explanation
of which is, that he has a certain irritation at the centre of nutri-
tion, which renders the nutritive energy of certain parts at the pe-
riphery-namely, the fibrous sheaths and coverings of the muscles
-feeble, and their power of resisting external causes of disease
deficient. When cold and damp, therefore, are applied to the
skin, the blood is driven thence towards the parts most ready,
from their want of organic energy, to receive and retain it, and
least able to resist its flow. Those parts are the tissues which
have been most violently employed, the tissues connected with
the organs of voluntary motion, the fibrous tissues of the muscles
and joints. In some persons these tissues are congenitally weak,
the hereditary predisposition exists, and there is a morbid sympa-
thy always existing between them and the centre of nutrition.
These are they, who, from an early time of puberty on exposure
to cold, exhibit the results in pains of the limba ~md loins, rather
than in eough or common feverishness.
Ordinary observation shows that such a process as the above
actually takes place in rheumatic attacks. Persons congenitally
subject to rheumatism are also congenitally bilious, more or less
dyspeptic, of irritable nervous system, and given to rapid and
vehement use of the muscular system. In those who have only
the accidental predisposition, it will still be found that it consists
in a stat~ of more or less dyspeptic biliousness, which precedes
and accompanies the rheumatic seizure, and that they too are in
220 RHEUMATISl\1.
the general habit of making considerable usc of the muscles.
The laboring man who keeps his stomach and liver in a constant
state of irritation with spirituous drinks, salted meats, &c., who
uses his voluntary muscles hard and long every day, is exposed to
all kinds of weather, is the most eligible and the most frequent
victim of rheumatism: for in him the conditions of stomach, of
limbs, and of exciting cause, meet in all their strength. Hence
in places where perry and cider abound, the peasantry are
especially subject to rheumatism: in \Vorcestcrshire and Here-
fordshire there are few of the laboring men without it. The
rich and idle man, on the other hand, whose style of diet tends to
the erection and maintenance of the same internal irritation,
whose skin, clad in all kinds of warming contrivances, is rendered
excessively sensitive to the minutest change of external tempera-
ture, arrives at the same rheumatism which the other extreme of
discomfort brought to the laborer. Both set up a certain phase of
internal irritation, which renders the external surface accessible
to cold ; that is the great fact in rheumatism, and bears more
upon the treatment than any other. \Vhy the rheumatism seizes
one joint or set of muscles more than another we know not posi-
tively: but we do know most positively that more or less diges-
tive derangement is present at the time. I never saw a rheu-
matic attack in which such derangement was not present previ-
ously to its commencement. And how often does it happen that
a patient, racked with pain, is instantly relieved, an iron band as
it were taken from his limbs, by a copious vomiting of bile or a
seizure of common cholera 1 Again, what are the drugs which
usually relieve the acute attack 1 calomel, which forces the liver
to pour out bile; opium in combination with calome], which
arouses an amount of irritation within, that sometimes, though
very rarely, is thrown upon the surface in a relieving sweat;
guaiacum and other highly stimulating gums, which act in like
manner; and colchicum, which, irritating the whole digestive
canal and causing vomiting upwards, and enormous secretions
downwards, makes a diversion in favor of the particular phase
of irritation that led to the attack, and the pain is relieved. All
this points to the relief, to the alteration of action in the digestive
organs, and notably in the biliary parts of them, as the great aim
in the treatment of rheumatic disorder. Rheumatism is not a
mere inflammatory pain of the sheaths of the muscles: it is a
certain kind and amount of digestive irritation exhibited by a
RHEUMATISM. 221
certain kind and amount of fibrous inflammation. Any other
view of it leads to the most absurd and disastrous treatment.
For, let us trace the progress of acute into chronic rheumatism :
it is only the professional explanation of many a layman's story
recounted to me. The medicines above mentioned, after rousing
in the digestive organs another phase of irritation, different from
that which led to the attack, a phase attended with augmented
secretions, have thereby assuredly taken away the rheumatic
pain. I will say nothing of the other mischievous irritation they
have set up in its stead, but only observe that, could it be main-
tained, rheumatism would be kept at bay, whatever else might
happen. Some people do maintain it for a time by still dosing
with mercury, until neuralgia in some of its forms, or fulness of
the head, is induced. Others give up the remedy with the disease:
and then the artificial irritation caused by the drugs, fades again
into the old rheumatic phase, and this simply because this last
had never been cured, but only masked by the treatment. Not
only so, the blood-vessels of the internal parts thus irritated, have
lost ground by the fa·ightful excitement to which they have been
subjected, and al'e in a more exhausted, that is, a more irritable
state than before : the internal cause has been increased and in-
veterated, in short. More than this; the inflamed and painful
joints have been subjected, during the attack, to the processes of
cupping, leeching, blistering, &c., processes which, whilst they
draw blood from the vessels, tend greatly to wea]\en their organic
energy, and render them more liable to distension and congestion,
and still less able to resist external agencies of temperature.
The consequence of all which is another acute attack: and ano-
ther: and another : each one longer than, but not so exquisitely
painful perhaps ns, the former ; and for this reason, that the pain
has never entirely left the muscles between the nttach:s, and the
internal and external diseased parts, weakened by repeated
attacks, are unable to make that violent reaction they did in the
first seizure. \Vith greater or less rapidity, therefore, both parts
sink into a permanently exhausted condition, a permanent morbid
sympathy is established between them, a~zd chronic rheumatism is
established wit/' it.
I declare in all sincerity, that the events of which the above i~
an explanation, have been related to me by more than two dozen
sufferers from chronic rheumatism ; the first attack,-then the
return of dyspepsia or biliousness; the second attack-continued
RHEUMATISM.
biliousness or dyspepsia-continued rheumatism. These are
what they relate, and thus arc they explained.
But when chronic rheumatism is fairly established, the nervous
system of the spinal cord begins to act a part in the phenomena.
Something of this is seen in acute rheumatism, when, the patient
being perfectly still in the recumbent posture, involuntary and
excruciating twitchings of the affected limb or muscle take place.
In this case, it is plain that the spinal nerves distributed to the
rheumatic part are so irritated by the inflammation of the hard,
unyielding fibrous tissues in which they run, as to convey to the
portion of the cord whence they arise, an amount of irritation
which renders its function irregular: the will is lost for the mo-
ment, and involuntary twitches occur. Now the frequent occur.
renee of this in repeated attacks, tends to establish disordered
function in the spinal cord, added to the fact that between each
attack the irritation is more and more firmly fixed, and that th6
exercise of the will oYer the limbs becomes a more laborious
process. Meanwhile, also, it must be taken into account tha•
irritations are radiating from the original seat of the malady in
the viscera towards the spinal cord, and the brain too, and tha~
another cause for the implication of those nervous organs is thus
presented. Yet more: the sheath of the spinal cord, and of the
nerves as they proceed from it, is of fibrous texture, even as the
inflamed and pained parts are, and, by virtue of that well recog-
nized sympathy betwPen similarly organized parts, is especially
liable to receive organic irritation from them: and that such takes
place is well known by the thickening, and in some cases partial
ossification it has undergone in old rheumatic persons. But any
degree of morbid irritation existing in the fibrous sheath in ques-
tion, tends to interfere with the same function of the delicate,
high1y organized spinal cord it includes. Finally, and in aggrava-
tion ofall these causes,the usual medicinal modeoftreating rheurna.
tism, by keeping the whole ganglionic system of nerves in a con-
stant state of worry, has a marked effect in disturbing the office
of the animal ~stem of nerves.
From all these sources the brain and spinal cord, the latter
more particularly, derive irritation, which mingles sooner or
later, more or less, with the fibrous inflammation of the muscular
sheaths. In some instances, this implication of the spinal cord
dates from the first acute attack, and the phenomena dependent
on the disorder of its nerves are so prominent amid the pwelg
llHEUMATISM. 223
rheumatic symptoms, as to oblige the designation of neuralgzc
rheumatism to be applied: a malady of some frequency and of
considerable tediousness. But in the cases of pure rheumatic in-
flammation, the nervous implication comes to be established, only
with the establishment of the continued chronic state : as I have
said, there are signs of its temporary existence in the acute state.
In the chronic malady, it is exhibited first, by some slowness in
making the muscular movement follow the will: then by in-
creasing rigidity and intractability of the muscles, especially of
the flexors, increasing the fixation of the joints: aud at length by
complete paralysis of the rheumatic limb. In the brain, too, the
evidence of stron~ irritation, proceeding from the sources I have
mentioned, is given by the occasional occurrence of ap(Y]Jle:cy, a
not very infrequent termination of a rheumatic existence, and
hastened by the mercurials and iodine in such excessive usage by
routine practitioners, who stand aghast at the catastrophe, and
"wonder what apoplexy has to do with rheumatism," as I have
heard one say.
Such, then, is the progress of rheumatism from its first acute
attack, to its chronic tenancy of the muscular sheaths and joints.
Beginning in visceral irritation, it is not called rheumatism until
it has seized upon the fibrous textures of the voluntary muscles,
whence, as well as from the irritated viscera, morbid sympathies
radiate towaa·ds, and involve the centres of the voluntary nervous
system, the brain and spinal cord : the malady becoming more
complicated as it proceeds. But other complications sometimes
take place in consequence of violent drug treatment, which need
only be very briefly alluded to here. One is with the heart,
and most commonly follows on the use of mercurials and colchi-
cum, the excessive irritation which they produce in the visceral
ganglionic system re-concentrating the whole mischief there,
and withdrawing it from the joints whither nature had driven it;
and it more especially fL~es on the heart, because it is the largest
internal muscle, and includes fibrous tissue similar to that of the
external muscles and joints. This is commonly called a. meta-
stasis, or transfer of the rheumatism to the heart: but it does not
appear with this explanation in the writings of practitioners of
the ordinary medication, because, I presume, it does not appear
to them possible that medicines can ever do mischief, and they
never think of putting the question regarding them.* Another
• That this opinion regarding the cause of the supposed transfer to the
224 RHEUMATISl\1.
event, dependent on the same cause, is the dropsicul irritation of
the fibrous membranes which line the chest and abdomen, the
pleura and peritoneum, producing a very serious complication of
dropsy <if the chest or belly.
Now I strongly maintain that these dangerous additions to the
rheumatic disorder would never occur, if proper regard were
had to the fact, that it is only an external signal of internal vis-
ceral irritation ; that, in short, nature throws a portion of this
irritation from her vital parts within, in order to save them, upon
the external parts that are not so essential to life. For then we
should not apply irritants to delicate viscera already irritated,
rendering almost certain the transfer of the external disorder to
some internal part ; but we should strive to bring more and more
of a full circulation to the outer skin, in order to relieve the inner
skin, or mucous membrane, not to attempt to drit'e it to the exte-
rior by stimulants applied to the interior.* This last is the parent
heart, was held by me whilst yet profes&ing the ordinary mode of treat-
ment, and before 1 knew anything of the water treatment, will appear
from the following passage from my work entitled "The Simple Treatment
of Disease," published under the circumstances above printed in italics.
"Much has been said, of late years, of the transfer of rheumatic inflam-
mation of the limbs, to the fibrous membranes of the heart. Like all oc-
currences that are lengthily insisted upon in voluminous woa·ks, written
for the purpose of proving them, it is highly probable that the metastasis
in point is less frequent than is supposed. I am led to make this remark
from the fact, that out of a vast number of cases of rheumatism of the
limbs which I have treated and seen treated, I can only testify to sp,ven or
eight, in which there was actual and indisputable ground for asserting such
transfer, for which, meanwhile, I was looking, and against which I was, in
my own practice, prepared to act. An instance of the transf.:?r to the heart
was shown to me a few months back by a brother practitioner. There
certainly was pain, palpitation, &c., of the heart, but as the patient had
been, and was then taking lat·ge do~es of mercury and colchicum, I ven-
tured to suggest the cessation of these, and the application of mustard fo-
mentation over the jtit of the stomach, whereby the heart was soon ft·ced
from pain, though it continued to be very irritable. The medicines, in
fact, had produced sympatheti<' irritation of the heart; and this I believe
to be often the o.dJ transfer that occurs. It may, however, predispose the
heart to the actual metastasis, and, in such case, pr<'sents another practical
argument against violent medt<'ation of the viscera in rheumatism."
• A late writer on rheumati~m, Dr. l\I'LEoD, remarks, that free sweatin(P
fails to bring any permanent or great relief: no1· is it likely to do so, whilst
it is forced by such means as opium, antimony, calomel, and stimulating
spirituous tinctures and liquors: the patient is only sweatina off the irri-
. ~
tatton caused by the drug, not the original one: tltat must be removed by
a more natural process of sweating.
RlrF.UMATlS\I. 225
of all the subsequent mischiefs: it inveterntes the rheumatism
i~ haz~rds its tr~nsfer to vital organs, and it causes its complica:
t10n wtth the anunal nervous system. As long as this is done in
acute rheumatism, there will be abundant cases of the chronic
form seeking restoration from the water cure, which, were pa-
tiC'nts wise, would be their first and not their last resource, as it
now is, the wet sheet being held before them in terrorem.
In treating rheumatism by the water plan, I look upon the mus-
cles and joints as altogether of secondary consideration : the root
of the disease is not there. To give them the soothing advan-
tages of wet compresses constantly applied is right and expedient:
but all the compresses in the world, just as all the blisters and
leeches, will not cure rheumatism ; they take the edge off acute
pain, and may even suspend it, but it returns so surely as the in-
ternal cause ~till remains. It is that cause which it is the object
of the water cure to obliterate, to eject. Now, as the external
inflammation is the result of an effort on the part of the internally
inflamed parts to throw their disorder from them, so the water
plan of treatment places them in the best position to do so. It
withdraws irritants from them, it applies cooling dilution to them,
thus leaving them unoppressed in their salutary efforts: and at
the same time it puts the entire skin in a condition that renders it
the reauy recipient of the internal irritation, in place of the parti-
cular fibrous tissues. Hence it often, indeed generally, happens
that at the commencement of the treatment of chronic rheuma-
tism by water, there is an aggravation of the pains : the inner irri-
tation being more completely and vigorously brought out, and the
fibrous tissues being, as yet, the weakest and the most accustomed
rC'cipients of it. As the treatment progresses, however, the uni-
versal skin becomes more freely supplied with blood and organic
energy, and the internal irritation is thrown more upon it, and by
degrees less on the old diseased tissues: the rheumatism diminishes,
as the circulation in the skin increases. Patientc; whose skin has
been for years stranger to sweat, now are made to perspire readily,
and the parchment color of the skin begins to give place to a
healthier hue. And both of these, for a reason which is further
exhibited in the occurrence of nausea, vomiting, or purging, or all
three, generally of bilious matters: that reason being the diminu-
tion of irritation in the digestive viscera, to an extent which allows
them to make this demonstration of self-relief. These augmented
internal secretions going on simultaneously with augmented cuta.
11*
RUEUl\IATISl\I.
neous secretions, the visceral cause of the rheumatism is thrown
off, whilst a diversion is made on the entire skin in favor of the
muscles and joints. This diversion also acts favorably on the
kidneys, by carrying off through the skin a quantity of saline nod
albuminous matters which had previously either passed through
the kidneys nncJ procJuced irritation there, and loaded urine thence,
or had been retained in the circulating blood, and deposited in lar-
ger or smaller quantity in the fibrous tissues of the joint~, and
tended to their fixation. Such elimination through the skin, in
the course of the water treatment, is abunc.Jantly proved by the
character of the perspiration itself, as well as by the very much
improved state of the urinary discharge, which at an early stage
of the treatment becomes lighter aml clearer. In this manner all
the viscera implicated in the rheumatic c.Jisorder nrc relieved
of their irritation, and put in the best position to throw it entirely
off by some of the chief emunctories ; so that once ejected, there
is no more rheumatism until the viscera are again exposed to mor-
bid causes : the limbs may be exposed to cold, as much as you
please.
All these efforts and all these results being wrought through
the instrumentality of the nutritive nervous system, it behoves to
look to that portion of it which is represented by the brain and
spinal cord: the rather, as we have seen how these last are
sometimes implicated in the rheumatism, and are therefore in a
morbid state. That state is one of active irritation and functional
excitement in the kind of rheumatism denominated the neuralgic:
and is a state of functional oppression, of partial paralysis, when
it forms part of the disorder of very long standing inflammatory
1·heumatism. In the neuralgic kind there is too vivid circulation
in the spinal cord : in the old inflammatory there is diminished,
congestive circulation. The vigor, therefore, with which the
treatment is pushed so as to rouse the nutritive energies, and the
means taken for that end, will vary these two conditions of the
animal ncr\'ous system. It would neither be expedient nor safe
to employ the sweating process, for instance, so often in the neu-
ralgic as in the olJ inflammatory species, if, indeed, it were fit to
use it at all ; nor to drink so much wat01·, &c., &c. ; but rather
to have recourse to the wet sheet, and other soothing and lower-
ing appliances. The animal nen·ous system, in short, ought not
to be subjected to the same amount of excitement, nor should the
same amount of effort be induced in the neuralgic as in the
RHEUI\IATISM. 227
purely rheumatic disease ; at least, it ought not to be induced so
rapidly; and that is one reason why neuralgic rheumatism is
usually more tedious than the other kind. If you stimulate sud.
denly and vehemently, and cause the nutritive nerves to enter
quickly into effort, you run risk of augmenting the very condition
of the animal nerves which forms so great a part of the disorder:
however this may act on the fibrous tissue, it will have the effect
of aggravating the irritation of the nervous tissue, and the tic part
of the malady will remain, although the injlamrnalion of the joints
may be diminished. But even in genuine fibrous rheumatism,
where the animal nervous system is involved, and in a state of
dimini~hed function, care should be had not to put too sudden, too
great, nor too prolonged a strain on it by the means of the treat.
ment. More may be done in that direction in this species of
rheumatism than in the other : but the condition of the head
should regulate the amount, and should be scrutinized as we
proceed, by the aid of the pulse, the pupil of the eye, and the
state of the external senses. \Vhilst some of the means nrc re.
clueing the visceral, we must sec that others arc not exciting too
much the animal nervous irritation, so that this shall recoil upon
the Yiscera, and at least leave the patient stationary, at worst
increase all his ailments.
Similar considerations regarding the animal nervous system
lend to diverse advice regarding mental and bodily exercise in
the cure of rheumatism. In the neuralgic kind it i~ not so de.
sirablc to make strong and long efibrts to exert the limbs as in the
fibrous kind: neither can so much be expected from the artificial
exercise of frictions about the joints, in the former as in the latter.
A fact not sufficiently recognized, is, that affections of the mind
have a marked effect upon ch1·onic rheumatism. I have often
seen the limbs rapidly rendered useless, from increased pain and
stiffi1ess on the supervention of some disagmeable or anxiety on
the mind. This applies more to the neuralgic kind: but I have
seen it in both kinds. It is a fact of considerable importance in
the treatment, and should be weighed in the balance ofthe chances ·
of reco\'cry, both by the patient and the practitioner.
Thus it will be seen that chro11ic rlteumatism, deriving its origin
from an intense irritation of the digestive viscera, and involving
the fibrous anc.l the animal nervous tissues of the body, is a dis.
ease the treatment of which, with a view to cure, includes nice
considerations. Indiscriminate sweating and douching, and water
228 RHEUMATISM.
drinking, and walking (when that is practicable), are not all that
is required, as one might be led to think from the early publica·
tions on the subject in this country. Sweating, indeed, is rarely
indicated, and tends rather to augment the internal origin of the
disease : it is only when there are signs of indolent, obstructed
liver, that it is admissible to pursue it for a long time together:
the wet sheet should be made to alternate with it. And so of
water drinking and douching, which ar~ both exciting processes:
they require to be nicely regulated by the condition of the ner-
vous system, the neuralgic rheumatism, for the most part, not bear-
ing a large amount of either so well as the chronic inflammatory.
But in both kinds, the great remedy is the wet-sheet packing,
which should be practised throughout the treatment: at first alone,
and for the purpose of directly subduing the visceral irritation:
and subsequently, when the tonic and stimulating processes are
employed, for the purpose of obviating any super-excitement
which they may produce to the detriment of the viscera. For
like purposes, hot fomentations to the abdomen arc good, especially
in the onset, when there is, in the great majority of cases, no
small degree of c;rtra irritation, arising from previous habits of
diet and physic, to remove, before arriving at the old mischief
which had been thus masked. In the neuralgic rheumatism, more
particularly, these two applications are commendable: I have
often seen exasperation of the pain from atmospheric and electri-
cal vicissitude quickly relieved by abdominal fomentations alone.
1::1 Except these fomentations, the applications should all be cold:
at least, the aim should be to bring them to that state. Undoubt.
edly, in some very long standing cases, where nutritive dis..
order has gone to the extent of bloodlessness, the temperature
may be graduated to the low reactive power of that condition,
and beginning with tepid, it should be judiciously decreased.
But if there be one canon of treatment more binding on the prac-
titioner than another, it is that which enjoins the use of cold, and
the avoidance of hot baths in chronic rheumatism : there is no
more certain way of inveterating that malady than the parboiling
which so many undergo at hot springs ; and this because it both
debilitates the digestive function, and renders the skin more sen.
sitive to external influences.
So also in the affair of clothing, it is desirable to avoid all ex-
cess of warmth, and thereby cultivate the reactive energy ofthe
skin, which :e so necessary an aid to, as well as consequence of,
RUF.UMATISM. 2~9
the improvement of the digestive energy. But here, too, reft;r.
ence must be had to the full or bloodless condition of the patient,
and the former coverings removed gradually,-sometimes, even
by tearing off portions of a flannel under waistcoat from time to
time, or taking advantage of a warm day or two to make an ad.
vance in the stripping process. It is only in comparatively recent
cases that you can doff the accustomed under clothing at once.
A good rule even in these is to let it remain for a week or so
after the commencement of the treatment.
No chronic disease is more certainly curable by the water
treatment than rheumatism : except perhaps some forms of dys-
pepsia and nervousness. There is the greatest discrepancy as to
the time requisite for recovery, nor is it very easy to predicate on
the subject, some of the most unpromising cases rapidly giving
way before the treatment-whilst a circumscribed one turns out
to be vastly tedious. In fact, I have often observed that when
the pain is confined to one or two joints it is harder to get rid
of: as if the concentration of visceral sympathy on those two
joints rendered its removal to the entire skin more difficult. Age
has also some influence on the length of treatment: after the fif-
tieth year, one is obliged to spread the treatment over more time,
because the body is not so apt for strong reaction. I have noticed
that women arc longer in recovering than men: probably from
the neuralgic element entering more into the essence of the dis-
ease in them: for that again influences the time of treatment,
that form of rheumatism being more tedious than the purely
fibrous kind. But in any case, it is better to look forward to a
somewhat long treatment, which is both safer, and more sure,-
safer as regards the nervous system, surer as regards the eradi-
cation of the visceral irritation. Altogether, the time may be
said to rant7e from three to twenty months.
I never
0
treated chronic rheumatism in a person hereditarily
predisposed to it: but I should doubt its curability under that cir-
cumstance, yet should not doubt that means exist in the water
treatment to stop its progress to utter fixation of joints and loss of
locomotive power, as well as to arrest any acute exasperations of
it. I give two instances of chronic rheumatism, one of a local,
the other of a general character.
CAsE XXIV.-RHEUMATISM or THE KNEE JoiNT.
The patient in this case could give no very clear account of the origin
230 RIIEU.l\IATISl\1.
of his m:t.lady. He was young, only twenty-five .yeal'i', and w_hen
it began, nearly two yt!ars before he came to me, he dtd not pay particu-
lar attention, nor gi\'e particular care to it. He travelled in the ~ast,
and in the North of Eurorc, and had undergone a good amount offatigue
and exposure, and his bodily system altogether had been deteriorated.
He was at Oxford when the rheumatism of the knee commenced, and it
soon forced him to walk lame from stiffness. An acute attack of a very
savage char:tctcr, accompanied by enormous swelling and exquisite ten-
derness of the left knee joint, followed this stiffiless; leeches and lotions
formed the local, and calomel and opium the general treatment, saline
purgatives and nauseant emetics aiding. By these appliances and rest,
the acute inflammation was converted into a chronic one, with which he
went about as he best could, without prevention by diet or any other
means, and with only some sort of plaster, spread on leather and strapped
round the joint. As ought to have been expected, a small amount ofex-
ercise renewed the acute inflammation. which was again reduced by the
same means as before, only with more of them, and with much greater
difficulty. Also, the knee was much less able for exercise than before.
This alternation of acute and chronic inflammation went on for many
months, the acute attacks becoming nearer and nearer, the state of the
knee during the chronic stage more disorganized and painful, and the
usc of the limb more and more curtailed.
In the course of the treatment to which he was subjected in the acute
state, besides leeches, blisters, tartar-emetic cerate, all kinds of irritating
liniments and poultices were applied. During the chronic intervals per-
petual blisters, moxas, mercurial and other plasters, mercurial and iodine
frictionR, &c., &c., were continually in requisition. During both phases
of the di~case the genera· treatment consisted of mercury in various
shapes (he was salivated t,vice), of iodine, of which he took several
cnnrses, of iron also several courses, of opiates in all shapes, of purgatives
in all shapes, of vegetable tonics in all shapes. But the most striking
system of pre\'cntion and cure of this inflammatorydisease was one which
was practised towards the close of the patient's drug experience, and
consi~tcd in complete rest on the sofa in a warm room, strong doses of iron,
and a diet qf cC!ffee, cooca, rump steaks, jellies, turtle soup, bottled purter,
and port wine. And this at a time, when swinging the limb between
two crutches brought on intensely acute inflammation !
Under such a monstrous r; gime as this (monstrous, although the pa-
tient had the advice of the chief mP.tropolitan surgE'ons) the safety of the
whole left leg became imperilled. For six months the patient had de-
sired to try the water cure under my care : but his friends, on the assur-
ance of his medical adviser, "that it would insure his death," prevented
him. At length, this same adviser became alarmed at the appeamnce of
the leg, and the ruined health of the whole body, and declared to the pa-
tient, "that there remained no remedy but amputation." As the sufferer
preferred to run the risk of death from the water cure, to the certainty of
,, REtll\IA1'•S.i\I. 231
loeing his leg by the knife, he came to Malvern into my establishment at
the end of January, 1844.
I found the knee swollen to three times the natural size, and the disor-
ganized state of the skin and tissue underneath gave proof of the frightful
usage to which it had been subjected. The joint was in every part ex-
quisitely sensitive to pressure: th<.' slightest attempt to bend it more (it
was always slightly bent) gave great pain: and in locomotion be was
compelled to hang the leg by a ribbon round his neck, and go on tu:o
crutches. This he had done for seural m.onths. But, bad as all this was,
the inspection of lais viscera, and the history of the treatment just given,
explaiued it all. I found his digestive organs in a fearful state of inita-
tion, and his liver gorged: the split, swol1cn tongue, spongy gums, sore
throat, all bespoke the visceral cause of the local disorder, and also the
havoc which medication had perpetrated. Everything about him showed
the same, by the deteriorated nutrition and function of the organs. He
was emaciated, pallid, tremulous all over : the excretions of his bowels
and kidneys were exceedingly disordered: he could not bear a breath of
air, and his skin was always crawling and shivering: he had not a ves-
tige of appetite, and had all along been swallowing the rump steaks, and
other delicacies, malgre his unfortunate stomach : when in bed he could
not sleep for pain, and when out of bed he had, besides pain, an intolera-
ble sense of irritation and restlessness: his spirits were utterly gone: he
was a miserable, broken, suffering man.
It was very plain to me that he had come to this pass by having all
the attention of his surgical advisers turned toward8 the knee; his vis-
cera being, meanwhile, made the sport of the absurd treatment I have
described. The knee had been rendered worse, and maintained so, be-
cause the viscera had been kept in a blaze. As my own ob3Crvation
and convictions always lead me to look for a visceral cause of a chronic
local malady, I paid very slight attention to the knee in the present in-
stance. I knew and told the patient that I should not treat that, for there
was abundance of more serious mischief to get rid of. Accordingly I
merely placed a thick, wet compress, wrung out of cold water, round the
knee, and from first to last it never received any more treatment. But
against tbe vast amount of visceral derangement, I directed all the febri-
fu~ and counteracting means of the water cure. Being young, and
ha~·ing a great deal of feverishness, he was at once and vigorously packed
in the wet sheet, at first once, then twice a day, and subS('quently in two
successive sheets morning and evening: the cold shallow followed themas
mmal. For ten or twelve days he was fomented on the bowels each night
for an hour. lie wore the compress on the abdomen day and night. He
drank after a week's treatment ten tumblers of water daily. For a fort-
night I kept him without animal food, giving plenty of farinaceous: his
only beverage was water.
For months before coming to me he had moved, when he dared to move
at all, on two crutches, with his leg suspended. At the end ofthefourth
232 RHEUMATlSf\f.
rceek ofthis hygienic treatment, he u·alked with tlae S1tppnrt cf a stick: and
at the end ofthe fifth 1reek u.'ithout any supporl at all. And w~y '? because
long before that time the mucous membrane had bnen dasgorged, the
liver had poured out biJe abundantly, the urine had been restored,. t!te
skin had recovered its vitality to a great extent, the sleep and the spmts
had been recovered, and he had eaten and digested large quantities
of plain, nutritious food :-the viscera had been relieved and the knee
must follow. Still: he walked tenderly on the left leg, and avoided pres-
sure on the knee. But it was not necessary to alter the treatment, save
in the allowance of more and stronger food in proportion as his power
and extent. of walking increased, and except that, after two months, he
took the douche three or four times a week. Dy the end of those two
months, he could walk to the top of the highest of the Malvern hills, and
usually went over ten, twelve, or fifteen miles of space daily. Mean-
while he grew in flesh and fat; and so far from fearing cold, would often
walk in March, with an easterly wind blowing and the rain descending,
without his hat. The knee shrunk until the bone was only covered with
skin.
It is unnecessary to pursue this case any further. The patient re-
mained with me two months after all signs of disease in the knee
had disappeared, for the total restoration of his general health. Little
more than a month ago he wrote to me, stating that he had never for
an instant had the smallest difficulty or inconvenience from the limb,
or in his general health since he left Malvern, eighteen months before.
The history of this case before it reached me is that of the
great majority of rheumatic patients, and it amply demonstrates
the folly of treating rheumatism as a disease of the limbs alone.
Nothing, literally nothing, but a damp bandage was put round this
joint, which had been for many months the subject of bleedings,
blisterings, &0., under which it went from bad to worse, because
at the very time when these counteracting agents were applied to
the skin, irritating agencies were proceeding from the viscera
towards the painful joint: between the two, the knee became
more and more weak in its vital self-restorative power. Had it,
in the first acute attack, been kept cool and perfectly rested, and
had low diet been prescribed, instead of the calomel (for which
there was as much occasion as there was for a poisonous dose of
arsenic), months of suffering, with peril of the entire limb, would
have been avoided : the best physician, Nature, would have res-
cued her organization. And yet it is heresy to protest against
such blundering medication!
Here is the short history of a case of general rheumatism, where
RllElDIATISM. 233
the visceral irritation arose more from food than physic, and where
the muscular sheaths became the seat of disease, for the reason
that the patient made long and strong use of them in his labor.
CAsE XXV.-GENERAL RHEUI\IATruu oF THE Boov.
A farm laborer, fifty-five years old, living in a low damp situation and
on a clay soil, became rheumatic five years ago. \Vhcn he ate meat it
was always salted: he devoared heavy paste puddings; and he drank
freely, although no drunkard, of thin acid beer. The action of this food
on the stomach, and of the cold damp on the skin, did not bring on &.
severe acute rheumatism, bnt it stole on him gradually, slight febrile at-
tacks marking, from time to time, the attempt at an acute fit. The dis-
ease crept over him, however, stiffening his loins and hips, then the
shoulders, then the knees, and so ou, until there was scarcely a moving
point which it had not visited. All this time he grew more sallow, yel-
low in the eye, giddy in the head, and somnolent: the kidneys ga.\·e out
dark and turbid urine: the bowels were con~tipated and their excretions
light ClJlored : all the symptoms, in short, were those of great biliary and
digestive derangement. He had swallowed plenty of "doctor's stuff"
from the Dispensary, had abtllldance of things rubbed on his body, and
had taken pounds of Epsom salts on his own account: but the progress
was still downwards. The poor fellow's family was in danger of starv-
ing from his impaired powers, when he was sent to me by the benevo-
lent aid of a gentleman, who had deri\·ed benefit from my treatment.
He could not for upwards of a week be packed in the wet sheet, so
much was the vitality impaired : and until then the treatment was con·
fined to hot fomentations at night, and rubbings with the dripping sheet
twice a day. At the end of ten days, he was partially packed in the
wet sheet once daily : fomented at night: had a rubbing sheet at noon.
He drank seven tumblers of water in the day : and from the beginning
his diet had been of bread, rice, and farinaceous matters. He had not
continued this plan more than a week, when a smart attack of acute
rheumatism took place, and every joint in his frame was implicated. I
had expected this, and it will be found to occur in the majority of cases
of old rheumatism treated by water. It is only an increased effort of
the viscera to throw their irritation on the limbtt, and, when so induced,
h; rather to be hailed than feared. In the present initance, the attack
only caused me to make more frequent use of the wet•sheet packing: it
was taken twice in the morning and twice in the evening, the cold shal-
low bath following both, and the fomentations in addition after the even-
ing one. But, although be was racked with pain he lost but little sleep,
so much did this treatment keep down fever and restlessness. The at-
tack faded after ten days' treatment, and its retreat was accompanied by
an enormously increased action of the kidneys, which poured out water
234 RHEUl\lATISni.
charged with salts and mucus : and this purgation of the kidneys con
tinued more or less for a fortnight. Meantime the chronic pains were
still present, but had been reduced in position to the loins and the knee~.
This was accounted for to me, by the greatly improved complexion of
his skin and the more free flow of bile through the bowels, as well as by
the urinary purging alluded to. The visceral irritation, in fact, was con-
siderably relieved, and the external parts in exact proportion.
Against these remaining chronic pains, I continued to -:tpply the wet-
sheet packing every morning, except two, in the week, when he was
sweated. A cold shallow bath of four or five minutes was taken after
each. He was also well douched once a day at noon, and had a sitz bath
of half an hour in the evening. He drankten to twelve tumblers of water
daily: and wore wet compresses on the knees night and day. Exercise
was taken as much as the limbs would allow. Animal food was allowed
every other day. In about three weeks of this treatment, the liver waR
roused to fresh efforts at relief: but this time they were not thrown upon
the limbs in the shape of acute rheumatism, but were exhibited in
nausea, which, after a few days, went on to vomiting of bilious and acid
liquids two or three times daily. The bowels were also affected with
bilious purging. I allowed this to continue for more than a week with-
out altering the treatment : after which the wet sheet was discontinued,
and the sweating used twice a week: all the rest going on as before.
This kind of internal crisis had released the loins almost entirely from
pain, and the knees to some extent also. But my personal superintend-
ence of his treatment ceased at this point : tor he was obliged to return
home. He continued the morning ablution there: sat in a tub of cold
water once a day : had the knees well pumped upon every morning and
evening : sweated once, and was packed in the wet sheet twice a week :
and kept up the doses of water: in all which he showed an enlightened
perseverance which one often seeks for in \'ain, among those who lay
claims to be the " betters " of this poor man. He was ten weeks at
:Malvern, and continued to practise the water treatment for more than
three months after his return home, by which time he had lost all rem-
nant of it in every part of his frame. More than two years have passed
since that period, without any return of the disea8e, although he inhabits
the same damp situation as before ;-but he has learned how to sare his
viscera, and therefore the cold damp no longer causes rheumatism.
l'A.sE XXVI.-GENERA.L RHEIDIATIS!\1 WITH NERvous SIGNs-NEu-
RALGic RHEUMATISM.
This case resembled the last in all particulars, except that the patient
was t\\·enty years younger, was a highly educated person, with a sensi-
tive and largely developed head, bad been affected with rheumatism
seven years, and had certain symptoms indicative of spinal disonler.
The viBceral cause, too, in this case was to be found in digestive irrita·
BHEUMATISI\1. 235
tion. arising from studious and sedentary habits, and from frequent mer-
eurials taken to obviate the results of those habits. His complaint be-
ga~l with an acute attack of rheumatism, which, treated with mercury,
op10m, and colchicum, glided into the chronic state, and went from bad
to worse, amid the farrago of means proposed and adopted. But the
finely organized nervous system of this patient soon caused the implica-
tion of the spinal cord, and the legs, besides having their power curtailed
by pain, had it also diminished by actual want of voluntary strength.
This was evident from the fact that when the pain very much diminish-
ed, as it sometimes did in clear, bracing weather, the command over the
limbs was equally deficient. It also varied with the condition of the
wind, with electrical changes, and was much affected by sleep, being
less for some time after it, as if the spinal cord were slow to awake fully.
There was not much swelling of the limbs or joints (and this is always
the case when the nervous element enters greatly into the rheumatism),
but exquil3ite sensitiveness, with, very often, real neuralgic pain in a
small point of a joint where no unusual signs of inflammatory rheuma-
tic action existed.
The principal difference between the treatment adopted in this case,
and that pursued in the last, was that sweating was altogether avoided,
as it tends to excite the animal nervous system. Reliance was chiefly
placed upon the wet-sheet packing twice a day, and fomentations of the
abdomen at night, and wet-sheet rubbings twice between the packings.
The diet included some animal food once in the day, and excluded any
voluminous vegetable matter, such as greens: for nerrous dyspepsia is
implied in neuralgic rheumatism, and will not tolerate the stimulus of
bulk. Water was drunk to the amount of ten tumblers daily. In most
other details he did as in the last case, and I shall therefore not recapitu-
late. Towards the close of his time at Malvern, the douche was admi-
nistered with decidedly good effect: but that was after the stomach irrita-
tion had been almost got rid of. Yet the case was a tedious one. The
patient worked hard at the treatment at Malvern for nearly four months,
and by that time had become erect instead of bent, could walk ten times
the distance he formerly could, slept better, and could command the limbs
at all times. There remained frequent neuralgic shootings along the
limbs, with a lingering of pain about the joints, evidently of a nervous
rather than inflammatory kind. Against these, he continued the daily
packing and dripping sheet, with the water drinking, diet and exercise,
for four months longer, at home, and has now remained more than a
year perfectly free from pain, although from prolonged fear and pain of
using them, there still remains and will probably always remain, some
degree of stiff movement of the knees. But for all the active purposes
of life, and in regard to the absence of all pain, he is cured.
236 GOUT.
§ 2. GouT.
The observations on the visceral origin of rheumatism apply
still more forcibly to gout. The digestive disorder antecedent to
an outbreak of the disease, the immense relief felt by the digest-
ive oru·ans after the fit, and the great and alarming distress of the
visce1~, when they do not possess the power of throwing it out
on the limbs, point beyond all question to the origination of gouty
disorder from within. As in rheumatism, also, the biliary organs
are especially affected : and the bitter mouth, yellow tongue and
eyes, white evacuations from the bowels, and dark evacuations
from the kidneys, show the derangement of the liver and duode-
num. A certain amount of irritation is established there by re-
peated stimulation of food, and Nature makes the effort to throw
it on the external fibrous tissues : a good deal of stomach disturb-
ance attends this effort. If she succeeds, a fit of gout ensues,
and the digestive organs recover themselves. If she does not,
those organs continue in a state of extreme disorder, and the irri-
tation is so great as to involve the heart or brain, and may, in
fact, be transferred to them, producing the dangerous condition
called gout in the ltead and gout in the heart; or, being concen-
trated in the stomach, constitutes the equally dangerous spasm
of that organ called gout in the stomach. At other times the fail-
ure of the natural effort to throw off the gouty visceral irritation,
or, as it is commonly called, the suppressed gout, causes a minor
but more incessant disorder of circulation and dist•·ess of function
in the head and heart ; and hence the nervous condition of mind,
the headaches, giddiness, faintings, palpitations of heart, &c.,
that attend the suppression. Gout in the toes and fingers is the
desirable consummation of this disorder: the centre of life, the
viscera, must be saved. The ordinary medicinal practice reverses
this and perils the patient, whilst it perpetuates his disease. It
will help an explanation of the aims of the water treatment to
say a few words on this point.
\Vhen the patient sends for his medical attendant, Nature has,
U8ually, already thrown her visceral disorder on the limbs: acute
pain and inflammation are present in the nervous and fibrous
tissues of the toes or fingers. The ordinary remedy is either
some form of mercury, or arsenic, or colchicum. These, the last
especially, are almost certain to reduce the po.in, and not unfre-
quently with great rapidity: dry warmth being, meanwhile,
Gou·r. 237
applied to the sensitive limb. But the pain is not reduced unless
the digestive canal give evidence of having been irritated in the
shape of more or less diarrhrea, the presence of thirst, dryness of
tongue and throat, nausea, or actual vomiting, &c. Neither in
such case is there that great appetite and sense of general relief
which attends after a fit of gout that has wasted itself, or been
treated by the expectant method. More or fewer of these signs
will be observed by any gouty patient, who looks accurately into
his sensations after an attack thus removed. To the patient, and
indeed to the physician, who knows little of physiology, all this
will appear right: the gou,t is removed, and that is what was
desired. The physician, however, who is a physiologist, will
say : "True, that irritation which you call gout has left the ex-
tremities, whither it had been sent by Nature to save her noble
internal parts. But look to the signs exhibited by those parts;
are they not those of augmented irritation, at least of irritation of
a degree and kind, that did not exist so long as the limbs were
pained and inflamed 1 The fact is, that your colchicum has set
up in the viscera so intense an irritation, as to reconcentrate the
mischief within, and the fit is cured, not by ridding the body of
the gouty irritation, but by driving or drawing it in again.
Hence, the continuance of the dyspeptic symptoms after the fit;
hence, a.q you will find, the recurrence of another fit ere long, the
intervals becoming less and less, until gouty pain is inussantly in
the limbs, and gouty irritation always in the viscera; and hence,
the gradual but sure enfeebling of the viscera to the point of
inability to throw any of their irritation on the limbs, and then
comes your gout of the head, of the heart, or of the stomach, and
carries the patient off. All this happens because you have
meddled with, instead of following the indication given by
Nature, to relieve the important internal parts of gouty irritation,
at the expense of the less important external ports. It also hap-
pens, because you have been treating a name instead of a con-
dition,-gout instead ofgouty irritation. \Vith the idea ofirritation
before you, you would sure}y pause ere you proposed to cure that
which exists in the toes, by rousing a greater one in the viscera;
but with the idea of mere gout, which may be anything you please,
you may give whatever you please to overcome great external
pain. For the rest, " it is as absurd," as BRoussAIS well remarks,
" to speak of gout in the head, as it would be to talk of mania in
238 GOUT.
the tou." Gout and insanity are conditionsofthe body, not mere
vernacular terms.
All this is quite true, as every one can vou~h who.ha_s bee~ in
the habit of shorteninu fits of gout by colchicum : 1t IS agamst
the intention of Nature~ and no one who opposes her aims can hope
to succeed. In the treatment of gout by the water cure, on the
contrary, the irritative state being kept in view, and the object of
Nature appreciated, the means consist of such as reduce internal
irritation on the one side, and of such as aid its removal to the ex-
ternal parts, on the other. The wet-sheet packing, and hot fo-
mentations to the abdomen, tend to the reduction of the visceral
irritation, and also assist, in some degree, in throwing it upon the
external parts. This last office, however, is chiefly performed by
the sweating process, especially in one kind of gout, to which I
shall presently allude. Now as these various means aid the na-
tural efforts so often referred to, a consequence of frequent occur-
rence in the water treatment of gout obtains, which, at first sight,
is disagreeable and discouraging enough. A patient coming to
be treated, but having no acute paroxysm of the disease at the
time, is almost sure to have one elicited,-perhaps one of the most
severe he ever had: and for this reason. The design of the water
treatment is to bring the internal irritation on the entire surface
of the skin, by sweat and other signals of skin excitement, so as
Lo divert the visceral efforts from the hands and feet. But these
last being the old points, towards which such efforts have been
long made (supposing it to be a long standing case), it is reasona-
ble enough to believe, that whfm the efforts are powerfully aided
by the appliances of the water treatment, they should still, for a
time at least, be thrown upon those points, and with a vehemence
proportionate with the augmented impetus given to them by the
water cure. That this is the case would appear from the fact,
that the more recent the gouty disorder, and the less frequently,
therefore, the limbs have been the parts to receive the irritation
from within, the smaller is the chance of the water cure producing
a brisk attack of the disease, and the greater the facility of at
once transferring the mischief to the entire surface of the skin.
This,-the transference of the visceral irritation to the entire
skin-is the aim of cure in the treatment of gout by water. As
I have said, the wet-sheet packing and the sweating process are
the principal means of fulfilling it. But the relative applicability
of each can only be ascertained by reference to the species of
GOUT.
gout to he treated. There are two which are leading in their
characteristics, and should be signalized.
In one kind, which may be called lhe nervous or neuralgicform
lif gout, the phenomena of inflamed mucous membrane, and dis-
eased mucous secretion of the digestive organs, are far from
being prominent : there is not much foulness nor yellowness of
tongue, although the thirst, heat of mouth and fretor of breath
are there; but the tongue is very red. Nervous headache of
intense degree precedes and attends the fit. The bowels are not
constipated, neither is there any deficiency of bile in their excre-
tions, although that fluid be of a som~what lighter color. The
kidneys give out large quantities of clear urine. The pulse is
very rapid, hard and sharp, and there is very frequently palpita-
tion of the heart. The general feverishness is great. As
regards the external parts, there is less swelling, but, if possible,
more heat and pain than in the other form : and the pain is not
continuously the same, but, without the smallest movement of the
limb, takes on sudden and extreme exasperation, and is traceable
for some distance up the leg or arm. There is no chalky secre-
tion in the joints. The complexion is clear. The attack comes
on more rapidly, is preceded by more acute symptoms of dyspep-
sia, and hangs about for a longer period, being also more erratic
than the chalky gout now to be mentioned.
In cltalky gout, the preliminary dyspeptic disturbance comes on
gradually, and is accompanied by more decided mucous disorder,
foul tongue, exceedingly fretid breath, extreme biliousness, acid
risings, &c. The head is more full, tight, and pulsative, than
acutely painful. The pulse is large, slow, hard, throbbing.
The bowels are very torpid and their excretion almost white.
The urine is scanty, fretid, and loaded with salts and mucus.
The feverish heat is not acute. Externally, the inflamed joints
exhibit considerable swelling and redness, but the pain is burning
and throbbing rather than darting, and it is continuously the
same. There is, besides, a still increasing deposit of chalky
albumen in the joints, the secretion of which generally terminates
the attack more speedily and certainly than in the nervous form.
The inflammation also fixes upon, and remains in one or more
joints. Persons suffering from this form of gout are pale or
yellow in complexion, have waxy lips, and are more or less
bloated in appearance.
SuQh are the trenchant distinctions between two kinds of gouty
240 GOUT.
irritation which require difference of treatment. Occasionally,
these distinctions are seen in all their clearness : but more fre-
quently we meet with a commixture of the sy~ptoms of both
kinds, a sliding of one into the other. And such 1t would app~ar
to be: the nerrous kind being less intense than the chalky, wh1ch
last implies a more deteriorated condition of the blood than the
former. In nervous gout, there is irritation and loss of organic
energy in the nerves of digestion, sufficient to account for some
degree of diseased blood and still more for the mal-distribution of
it, so as to form congestions and inflammations about the organs
of digestion, the heart, head and limbs, and hence the unfixedness
of its attacks, and the changeableness of their scat, constituting
what has been called erratic gout; hence, too, the rapidity of its
evolution, the internal parts not having as yet lost the capability
of making a vehement effort to throw off their mischief. But
repeated attacks of this neuralgic gout, and repeated course~ of
colchicum to get rid of them, gradually debilitate the organic
powers of the nerves of digestion, and increase the congestion
and oppression of its organs. Gradually, too, and as a consequence
of this, the blood-making process deteriorates, the circulating
ftuid becomes more diseased in its chemical and vital qualities,
ceases to redden the complexion, and pours out the morbid matters
with which it is loaded, by the kidneys, and, during the attack~,
into the sheaths of the joints, forming chalk stones. These results
of augmented digestive disorder, of more intense gouty irritation,
mark also diminished vital power in the internal organs to throw
off their mischief: and hence, the comparative slowness with
which the attack comes on, the long preliminary dyspepsia, the
fixation of the gout upon one or more often diseased, and greatly
enfeebled joints, and the tediousness of the attack. Sometimes,
the organic power of the internal organs is so far deficient, as to
disable them from throwing out the gouty action at all. In that
case, the irritation accumulates within, threatening first one and
then another part, the heart, head, lungs, &c., and producing by
sympathy a host of uncomfortable symptoms, to which the name
of suppressed gout has been applied. Or if, with this incapacity
of the digestive parts to produce external gout, causes be at work
which involve the brain in unusual excitement, the gouty action
Is transferred to that organ, and gouty apoplexy, called gout in the
head, takes place. The like takes place if causes render the heart
the part most readyto receive the transfer, and spasm ofthe 1.eart is
GOUT. 241
the form the gout takes : or asthma supervenes upon its transfer-
ence to the lungs: or, finally, the stomach itself takes on the
~pasmodic action from the excess of its own gouty irritation and
mcapability of evolving it.
But although the mingling of these two kinds of gouty action
be most frequently met with in practice, it behoves to hold them
well in view, when about to determine upon the treatment to be
adopted. It is necessary to ascertain the exact proportion be-
tween the neuralgic and the purely gouty symptoms, to observe
which predominate, and to apply the pmcesses of the water cure
accordingly. How this is to be done, will best appear after
briefly mentioning the applications to each kind of gout in its de-
cided character as nervous or chalky.
Nervous or neuralgic gout implying a more acute disorder of
the digestive organs, being accompanied by fever of a more acute
character, indicating, in short, a state of excitement and exce~­
sive action, the rl·medies of the water cure which tend to reduce
such action arc dearly pointed out. In an attack, fomentations
of the abdomen, frequent wet-sheet packing, frequent change of
the abdominal compress, water drinking to the amount of eight
or nine tumblers daily, and reduction of diet to farinaceous
matters, arc the best means ; damp compresses to the pained joint~
being added. In the treatment for the chronic condition, the re-
medies should have the same direction, but need not, of course,
be so vigorously employed. Two wet sheets in the day, one be-
fore breakfast, the other at noon, or three hours after an early
dinner : the sitz bath once or twice in the day : the abdominal
compress worn night and day: six, eight, or ten tumblers of water
in twenty-four hours: are the principal means. The diet best
adapted is the alternation of animal and vegetable food for dinner,
or even restriction of animal food to two days in the week : and the
ve(J'etable taken should be confined to farinaceous matters and
br:ad. The exercise should be as ,·igorous as the condition of
the limbs will allow: and, in the absetace of sufficient power on
their part, dry friction should be carric•l to a considcmble extent.
If by these means the pulse be reduced in rapidity and irritability,
it is well to trv the effect of the douche, beginning with a small
power and sh~rt time, aml gradually extending both: but it is
necessary to watch the results of this application: lest it disturb
the nervous system too vehemently, and thus r~nder the brain
liable to the gouty action. Accordiug to the organic capabilities
12
242 GOUT.
of the individual all the means mentioned should be increased:
two wet sheets i~ succession, for instance, being su~stituted for
· · h d The result of this treatment IS to reduce
one, twtcc 1n t e ay. . .
the internal gouty irritation, thereby to improve the thg~sttve p.ro.
t better blood to be made to nourish the sohds, whtch
cess, o cause . . . . . C · · 1 ·
thus gain the power of controllmg Its dtstnbutlOn. ntiCa action
t k s place but not necessarily in a vehement, concentrated form.
a e ' 1 • h'
If the patient be fat or puffy, which is rarely tr1e case m t. ~s
kind of gout, a few boils may form ; but a more frequcnt crtsts
is a partial eruption of a kind very closely resembling red gall
(eczema impetiginodes), which inconveniences, by its mingled
burning and itching, for two or three weeks. A more frequent
crisis still, is that which slowly goes on in the course of altering the
mass of the circulating blood, and is often exhibited in occasional
relaxation of the bowels, large quantities of turbid urine, and a
continuous transpiration amounting sometimes to spontaneous
perspiration from the skin, of fluid of an acid or urinous odor.
All these, however, frequently stop for a time, and then return
with more vehemence.
Chalky gout implies a greater intensity of the gouty irritation,
with a more deteriorated, oppressed and obstructed condition of
the digestive organs, and notably of the liver. Not only is the
function of those parts obstructed, but, as a consequence of it,
we have a mass of circulating blood of a very diseased character
to deal with. The o~ject of treatment~ therefore, is to rouse the
internal functions and to quicken those vital and chemical changes
whereby the blood is made and wasted : so that whilst better blood
is being made, the former diseased mass may be O"Ot rid of. For
these purposes, it is necessary to employ the sweating process, the
douche, the prolonged shallow bath, the sitz bath, and copious
water drinking: as much exercise as possible aidinO' the whole.
The sweating may be practised daily, until headache and fever-
ishness announce that the body is becoming over-stimulated. The
same frequency and the same caution applies to the douche.
The object of the sitz bath is both to aid the action of the bowels
and to prevent the over-stimulation alluded to. And the whol;
of these external applications tend to brincr to the entire surface
of the body a quantity of irritative action a~d blood which would
otherwise be concentrated within, or thrown w1
'th 'pa' fi 1 h
. m u ve e-
mence upon certam unlucky toes or finaers. In all th' · th
· f h ..1 • • fi . z:, 1s, m e
rousmg o t e atgesttve unctions, in giving a tendency towa-rds
GOUT. 243
the skin, and above all, in quickening the chemical changes of
the blood, the copious water drinking plays an indispensable and
important part. Having attention fixed on the head, it may be
carried to any extent, compatibly with the case of that part. This
is, indeed, one of those instances in which the monstrous Griiefen-
berg doses of water are scarcely out of place ; the skin carrying
off no small portion of it in the daily sweats, and another con-
siderable portion passing through the kidneys, and carrying with
it gouty matters which would otherwise be retained in the circu-
lation to be thrown upon the limbs. As much exercise and air
as possible assist the alterative and detergent properties of the
processes recommended, and of the water drinking: and, as in
the previous instance, friction must be used, where active exertion
is not practicable. If in the course of the treatment, feverishness
and hard sharp pulse come on, two or three days of wet-sheet
packing may be used to subdue it: but not unless the head be
full and painful, and the sleep prevented; for some feverishness
precedes, and attends critical action in this malady, and in that
character need not he interfered with. Boils form the crisis of
this kind of gout, more frequently than of the other, the physical
condition of the patients being better adapted for their evolution.
But ill-smelling and glutinous sweats are, often enough, the only
external critical action exhibited ; urine loaded with salts and
mucus sometimes accompanying them. Bilious dinrrhooa comes
on from time to time during the treatment, but rarely continues
long enough to make, per ae, a decided impression on the gouty
diathesis and disease.
These indications of the mode in which the extremes of nerv-
ous and chalky gout should be managed, leave the treatment of
the form of disease partaking of both sufficiently obvious, and I
need not dwell upon it. Much, all indeed, depends upon the tact
of the physician in balancing the symptoms which demand the
soothing, or the rousing of the internal functions, and the most
perspicuous and voluminous writing would fail to impart practical
acumen where it did not already exist.
And now comes the question, " Is gout curable by the water
treatment 1" The answer of most writers on that treatment
has been in the loud and confident affirmative. I agree
with them, because the water plan is a natural one, and aids
Nature in her efforts; and I believe that uny plan which restricts
its aim to this will, sooner or later, cure maladies that are not
244 GOUT.
organic • throu"hout the whole of this work, that belief is ac-
counted'for. But the other question, " has ~out been cured by
the water trentment,-cured in such way that 1t has not returned,
the onlinary causes of diet being avoided," cannot be answered
so confidently in the affirmative. \Vater cu.rc. books talk of
" perfect cures," ant! in very short ~paces of time. .But as I
desire to write to inform, not to dece1ve by exaggeration, I am
compelled to say that my experience offers no proof of such cures
in such time. In shot1, truth obliges me to state, that not one
case of gout has been cured at Malvern, either in Dr. Wilson's
or my own practice. Acute attacks have been speedily got rid
of by the treatment, and with the great advantage of not damag.
ing but 1·atlu~r improving the viscera; these attacks have been
rendered less frequent, weaker, shorter and more under com-
mand : the general health has been improved to a wonderful
degree, and in several instances, the life of patients has been
saved by rescuing the viscera from the gouty seizure ; old chalky
concretions have been carried off, and the use of joints restored:
all this I have effected by applying the water cure to gout, and
it is much more than can be said for any other plan of treatment.
But to satisfy my mind as to the certainty of cure, the patient who
had previously been attacked two or three times a year, should
have passed eighteen or twenty-four months without any attack
at all, his mode of life, meantime, being prudent in the matter of
diet, but not levelled to that of an inva1id : he should, in short,
be able to pass the time mentioned without medical treatment and
without gout. With this definition of cure, I do not believe that
gout has been yet cured in this country, and I verv n1uch doubt
whether the histories imported from other countrie;, if so tested,
would be found correct. I have heard that PRIESSNITZ himself
confesses, that he never cured but one case of gout, that is, eradi-
cated the gouty diathesis. The fact is, that to do so requires
three, four, or five years, not so many months, of assiduous water
treatment, careful diet, and as much absence from mental care
as is attainable : and who are they who will afford this time
attention and self-denial 1 '
It would be folly, however, to avoid a treatment because it will
not for ever root up y.our disease in your own convenient time.
Look at the destructtve manner in which colchicum d
. . re uces a
gouty fit, how 1t approximates the attacks a11d utter·ly d' ·
. , Isorgamzes
the v1scera : and then regard what the water cure is capable of
GOUT, 245
doing, both against individual attacks. and in reduction of the
diathesis, the vital parts, meanwhile, improving under its opera-
tion ;-can there be a doubt of the reasonableness of adopting
the latter, both for the immediate and the ultimate purpose of
cure? Life will thereby be rendered more tolerable and more
extended, and this is answer enough to the puerile question, that
many medical men have put reaardina the use of the water treat-
o 0
ment : if it docs not utterly cure the gout, at least it does not
shorten the patient's life, as colchicum does.
Of the various instances of gout which have come before me,
I publish the following, as that in which the water treatment
effected the greatest amount of benefit, and in a comparatively
short period of time :
CAsE XXVli.-NERvous AND CrrALKY GouT.
This patient came to me in December, 1844. He had been the subject
of frequent gouty attacks for twenty years before, and was then in his
forty-ninth year. The whole process described in the few last pages had
taken place in this instance, and under the auspice!:! of colchicum the
paroxysms had become more and more frequent, until the patient passed
his life in almost one unceasing fit of gout. \Vithal, his joints had
become almost completely stiffened, those of the fingers containing several
chalk stones, whilst the ankle and toe joints admitted of no bending
whatever, and he walked on the flat of his foot. Detween this pain and
stiffness of the joints, and the feebleness of the limbs generally, and of
the whole body, the smallest exertion had become nearly impossible.
When he came to me, he could not walk fifty yards, and then be lifted
the legs by means of the loins, and with infinite labor and slowness.
An ascent, however small, was altogether out of the question. His gene-
ral health, too, had been somewhat giving way of late, and he felt that
the colchicum was acting as a slow poi~on on his frame. This conviction
had induced him some months before he saw me, to make trial of homreo-
pathy, from which, however, he derived no benefit, partly, as it would
appear, from the unskilfulness of its application: so he had no alterna-
tive but the old poison, which he took up to the time of corning to
:Malvern.
It did not appear that the gout in this case had been derived from a
paternal source. The patient himself was of opinion that he had acquired
it by his copious libations of bad port when at Oxford. This fact, and
a singularly happy frame of mind, which never flagged in cheerfulness
even in the midst of acute pain, were ti!.vorable circumstances: whilst,
on the other hand, a lymphatic constitution, bloodless skin and lips, the
long continuance of the disease, and the prolonged use of poisonous
medicines, were opposed to the prospects of benefit.
246 GOUT.
Althonrrh I have ca.Jed this a case of " nerwus and chalky g~ut," the
latter cha~cter was far predominant : the nervous ~ha.mcter ~mg only
exhibited during the intervals between bad attacks m the rap1~ passage
f · f · t to another without any fixed external s1gns, such
o pam rom one pom ' . •
as swelling or redness, and also in frequently bemg confined to the
appearance of neuralgic pains along the whole course of the legs, arms
01" loin:;. Bnt in the regular paroxysms, all the phenomena were those
of chalky gout. The treatment therefore was principally, almost entirely,
of a kind to suit this last. The sweating process was employed from the
commencement, and, after some time, it was even used twice in the day,
a prolonged cold shallow bath succeeding it. The sitz bath was also
ordered for half an hour once a day. Cold wrung compresses were kept
in constant application to the feet, ankles and hands. The abdominal
compress was constantly worn, and the patient drank ten or twelve
tumblers of water in the day. The diet was of the plainest kind, and
including only three or four ounces of animal food once daily; no warm
beverage was allowed. After a fortnight of this treatment the patient
was attacked with one of the most sel·ere fits of gout he remembered
to have ever had. The pain was considerable, and for some days the
treatment was confined to tepid spongings of the body! hot fomentations
of the belly for an hour night and morning, frequent changes of the
compresses to the joints, very copious water drinking, and restriction of
diet to gruel and boiled rice. The fever attendant on the first outbreak
of the gout being reduced, the sweating process was renewed twice
a day, the fomentations were used at night, and all the other measures
were persisted in, the large water drinking especially. Nevertheless,
this attack travelled about from joint to joint, with alternations of ner-
vous pains in the loins, hips, shoulders and ribs, for nearly a month, so
powerfully had the water treatment aided the natural efforts of the viscera
to throw off their irritation.
Out of this attack, the patient came with improved digestion and loco-
motive power; a load seemed to have been taken from his system, and
although this had been the most severe of his fits, he expressed himself
delighted with the healthful sensations which succeeded it, compared
with those that had followed £'U' shorter and much less painful fits in
which ~ie old drug remedy '~as employed. In fact, this long and severe
fit and 1ts subsequent sensattons confirmed the patient's confidence in the
treatment, quite as much as if no such unpleasant commencement had
obtained, and, after a sojourn of seven weeks in l\lalvern he went home
with the resolution to continue some parts of the treat~ent there. H~
did so, though not s.o continuoubly or vigorously as he had done here,
and had no gout durmg the two months he was away. Late inthe spring
of 1845 he returned to Malvern, and went vigorously to work with sweat-
ing, d.ouching, and ~itz.ba.thl=', with large doses of water, and considerable
exerc1se : fur by th1s time he could walk miles instead of yards. In a
month, gout made another feeble attempt in the feet, but disappeared af-
GO'DT. 241
ter hovering for two days. During the three months be was at
:Malvern on this occasion, thcr( was no other sign whatever of the mala-
dy : but on the other hand the restoration of the use of the limb was
alt.o~cthcr astoni~hing. From being unable to walk a quarter of a mile,
this patient's usual exercise bPfore breakfast in the summer of last year
was to walk to the top of the W orcestershire beacon, the highest of the
l\1 alvern rangP, not by taking the cut zig-zag paths, but by ascending
Rtraight on end; and he descended in like manner. Looks and spirits
improved in the same proportion; and his appetite was only too good, his
digestion Pxcellent, ami, as a. consequence, his sleep sound.
During the first visit of this patient to ~Ialvern, and for some period of
hi:- f:Ccoml nne, the skin gave cvideuce of critical action in the shape of
glutinous sweat of a strongly urinous odor; and this was secreted, not
only during the sweating process, but in the ordinary exhalations, and
was perceptible to those near him. It continued for three weeks to-
gether. No critical evacuation from the bowels took place: but invete-
rate con~tipation, of \Vhich he had for years been the victim, was com-
pletely O\ ercomc by his water treatment at Malvern.
Like all other l.;nglishmen, this patient not having any compulsory oc-
cupation, had created some, which, he thought, must bo attended to: and
lie left for his home in Surrey, in Juue, 1845. I had fears for his finn-
ness in continuing the treatment, and in avoiding the causes of his
ma]a,ly. Ilc was not cured, although he was in the high road to it, and
would still be cured with a couple of years of treatment. The following
letter, howe,·cr, fo:hows how another fit of gout was thrown out by the
viscc3'ra, and it is very probable that several such would be elicited ere
the gouty di~position was exhausted. Between the former, and this at-
tack. howe\·cr, a period of nearly nine month$ had intervened. It will
also be seen, that my fears about the patient's sufficient prudence were
not ill ftmndPd, as witness his " enjoyment with his friends." So that it
is no man cl that gout holdt-i its ground to some extent still. Yet if ever
a ra::-e of gouty disorder was curable, this is it. The letter, dated in
January. 181G: report::; thus:
" I continm.•d for 80me time nearly the same as when I left Malvern,
not making fast progress, nor yet standing still; and thus I went on un-
til September, when the gout seemed determined to measure its strength
with all-powerful water. The attack was most spiteful, and I resisted
it manfully. It paid a visit to most of my joints except the knees. I
thrn went to BoulC'gne for a few days, and nt-vcr felt better. Of course
] wa:; somewhat weak in the understanding, but as to gout it was quite
gone. Oc'-·asionally, ~incc then, I have felt little pain~, and then it seems
as if c.1ch of thc:,e would have been an attack, for t11ey come on in the
old wa,. hut the fit ~ecms spent before gout really takes place. (The
truth i~: the tisceral gouty irritation is so diminished as not to suffice for
a rerrnlar attack; with prudence, it would be altogether worn out.)
t::'
I sweat every morning with the spirit lamp: the whole process sixty
248 RHEU.l\IATIC GOUT.
minutes forty of which are of actual perspiration, during which, I drink
five Iar~e tumblers of water. I find I can now enjoy myself with my
friends as much as 1 coulJ wish. I take wine only now and then, and
don't care if it be a pint or so. Indeed, Doctor, .you ~av~ produced :-n
you led me to expect, and I .am ve~y grateful for ~t. Lafc ts to me ~uate
another thing: I can enjoy 1t, and mstead of looka.ng forward to an mva-
lid chair and crutches, I am the wonder of the netghl>orhood: and yet I
cannot persuade my invalid friends to go to Malvern : they tell me I
ha\'e a wonderful ~trong constitution, and all that nonsense (his constitu-
tion vas utterly shattered when he came to l\lalvern). Now this I feel
more than anything,-that they should attribute to constitution, what is
entirely owing to your skill and learning. But say what I will, they
seem determined to die in their ignorance-wilful ignorance: and
serve them right too," &c., &c.
If my patient would but become a teetotaler, he would never feel gout
again.
§RHEUMATIC GouT.
The exposition of the nature and treatment of the maladies
which occupy the two preceding sections, renders any prolonged
account of rlleumalic gout unnecessary. Partaking of the exter-
nal characteristics of both those diseases, it also acknowledges a
similar internal condition: there is the stomach and liver irrita-
tion, with the general disorder of nutrition dependent on it. The
phase of visceral irritation, however, differs from that of ordinary
gout, inasmuch as it throws itself on any m· all of the fibrous tis-
sues of the body, of the large as well as the small joints. It also
partakes more of the nen·ous than the chalky character of gout.
On the other hand, the rheumatic character is exhibited in the
fixation of pain in the large joints and fasciro, in the extreme sen-
sitiveness of the body to barometric, thermometric, and electric
influences, and in the compa1·ative frequency of the disease as an
accidental, and rarity as an hereditary infliction.
But the chief point to ascertain is, not what to designate the
cliscase, but what stage of visceral irritation is to be treated. As
J have said, the most usual is that which corresponds with ner-
\'OUS gout and neuralgic rheumatism. The difficulty of treatina
such a combination, will be readily understood from what ha~
b~en saicl on each. ~f !hose. states. In fact, rheumatic gout is a
tr1al for the physacmn s skall and patience, as well as for the
patient's power of endurance. Sudden feverish attacks then
again symptoms indicative of obstructed rather than ex:essive
RHEUMATIC GOUT. 249
action, incessant shifting of the seat or pain, and variety in its
character, render this one of the most tedious of diseases to bear
or to trcat. Ilowc,·rl·, the treatment must turn upon the fact of
obstruction or Pxeessivc uction, the rules for which will be found
under the rcspr:ct ivc heads of rltcwtwlism. and gout. In the ma-
JOrity of case~, the wct-shcC!t packing is the principal remedy,
with an occasional and rare sweating. In other cases, again,
this proportion is reversed, nnd the wet sheet is used only from
time to time to keep down f(>vcrish excitement. In both sets of
cases, thl'! douuhe is an important remedy, and is employed
either as a tonic, when the wet sheet has reduced the visceral
irritation, and left the body low, or as a stimulant in aid of the
sweating in its nctiou of rousing obstructed and torpid functions.
Copious water drinking is necessary in all cases, except those
which exhibit a. fulncss of the head.
To be of permanent benefit, the water treatment of rheumatic
gout of long standing should be continued for at least fifteen,
eighteen or twenty-foUl' months. In the course of my practice,
I have been enabled to bring considerable relief in several cases,
by lengthening the period between the attacks, and by shortening
the attacks themsclvc::; : but the ta·eatment did not exceed three,
four and six months in duration, nnd was altogether inadequate
as curative of disease of seven, ten and twelve years' standing.
Still, I have not the least doubt that rheumatic gout is perfectly
curable by the water treatment, if time be given for it. Indeed,
one case I have cured, in which, from the recent date of the dis-
case, nntl the youth of the patient, less time was required, and
sufficient time was afforded for the thorough operation of the
remedies. The patient was only thirty-two years old, and had
been affiicted only two years: so that by the bl"isk and persever-
inO' action of the treatment during nearly five months on a tole-
rably good constitution, the pains disappeared altogether, and he
left Malvern having o.n understanding with me that if they re-
turned. he was to inform me. It is now eighteen months since
that ti~1e, and I have heard nothing of the patient or his com.
plaints. \Vith time I would readily promise cure in much worse
cases than this.
12*
250 DISF.ASF.S OP THE C'OI.ON-
CHAPTER V.
DISEASES OF THE LOWER ORGANS OF' DIGESTION-DISEASES
OF EXCRETORY ORGA~S.
Uses of excretory organs-E1·roneou:o~ ideas concerning constipation-Actual
functiun of the lower bu·wel-Rationale of excretion-Dependence of
constipation on the nervous and circulating systems-Constipation with
sufficient and with insufficient blood in the body-Its treatment accord-
ing to the presence o1· want of blood-DitT~rent kin<is of Piles--.\ symp-
tomatic disorder-Connection with obstruction of liver, heart, and other
organs-Constip:1tion as a cause-Danger of operations for piles-Treat-
ment-Mode of origin of functional Dropsy-Action of the kidneys in
H-Absurdity of diuretics-True aim of treatment-Pathology of skin
diseases, acute and chronic-Rationale of their outbreak and suppression
- Treatment.
CoMru:E:'iCING with the diseases which assail the blood-making
organs, the stomach and lungs, we have spok~n of those of the
heart which circulates the blood, of the uervous system which
regulates its circulation, and of the limbs which are commanded
by the nervous system. It remains to speak of the morbid states
which obtain in certain organs, whose function, as regards the nu-
trition of the body, is rather negative than fOsitive. They assist
in the maintenance of the body by eliminating from it matte~
which, if retained in the circulating mass of blood, would deteri-
orate its power of directly nourishing the various organs in a
healthy manner. Thus, the retention in the blood of the elements
which form thefaces, the urine, the sensible and insensible perspl-
ration, gi\•es rise to the most fol'midablc as well ns the most tedi-
ous maladies: formidable in their acute, and sometimes in their
chronic form, in which latter they are always more or less tedious.
It is scarcely necessary to add, that the organs which carry on
these functions ~re the ~olon or lower bowel, the rectum, the kid.
neys, and the skm. As m the case of other organs and functions
I shall only speak of those which I have treated by the appliance~
of the water cure.
CONSTIPATlON. 251
§ 1. DISEASEs oF THE CoLON--CoNsTIPATION.
On no subject of medical concern is there more misconception
and prejudice among the laity, than on that of the depuratory of-
fice of the bowels. And no wonder: within the first twenty-four
hours of mundane existence an aperient drug is introduced into
the digestive canal, and that irritative action, thus commenced, is
looked on as necessary to the well-being of the individual, by
those whose office it is to watch over his younger years. By the
time he has reached the years of self-guidance, the same neces-
sity is impressed on his own mind, both from the mental habit, and
from Ihe organic craving of the lower bowel itself, for tho daily
or weekly excitation of the aperient :-a craving which induces
a sympathetic one in the brain, which will not be satisfied until
the old initant is applied to the old spot. No matter how perfect-
ly well the per::;on may be, appetite, sleep, spirits, walking power,
in the best order, no pain or ache present, no sense of fulness of
the bowels : yet he is haunted by this vision of constipated bow-
els : all must go wrong, if all be not already wrong, unless his
bowels are rclie\'ed : they were open yesterday, the day before,
and for a year· past, but not having been open on this precise day,
the worst must happen. How hard, all but impossible, it is to
drive into the urH.Ierstanding of patients that all this is error, every
medical man of physiological education can say. It would seem
as if people lived to have stools and not had stools to live. These
last seem, with large classes of English society, to be the alpha
and omega of earthly existence, the one thing of never fading in-
terest, the much loved object of daily and hourly solicitude : all
the gigantic efforts of the reasoning faculty, all the empyrean
flights of the imaginative faculty are postponed for the elevating
fuuction of e\'acuating the bowels !
It is sad folly, all tlais anxiety about the bowels: and much of
it is at the door of the patient who has grown up in it. But the
fault is also shared by great numbers of the lower class of medi-
cal men, called surgeon apothecaries, who either do not know the
physiological merits of the subject, and act in ignorance, or else
nrc too indolent steadily to resist the patient's prejudice for the
patient's good. These, the ordinary attendants of so many fami-
lies, might do much to abolish this pestilent and intolerably stupid
habit and prejudice of purging the bowels,-the parent of so many
diseases which shorten life, and of so many more which render
252 DISEASES OF THE COLON-
life scarce worth havina. To the non-professional readers of this
work I will, at least, offer some explanations concerning the office
of the colon which will show them the uselessness and harmful-
ness of intc;fcrin(T with it, and also how the natural, unforced ac-
tion of the bowels is th~ only one which is not harmful to the
body.
After Lcing formed out of the food by the offices of the stomach
and lungs, the blood is passe<. on to the minutest blood-vessels of
all the tissues of the body. In these vessels, the great functions
of nutrition and secretion are carried on: nutrition depositing the
t;Olid parts and secretion the liquid and gaseous. But all the
solids and the greater number of the liquids are only deposited
from the blood for a time : their status quo is most transitory.
The solids are broken down, and, by the absorption of the veins,
again carried into the torrent of the circulating blood. The same
takes place with regard to the liquid and gaseous deposits from
the blood. Every partjcle of brain, hom~, muscle, sinew, &c., is
reliquified: and almost every dJop of mucus, saliva, halitus, bile,
&c., is re-absorbed, and re-circfulated. The chemical elements
of all the solid deposits and of all the secretions are therefore in
the blood.
Now there are certain of these secretions, which exist for the
purpose of carrying off from the circulating blood chemical com.
pounds derived from the breaking down and reliquifaction of the
solids of the body. Those compounds are called nitrogenized,
nitrogen being the element they chiefly contain. The elimination
in question is effected in the kidneys by the secretion of urine,
and in a portion ofthe colun by tlte secretiun ofthe stools.
The object which nature has in the secretion of the stools is
therefore, to rid her circulating blood of matters which, being n~
longer of use for the purposes of nutrition of that body would in-
terfere with it, if retained in the blood. '
This is so true, that there are instances in which the colon
failing to secrete the freces, the skin has been made the point of
elimination to ~ most disgusting extent. I have myself seen
several persons m whom the exhalation from the skin had a strong
frocal odor from this cause. Moreover, any one in ordinary
health may observe, that when, from any cause a smaller quan.
tity of stools t~an us~al is secreted, a larger q;antity of urine is
passed, and vzce "ersa, nature ridding the blood by one ch 1
when the other fails. anne
CONSTIPATION. 253
The freces, then, are to be rerrnrded as a secretion from the
0
mucous membrane of the colon, just as gastric juice is a secretion
from the same membrane of the stomach, the tears from the mu-
cous rnt:mbruue of the lachrymal glands, the wax from that mcm.
brane of the outer ear, &c. In short, their production is exactly
similar to that of any othe•· secreted matter of the body; but inas-
much ns they are secreted for the purpose of being thrown oul of
the body, they are called an excretion more commonly than a
secretion. flere I woulu remark, as I ha,·e done in several
places before, on the mischief of dealing with names instead of
acts. Because stools at·e called e.r:cremcnts, people get it into
their heads that it is always there, in the bowehi, to be passed off,
nnd must be passed off, without the slightest reference to the other
effects of the means they usc for hastening the excretion, and
without asking themselves the very simple question, "whence
come all these freccs ?" Yet it is one which, properly answered,
would have pt·evented many a mortal malady, and saved a world
of mental nud bodily suffering to the crowds of colocynth caters
that are to be found in England.
"\Vhenee come the freces ?" Unquestionably from the same
source as all the other secretions of the body-from tile blood;
from the bloc11l which circulates in the mucoas lining of the colon.
Sometimes there are portions of undigested or indigestible food,
such as the skins of fruits, and the husk of oatmeal, mixed up
with them, having been untouched by the gastric juice: but
these nrc adventitious, and not an essential part of the stools.
These last, therefore, being secreted from the blood, must derive
their quantity and quality from the quantity and quality of the
blood at the time distributed in the lining of the colon.
But as this blood circulates in blood-vessels which owe their
vital irritability to the ganglionic nervous matter (sec page 4),
with which they are supplied, it follows that the frocal hecrction
also depends upon the condition of the nervous matter in ques-
tion. As in the other secretions of the frame, the first influence
of causes is upon the ganglionic nervous matter, which then alters
the contractile action of the blood-vessels of the colon, this, again,
altering the quantity of blood in that part, and the consequent
secretions from it.
Thus we sec that the secreting action ofthe colon depends upQn
the quantity of blood i7l its vessels, and the quality ofthe nervous
fllency operating upon them.
254 DISEASES OF THE COtON-
No" suppose that a man has a large quantity of good blood in
his whole bodv there ,....ill be amply sufficient for the purposes of
secretion in ail'parts of that body,-for the freces amon? the rest.
Such a mun ought to have his bowels evacua~ed once m twenty-
four or thirty-six hours, of between .five and s1x oun~es of fre~es,
and he U"ill have them so evacuated 1f he takes suffictent exercise,
docs not sleep too long, a\·oids irritating articles of diet, keeps out
mental care and overtoil ; if, in short, he maintains his ganglionic
nervous system in order. For remark, that when he does not
exercise his will in bodily exertion, when his brain sleeps too
long, or, on the other hand, when it is overworked, excess and
congest10n of blood take place in it, and the distribution of blood
is rendered unequal throughout the ganglionic nervous system :
-the brain itself representing a very important part of that sys-
tem (sec page 4). The consequence is that blood being plus in
the brain and spinal cord, is minus in the mucous and nervous
tissues of the colon ; the secretory power of that bowel is there-
fore impaired ; and tlte patient is constipated.
Suppose the same full-blooded person to eat and drink impro-
per things, the same process of congestion of blood takes place in
the mucous membrane and nen·es of the stomach which took
place in the brain in the other case, with the addition, very com-
monly, of the brain congestion as well ; the distribution of blood
is changed, to the detriment of the colon ; and the patient is consti-
pated.
The cau~cs oriainnting in the brain, and those which beain in
OJ - b
the stomach, which I have just mentioned, arc the ordinary
causes of indigestion, and thus it is that constipation forms an
almost invariable symptom of that malady in persons who are
well supplied with blood.
But why do the bowels become constipated in those who have
not sufficient blood in the body 1 Simply, because they do not
posses~ enough of that precious liquid for the purposes of large
secretion. Nature cannot afford it. \Vhat little blood there is
in the frame she concentrates in the citadels of life in the two
great ganglionic centres, in the brain and in the ston:aeh, so that
they, at lea.st, may not .'~ant wherewithal to carry on the two
great fu~ct10n~ of nutrllzon nnd sensation. She thus deprives the
ou:er skm of 1ts blo~ and perspiration, and the inner excreting
skm of the colon. of Its . bl~o? and stools : and we find many a
lean, pale, dry-skmned md1v1dual also a costive one. If such a
CONSTIPATION. 255
man's bowels nrc opened once in two or three days, it is quite
enough ; !tis b!oorl cannot alford more : lae u:()Uld be injured if h~
!tad more. It: with this general deficiency of blood, the brain be
congested by care, indolence, &c., or the stomach by improper
food, this concentration of I.Jlood in either of those organs, and
this withdrawal of it from the colon, arc increased, and constipa-
tion f!f tlw most inveterate character is established.
\Vc arc thercfi;rc in condition to state as follows :
1. The .f~eccs are secreted from the blood which circulates in
the mucous membrane of the colon, under the control of the gan-
glionic nerves distributed thereto.
~- Cau~cs which operate upon the ganglionic nervous system,
as it exists in the brain or about the stomach, so as to concentrate
blood in those parts, diminish the secretion of fa~ccs Ly withhold-
ing from the colon a suJlicient supply of blood for the purpose.
:3. Conl:Etipation therefore depends upon an unequal distribution
of blood, to the detriment of the colon, which is not sufficiently
supplied.
4. Such unequal distribution may occur in a Lo,Jy well supplied.
with blood, in consequence of irritations of the brain or stomach.
And it occurs in a body that is drjicienl in Llood, in consequence
of a law of the economy which, in such deficiency, concentrates
blood in the organs most essential to the life of the individual,
the bruin and stomach.
Now let us take the instance of the constipation which takes
place in n man \vhose frame is possessetl of a good supply of
blood, and sec how the ordina1·y mode of relief by drugs fulfils
the aim of cure. The purgative drug acts first of all upon the
ganglionic nerves of the entire digestive canal, irritating them
and inducing an augmented quantity of blootl in the blood-vessels
of the mucous membrane (see page ll,et seq.). This increased
mass of blood in vessels which have lost their tone after the first
stimulation of the purgative, is, of necessity, attended with in-
creased secretions throughout the canal. Among these secre-
tions are the freccs: the colon is stimulated with the rest of the
canal, although it may be doubted whether simple mucus does
not fi)rm the greater part of what should be the real facal sccre.
tion; for organs that are forced never give out natural secretions.
Still the end of passing something out of the bowels has been
gained, and the whole man feels better. But when all is over,
what is the condition of the nerves and blood-vessels 1 Violent
256 DISEASES OF THE COLON-
stimulation of both has been followed by extreme exhaustion of
both: and as the morbid congc&tion of the stomach and upper
oraans of dicrestion con!':-titutcs the basis of the constipation (by
w~hholdino- blood from the colon), the drug, which has attracted
sufficient blood into the colon to cause frecal secretion, has also
drawn 1nore blood into the stomach, where too much already ex.
istcd in a congested state. It has, in fact, inveterated the consti.
pation of the lo\ver organs of digestion, by inreterating the con-
gestion of the upper organs. Hence the well known fact, thut
after a purgative, the bowels are mol'e bound than ever: and the
more stmng the drug, the more obstinate the bowels afte-r its ope-
ration. Hence too the growing necessity for more powerful
drugs and doses : the cause in the stomach being rendered more
intense by each succeeding one. To talk of curing constipation
by such means, is like the proposal to extinguish fire by pouring
oil on it : it never was so cured, and nct•er will be,.
All this applies \\-·hen the brain, congested by care and other
mental disturbances, acts as a cause of constipation : for it only
acts in such manner by producing the condition of the stomach,
which I have mentioned as the basis of constipation. Of course,
when both brain and stomach are implicated, the bowels are still
more unmanageable. You never see anxiety produce constipa-
tion alone: some signs of indigestion are always there as well.
In the other instance of constipation, in persons who are defi.
cient in blood, the J."esults of purgative medicines are still more
futile as regards cure, and still more hurtful as regards the gene-
ral condition of the body. For only consider, that whilst nature
is hoarding up the little blood she has, in her most vital parts, for
their functional support, your physic is forcing that blood to an
expenditure of frocal and other intestinal secretions which must
further reduce its quantity, and therefore fut1her increase its
congestive concentration about the stomach and brain: besides
further reducing the source whence the freces come. You thus
at one and the same time decrease the blood that is to supply the
stools, and inveterate the mal-distribution which deprives the
colon of it. How in the name of ordinary 1·eason is constipation
to be thus cured 1 It never was so cured, and net•er will be.
No: he who, in treating constipation, has only the colon in his
mental vision, will be sure to miss cure altogether. Direct, for-
ci~le evacuation from that bowel is all he will think of: he will
ne1ther take hints from antecedent and accompanying conditions
CO!IfSTIPATIO.N. 257
of other organs, nor look towards the future state of them, nor
even of the colon : and the event will be that the colon is no
better ami the other organs worse. That is the history of all
cases treated by medicine. And as the constipation increases
with the increase of disorder in the upper organs of digestion,
so these lust involve other parts in their morbid sympathies, until
the patient becomes a mere bundle of diseased and painfully acute
~ensations, the gangliouic nerves throughout every tissue and
organ of the ooJy partaking of the irritation, which took its rise
in those of the bruin, ot· stomach, or both.
TnE TREATMENT OF CoNSTIPATION Ly the means of the water
cure, proceeds on the two states of bouy above alludcu to. In
both states,-in the state of sufficient as well as of deficient blood
-there is disonlcr of the nutritive nervous system, and conse-
quent dison1er of circulation, exhibited in congestive irritation of
the brain, and the upper organs of digestion.
This congestive irritation occurring in one whose supply of
blood is good, is to be met by all those appliances ";hich tend to
reduce the too active vitality of any organ or set of organs.
\Vith a full strong pulse, good amount of animal heat, and capa-
bility of walking, there can be no hesitation in employing the
wet-sheet packing and shallow bath once or twice u-dny. Hot
fomentations at night should also be used. The compress should
be worn day and night. These means have the effect of bring-
ing the blood congested in and about the stomach towards the
surfuce of the body, and thus making n diversion in favor of the
colon. nut whilst the il·ritation in the upper organs is being thus
counteracted on the skin, there should be efforts made to draw
blood down to the obstructed colon, and to re.estnblish the equili-
ba·ium of the visceral circulation. This is done by sitz baths,
which, in the persons at present under consideration, should be
cold, and of twenty, thirty, or forty minutes' duration; friction
of the bellv with the hand beina pmctiscd for some part of the
~ 0
time. The etfect of these baths is secondary : the first shock of
the cold causing vehement contraction of the blood-vessels of all
the parts immersed in it, to be followed b~ their as gre~t relax~­
tion. In thi.;; state of relaxation, they adnut more blood mto theu
calibre · and from this augmented influx of blood, augmented
secretio~ may be cxpPcted. By this process also, the irritative con-
gestion of the brain is relieved, that orga~ following i~ the wake
of the upper digestive organs. Thus wh1lst the packmg, fomen-
258 THE TREATMENT OF
tations, and compress are relieving the nervous and c~rcula~ng
excess of the stomach by inducing a nervous and Clrculatmg
excess on the skin, the sitz baths are striving to coax an increased
quantity of blood from the stomach, and fix it in the colon : and
sooner or later this is sure to be effected.
The wet sheet, however, requires to be used with discrimina.
tion. If you go on packing too vigorously or long, you induce so
great an activity of the skin as to interfere with and diminish the
secretarial activity of the colon. In fact some such process
occurs more or less in the early part of the treatment of all cases
of constipation. Patients who have heretofore managed to pass a
small quantity, at least, of freces every second or third day, pass
none at all for, perhaps, five or six days after commencing the
water cure ; and this because the applications to the whole skin
have roused its action much more quickly than the sitz baths
could rouse that of the colon. But this must be tolerated, and
readily may be borne by the patient : the very wet sheet effectu-
ally prevents the feverish disagreeables which would arise from
prolonged constipation under ordinary circumstances. No harm
can come from bound bowels so long as the patient is using the
water treatment: I have known a full blooded person go fifteen
days without a frecal evacuation, and without the smallest draw.
back of any kind from it : and, after all, he passed but little, the
skin having been eminently active all the time. Meantime the
great curative end is being gained,-that of restoring the balance
of circulation in the viscera, by reducing the nervous and circu-
lating it·ritation in the digestive organs. But when, from the in.
dications of the pulse, tongue, head, nnd locomotive energy, there
is no doubt that this irritation is reduced, it behoves to suspend
the wet sheet altogether, even although the bowels should not, as
yet, have freely opened ; and such in fact is mostly the case.
Independent of the tendency of the visceral irritation to throw
itself on the skiu, as already mentioned, the whole of the treat.
meut induces a tumult of the organic nervous system, by which
that syst~m is disabled from directing its energies towards the
colon with decided vigor. This is the case so long ns the wet
sheeting is frequently used, and it must be so used until active
il'l'itution is subdued. That effected, what is next to be done 1
Omit the packing, reduce the quantity of water to be drunk, and
confine the treatment to one cold shallow bath in the morninu
and two sitz baths each of half an hour or more in the da;;
•
.
CONSTIPATION. 259
wearing the compress as before. After a week or ten days of
this comparative rest of the body, the bowels seldom fail to com.
mence their office, gradually perhaps, but certainly and perma-
nently. It may have required many weeks of packing to bring
the body to the state when it is expedient to discontinue that
process : but, that once attained, you are quite certain of having
the command over the malady.
During all this period of packing, fomenting, and sitz baths,
the quantity of water to be drunk follows the same rule as they
do. \Vhilst these processes are in active operation, the quantity
of water should be rather considerable,-say ten or twelve
tumblers in the day, five or six. of which may be taken before
breakfast, whilst walking. Nor is this quantity too great although
there be plenty of blood in the frame: the skin and kidneys
carrying off the major portion of it under the urgency of the
treatment. But when the fomentations and packiugs are discon-
tinued or abated, the quantity of water should also be reduced to
five, six or seven tumblers. For it should be remembered that
water drinking rouses the organic tumult above alluded to, and
when it is desired to quell that, the withdrawal of the water
materially helps that end. Again and again I have seen the
bowels obstinately bound, so loug as large doses of water were
taken, and only give way on the reduction of the quantity by one
half or even more. The reason for this is plain enough from
what precedes, and the fact is worthy of note to those writers and
practitioners who give " the more the better," for a rule of water
drinking to their patients.
Exercise should be considerable throughout the treatment, as
aiuing iu the removal of the internal congestive state, which is at
the bottom of the malady. The exception to this rule is to be
found in those who have the atonic ccm.gestio-n of the /read hereto-
fore treated of (sea page 195), and which is so commonly con-
nected with constipation. Such patients should walk moderately
and eke out the amount of exercise by gentle riding on horse-
back.
The diet should be rather of the farinaceous than the animal
kind. It is an old observation that large fa:cal evacuations ac-
company the use of \'egetable diet. But I have remarked that
this only applies to constipation in persons of sufficient blood : and
it is of such that I nm now speaking. Yet as, under the treat.
ment laid down, the waste of the body is much quickened, it is not
260 THE TREATMENT OF
well to allow it to proceed to positive ~epletion and enfee.blement:
and therefore I have generally found 1t best to or~er ammal f~
to be taken twice or thrice a w~k, whereby the k1?d and quant1ty
of blood is maintained suffictently for the body s strength and
secretions, but not sufficiently for the maintenance of local ir~:ta..
tion. In vegetable diet I do not here include "brown bread, so
commonly employed as aperient food: on the contrary, it is
objcctionaLle as an irritant of the stomach and the whole canal,
and thus claims rank with drugs: the proof of which is that, when
discontinued, the bowels cease to act, just as they would on the
withdrawal of rhubarb or colocynth. Any action of the bowels
which is to be relied upon for permanency, must be the result of
their natural efforls, with plain food of a non-irritating character.
\.Yith any other kind of food you have only a forced action, which
ceases, of course, as soon as the forcing agent is withdrawn. Let
constipated patients inwardly digest this axiomatic truth together
with the "brown bread" they are eating.
Such is the general outline of treatment of cases of constipation
in persons of sufficient blood, in whom the object is to distribute
that blood better, by reducing local congestions of it consequent
on irregular distribution of organic nervous power. But not un-
frequently this mal-distribution has proceeded to the extent of
obstruction, that is to say, the blood has fixed in the upper organs
of digestion, or in the bt·ain and spinal cord, sufficiently to oppreBR,
obstruct and prevent their full action, the organic nerves being
also oppressed in their function (see under "Mucous Indigestion").
This is a state of things which, if allowed to continue, would
infallibly lead to the preponderance of waste over supply of blood,
and then, upon that, would come constipation with deficient blood:
for digestion and blood-making cannot go on with obstructed func-
tion of the great organs alluded to. Many patients come to the
water treatment in this stage of constipation, and are for the most
part tedious to treat: for you have to rouse the obstructed organs
to action, and, after that, cause a proper distribution of blood.
Besides \vhich, as some active irritation often accompanies the
obstruction, tltat has to be removed first of all. Take the case of
a man with all the signs of obstructed liver, atonic congestion of
the mucous membrane of the stomach, and the coanate condition
of the ganglionic nerves of those parts, but whose
0
pulse, tongue,
and nervous symptoms, evidence some active irritation besides.
It would be necessary to reduce this last by a moderated employ.
CONSTIPATION. 261
ment of packing, &c., t·ecommended in the constipation of full
blooded persons. Having done this sufficiently to render a stimu.
lating plan of treatment safe, it is well to employ sweating twice or
thrice a week acc01·ding to the amount of obstruction ascertained.
The cold shallow bath in the morning, the douche at noon, and
the sitz bath in the afternoon, should be used daily, and all of them
for n considerable time, with due reference, of course, and
especially as regards the douche, to the condition of the head.
If this be full and excitable, the long sitz bath must take the place
of the douche. In that case, too, a sweat once a week is as much
ns can be borne ; and the wet-sheet packing, as a soothing and
lowering process, comes into requisition. Still, with all draw-
backs, it must be steadily kept in view that obstruction is to be
overcome, and so soon as the stage appears clear, the stimulus of
sweating, douching, copious water drinking, and strong exercise,
should be applied vigorously. Under the operation of these, the
liver makes efforts to resume the integrity of its function, and the
mucous membrane of the stomach to give out more of its secre-
tions of a better quality. But these effo1·ts arc not made without
considerable nervous disturbance : the ganglionic excitement of
the parts disordering the functions of the brain and spinal cord.
Hence, previous to the opening of the bowels, there is nausea,
heartburn, bitter and acid risings, vomiting of bile and mucus,
giddiness, tremblings of the limbs, disturbed sleep and excessive
irascibility ;-all of which vanish one fine day with a copious
frecal discharge. The rationale of this I need not repeat. How-
ever, it is generally wise and necessary, in this case, too, to do as
I before said ; that is, to modify or suspend altogether for some
days the activity of the treatment, so as to allow the organic
tumult thus aroused to be directed more particularly towards the
colon; otherwise you may have excessive action of the skin or
of the kidneys, the colon remaining meantime comparatively, if
not absolutely, torpid. Sometimes more or few of the signs of dis.
turbance arise and subside again after a few days without any
visible result; and this may happen three or four times, at varied
intervals, before the final and satisfactory outbreak of secretions
takes place. Remark also that this last is not absolutely neces-
sary: the obstructed organs may, and ~ot unfrequently do, ~n­
dercro a gradual change under the operation of the treatment, wtth
ver; trifling constitutional perturbation, but with a more distant
result.
262 THE TREATMENT OF
When there is congestion of the brain and _spina.z cord, in. addi-
tion to the obstruction of the visceral functwns JUSt mentiOned,
the treatment is rendered more tedious and complicated: but_the
general indications of it are, as nearly as m.ay be, those detailed
in the preceding paragraph, due refer~ncc ~e1~g made to the head,
as occasion may require. Upon this pomt 1t would be well to
consult what has been said in a previous chapter on "Congestive
Fulness of the Head." Constipation allied with this condition of
the brain, is the form of the malady usually met with in toiling
men of care and sorrow,-a sufficiently large class in British
society. How to remove the toil, care, and sorrow, is here a ques.
tion which involves that of cure: for the brain congestion without
doubt maintains that of the digestive organs by the strict sympa-
thy between the two points. Every painful thought in the brain
reverberates on the ganglionic centre of digestion : but also every
irritation in the latter tells upon the brain in a manner which
renders each thought more painful than it would otherwise be.
The treatment I have given certainly reduces the digestive irri.
tation, and, in that manner, diminishes the painfulness of thought.
Meanwhile the necessity of absence from the scenes of excessive
toil or anxiety, which the water treatment properly followed en.
tails, and the whole rule of life under the water regime, tend
materially to withdraw that part of the cause of constipation
which is to be found in congestive irritation of the brain. And it
may be fairly asserted that the water plan is the only one which
combines withdrawal of irritation from the brain and abdominal
viscera: for although watering places do frequently help the load
off the mind, their drugged waters, assisted too often by pill and
potion, as frequently help to lay it on again. These hills and
breezes of Malvern do soothe the mind, and this water of Malvern
does not irritate the viscera.
\Ve come now to the treatment ofthe clmstipation which altentll
bloodlessness, and the diminution of the blood-making power.
This is a more tedious proces! than when there is sufficient blood
in the body: for you have not merely to effect a better distribution
of blood, but to make it: you have to place the nutritive nervous
sys~em in a condition to produce the best digestion of fOOd, out of
w hlCh to fo~m the ~est blood. Once rou~e the blood-making
organs to active functwn, and you have the secretory function of
the colon under orue~s. But until you do this, it is useless to
expect fmces, and foohsh to dread the absence of them, and still
CONSTIPATION• 263
worse folly to attempt to force their presence by medicinal means.
It is perfectly astounding how difficult it is to convince patients
of this self-evident truth: it is only to be accounted for, by sup
posing that long continued and periodical irritation of the digest·
ive canal by purgatives, has accustomed the brain to the reception
of that irritation, until it has become necessary to it at certain
intervals: and that when the brain receives it not, in consequence
of withholding the purgative, an uneasy sensation is produced
thern, begetting anxious thoughts on the subject; just as the with-
drawal of a dram at a certain time of the day, renders the drunk-
ard's brain and mind fidgetty until he gets it. Yct will any one
pretend that the drum should be given 1 Should not the drinker
be taught to bear the present and passing disagreeable for the
sake of the future and lasting good 1 And so in this matter of
constipation the patient must fight against the imagined neces~ity
for frecal evacuation ; he must resist the sensations sent up from
the viscera, because, without such effort, he will never get his
bowels into natural and regular action. Every dose of physic
he takes, is reducing his blood-making power by further disorder-
ing the parts in which that power resides, and therefore rendering
more distant the prospect of cure. He must be taught that fW
possible harm can arise from the inaction of the bowels, because,
in truth, they have nothing in them. Say that feverishness would
arise ? But the appliances of the water treatment o.t·c especially
adapted to keep that down, even were there excess instead of de-
ficiency of circulating bloon in the body. The patient must be-
gin the self-denial of physic at some date or other if he desires to
be cured: the shortest date is the wisest, both for himself and his
physician. Therefore the absolute peremptory abstinence from all
purgatives, is the first step in the treatment of constipation with defi-
cient Mood. In the other kind of constipation, a dose now and
then to satisfy the mental craving may be unwise, but in the kind
we arc now speaking of it mars altogether the curative aim to
take any. You may continue the water cure for a fortnight, and
then taking a dose of purgative, you have thrown away those four-
teen days : you have to begin again de not'o: I have seen this folly
perpetrated se,·eral times. It is only by virtue of the accumu-
lated bulk of stools that the lower bowel ann the muscles of the
abdomen arc irritated to contract and expel them, in the same
manner that a certain quantity of urine must accumulate in the
bladder, before this last contracts upon and expels it. But whence
264 THE TREATMENT OF
is a large bulk of freces to com~ every da~, or even e~ery second
or third dav when there is too httle blood m the body . Let con-
stipated p~~ple, in this plight of body,, be contented to wait until
enough is secreted to open the bowels.
HavinO' come to a clear understanding with the patient on this
matter, ,~e need not refer to the colon at all, but bend attention
on the organs which minister to blood-making. \Ve must reduce
irritation in, and give tone to the nutritive nerves of the organs
which digest food: and we must put into healthy play the organs
which digest air-the lungs, to wit: for out of abundant, well-
digested food, and plenty of pure atmosphere, good, nutritious
blood is obtained. In the majority of these cases of constipation,
there is little or no active Jet,crish irritation of the abdominal
viscera attended with quick pulse, &c. : therefore it is not often
that the lowering processes of the water cure are demanded.
Nevertheless, I have generally found moderate fomentations over
the bowels with moderately hot water, for half an hour at bed.
time, useful ; it aids in dispersing that abdominal congestion
which I have mentioned as characteristic of bloodless frames.
If there be signs demanding wet-sheet packing, it should be prac-
tised carefully, with a towel only at first, increasing the size of
the damp envelope with the amount of active irritation. The
compress should be worn and freshened with water after each
meal. Beyond these means the treatment should be of a gradu-
ated tonic kind. Reaction is weak in such bodies, and if your
external means are too suddenly powerful, you do not get re-
action, and therefore you augment the congestion of the internal
parts: you load with more blood parts which are oppressed by
what they already have. Accordingly, careful friction with the
dripping-sheet should be used, twice or thrice a day; and in some
delicate persons it is necessary to begin with it wrung out of warm
water. By degrees, to be regulated by professional observation,
we get on from the dripping sheet to the shallow bath, to the sitz
bath, and to the douche at length. But in the course of this
progress, we are often stopped by the exigencies of the frame,
which, urged by the stimulus of the treatment, is apt to get into
some nervous confusion, the rather as it is emer('J'inu from a blood-
'"' 0
less state-but a few days of rest disperse this. Also a little
feverishness may get up, which the damp towel paekin('J' and fo-
mentation soon put down. When in the sitz bath, wet frlction of
CONSTIPATION. 265
the abdomen should be used: and dry friction of that part and of
the spine and limbs is likewise of great benefit.
In the progress of these means the appetite for food is sure to
increas?,-.sometit~es long before the digestive power can keep
pace With lt. Thts must be looked to and corrected : since it is
not from what a man swallows, but from what he digests that
t~lood is made. Dut when no disagreeables attend the gratifica-
1ton of the gl'Owing appetite, a liberal diet of the food which has
the greatest amount of nutriment in th" smallest bulk is admissible
nnd t1esi rable. 1\lcut, therefore, may be taken at breakfast and
dinner : and for vegetable matte1·, bread, maccnroni, rice, and
the white hilricot arc the best, all others being bull<y nnd compar-
atively innutritious. Out of such articlr.s of Jict treated by a
::;trong digestion, good and sufficient blood is sure to be made.
\Vater needs not to be largely drunk in this kind of constipa-
tion : indeed, large doses rather increase the malady, by augment-
ing the waste which goes on by the skin and kidneys. As,
however, cold watnr 1s a generator of appetite, sufficient should
be taken fut' that end, und two tumblers an hour or so before each
111eal, fi,llowcd l1y a walk, will answer the purpose. \Vhen
reaction bcco1ncs greater, am] the quantity of food and exercise
increase~. the water may nlso b~ augmented, because when blood
i:; being vigorously made, it is an ohjcet to quicken the chemico-
vital changes of the frame, and thus substitute fresh an•l rich
ulood for that poor fluid which had previously circulatPd.
As regards exercise it should be regulated by the food taken
and digested. At the outset, when the body is poor, the waste
by exercise should be as small as is compatible with caul)ing
reaction after the different processes of the water treatment
employed. The reason fiw its increase simultaneously and pro-
portionately with that of the food and water taken, is to be seen
in the last paragraph. For the rPst it is well to mark that tho
unceusincr walkincr and workin!! which, with some, is made an
0 0 ~
essential of the water treatment of constipation, is not applicable in
t!Jis ~pt:Cit'S of that disease, and may often be injuriottS uy inereas-
l.ncr the conrrestion of the gnn~lionic nervous system of the brain
0 0 ,_
and viscera.
Con. tipation, as will uc seen from what has been said, is rather
a svmptom of disraso in other organs than of the colon itself.
In ~hort, it attends the great majority of the maladies treated of
in the preceding chapters of this Part,-maladies which all
13
266 THE TREATMENT OF
depend originally and essentially on disorde~ed ~unction of_ t~e
nerves of the upper or primary organs of- d1gc:tl0n. B~t It IS
most notably and invariably a symptom of. the (h£fcrcn~ kmds of
indigestion, ofdiseased duodenum, ofapop/ccllc and cmlgcstweful~zess
of the head, of paralysis, of nerv~us !wadachc, and of rheumatzst~.
In all these instances, the consttpahon has been removed, but It
would be superfluous and impertinent to give them as cases of
constipation cured. Yet is the power of the water treatment
over that symptom forcibly exhibited in such cases: for it often
yields when the other signs, of tic or rheumatism it may be, arc not
subdued. The patients who come to be ta·catcd for con.~tipation
alone are those who are suffering from nervous indigestion, and
more or less congestion of the head, but who, because they can
eat and sleep, nre unable to comprehend how any pa1·t of them
but the lower bowel can possibly be at fault in the business.
Hence, if I were to give cases of constipation which I ha\'e cured
at Malvern, I should be repeating, for the most part, the details
of cases of nervous indigestion, or of chronic congestion of the
Lrain : and this, too, would be unnecessary. I shall therefore
only mention in a few detached sentences the results of treatment
in several cases wherein the prominent symptom of disease-that
for which the patients came to be treated-was constipation.
1. Miss M., aged 50. Thin in frame, but full of blood, large strong
pulse, good appetite, some distress after eating. Had taken aperients
three and four times a week, for upwards of twenty years. Cured in
eleven weeks. Remedies: fomentations, towel packing, compress, sitz
baths. Six tumblers of water daily.
2. Dr. M., aged 52. BiliouR, hypochondriacal, care-worn ; but with
abundant blood: appetite, with distress of head after eating. Had taken
large doses, and subsequently homreopathic doses of aperients, constantly
for five years. Cured in three weeks. Remedies : packing in the wet
&heet, fomentations, sitz baths, compress. Eight tumblers daily.
3. 1\fr. R., aged 46. Emaciated, wretchedly small and slow pulse,
bloodless, subject to intense headaches, all the result of severe mercurial
courses eight years previously. Had taken strong purgatives all tl1ose
years. Cured in fourteen weeks, after going ten days wiLhout evacua·
tion. Remedies : fomentations and frictionR at first: subsequently,
towel packing, sweating, sitz baths, douche, compress. Four tumblers
of water at first : ten and twelve at last.
4. Miss H., aged 45. Spare frame, large, strong pulse, good appetite,
aome distress after eating, liver somewhat swollen. Had taken violent
purgatives et·ery d11y, and often twice in twenty-four hours for fifteen
CONSTIPATION. 267
rears. ~ured in a month. Remedies : fomentations, wet-sheet pack-
mg and s1tz baths: then, wet-sheet packing, sweating, sitz baths. Five
and six tumblers in the commencement: ten and tweh·e at the la~t.
5. Mrs. L., aged 46. Vivid circulation, but not much blood, good
appetite, acidity, heartburn, flatulence. Drugs for the bowels three
times a week for many years. Cured in five weeks. Remedies : fomen-
tations, occasional towel packing, sitz baths, compress. }'our and five
tumblers daily.
6. Miss C., aged 20. Full blooded, monthly illness stopped, bad head-
aches, good appetite, flatulence. Iron and purgatives in combination since
her sixteenth year. Cured of constipation and suppressed menses in
seven weeks. Remedies : assiduous wet-sheet packing, long sitz baths
and compress: then douche and long sitz baths. Ten, twelve, and four-
teen tnrnhlers daily.
7. Miss C., aged 29. Spare body, small rapid pulse, anxious mind,
appetite small, distress after eating. Had taken purgatives ten years,
twice, thrice, and, latterly, seven times a week. Cured in four months.
Remedies: fomentations, towel packing, wet and dry friction~, compress :
then wet-sheet packing, occasional sweating or rather heating in blan-
kets, long sitz baths, compress. Five tumblers of water at first: subse-
quently, as many as ten.
These skeleton cases will suffice to show the general plan upon
which the trentment of constipation is undertaken, and the result
as to time. In this particular of time I have always founrl great
caprice in individuals, especially in those who hnve a good sup-
ply of blood. Cases which from their long standing nnd pecu-
liar constitutional symptoms gave no ground for hoping a speedy
cure, were sometimes the soonest to yield to the treatment. The
converse was occasionally the fact, but not nearly so frequently.
Generally speaking, those cases are the most curable in which
vegetable purgatives have been taken: where mercury has been
much used as an aperient, the obstinacy of the bowels is great.
It is also greater in females than males. Constipation, when
there is also more or less palsy of the limbs, is the most obstinate
of all; the stimulus of nervous influence which proceeds from
the spinal cord and brain to the bowels being deteriorated. I
apprehend that it is this which renders the bowels of young
females, whose monthly illness is either too scanty or excessive,
so obstinate ; the womb sends irritative sympathy to the spinal
cord, and thus interferes with the nervous stimulus which the
latter organ ought to promulgate to the viscera. The same rea-
son-namely, the irregular influence of the cerebral organs-
268 THE TREATMENT OF CONSTIPATION.
d'ffi It · cur1
'nrr the bowels of those whose brains are
causes 1 cu y m o . .
the subject of anxious cares, harassing difficulties, and mc:ssant
mental occupation : the " dura ilia messorwn " are. as notlun~ to
some of these rc<1pers in the fields of commercial enterprise,
forensic acuteness, or political ambition. The loftiest aims of
tho most active mind Jead to, and are often marred by-torpid
bowels!*
• Since sending the above section of this chapter to the prP51s, I haYe pe·
rused a chapter on the same subject in a recently published work by Dr.
E. JoHNsoN, entitled" The Results of Hydropathy." The author there
speaks of the doctrine, that the freces are a secretion, as onA which, "so
far as he knows, has not been propounded by any previous writer, nor en-
tertained by any medical man with '"hom he has conversed." I cannot
but marvel at the latter circumstance. Medical men of good physiological
education (not your "Hall and College" men, and surgeon-apothecaries),
may say that the quality of the food influences the quality and quantity of
the freces, as it assuredly does; but I never heard one who did not regard
the excrement of the bowels as a secr~tcd matter, even though it might
be mixed with the d~uris of the food. And as regards the written authori-
ties, I may quote my late learned and lamented friend, Dr. JoHN FLETCH·
ER, of Edinburgh, who, sixteen years ago, I remember, used to speak of
the f~ces as a secretion of the colon ; and in his admirable work on Physi-
ology, pultlished in 1835, says, at page 121, "the stools, which are not, as
is commonly supposed, merely the residual parts of the aliment, but a
proper secretion from the follicles of the large intestines;" and again, at
page 127, alludes to the stools as among the follicular secretions. It must
therefore be conceded, that Dr. JoHNsON has been anticipated in this doc-
trine regarding the freccs. For my part, I had no idea, when advancing
the same in the above pages, that I was uttering anything which was new
to those members of the profession who know aught of physiology.
In the same work, Dr. JoHNSON announces, that" Constipation is not a
disease of the bowels, nor indigestion a disease of the stomach," and pro-
ceeds to state that they are diseases of the brain, because mental causes
operate in their production. But mental causes-frio-ht, for instance-also
• 0
operate in the product~on of looseness of the bowels ; yet it would sound
strange to say that" dtarrhcea is not a disease of the bowels but of the
. '
brain." The truth 1s, that Dr. JoHNSON only announces what any edu-
cated physician has known for a long time-namely, that disordered funr-
tion of the brain does i.n many instances act as a great, though not sole,
cause of disordered functwn of the stomach and bowels; and the announce-
ment will be more startling to the lay reader, than new or true to the
medical one. B?t a refer~nce to the same learned authority above quoted,
Dr. ~LETCHER, 1s ~~nc~ustv~ as.to the no1Jelty of the idea. At page 393
of hts " Pathology, mdtgeshon IS spoken of as " produced probably by the
minor sympa!hetic stimulus exercised on the stomach by the rest of the
body, or the madequate conYeyance of this requisite stimulus by the ner-
vus vagus,"-this u nervus vagus" being the eighth pair of nerves, which
HEMORRHOIDS OR PILES. 269
§ 2. HEMORRHOIDS or PILES are symptomatic of obstructed
function in some other organ. 1\lost frequently some obstac1e to
the free circulation of blood through the liver is the cause. Bili-
ous persons nrc among the most subject to this disease. The
mass of blood from the whole abdomen ought to pass freely through
the 1iv£•r: but when any cause obstructs the passage, the blood
gravitates towards the lower parts of the canal, and cong~stion
of blood takes place in the vessels of the rectum.. This congestion
of blood induces inflammation of the mucous lining of the rectum,
with heat nnd pain: and this constitutes the internal or blind piles.
The same inflammation sometimes ends in the deposit of fleshy
substance, which protrudes around the edge of the anus, utH.l is
not sore except when the digestive organs are feverish from any
cause ; or the congested t'eins of the rectum ~imply swell and
protrude, with heat, pain, swelling, and ofttimes bleeding: whence
these piles arc often denominated" bleeding."
Constipation is commonly said to be a very frequent cause of
1nles. It is far more frequently only a concomitant of them, and
both acknowledge the same origin in the upper organs of fliges-
tion. Both also acknowledge the same exciting causes-seden-
tary habits with hnrd worldng brains, improper diet, especially
hot coudiments, fat, ami alcoholic liquors which materially affect
the circulation through the liver. It is t1·uc that the long con-
tinued retention of freces in the lower gut may tend to excitP- in-
fianunatory action in the rectum, nnd thus proc
luee internal piles;
but the rectum fl1USl be beforehund disposed to illfliUnlllatiun oy
the presence of a ~··cat quantity of congested blood, else the Jieccs
Or. JoHNsON likens to the wir~s of the " London and Bristc•l" electric
telcgratJh, and to which he attributes the passage of disca..-~crl sensation
from the hrain to the stomach. But all this was known long, Ion~ ag-o;
every care-worn Englishman can tell you that, if he had no care, he should
digest well enough. Indigestion, however, comes on u•ilhout care or
mental initatiun of any sort: of what organ is it u disease then? Trnly
it is then due t•) exccs.;;i,·c or b1.d stimulus of aliment, whereby the stomach
become~ inflamed, pours out bad secretions, and ic; dj spcptic; in which
ca~c it would be almo:;t as reasonable to say th,at "indi~cstion is not a dis-
ca;;;c of the stomach, hut of the food ;"as, in the ca ·e of mental care, that
it i~ not a disease of the stomach, but of the br:1in. The truth ic:, there is
a nervous and an inflammatory or mucous indigc.stion, a:; 1 have stated in a
prc\·inus part of this volumc ; both arc often counect~d with, i\n~l exaspe-
rated bv, disordered br.ti n function, but bnth arc not !he less (h:>c<'ses of
the sto~ach. The ~tonished patient will scarc.:-ly comp1·ehend the con-
trary doctrine, even though it were more startling and more novel.
270 HEMORRHOIDS OR PILES.
would not induce the peculiar condition of the mucous membrane
called piles. Besides, as I have shown, it most commonly happe?s
that constipation does not imply the retentio~ of freces at a~l I.n
the lower bowel, but only their non-secretion there. .Th1s 1s
always the case in persons of bloodless frame : y_et plies. are
common enou"h in such persons. Moreover, the pam, heat, Itch-
in", &c., of pUes constantly correspond with the symptoms of in-
cr~ascd or decreased irritation and obstruction in the liver, as a
superficial observation will demonstrate.
Further, piles are almost invariably found in those affected with
organic disease of the heart, astlmza, and pulmonary consumption.
In all these complaints the liver is gorged, obstructed, and very
often swollen, and the passage of the abdominal blood through it
impeded. The physiological rationale of this need not be given
here : the fact is indubitable. Piles are therefore symptomatic
of those diseases, although resulting more immediately from de-
ranged liver.
Piles have a wonderful connection with the circulation of blood
in the brain. They generally first appear towards middle age,
at the time when there is a natural tendency of blood towards the
h~ad. But besides this tendency, the causes of dyspepsia and
disordered liver have usually produced their effect at that age.
The consequence is that whilst the stomach and liver disordrrs
(see the sections on those subjects) are gradually filling the head
with blood, their obstructed function is causing congestion and
irritation in the rectum. This irritation acts as a counter-acr~:nt
0
tJ> thnt which is going on in the head, and when the head is at
the worst, the rectum will be found to be most quiet, until the
disorder of the rectum is reduced by bleeding from the piles,
when the head is straightway relieved. The practice of artificial
bleeding of the anus by leeches, proceeds upon this well known
sympathy between the rectum affected with piles and the brain.
But the sa~e knowl~~ge has not, in my opinion, sufficiently de-
ter~ed med1eal p~aet1t10ners fro~ the habit of taking off hemor-
r.hOJdal tu~ors e1ther ~y the kmfe or ligature ; a dangerous prac-
tice. Agam and agam I have seen instances in which the am.
putation of piles has been followed in a few months in a year
b I . , '
o: in two years, 1 npop ect1c seizure in the head, the pain, gid-
dmcss, an_d conf~sJon of that part having been considerably ag-
gravated m the mter~al between the surgical operation and the
seizure. Counteractmg as their presence and their occasional
HEMORRHOIDS OR PILES. 271
relief by blee(ling is to the head, one cannot be too careful in
nvoiJing all that can diminish such age~cy; on the contrary we
should, when the brain i:; full, rather strive to bring on a fulness
of the piles, which shall tend towards bleeding and consequent
reli··f to the upper organs of digestion and to the brain.
The purely symptomatic character of piles renders their
TREAT:'IIEi\T subservient to that of the organs and the condition
which originate them. Those organs, ns I have said, are the
upper organs of dig<'stion, and, notably, the liver, and that condi-
tion one uf coug('stion and obstruction. Very much, therefore, of
the treatment of the hemorrhoidal state is to be found under the
head of lmli~esti.on and Liver Disease, and the repetition here i~
llllnPt:es~ary . The chief indications are, first, to reduce active
irrilali,lll of the stomach and liver if it exists, and this is done by
wct-~hel't pucking, fomentations, the compress, moderate wate1
drinking, and low diet ;-secondly, to remove obstruction of func-
tion in the a{;)l'esaid organs, either when it exists alone, or after
the reduction of active irritation by the means just mentioned :
and thi!'; is done by sweating, the douche, large quantities of
water: prolonged shallow baths, good amount of food, and great
exercise ;-and tltirdly, to draw blood down and fix it in the rec-
tum ; and this is done by prolonged sitz baths. In some cases,
ull 1hese indications require to be fulfilled, and all the processes
of the· water treatment require to be employed in succession, or
• a~ ~ymptoms ari::;c. In other cases, the two latter indications only
denmml attention, nncl these nre the most tedious cases. In every
instance, however, the great object is to induce such a constitu-
tioual exciteancnt as ~hall bring about a critical effort of the
upper ol'gans of digc:stion, to throw their disordered action on the
skin on one hand, and on the lower bowel on the other. As a
consequcmcc of this eflort, the piles are for a time considerably
aggravat(•d by the treatment : but unless they were aggravated,
they would not be likely to relieve themselves by bleeding: the
frequent repetition of which, at. length abolishes the inflammation
of the mucous lining of the rectum, which is the basis of their
existence. But inasmuch as this aggravation and bleeding are
indicative of a critical etfurt made by the stomach and liver, these
lust arc also relieved by the loss of blood, and their malady cured
simultaneously with that of the rectum. And when the stomach
and li\·cr irritation is subdued, the head, no longer receiving
morbid sympathies thence, also ceases to fill with blood. Yet let it
272 HEMORRHOIDS OR PILES.
be remembered that all these proces.10;es of relief must be natwtal
acts: they mus~ be results ofthe whole system striving r:aturall~ to
save vital parts by the agency of parts less cssent~al to .hfe :
otherwise, the relief oLtaincd is transitory and fallnc10u.s.
Leeches applied to the anus relieve the rectum_, and through It,
the uppc-r digestive orga11s an.d th.c .head,for a t.m&e : but as they
do not and cannot cztre the mtsch1ef about the h ver and stomach,
that mischief soon fills the rectum again on one hand, and the
head on the other.
I look upon piles as one of the maladies in which the water
cure is infilllihle, except, of course, where they are connected
with organic disease ofthe heart, incurable asthma, and pulmonary
consumption: ns ulso when they co-exist with organic disea:;e of
the lirer. In this lattet· case, though, they may be considerably
palliated by sweating and the sitz bath, and their fulness relieved
fo1· a period. In all the other cases, where irritative and conges-
tive disease of the stomach am) liver are alone at the foundation
of the disorder, piles are perfectly curable. But it must not be
denied, that they are tedious in their progress towards cure.
Months not weeks or treatment are requisite. Even when they
have existed only for a year or two, it usually requires three or
four months of activc treatment to get 1·id of them. The reason
of this is that they are the result of an internal state of mischief
of long previous existence, which state, and not the piles, requires
to be treated. Another reason is, that piles are most commonly
the disease of persons of slow circulation, and therefore of slow
re-active energy, upon whom any treatment would act but
gradually. But when it is considered that they are, by their
local irritation, a source of continued discomfort or even torture,
and that by their sympathetic connection with the brain, they are
a source of actual danger to the integrity or life of the brain, the
wisdom of undergoing and steadily pursuing the only treatment
that can cure them cannot be doubted. I give very briefly a case
of them which, it is necessary to state, is one of the most
speedily cured of those which have come under my care nt
1\Ialvern.
CASE XXIX.-INTERNAL, OR BLIND PILES.
The patient is thirty-nine years old, and had been troubled with the
pain, heat, and bearing down feeling which atteud internal piles for
nearly four years. The fceces ~videnced, by their calibre, the swelllng,
HEl\lORRHOIDS OR PILES. 273
and the Bha.rp pain in passing them showed the inflammatory state of the
rectum. rrhere was always more or less tenesmus after a motion and
occ_asionally a lit~le hlood would follow it. Tightness, giddiness,' con-
fuetOn, and sometimes severe pain, had possession of the head, but alter-
nat~d mud1 in degree. lie had led a di:;sipated, and subsequently a.
sedentary life, having in the former state undergone two mercurial
C()Ur~e~, which, with abundance of alcoholic drinks of all kinds, had
n~adc considerable inroads on the integrity of his digestive organs. The
d1sordcr of thel'e organs disinclined him lor bodily exertion; he became
~cdentary, hut did twt take bf'tter care of his digc8tives, although he was
now prudent in the matter of strong liquors. Under these circumstances
he: became pufly and yellowt and ga\'e other unequivocal signs of gorged
liver. Headaches became more frequent, and at length, after a year or
more of the~c Hymptmns, the rectum began to exhibit the ~-;igns described
ahove. f le t~ame to me after nearly four years' trial of various purga-
tivelS and local applications. He had no idea that the head and piles
were in sympathy, anti in fact applied to me rather about his head than
l1i~ rt)ctmn, the dif'order of which was told incidentally. It was plain to
mP. however, that piles were at the root of his head sensations, and I
accordingly treated them.
He was first packed in the wet sheet every morning for an hour, with
tbe colJ :-hallow bath and affusion on the head. At noon, and in the
afternoon ~gain, he took a cold sitz bath for fifteen minutes, which was
gnulually extended to half an hour each time. He drank about six
tumhl('rs of water in the day, wore the abdominal compress day and night,
uud took a great amount of exercise. His diet was of vegetable matter,
exC<'pt on three days in the week, when he took some meat. \Vhen the
head wa.l' ,·cry had, his feet were rubbed in cold water for a quarter of an
hour. And twice or thrice, when the tongue was dry, the pulse hard,
and thc head more than usua11y tight, the stomach and bowels were
fonl('ntcd with flannels and hot water for an hour at bed-time.
This plan, continued for three weeks, took away the feverish symp-
tom~ \\ hich announced the acute form of stomach and liver iMitation, as
well as tho;:,e which arose from the heat, swelling, and pain of the rectum.
Tbi::; done, the object was to draw blood downwards towards the rectum.
The oacldng was gi\·cn up as a regular application ; the shallow bath
in tbe morning was continued; but the sitz bath:, were extended to forty-
five minutes each. A compress was applied com~tantly to the anus, and
this trncled materially to keep down the heat and pain of that part. Still
the ::.itz b.tthc;; caused blood to accumulate in the lower gut, and tllis
sonlt'timcs aroused ~ome general fc\'Pri,.h :-ymptom:;, which two or three
wet-sheet packing~ subdned. The bowel:', at the out..:et hard, bcca~e
more easy in their action : but the freces were pale, and the eyes, skin,
and urine sho\\ ed the torpid state of the liver. In the fifth week of
treatment I therefore gave him a couple of sweatings, and repeated them
in the sev~nth week, keeping a cold cloth round his head whilst in them.
13*
2i4 HE.l\lORJUtolD::; OR PILE~.
This materially altered the cbara.cter of the f~ces,.a~d re.lieved the head
eventually, though it tried it at the mom~nt. Per:'lstmg m all the ~bo~e
treatment for five weeks more, external pales began to protr~ade, wh1ch m
a week or ten day:; began to bleed, at f~r8t in .small ~nantaty, and o?ly
once in two or three days, but, after a tune, datly and freely. The relief
to the head, howc\·cr, dated from the first few drops that were g!ven out;
all that was needed to relieve the symptoms being a bona fide critical
action, which thc::;e few drops of blood evidenced.
From this date the patient went steadily on towards amendment, the
paiu of the rectum disappearing witb the free flow of blood, just as that
of the head had done with the smallPr loss. At the end of sixteen weeks
of treatment the piles had altogether gone, and it only remained to
employ tonic treatment to make up fur the blood that had been lost, and
to put his general system into better order; which, indeed, had been in
some measure effected d11ring the treatment for the piles. I should
mention: that when the bleeding became free, the sitz baths were con-
siderably reduced in duration, and the wet-sheet packing discontinued
altogether ; that being the best means of leaving nature to bring about
her own cure; for when she has once set up a critical action of any S'.)rt,
the less we interfere the better.
When we have to treat bleeding piles, the sitz bath i~ the chief
remedy ; but it requires much discrimination in its use ; for if it
be employed so as suddenly to arrest the flow of blood, some im-
portant organ, especially the brain, is sure to suffer. The prac-
titioner should ascertain the precise state of circulation in the
different internal organs, and how far each is able to resist the
transfer of irritation from the rectum, for tltat is what takes place
when bleeding from piles is suddenly stopped. Upon the know-
ledge he obtains on this point he regulates the temperature, dura-
tion, and frequency of the sitz baths. Should there be any
general feverishness attendant on the gradual stoppage of the
piles, or should signs of transferred irritation to some internal
organ appear, recourse should be had to the wet-sheet packing in
the first case, and with the addition of a longer sitz bath in the
second. Very little water should be drunk. The compress
should only be worn part of the day, and then frequently fresh-
ened with cold water. Very little animal diet should be taken,
and a proportionately small amount of exercise. In fine it should
always be kept in view in the treatment of bleeding piles,'that they
are themselves efforts of the body to subdue mischief in some
noble organs, and that all we have to do is to take care that the
effort, that is, that the loss of blood attendant on the effort should
DROPSY. 275
not be more than the body generally can bear, on the one hand;
and that to arrest the effort suddenly, that is, to stop the loss of
blood suddenly, would be to throw irritation back on the noble
organs, which are striving to save themselves through the agency
of the rectum.
§ 3. DROPSY.
The morbid accumulation of liquids in some of the cavities of
the body, or underneath the skin, is always accompanied by a
suppression of the secretion of urine; and this is one reason for
placing dropsy in the present chapter. It would, however, be
erroneous to suppose that dropsy depends only on suppressed func-
tion of tlte kidney. On the contrary, this suppression is more
commonly the consequence of the dropsical action in some of the
cavities of the body. But the organ whose suppressed function
acts as a cause of dropsy, is another vastly important excretory
organ-the skin. The process of dropsical effusion is more com-
plicated than is commonly thought. I proceed to state it.
A man irritates his stomach and liver until the circulation in the
skin becomes utterly deranged; its ,·itality is sorely diminished,
its power of resisting external temperature almost abolished, and
its excretory function arrested. How liver and stomach disease
bring about this condition of the skin has been already shown
when treating of those maladies. And it is to be remarked, that
the great majority of drop!;ical cases are of spirit drinkers who
have diseased livers. The quantity of vaporous fluid gh·en out
by the &kin is something more than forty ounces in the day.*
This cruantity being more ot· less diminished with the diminution
of vitality in the skin, the fluid thus arrested is retained in the
circulating blood. But as the blood would be burdened and the
solids irritated by its presence and bulk, nature seeks some other
surface by which she may throw off the fluid in question. This
is found in the membrane which fot·ms the outer covering of the
lungs (the pleura), in that which fl)rms the outer covering of the
bowels (the peritoneum), or in the cellular tissue, which lies be-
tween the skin and the muscles of the trunk and limbs. And
• SANCTORIUs, DooART, KF.JLL, DE GoRTER, RoBINSO!II', RYE, LINING,
LAvoisiER, SEGUIN, ABERNl:TttY, CRUIKSHANK, and others, give very
discordant calculations of the amount of transpiration; but the above is aD
approach to the average in temperate climates and weather.
276 DROPSY.
according to the point chosen, d~o~y of the chest, dropSJI of tl&e
belly, or dropsy cif the skin (as it 1s 1mproperly called), 1s gene.
rated. It should be remembered that all these parts, the pleura,
the peritoneum, and the cellular tissue, are always exhaling, in
their healthy state, a fluid very similar in composition to the ex.
halation from the skin. \Vhen, therefore, they become dropsical
in their action, it is a transfer of function from the surface of the
skin to their surfaces. However, this transfer of function implies
additional organic labor and additional quantity of blood in the
dropsical membranes; and dropsy has therefore been very pro.
perly regarded by sound pathologists as a chronic inflammation of
the parts which pour fYUt the excessive fluid. In dropsy of the chest,
there is chronic inflammation of the pleura ; in dropsy of the
belly, chronic inflammation of the peritoneum; and in anasarca,
or dropsy of the skin, there is chronic inflammation of the cellular
tissue underneath the skin.
Now, suppose that, in addition to the want of vitality of the
skin acting as a cause of its diminished excretion of sweat, exter-
nal cold should play upon it, unable as it is to resist diminished
temperature ; it is easy to conceive that such cold would further
drive blood from the skin, and further diminish the secretion of
fluid there. But this would also further drive blood upon some
of the membranes above mentioned, and engender dropsy of them.
Accordingly, it is found that the condition of body whick leads
to functional dropsy is an irritated, congested and exhausted state
ofthe nutritive viscera, inducing diminished circulation and e:xlwla-
tion of sweat in tlle skin.; that this dimini3hed exltalation leads to
increased exhalation in the parts affected by dropsy; and that the
increased exhalation implies a phase cif cltro1tic inflammation in those
parts. A.s regards t~e :xciting cause, cold, and especially damp
cold, npphed to tlte skzn, ls the constant cause.
In accordance with this view, it is found that, whatever causes
and maintains a state of chronic irritation and exhaustion in the
di~~stive. vi~cera, cond.uces. to dropsy. I have already alluded to
sp1nt drmkmg as actmg 1n this way: but excessive losses of
blood bring about the same result : as also long continued m t 1
. . . .
11
f en a
1rntat10n, espeCla y o the sorrowful kind : even sedentar h b"t
b . d . h . d y a 1 s,
Y ~~ uc~ng epatw an stomach congestion, are sometimes the
pred1sposmg causes of dropsy. Nutrition wrona at th t
• ' ~::> e cen re,
languiShes at the surface, and external agents then help to increase
DROPSY. 277
th~ disorder~d .functions which follow on the want of vital equili-
briUm. Tlus 1s the history of all chronic disease.
Decreased absorption of fluid has been supposed to be a very
efficient cause of dropsy, but the arguments fbr such a state are
few and feeble, whilst those for increased deposit of fluid are many
and cogent. There is the soundest groum.l for belief that all the
phenomena of increase or decrease of fluids of any kind in the
bo1ly, arc dependent on increased or decreased t,·ecretion, and not
on varying degrees of absorption, a process usually stationary in
degree. And a~ regards dropsical collections, it appears incon-
sistent to speak of them ns caused by diminished absorption, when
that is never mentioned as a cause of preternatural accumulation
of mucus, fat, bile, saliva, or any other secretion of the body ; as
well as extremely gratuitous to suppose that the vaporous fluid of
the dropsy is alone deficiently absorbed, while the absorption of
every other fluid and solid part goes 0n as before. If thi:s were
not the case, how could we explain the great emaciation which is
so frequently nttendant on dropsies?
All this time nothing has been said of the kidneys, upon which
the whole blame of drop~y is so commonly laid. But in truth,
the kidneys ha.ve little or nothing to do as a cause with functional
dropsy. They secrete very little urine in dropsy, uut that is the
consequcucc not the cause of the dropsical irritation. In treating
of constipation, I have shown how chronic irritation of the stomach
or of the brain and spinal cord produces that state : how: in filet,
they arrest the secretory activity of the lower bowel. Precisely
in the same manner docs dropsical inflammation of the chest, of
the belly, or of the cellular tissue under the skin, prOtluce a di-
miuution in the secretory action of the kidneys. .Nor arc those
organs singular )n that respect: for dropsy arrests the secretion of
tho lower bowel itself, producing constipation of the most ohstinatb
ki111J · of the skin, causinCT drv, harsh, parchrnent surface; of the
' 0 ~
mucous membrane, producing dry tongue, intense thirst, &c., &c.
So that there is no difficulty in accounting for the inactivity of
the lddneys in dropsy :-the dropsical surface, with its preter-
natural accumulation of blood and organic activity, diminishes or
arrests the healthy acti,·ity of the kidneys. This exposes the
fl,lly of turning nll attention to the forcing of those parts to pour
out urine by the ac.lministrntion of medicines called diuretics, but
which, in fact, can only act by setting up in the kidneys a counter-
irritation to the dropsical inflammation of the belly or other af-
278 DROPSY.
fected part. In short, t\1e para.llel wit~ constipation is complete
here too. for pur"ative medicines act 111 exactly the same way
with re(J'~rd to t}1: lowC'r bowel and the cause of its constipation
situated
0
elsewhere. Diuretics draw, for a time, blood and organic
energy to the kidneys from the dmpsi~al part: purgative~ do.t~e
like in the lower bowel. \Vhen the ktdneys pour out urme, It 1s
a si"n that the belly or other cavity is relieved of its dropsical
infla~nmation, not that the kidneys have relieved it ; for simul-
taneously with their renewed activity is the renewed secretion of
the skin, of the mucous membranes, of the liver, &c.: all are set
at liberty by the cessation of the inflammation in question.
Meanwhile it may be said, that the cessation of the urinary
secretion throws a further quantity of fluid on the circulat-
ing blood, and thus augments the dropsical tendency ; and
the daily quantity of urine secreted, amounting to about
thirty-two ounces, added to the liquid which is arrested in the
skin, renders this a not unimportant consideration in esti-
mating the quantity of fluid sometimes secreted in dropsical
swellings.*
These pathological facts and reasonings have an important
bearing on the TREATl\IENT OF FUNCTIONAL DROPSY ; and that is
my reason for dwelling on them. For, the irritation and exhaus-
tion of the nutritive viscera being given, the feeble vitality and
suppressed secretion of the skin being ascertained, as causes, it
renders sufficiently clear what the chief aim in treating the effect,
the dropsical inflammation, should be. It is essential to re-estab-
lish the secretory activity of the skin, and thereby to counteract
both the irritation of the viscera, and the dropsical inflammation.
But as that inflammation is of the atonic kind, occurring as it
does in enfeebled and generally bloodless frames, it behoves to
give tone to the digestive organs, so as to ensure the formation of
• SANCTORxus estimates the urine at 16 ounces; KEILL at 30; PRoUT at
32; BosTocK at 40; BALLER at 49. I have followed PRouT As regards
the quantity of dropsical fluid reported to have been deposited, it is some-
times enormous. Seven thousand pints are said to have been voided by the
same individual at several openings. Dr. WEATHERHEAD (Lond Mcd.
Trans., 1828) gives a case where the belly was tapped 47 times, and the
man lost altogether 5136 pints. This operation has, however, been per-
formed on the same person no fewer than 150 times (Phil. Trans , 1775),
and upwards of l,OUO pints of fluid have been voided (Scott, Med. Comm.,
1778). In one case related by SToRcK, 100 pints of liquid were evacuated
at one opening, equal in weight to about two-thirds of the whole body.
!JROPSY. 279
good, nutritious blood. And these aims the appliances of the
water cure are eminently fitted to fulfil.
Prom time to time cases are recorded of spontaneous cures of
chronic dropsy by natural profuse sweatings. Even when the
dropsy owns an irremovable cause, such as organic disease of the
hcart, nature sets up excessive action of the skin as a means of
prolonging the struggle for life. In the water treatment this is
imitated. If there be no feverish action of the pulse, skin, head,
&c., to require some preliminary wet-sheet pacl<ing, we proceed
at once to sweat the patient ; and this must be practised with
nice reference to his organic powers, having care not to over-
stl'ain them by too frequent or too long sweatings. It is, for the most
pnrt, exceedingly difficult to excite the skin to sweat in dropsy;
in which case we must be content to employ heating in blankets
for a few days, and thus get on to the free action of the skin, with-
out taxing the head too much. Every one knows how cold the
skin of dropsical patients always is, and how much better they
arc in a warm atmosphere: their kidneys are always more free
iu that condition. Sweating, then, is the chief remedy in chronic
dropsy; and it should be followed by a shallow bath at 600.
Next to it comes the tepid sitz bath, which should be extended to
twenty or thirty minutes. Hot fomentation of the belly is also
very recommendable, especially where there is a great degree of
hardness and sharpness in the pulse; it should be practised for
l~alf or three-quarters of an hour each night at bed-time. Like-
wise, if that stute of the pulse, accompanied by feverish heat,
arises in the course of treatment, as it perhaps may from the
stimulus of sweating, a towel packing should be had recourse to
now and then, without, however, stopping the more important
sweating process. The compress should be worn day and night,
and the damp part of it should be wen covered with oiled silk or
some impermeable texture, otherwise it is very likely not to be-
come warm. In addition to these humid applications, frequent dry
friction of the trunk and limbs should be employed. Water
~hould be drunk very freely, c\'en more than the great thirst
requires; for it then not only tends to subdue the dry and
fc\'crish state of the mucous membrane, but also by its cold,
to induce appetite. It is almost needless to signalize the old
error on this head : all educated medical men, and even
many surgeon-apothecaries, now order free water d_rinking to
dropsical patients. The diet should be rather of ammal char-
~80 DROPSY.
t ken of the hi(J'hly nutritious
acter ; and the vegetable matters . a . o • •
k. d h b . 1 Lon(l' prevwus disorder of the nutnttve
m , sue as reau. o .
· 1 d red the blood of dropstcal J>atients excecdmgly
v1scera 1as ren e ,
poor in the 1·ichcr constituents, .and. what is called " watery b.l~d
circulates and maintains, by 1ts maptness for healthy nutr1t10n
of the solids, the atonic inflammation which is the proximate cause
of c.Jropsy. It behoves, therefore, to employ the di?'estive org~ns
upon what will yield the greatest amount of these richer constttu.
ents, and not to waste their powers upon less nutritious matters;
the rather if the appetite be deficient. But concentrated soups
are singularly prejudicial in dropsy ; the solid red meat, in pre.
ference to poultry and other white meats, is the best form of ani-
mal food, which should be taken once at least daily, and twice on
alternate days. Abundant exposure in the open air, if the wea-
ther be mild, should be made; but any exercise but passive is
bad, at least until the kidneys begin to act, that is, until the drop.
sical inflammation is subsiding.
The earliest sign of this subsidence should be marked. When
the pulse becomes slower and stronger, the skin warm and more
supple, the mucous membranes moister, the temperature of the
water employed for the shallow and sitz baths should be lowered
by speedy degrees, and the tonic appliances made to bear upon
the debilitated organic powers of the patient. This need not in-
terrupt the sweating, which should be carried on simultaneously,
so as to aid the transference of irritation, and to remedy exhaus-
tion at the same time. And this should be continued until the
renewed function of the kidneys and of the lower bowels is added
to the healthier mucous membrane of the stomach and mouth and
the more natural skin; at which point the sweating should be
gradually discontinued, and the tonic treatment made predominant,
and at length sole.
This outline of treatment, well filled up by the physiological
tact of the practitioner, will seldom, :f ~ver, fail to cure chronic
dropsy, which is purely functional, and does not depend on o1·ga·
nic disease of some important organ. It proceeds upon the
rational principle of remedying the radical exhaustion and irrita-
tion upon which all tho phenomena of the disease turn,-the ex·
haustion of the nutritive viscera, and the irritation of the dropsi·
cal ~art. T~is the sweating does, rousing the secretory and di·
gestlve energies of the stomach and liver, and brinain(J' about a
transfer of irritation from the dropsical organ to the ~ki~ : the re-
DROrSY. 281
suit ~r w.hich is a release of the kidneys from the torpor of op-
pressi?n Imposed upon them by the organ in question, and a re-
estubhshment of the secretions in all parts of the body. Their
re-establishment ensures a free exit for the watery porrions of the
blood in other parts than those dropsically affected, and these last
therefore cease their excessive, anu take on their natural amount
of secretion. The dropsy is cured. But when you attempt, as
is commonly done, to cure it by diuretics, remedies which are
supposed to act upon and urge the kidueys, you do not succeed,
because you begin at the wrong end; you treat the effect instead
of the cause : the stoppage of the kidneys is nol, in any case, the
emcicnt cause of dropsy, and mere diuretics cannot cure it. It is
said that mercury has cured dropsy, nntl therefore it has been
plnccu among diuretic drugs; Lut that is a nou sequitur : the
mercury cured by its tonic action upon the relaxed l>lood-vcssels
of the dropsical membrancs,-an action it is \'t'ell known to pos-
sess, and not by dircct stimulation of the kidney~ : in other mala-
dies, mercury docs not increase the quautity of urine. It is the
only medicinal agent that has any chance of overcoming dropsi-
cal irritation : all the farrago of vegetable and saline messes, used
as diuretics, nrc worse than useless : they ha\'C no power over
chronie inflammatory action, and they disorder the stomach. Nor
does mercury cure without leaving its mark hchind in the shape
of nervousness, neuralgia, or some other form of neuropathic de-
rangement.
Dropsy which depends on organic di:::.easc of the heart, of the
liver, or on the pressure of internal tumors upon the veins, which
briug back the blood to the heart, is not curable. But it is ca-
pable of much palliation by the water treatment, as I have seen
in three cases. The treatment is, as nearly as possible, the same
as that above propuundeu : for the pathological condition i~ the
same. The blood, impeded in its progt·css towards and through
the heart, flows back upon the capillary t·eirts, congests them, and
this conaestion nets us an irritant to the capillary arteries, of
0
which the veins arc a continuation. This irritation of the ca-
pillary arteries constitutes the dropsical state heretofore alluded
to; and the stoppage of the secretions of the kiqneys, of the mu-
cous membranes and of the skin, follows as in ordinary functional
dropsy. Thus, for instance, as all the blood which returns by
the veins from the viscera or the belly lias to pass through the
liver before it reaches the heart, the obstruction of the liver by
282 DROPSY.
organic irremediable disease, is a cause of dropsy of the '!Jelly,
by thro~·ing that blood back upon th~ belly,.con~esting the ve.
nous and thereby irritating the artenal cap1llanes. Now, al.
thou~h in this case the mischief does not begin in the skin, yet a
partial and temporary transfe.r of it to that surf~ce, in the ~ct of
sweating, procures a relaxation of all the secretiOns, for a Ume :
and thus, with an irremoveable cause at work, much of the dis-
tress of dropsy may be relieved, and its inevitably fatal termina.
tion postponed. I am confident of having prolonged life, in one
instance, more than two years, by the palliative application of the
water treatment. In that case, the treatment, besides causing
temporary transfer of the dropsical inflammation to the skin, in.
duced appetite and digestion, which enabled the nutrition of
the body to go on for a considerably longer time than they could
otherwise have done.
The following case of functional dropsy, which came under
my notice a year and a half ago, will illustrate what has pre-
ceded on that subject:
CAsE XXX.-DRoPsY oF THE BELLY AND SKIN.
The patient, forty-six years old, had brought on a great amount of dis-
ease of stomach and liver by daily and incessant tippling of spirits, wine,
beer, anything that came in his way. He became pale, bloated, short·
breathed, and had the short, dry, ringing cough of diseased duodenum
and liver. His urine, at first thick, became scanty; his feet began to
swell and pit, but all his other limbs were shrunk, whilst the belly ~­
came more and more tumid. It was plain that dropsy was commencing.
Recourse was had to medicines ; he took abundance of dinretics, but the
water steadily accumulated. Strange to say, that stimulants were not
withdrawn, the very agents which caused all the mischief. At length
his friends contrived that he should reach Malvern, after vehement oppo-
:.;ition on the part of his wife, who protested against the withdrawal of
"all support,'' as she called the alcoholic liquors. \Vhen he came to me
his legs were hard with water all the way up, but, of course, more so
towards their lower parts. The belly was immen:'ely swollen, the upper
part with wind, the lower J>art \vith water as well as air; and there was
some tenderness on pressure, and when it was tapped sharply with the
finger. The pulse was excessively rapid and jerky. ,.fhe breathing
thick, ~hort, hu~ky. The thirst was intense, the hunger nil. The breath
hot and acid. The eyelids bloodless. The skin utterly pale everywhere,
without the slightest moisture, but glistening. Bowels very torpid, and
their froces colorless. Sleep very broken, and disturbed by horrid dreams.
This state of things had existed for between four and Jive months.
The jerky and hard condition of the pulse, and the bad sleep, led me
DROPSY. 283
to use fomentations to the abdomen of this patient for a few days in the
outset. These, with a general ablution in a shallow bath at 80°, the
compress to the belly, and abundance of water to be drunk, constituted
all t~e treatment for a week. He took very little food ; and, it being ex-
ceedmgly cold weather at the time, did not go out. The symptoms,
however, for which this treatment was employed, abated sufficiently to
permit of the sweating process, to which he was subjected on the ninth
day after his arrival. It seemed immediately to act upon the visceral
irritation, the thirst became far less intense, the bowels actec.! a little
better, and the urine was triflingly increased, after four days' sweating.
This daily sweating, a sitz bath at 85°, taken twice a d:ty for twenty
minutes, the shallow bath as before in the early morning, the compress
on the stomach day and night, and eight or nine tumblers of water in
twenty-four hours, made up the treatment for the following three weeks.
He ate a little meat once daily, and took milk and bread morning and
evening. Under the operation of the above plan be gained an excellent
appetite and good sleep; his bowels improved vastly in quantity and
quality of evacuation; as did the kidneys, although the urine was not so
copious as might have been expected, looking to the immense quantity of
drop~ical fluid accumulated.
'fhc cause of thit:J was shown in the sixth week of the treatment.
After forty-eight hours of considerable constitutional disturbance, and
intolerable tingling and itching of the legs, enonnous blebs made their
appearance in various parts ofthe limbs, .filled with the dropsical liquid of
the skin. Some of these I pricked and emptied, and others I left alone.
Dnt as the latter enlarged by the liquid burrowing, as it were, I opened
them too ; the rather as all of them, when opened, continued to di::;ch:uge
large (JUantities of liquid day and night, which, in the course of ten days,
reduced the legs to a very moderate consistence and size. In several of
the blebs, the skin underneath took on a purplish hue, and threatened to
give trouble and anxiety; but compresses of hot water altered their ap-
pearance in four or five days. Here, then, was such a crisis as I do not
remember to have seen described ; dropsy of the cellular membrane un-
derneath the skin dep:trting by blisters raised upon the skin. It accounted
for the small increase of the urine, \vhich was quite insutlicicntto account
for the relief of both dropsical parts- the belly and leg'8, but was sufficient
to account for that of the belly, whilst tltis exudation from the legs dis-
posed of Jheir swelling.
Total reduction of the dropsical swelling in both parts was effected by
the end of the eighth week of treatment. And as, after the appetite ap-
pcar~d. it never disappeared or diminished, he was gaining ground in
ucneral health the whole time of the immense discharge from the legs,
~·hich continued, in all, for three weeks. During that time the sweating
was only employed four times, as a means of procuring greater activity
of the bowels, which it always achieved. Otherwit'e nothing was done
bnt wearing compresses on the legs, the morning shallow bath, and
284 SKIN DISEASES•
two tepid sitz baths, with the same quantity of .water as befo~. After
the removal of all dropsical action, he was submatted to the. tome parts of
th t t
., t r
0
r tluee or four weeks more, by whtch, and abun-
e wa er rcaunen •• . .
d f f h ·r he came to make blood rapadly, and gam ftcsh, and
ance o res at , . .
color, and strength of limb. I am told t~at has revaved appearance and
powers astonished those who had seen. him before he left for .Malvern,
as they thought, dying of dropsy, but 11kely to be hastened to his end by
the treatment he was about to undertake.
I have treated two other cases of general dropsy of the skin
with success, and in a very similar manner to the above. But
in them no blebs arose, and the renewed and copious action of
the kidneys was the only signal of diminished dropsical action.
Both cases were of persons worn out by p1·evious excesses, and
having detel"ioratcd digestive and blood-making powers: in one of
them mental distresses aggravated the difficulties of the case.
I have had no opportunity of treating by the water cure any case
of functional dropsy cif tlte chest: but there is no ground for doubt.
ing the benefit which would be derivable from that mode of treat·
ment, the morbid condition being the same as that of dropsy of
the belly, which, as well as dropsy cifthe skin, is perfectly curable.
§ 4. SKIN DISEASES.
All morbid phenomena have been very properly regarded by
scientific medical observers as the result of efforts on the part of
nature to rid her noble parts of some grievous mischief.
The phenomena in question are those of perturbation of the
entire nervous and circulating systems; perturbation which only
ends in the critical concentration of irritation on some excretory
organ, and critical te1·mination of this latter irritation in augment-
ed exct·etion. Strictly speaking, fever is a skin disease, the skin
being the organ to which the visceral irritation is transferred. If
that irritation be not too great for the organic power of the viscera
entirely to transfer to the external surface, it remains in them,
destroys their function, and, with that, the life of the individual.
If the viscera do possess sufficient power to effect the transfer in
question, the irritation thus set up in the skin is eventually relieved
by the copious secretion of sweat from the overloaded and dis-
tended blood-vessels of the skin, both Yiscera and skin recover,
and the life of the individual is saved.
~ow, when a certain and very intense phase of visceral irri.
tatlon obtains, more especially when it has been excited by the
SKIN DISEASES. 285
presence of a poisonous matter in the circulating blood, an amount
of irritation is thrown upon the skin, so great as to raise acute
inflammation there, which ends in ~mall points of 1.oatery secretion
called vesicles, or pimples, such as chicken-pox; or of purulent
secretion called pustules, such as small-pox. At other times the
inflammation of the skin thus produced spreads abroad, is diffused,
rather than concentrated in the points I have mentioned; and then
we have such diseases as measles, scarlet f ever, erysipelas, and
oth('r rltsltcs. All these maladies, althoucrh named accordincr to
0 0
the phenomena exl!ibited in the skin, are in fact only the outward
nnrl visible signs of an inwaTd, and, if retained, destructive irri-
tation of the primary nutritive viscera. They arc, in short, ordi-
nary fever, with the addition of an eruption ; and the amount
both of fever and of eruption has reference to the amount of in-
ternal visceral irritation, and of the organic power of the viscera
to transfer it to the surface. "\Ve find in all these eruptive fevers,
that if the eruption be not free and sufficient, the general per-
turbation is greatly increased, and the viscera often sink under
their irritation and the effort to throw it out; it is thus when
!Jlf'.fl~lt·s. scarlet eruption, &c., kill. Or, if they be sufficiently
exhibited, tlwir sudden suppression ldlls by throwing back upon
the viscera the irritation of which they had rid themselves by the
eruption itself.*
Such nrc the pathological facts with regard to acute diseases
of the skin. \Vhnt is the phase of visceral irritation which pro-
duces, or wherefore it produces, one form of eruption and not
another, is one of the many arcana which Nature has not yet un-
veiled to the student of diseased life ; and, in all probability, never
will. But the process of their origin, which I have briefly de-
veloped, is one of the best established points of pathology ; and
• In speaking of the pathology of ski~ diseases, it is necessary to re.fer
to the anatomical connection between the mternalmucous membra1u winch
lines the vi~cera, and the external mucous membrane, or true skin, which
covers the body. They are, in fact, continuations of each other by the dif-
ferent orifices of the mouth, nostrils, anus, &c. The inner membrClne
pours out mucus, which is re-absorbed, or assists in the funct~on~ of ~he
viscera; the outer membrane pours out mucus also, but whtch, bemg
h
· lly acted on bv the oxygen of the atmosphere, thickens, hardens
c emtea J • d d 1 ·
ancl forms that which is commonly called the skin, but is, 1n ee • on Y m-
organized mucus. This anatomical and functional p~alle~ between the
two surfaces aids the well-known pathological facts rectted ID the text re-
garding the Yisceral origin of skin disease.
286 SKIN DISEASES.
the observations of practice amply confirm it, as I shall presently
show.
\Veil, precisely the same mode of origin applies t~ chronic skin
diseases as to acute. There never was and never wtll be a chro-
nic skin disease without some phase of visceral irritation; and
skin disease is the manner in which that irritation is at once ex-
hibited and kept from el!tciting more serious phenomena in more
important organs. Any one who chooses to observe will see this
verified ; he will see an external eruption disappear, and giddi·
ness, headache, sickness, indigestion, heart plUpitations, bronchitis,
asthma, nervousness, mental irritation, or even insanity, ensue;
and he will see these ailments disappear with the re-appearance
of the eruption. He will see, further, that mental disturbances
and errors of diet, both of them acting through the primary nu-
tritive organs, aggravate the skin disease, if they be within cer.
tain limits ; as if the additional irritation to those organs was
just sufficient to urge them to a more vigorous eruption on the
surface; but that if they be excessive, they suppress the eruption
and produce serious internal mischief. In this last case the
visceral irritation is so much aggravated, and the viscera them-
selves so oppressed in their function, that they can no longer
effect the transfer to the skin. The operation of sudden surprise,
especially if it be painful, will often dry up a moist eruption or a
chronic ulcer, because it excites a degree of visceral irritation
greater than that which is on the surface, which is therefore
drawn in, not repelled. On the other hand, a lingering mental
process, such as anxiety, causing a stream of excitation to pro-
ceed from the brain to the nutritive viscera, generates there an
amount of irritation which is proportionately shown on the sldn,
and all forms of chronic cutaneous disease are thereby increased.
Hence the extreme difficulty that is always found to attend the
treatment of skin disease in persons oppressed with business or
sorrow. If the indirect excitement afforded by brain to the nutri-
tive viscera produces aggravation of skin complaints, it may be
readily imagined that their direct excitement by food of a stimu-
lating kind is equally calculated to cause similar results; and we
accordingly find that diet of different kinds has a most marked
effect on those complaints, and is, indeed, a very frequent and
sudden originator of them, as in the outbreak of nettle-rash from
e~ting shell-fish, of pimples and itching of the scalp from taking
vmegar, pepper, almonds, &c.
SKIN DISEASES. 28'7
But aggravation and suppression of skin disease are also influ-
enced by agents applied directly to .lt. Variations of tempera-
ture, cold, dry, easterly winds, particles of dirt, the residence of
the moist or dry secretion of the morbid skin itself, friction of
garments, &c., tend to aggravate the cutaneous disorder; for they
all afford to the exhausted and distended blood-vessels of the skin
suffi<.;ient excitation to cause them to contract and then relax
again more than ever, thereby augmenting the exhaustion and
di:stension. Scratching an itching part acts in this way : whilst
you scratch, you stimulate the blood.vessels to contract and get
rid of their blood; but your nails, and the stimulus they gave,
withdrawn, the vessels bc•come more and more relaxed, until sore-
ness takes the place of itching. If an agent of a very stimulat-
ing character be applied to the chronic skin eruption, it may so
completely rid the vessels of the skin of their blood as to cause
it to be thrown upon other parts, and those internal and impor-
tant; and an irritation is there and then set up which prevents
the return to the skin, whose malady is thus suppressed. In this
manner it is that divers washes, ointments and plasters set aside
the cutaneous only to raise up fdr more serious Jisease within;
many a lady's life has been perilled, and some actually lost, by
these attempts to reme<ly a fJimple<l or a florid face.
This rationale of the leading facts of skin diseases was neces-
sary, in order to the proper understanding of the philo~ophy of
the water treatment as upplied to them. That treatment proceeds
upon the fact, that nature throws skin disease out in order to
save her· nobler parts. To reduce the irritation of those parts on
the one hand, and, on the other, to rouse them to further efforts
directed towards the skin, are the principal aims and results of
the water cure. The wet-sheet packing is the great agent in the
majority of the diseases under consideration; it peculiarly re-
duces internal irritation, is soothing to the external irritation, and
at the same time renders the skin the particular point on which
that within would be thrown. Thus favoring the evolution of
tl1e internal disorder, the first effect of the application of the
water treatment is to i11crease tlte skil1 complaint. For this the
patient must look in undertaking it, and without it he may be as-
sured that he is not making much progress. It is an imitation
and improvement on nature ; she makes the skin disease for a
salutary purpose, and we increase it for the same purpose. But
a time comes when there is less and less internal irritation t">
288 SKIN DISEASES.
throw out • then, does the external one begin to fade also. Go on
steadily with the treatment and both are extinguished, not trans-
ferred; an eruption once disappearing ~rom water trea~ment
never re-appears, until you apply the m~rbtd cau~es to ~he Vlscera
a(J'ain for it tears up the root of the skm complamt. fhere are
s~me 'skin complaints occurring in persons of scrofulous hubit of
body, such as scaly tetter (psoriasis) and dandruff (pityriasis),
which require an occasional sweating ; but the wet-sheet pacl(ing
may be said to be the principal general remedy in all sldn com-
plaints. Of cours~, as these last arc only symptoms of internal
derangement, other means applicable for the restoration of the
general health at·e necessary, such as sitz baths. occasionally the
douche, the dripping sheet, &c. In most of them also, copious
water driuking is recommendable, where the circulation in the
head is calm ; for water drinking has a vast influence in deter-
mining visceral irritation towards the surface.
Local applications are necessary wh£>re they can possibly be
maintained over the part. The temperature of the compress,
however, varies with the amount of itching or soreness ; great
itching requiring cold, frequently changed ; and great soreness,
which is generally subsequent to the itching, requiring tepic.l com-
presses. Warm fomentations also nre required when there is a
mingling of itching, tingling heat, and soreness, as in chronic ery-
sipelas. In moist tetter (impetigo) the itching and soreness fre-
quently alternate, and the local means must vnry accordingly.
These local means show very strongly the excessive secretion
of the mucus, which dried, constitutes the outermost layer, or
what we ordinarily call the skin ; for the compresses constantly
give out, when washed, after being used for a few hours, matter
which renders turbid the water in which they are placed. And
this excessive secretion of outer or ullorganized skin speaks for the
excessive accumulation of blood in the under or true skin, and for
the activity of secretion consequent on that accumulation.
The diet is important in skin diseases. In the majority ofcases,
abstinence from, or a very small proportion of, animal food is de-
sirable, farinaceous matters being substituted. But reference
must always be had to the condition of the stomach and other di-
gestive organs, whether they be in a state of nervous or mucous
indigestion; the general rules for which will be found under
those heads. All condiments are exceptionable ; even salt should
SKI!'i DISEASES. 289
be taken with extreme care; and all beverage, save water, should
be avoided.
The clothing should by no means be always light, as is often
supposed to be inculcated by the water treatment. Hirrh]y sensi-
. l 0
tJ \'e as t 1e morbid skin is to varjations of temperature- to winds
and el~c.:tric ehanges of atmosphere', it is often necessary to have
~orne non-conductor of heat and electricity, such as Harmel, next
t0 the morbid sudiLcc, to shield it from dbt rcssing excitement,
and tnaiutain Ullif(u·rnity of sensation, as nearly as it is possible
to do so. lnueed, one of the reasons for the bcucficiul opcmtion
of the comprcHsc:-; is to be found in tl1e uniform sensation and
soothing which they cause ancl maintain on the irrit<~t<!d sUI·fuce.
llut lllttc.:h will C.:h·pend, in this matter, on the goncrnl capabilities
of the individual, the reactjve cner!!y, the fliaestive ac.:t1vitv the
'-' 0 · '
uen·ous su~ccptibility, &c. ; f,)r skin disease occurs in pcr~ons of
the most oppo:--itc constitutional powers, in the poor-blnodcrl as well
as the full-blooded.
As the skin maintains an exquisitc sympathy with internal irri-
tation~, Loth of the digestive orgaus and the brain, anti is, more-
over, directly aud con~tnntly exposed to the air and its various
states of temperature and electricity, it will surprise uo one to
lun rn that, although the wate r treatment is nlmost infidliblc in the
cure of its cli:-icascs, the duration of the trf'!ntnwnt i.;, und~r the
lllost favorable circumstnnccs, 1oug: the l"<lther as nll those likely
to fall under its operation nrc of long !:itnnuing. or course, the
length of tr0atment bears a proportion to the standing of the ma-
lady. It also is much influenced Ly Ihe mental condition of the
pativnt : care nnd sorrow invctcra.ting the disease and prolonging
its cure. In all cases the patient must expect to hu,·c it rendered
ITIUch more severe and sore, though itching, if it exists, is always
allayed or converted: as I have ._aid, into sorcncs~. 'Vhcn skin
disease comes on in old age, or is coincic.Ient with fulne~s of the
hcnd, it is usual to consider how far it is advisnhlc to interfere
with it, N aturc in both instances often making on the skin a dh·cr-
sion in fhvor of some internal vital organ. But with the water
tr<.:atment this objection docs not holtl, inasmuch ns it actually,
for a time, incrt'ascs that diversion and ultimately gets rid of the
iutc·rnal enuse of it. Accordingly, I have treated, and should
not hesitate nlways to treat, cutaneous disorders in both these
cases.
The principle of treatment in all skin diseases being the same,
14
:290 :-;KI~ DISEASES.
the details are also very similar, the differences being only such
as are rendered necessary by ngc, constitution, &c., and are in
degree alone. Some persons 1·equire and bear n. 111orc rapid and
continuous application of the means, whilst the fratn£;s of others
become fatigued, or too much excited uy them, and they accord-
ingly require to be spread over a longer period or intermitted from
time to time. All this is a matter of observation, expt'rience anJ
tact, and cannot well be conveyed in writing. I shall, themforc,
only state the chronic skin diseases which I have treated with
water, and the result~.
1. Chronic Erysipelas in a person of fifty-two years : had existed
eight or nine months about the left leg and loins. Became very sore,
and exuded purulent matter after five weeks of the compress : wa:; cured
in eight weeks : looseness of the bowe1s during the last two weeks of
treatment.
2. Another ca!;e of the same disease in a lady forty-nine years of age :
had existed two years with variations of intensity, over the throat and
chest: was cw·ed in eleven weeks without any critical action, either
local or general : but became very sore during the treatment.
3. Scaly 'l'eller (Psoriasis) in a man forty years of age, in whom it
had existed upwards of twelve years, and had posse::;f':ion of the greatest
part of his body (Psoriasis d!JTusa). \Vith occasional intermissions and
relaxations of treatment, it required ten months to cure this case.
Wherever a compress could IJc applied, the sl(in gave out enormous
quantities of creamy stnffwhich was regularly scraped ofi; and the pack-
ing sheet always made the water exceedingly turl>id. After some months
of this, the skin became sore, and gave out very little limpid fluid. This
ceased, and then the skin took to sweating on the smallest exertion.
Tonic means stopped this, and the patient was well.
Scaly tetter is one of the most frequent skin complaints presented for
treatment: I have treated seven other cases of it, but none of such long
standing as the above.
4. Darulriff(Pityriasis). I have cured one case of Red Dandri.ff (P.
rubra) in a man sixty-five years of age: and ~wo cases of Variegated
Damlri.fl (P. 1.:ersicolor), one of them of a man of forty-seven years, and
the other of a man thirty-five years old. 'rhe first of these cases required
four months, the second three months and a half, and the third four
months.
5. Itchy Rash (Prurigo), one case of the Prurigo pudendi muliebris,
cured in two months. The patient was sixty-one years old, and had
great irritation of stomach, with much mental distress : she got better
much sooner than I expected.
6. Shingles (Herpes Zoster) in a youth of twenty yean. Wet-sheet
SKIN DISEASES. 291
packing and copious water drinking, caused vomiting and immediate
relief of this painful eruption in twelve days.
Skin disease is one of the opprobria medicina, but from the ex-
perience I have had of the effect of the water cure upon it, I
cannot doubt that it will no longer remain so, if medical practi-
tioners will cease to countenance in the community the prejudice
which exists regarding the repulsion of eruptions from the appli-
cation of cold water. If I wished to strike in a skin complaint, I
should give the patient a succession of strong purgative doses,
am) apply a stimulating ointment or lotion to the diseased skin :
the latter would soon be exchanged for some internal malady, but
wouhl be said to be cured ! And such, indeed, is the ordinary
cure of skin clisenses ! But the true history of their origin and
progress fi)rbids us from crediting such cures. The water treat-
ment, proceeding on the natural indications of this class of dis-
eases, affords the only opportunity for a natural a11d permanent
removal of them, and it ought to be employed in them by all who
woulct gain health for their patients and credit for themselves.
A vast field of usefulness is open in that direction.
PART III.
PRINCIPLES AND DETAILS OF THE 'VATER
TREATl\IENT OF CHRONIC DISEASE.
CHAPTER I.
GENERAL REMARKS OX THE ACTION OI•
' TJIR WATER
TREAT~IENT.
The 'Vater Cure acts by callin~ the power of N<lttll·c iuto play, and a si ts
Nature by imitating- hcr-.Xe~ative me.m-; of the \\'.dnr Curc-Pnrti<·u-
lar scat of the natural restorative powcr-Po~i ti,•c me ms of the Wah'r
Cure-Their action on the nutritive ncn •es of the sl.:iu-Tht:>ncc upon
the viscera, both directly and indit·Pctly throug h tht• brain- Consequences
of thi:; action on the viscera-Their cllorts at ..;clf-rc..toration h:adin~ to
bl'llt-1· rit·culation of blood-Better bhH)d a r.ull:oit'qucnr.t' of hcltc;r circu-
btinn-C hangt> of the mas~ of blood by waft•r <lt·in!\ing. ,lil', 'tlH.l cxer~ise
-Triple result of the action of all t11e m<'nns ,)f tltc W.ller Cure-
Rationale of critical action-Violent usc of th«:' \\'ah!r Cut·e nnnect!s:..uy
ftJI' Clll'C.
IT is not my purpose to prolong thC' prcsPnt part of this volume
Lr•voml what is necessary for a succinct nccount of the mode in
wl~ich the water cure affects the o r~,wizn.tion gcncrnlly, and tho
ndvnnta,.,es it has over other plans of trcatn1cnt in ccrt'1in di,cuse;;:.
:""
Tlli ~ will fiH·m the subject of the present chapter. Ancl another
ehaptet· will be occ upied with an account of the probable action
of t•ach of the procl'sses of which the wate r cure is composed,
a nd with the equally important subj~cts of diet and exercise. In
doing this [ shnll carefully nxoiJ the rhapsodical and exaggerated
l'\tlllr which has too often been applied to a subject of serious im-
port, since it implicates the life and the physical nnd moral com·
fort of the large community of invalids.
294 ACTION OF THE WATER TREATMENT
1. The water cure is essentially a hygienic mode oftreatment:
that is to say, its appliances are such as belong to agents which
are playing upon the body in all states of health. Food, air, the
stimulus of the \Vill as operating in muscular exercise of the
body, the stimulus of the Thought as operating in exercise of the
mind, the stimulus of water taken internally as operating on the
chemico-vital changes of the frame generally, and used externallv
as augmenting those changes in the vast and highly scntie~t
surface of the skin in particular,-thcse are the means by which,
in as much as they are at all times necessary to the heallhg
~xistence of the body, the water treatment proposes to cure its
diseased existence. Forming part of the ordinary and inevitable
sustainers of life, they have been called natural remedies, in
contradistinction to those which, from their non-necessity under
ordinary circumstances, have been called non-natural. Hence
the water treatment includes and relies upon the regulation of diet
or of the primary nutritive organs, of air or of the secondary
nutritit'e organs, of the mind in thought and action or of the
!lnimal nervous system, and of the great act of nutrition carried on
in the extreme blood-vessels, and increased or decreased accord-
ing to the application of water.
But this reliance on such means implies reliance on the organs
alluded to. It supposes a self-restorative power in them; a power
which, within certain limits, is capable, and is alone capable of
curing any disease, provided the organs be placed in tlu~ best poa.
sible circumstances for exercising it. It were impossible in this
place to enumerate all the instances which establish beyond a
doubt the existence of such a power in the body, and to name
fever as one great example of its exercise is sufficient. Writers
on the water cure have spok~n of this power as a discovery of
th<.:ir own; but great names in medicine have maintained its ex-
istence, and in great part relied upon it, from the earliest times.
HIPPOCRATEs, although he administered physic, constantly insists
on the necP.ssity of avoiding it until the body has well concocted
its humors; that is to say, until the organs have made show of
the direction by which they are about to relieve themselves; and
the modern HIPPOCRATEs, SYDENHAM, is ever directing the prac-
titioner· to observe, to watch, to guide the disease, but not to med-
dle with the natural progress of it. One of the most learned of
living medical writers says: "When healthy properties are im-
paired, we know no agent by which they can be directly restored;
JN CHRONIC DISEASE. 295
when vital action is perverted or deranged, we possess no means
of immediately rectifying it, but must be satisfied with using those
mean:; under which it ii most 1ikely to rectify itself." This truth
was published.* and quoted by me in my "Simple Treatment of
Discn~c," before the water treatment was at all known in this
couutry; and on it was based the discontent with the usual mode
of rnedicinal treatment, and the belief that it did more harm than
goocl in diseasP, whieh I there expressed. In fact, by it the body
is placed in the most un-natural position, and its efforts at relief
constantly thwarted. Disease, which is quite as natural a process
us hcalt h, is uot allowt·d to go on as nature would ; the internal
organ:.;, whos~ morbid action alone can cause death, are made the
nrt·ua fur all sorts of conflicting and inflicting medicinal stimu-
lants; nncl, between the action which these excite and that which
originally existPd, their vitality fails, their etlorts towards restora-
tion flag, nutl their functions arc at length extinguished. I have
alt·eady shown, in n fi)rmcr part of this volume (page 39 et seq.),
bow, when this meddling trcntmant docs not kill, it seldom fails
to c.mvert acute iuto chronic disease. Nothing can be more fla.
grant than tl1c want of ::;ound physiological knowledge displayed
in the cmploynl('nt of this ultra drug tn·ntment. Its vast defi-
eiencies as n curath·c plan, its actual opposition to the curative
nttempb of the organs, its coarseness, and its inconsistencies, ha\'e
obliged the better part of the mctlicnl profession to abjure this
fcnrfu1 ~y:-..tern of active drugging, to trust more and almost en-
tirely toNnturc, and to help her only when she seems inadequate
{
;,r th(' task of sclf:rc~torntion. But whibt enlightened men, such
us ~ir J.Anms GLAHKE, Dr. FoHBES, Dr. \V.ATSON, and others, see
l'lc:uly aud act ~kil fully on this great truth of the body's renewal
of henlth, it is still '~a shut book and a scaled leaf" to the herd of
sut"ITt·on-apothecul'ics con~tituting the mass of the profes:sion, who
aro
0
scnt forth, with u misc>rable modicum of physiological know-
lcdtrc, but an extreme subtlety in the \'arious ways of mixing
pln~.;:if.::, to p•·opagntc chronic disease nnd perpetuate medical
irq;orauce, rn:shm•ss, und clmrlutanism. Spite, however, of this
1~:1;:-.S of ignornuce nnd narrow prejudice, the evil has become so
shameful, that cvl'n the leading liternry organ of drug medicatiol\
hus been oblio·cd to lnv bal'e the disastrous consequences that haYe
all ulong ntt~~1dcd its. practice in this country. In a long article
• In •' Elements of the Practice of Physic." B) Dr. Craigie. lntroduc•
tion, p. 2ti, publiahcd in 1537.
296 ACTION OF THE WATER TREATMENT
published in the January number of the " British and Foreign
Quarterly Journal," Dr. FoRBF.S has told some hard truths con-
cerning drug medication, which must be highly unpalatable to
the hybrid prescribers and vendors of physic, who call themselves
professional men. After a somewhat one-sided review of homrz-
opathy, he falls foul of allopathy, unsparingly denounces the mis-
chief it has effected, and suggests a reformation of medical art by
the re-introduction of a third power-" THE POWER oF NATURE'
Yes,
"Naturam expellas furca tamcn usque rccurret."
Not all the sordid interests involved in the sale of drugs can
prevent the intrusion of the omnipotent truth, that in tltc body itself
is to be found the agent ofrestoration, and thai. Art mlly helps the
body in that agency. To this confession the very expositor of the
spurious art of drugging (for it does not merit the name of art) is
compelled to come; to the confession, 1st, "that in a large pro-
portion of the cases treated by allopathic physicians, the disease
is cured by Nature and not by them; 2d, that in a lesser, but
still not a small proportion, the disease is cured by Nature in spite
of them ; in other words, their interference opposing, instead ofas-
sisting the cure; and 3d, that, consequently, in a considerable
proportion of diseases it would fare as well, or better, with patients,
if all remedies, especially drugs, were abandoned."*
To the power of Nature, then, that is, to the vital energy of
the organs, the scientific practitioner of the water treatment looks
in the first instance. He does not for a moment suppose that his
processes have anything in them which, of itsr.lf, :shall effect a
healthful change in the body. True, it has been advanced that
water has a specific effect on the body in the same way that
quinine has; but this is sheer nonsense, and strongly indicates
ignorance of the principles of the water cure on the part of the
pl"Oponnder. 'Vhen I say that the wet sheet reduces the pulse,
I mean that it places the diseased organs in a condition to get
1·id of their irritative state, and thus to send a smaller amount of
sympathetic excitement to the heart. When I say that large
water drinking excites the pulse and circulation, I mean that it
plnces the organs generally in a condition more speedily to bring
about those chemico-vital changes which are dependent on the
presence of the blood, which is therefore more rapidly circulated.
• Loc. cit., p. 2J7.
IN CHRONIC DlSKASE. ~91
When 1 say that the ~itz bath tends to open the bowels, I mean
1hat it puts the lower bowels in a condition to recei\'e more blood
into their secreting surface, by placing other parts-the stomach,
1i7ct·, hmin, or spinal conJ, in a condition to get rid of their irri-
tative state. In fi1et, all the results of water treatment which
we behold are secomlat·y ; the vis rita is primarily acted on by
the means employed, and it induces the phenoruenal consequences
we Ldwld. '
IJ. This souncl hasis of treatment, namely, that the organic
energy of the body is to cure its disease, being taken, it is ne-
cc's!-;ary to n:rncmbcr that that energy may be deficient for the
purpose, and may thus tend towards destruction or organic dis-
euse rathct· than cure. H ence the neccRsity of At1,-of Art
\\hicia seconds the ol)Jccts of Nature and aids its fla(l'(rino euer-
. oo e
gif'~, but in no case runs athwart them. In chronic disease this
nt.:ccs:'ity c~pcci.d ly arises, from the circumstance that the organs,
in their intimate anti minute action (see Part 1., page 14), are
in the extn·111ity of feebleness, and make but small efforts of
sel f.rPstoration; chronic disease, in fact, almost always tending
t•J\\'arcls organic, incurable disease, when left to itself. In say-
in!! that N ntu rc is the only curative power, the very presence of
d;seasc implit·s that that power is dl'tcriomtcd and requires aid.
The wntPI' CUI'~ utl~ll·cls it, and is nne of the uest instances of
Aa·t appli('J only in seconding the indications of Nature. Testi-
tnnny to this t•flcct is given by the leading journal of drug me-
clication, alt'Pady quoted. DR. FoRBES thct·c says:-" This mode
of' trL·atiug diseases (llydrnpathy) is unquestionably far from
inert, and 1110st opposed to tl1e cure of diseast>s hy the undisturbed
proct"'S~t:s of Nature. It itt fa ct, 1Jcrlwps, ajfords the rery best et'i-
dt>ncc we 1wsscss ofthe curath.·e power f!.f Art, and is, wzquestiona-
bly. when rationally rrgulatcd, a mosl rjfr.ctirc mode cf treatment in
111any tlis,•ascs. Still, it puts in a striking light, if not exactly
the curntive powers of nature, at lea::-t the possibility, nay, fa-
eilitv with which all the ordinarv instruments of medical cure,
. ' "
drug~, may be Ji~pPnsetl with. If so many and such . various
dist>usf':s get well entirely without drug~, under one specml mode
of tr'eatment, i~ it not more than probable that a treatment con-
..,istino nlmost exclusively of druos mn)' be often of non-effect,
~ o . e
sometimes of injurious effi·ct ?"* Such ndmis:sions in the pages
of such a periodical arc strongly significant of the growing con.
• Loc. cit., page 254.
111*
298 ACTION OF THE WATER TREATMENT
viction in the high places of drug medication that the water cure
is not, as it was there loudly and unsparingly denounced, a sys.
tematic quackery, but that it is the TRUE l\IEDICAL ART,-thc Art
which watches Nature's tendencies, and aids her in her necessity.
Ill. This aid is given in n negative and in a positive manner.
The negative means consist in the withdrawal of the predisposing
and exciting causes. In this there is no compromise; there can
be none. If there be irritation of the stomach inducing costive.
ness, it i:-:; ausurd to expect the bowels to act whilst the aperient
medicine is keeping up that irritation, apply what posilit·e treat-
ment you may. If there be congestivc or apoplC'ctic ful ness of
the head, all the positive treatment in the world will not avail so
long as huge feeding, stimulating drinks, tobacco-smoldng, vcne.
real excesses, &c., arc persevered in. In the fir~t pa•·t of this
'vork I have endeavored to show the very minute yet highly irri.
tutive action of a part affected with chronic disease, how in their
extreme organic feebleness the ultimate blood-vessels are more than
usually sensitive; how then is this mingled sensitiveness and fee.
bleness to be remedied, so long as irritant~, however small and bow-
ever applied, be permitted 1 It cannot be ; and he who allows his
patients to persist in any such causes, understands nothing of the
water cure or nothing of honesty. Practitioners of drug medica.
tion say that we, the professional adherents of. the water plan,
" may well cure patients, for we insist on certain abstinences in
diet, personal habits/' &c., and that "these and not the water
recover them." The latter I will anon show to be incorrect ;
but the former is altogether true, and suggests the putting of the
question to the objectors, "\Vhy do you not also insist?" But
then, again, not much would be gained, so long as medicinal irri.
tants are maintained ; to forbid roasted meat, lest it should ir1·itate
the stomach, and at the same time to administer a daily aperient
or tonic, is an ignorance or affectation that is scarcely compre-
hensible, although of daily occurrence. (Sec a curious instance
of this at page 102.) It would be foolish and dishonest to deny
that the withdrawal of morbid causes to be found in diet, bad
personal habits, mental excitation, &c., forms a very importan_t,
nay, indispensable portion of the water treatment, and that th1s
latter would be curtailed of the greater part of its usefulness with-
out it. Patients who have recourse to that treatment, must make
up their minds to drop various darling weaknesses or else to re.
ceive but small benefit.
1N CHRONIC DISEASE. 291
The cessation fa·om taking drugs is a striking item in the nega-
tive means, i.e. in the withdrawal of causes. To it is very much
owing the great and immediate relief which most patients under
the water treatment experience in the first week or two; the ab-
sence of the daily irritant leaving the viscera at rest, instead of
rousing in them morbid excitement, which is reverberated upon
the animal nervous system, inducing all manner of diseased sen-
sations, and especially calling the attention of the brain to what
is going on in the viscera. \Vithout this withdrawal, no lasting
benefit is to be obtained from the water treatment. It may be ex-
pedient to treat a case with drugs alone or with water alone; but
to say that chronic disease can be cured by n mixed treatment of
water and drugs is a ridiculous contradiction, or an interested
compromisP.; a net, in short, thrown to catch two extensive sects
of persons, the simple and the prejudiced: an excuse for gleaning
from all fields. Imagine a patient who, having tried all kinds of
drugs, has added the irritation they produce to that of the origi-
nal malady, placing himself under a medical treatment which,
while it professes to reduce the irritation arising from both sources,
nt the same time kcPps alive both; so that the morning wet-sheet
packiug takes off the visceral disorder of the previous day's
dosing, and even prepares the body to be more keenly irritated
hy the dosing of the current day! This is like emptying tho
right-hand pocket to pay the left: the person carries just the
same amount: at best the patient is in statu quo-more probably
iu statu 1JeJori. I speak not now of the mocHeum of water appli-
c:ttions which have always been moa·e or less employed by medi-
cal practitionen;, such as partial ~pongings, short hip baths, &c.,
but of the systematic employment of the various processes which
have been introduced of late years under the name of the " \Va-
ti"r Cure·" and I maintain that a combination of that treatment
'
\\ ith the administration of drugs for the purposes of cure, is alto-
gr•ther fallacious, and an error by which the patient, at least, must
~uffcr. Nor is this a mere asset·tion of doctt·ine; on thn;c or four
tWt..:asions ( have been per::5Uadeu to adopt SUCh a combined plan,
nud havc soon had to abandon it at the request of the patients
thcanselves, who found that medicines administered whilst the
body is under the operation of the water treatment excite a much
more intolerable irritation even than they did previously. They
who profess to usc both means are scarcely authorized to attri-
bute the results of their treatment to the water system, nor to
300 ACTION OF THE WATER TREATMENT
call themselves professors of that system ; and their combination
of drugs, bleeding, wet-sheet packing, douching, &c., is infinitely
more dangerous than simple medication by drugs.* And this
will be discovered before long.
The withdrawal of the mind from harassing cares and occupa-
tions is another of the negative means included in the water treat-
ment of chronic disease. That form ofdisease has always existed
sufficiently long to involve the brain more or less in irritation.
Upon the brain, thus prepared, circumstances of disagreeable and
painful character fall with double intensity and exasperate its
irritation, which is then passed on to the nutritive viscera auCT.
' 0
menting their disorder. If such circumstances can be withdrawn,
the physician has only to deal with the chronic visceral irritation,
which he may subdue when the brain is quiet, but which he could
not touch so long as that organ perpetually added fuel to the
flame. Moreover, this comparative freedom of the brain from
excitement is required in the water treatment, because the effects
of that treatment are brought about through the instrumentality
of the nervous system, of which the brain is one of the great cen-
tres. If it be oppressed with care, and be made to labor exceed-
ingly at the same time, for the restoration of the body, the chances
are strongly in favor of its breaking down between the two loads;
and I have seen an instance of this. Therefore let no one attempt
the systematic water treatment who is unwilling or unable to rid
• In all that I have put forth concerning drug medication, I wish it to be
understood that I am speaking of its application for the cure of chronic
disorder. As I have stated in the text, none but the less educated mem-
bers of the profession think now-a-days of dosing for such disorder. Most
of the class of physicians give medicine in small quantities, and tru!lt
more to the operation of natural means, diet, air, habits of life, &c. Ne-
vertheless, they cannot therewith cure the great majority of chronic
diseases; and the fault is in the instruments with which they work. But
cases will always occur in which it is at least expedient to en1ploy drugs;
and it is absurd. to suppose they can ever bl• entirely dispensed with. A
strong man gets bilious, but is obliged to continue his occupation; let him
take two or three grains of blue pill, followed by an aperient draught, abstain
from animal food for twenty-four or forty-eight hours, and he will be well
\•rithout ceasing from his vocation, and without evil results. The evill~es
in making no change of diet when under, and for some time after. the Jr·
ritation of the drug, and in the strong temptation to reiterate the ca"ses
when the effects can be so readily disposed of. Then begins the abme of
the medic:-ine, for which, in the majority of instances, both patient and
practitioner are to blame. At the end of all this comes chronic diseue,
which all the drugs in the world cannot cure.
IN CHRONIC DISEASE. 301
nimself, for the time being, of business and its botherations, in.
eluding the daily score of "esteemed favors" from correspon.
<.lt:uts: he will assuredly get more harm than good under such
circumstances. Neither, when grief is doing its sad work, is
there any prospect of improvement to chronic disea~e from the
"ater cure; ': mens agitat molem," and it is not safe to agitate
the hotly in two ways at once. I have seen a sudden invasion
of nonsensical love arrest the improvin(7 J>ro(7ress of a neuralcric
0 b b
cnse, which, under the water treatment, was advancing steadily
towards c0mplctc recovery. The water could not wash away the
fpeJing, but rather seemed to render it more painful and ridicu.
lous:
" Ah mihi ! quod nullis amor est mcclicabilis aqui-8."
The worst of the affair was, that th~ neuralgia was more painful
too, and did not wear out, although the amorous folly did.
For the same reason as that given above, it is essential to with.
draw the mind from the excitements of gaiety and its usual con.
comitants, in this country, of hot rooms, strong lights, &c. \Ve
nrc told that water patients (some in scarlet fever, too!) hold
large dancing parties at Graefenberg, and all get quite well. If
so, there must be something in the air of the place which enables
persons to resist the ordinary operation of causes which, nearer
home, certainly deteriorate the patient's condition whilst under
the action of the water treatment. I have seen such consequences
again and again. But "distance lends beauty to the scene;"
Gracfcnberg is 800 miles off, and travellers must not go so fur to
see ordinary occurrences. Be this ns it may, there can be no
question that, on account of the temptations to gaiety, the racket,
noise, and distractions of large towns, the
" Fumum et opes strcpitumquc Romre,"
the water treatment of chronic maladies cannot be successfully
pmctised tlu~re. It has been tried uml utterly failed in three
large towns of England, namely, Liverpool, Bath, and Chelten-
ham · and I believe a similar result has obtained in various con.
'
tinental towns. In rural places all the~e drawbacks are avoided,
ami the quietude alone is an important adjuvant to the negative
treatment of persons whose sensations have been rendered exqui.
aitely acute by previous morbid causes, and whose organs are now
•
302 ACTIO!\' OF 'fliE WATER TREATMENT
to be roused by the water system to an attempt at their self-resto-
ration. So necessary do I think this consideration of locality,
that even the proximity of a large, dissipated town is, in my be-
lief, objectionable. Never did I know a patient who ran up to
London for two or three days return so well as when he left
.Malvern.
So much for the negative means of the water cure.
The positive means of the hygienic water treatment include all
the applications of water, from the compress and foot bath up to
the sweating process and the douche, the taking of water inter-
nally, food, exercise, and clothing. As the detailed consideration
of these will fall to a subsequent chapter, I only allude to them
here as agents which, whilst the negatwc means tend to disem.
barrass the morbid organs, tend to bring them into positive and
active effort for the recovery of their healthy functions. Nature,
entirely freed from the unwholesome operation of diet, drugs,
mental cares, &c., would certainly be left in the best possible
position for re-assuming her healthy actions, and in very many
slighter instances she would do so. I constantly have patients
applying to me, to whom I say, "You would recover by retirini
to a farm-house, having care of your diet, rising early, taking
appropriate exercise, breathing abundant pure air, &c.; and this
would require to be continued for eighteen or twenty-four months.
What the water treatment can do for you is to curtail that
period by one-half ot· h\'o-thirds." And so it is in these slighter
cases; withdraw irritations and bring neglected organs into more
active play, and you lend a helping hand to those that nre over-
worked and morbid. Good food applied to the stomach helps to
make good blood; pure air abundantly applied to th~ lungs helps
to perfect that blood; the same air applied to the skin draws that
blood towards the outer surface, thereby relieving the inner visce-
ral surface; exercise and early rising promote the circulation
nnci waste of that blood, thereby ridding the frame of a diseased
fluid, at the same time that better digestion is forming a better
fl uid which at len"th brinus about healthy nutrition: such is the
' ;""> 0
procc~s by which retirement and country life renew the jaded and
chro!1ically diseased frame.
Now the appliances of the water cure operate in a precisely
similar manner, but much more energetically, and therefore
more speedily. The appetite, rendered keen by the ensemble of
the plan pursued, and especially by the water drinking, leads to
1~ CHRONIC DlSEA:)J::. 303
the digestion of good food, for the processes all tend to the reduc-
tion of irritation in the digestive organs; the life in the open air
perfects the blood formed from the food ; all the processes tend to
uraw that Llood towards the exterior surface and relieve the inter-
nal organs; the water urinking and exercise increase the chemica.
''it:~l changes of the blood which waste it; and, ns the old morbid
fluid dissipates, improved digestion is making a better, which is
to bring a.bout a hculthicr nutrition of the frame. It will be seen
that the parallel is complete: and as the means of the water cure
are only, as it were, an exaggeration and systemization of those
to be found in the natural agents-food, air, and so forth, it may
very pmperly be denominated the hygienic water treatment.
These positive means are only imitations and improvements of
those employed in the purely ·natural restoratiou of the body; and
they tlauti fulfil the highe~t aim of ..\rt-the imitation of Nature.
No plan of treatment which I have ever heard of so completely
ke~ps this in view as the water cure; it aids the body by the
''cry same agents that Nature uses, and in such a manner as
never to interfere with her tendencies towards restoration of
health. 'Vhen the bouy is thus only aided in its own efforts by its
own appropriate agents, the best possible ground is afforded for
tl'usting in the permanency of the cu•·e which itself effects. No
cure can be complete or permanent which is not the result of the
body's own efforts, nnd which is wrought by artificial and forcing
n•,cnts.
0
\Vhcn, therefore, time is an important mattPr, ami some trouble
is not considered (for the water t1·eatment does imply pains-tak-
ing), there is much gain in having recourse to the water cure,
rather than to the mere life of simplicity and retirement. It has
been suggested, that a month of its employment after the ex.
haustion consequent on a period of dissipation or occupation,
would be more than an equivalent for three or four months of
travelling, and similar healthful stimulants; and there is no
doubt that such is the fact. Besides, when a man travels, or is
even tixed for a period in one place, he is left to his own devices
awl exposed to temptations, the gratification of whtch wars against
the renewal of health ; whereas the water cure fixes him to cer-
tain wholesome rulP.s nnd habits, that are necessary parts of the
hycYieniC regime Under Which he iS. It iS tOO true, that ViSiting
tl~e
0
popu!ous watering place::;, such as Cheltenham, Bath, or
Leamington, " for the benefit of health," is \'ery often only a
304 ACTION OF THE WATER TREATMENT
change from one scene of dissipation to another, and that the
change alone enables the body to bear the dissipation ~· n cnpnbi.
lity which is mistaken for permanent restoration.
The more grace degrees of chronic disorder, however, nope.
riod of retirement, country life and air, or change, will sufliec to
remove. The organic powers Ly which tile salutary efforts of
the frame are made, are far too deteriorated to ue roused to such
efforts by the ordinary operation of those ordinary natural agents.
Of this kind is the great majority of the cases which ~rek aid
from the water treatment. The lower the organic strength, the
greater the amount of natural stimulus required to bring it into
play; and the concentration of such stimulus exhibited in the
various processes of the treatment in question, usually effects
what the long-continued trial of quietude and air had failed to
procure. There is another reason for this. Numbers of my
patients, previously to visiting Malvern, had taken voyages,
changed residence, and so forth, but had not ceased to take mcdi.
cine, and had only changed from one kind to another. Nor
could they, under those bare circumstances ; the drugs were to
their languid organs a means of artificial stimulus, for which the
natural stimulants were not sufficiently strong to prove a substi.
tute ; and accordingly they continued to increase the feebleness
of the organs by the drugs on the one hand, whilst, on the other,
they were in vain exposing themselves to the action of natural
remedit>s, which, without the drugging, would not have sufficed
to kindle or sustain the organic energies, but in conjunction with
d1·ugging were utterly neutralized, the disease being allowed to
go from bad to worse. Yet these patients rarely fail to recover
under the water cure, becaase they find in it both a sufficient
amount of natural stimulus to rouse the organs, and a substitute
for the artificial stimulus of drugs; the withdrawal of which,
therefore, is not attended with the inconvenience it otherwise
would be. This is a hard thing to be believed by those minds,
lay or professional, which connect inseparably medication with
drugging, and know of no remedies save those of the Pharma-
copreia. It is not a whit the less true, notwithstanding: the
water cure does possess positive appliances, by which the body
is enabled to bear with impunity the withdrawal, immediate nnd
complete, of all artificial :stimulants, medicinal and dietetic; and
not only so, by which the self-restorative power of the organs is
IN CHRONIC DISEASE. 305
roused far more effectually and permanently than those stimu-
lants could ever <.lo.
IV. The water cure, then, producing its eflccts by liberating
the organs from causes of diseuse, and by aiding them, when thus
JiiJeratcd, in thcit· attempted struggle for restoration, we have next
tu iuquire what power of the orgaus it is which is set at liberty to
make the attempt in question. Physiological research leaves no
doubt on this point. A11 tllc cause:s of health as well as disease
iufriugc, in the first instance, on the irritability of the body, as
rcp1·cscntcd by the nutritive or ganglionic, or \'isccral system of
lH! I'Vt s. (~cc Chapter I. of this volume.) No organ ot· part of
nn organ can Lc diseased without disrnsed action on the part of
its nutritive nerves. A certain amouut of stimulation applied to
them pmduccs the phenomena of he.altlty l~'{e. in any part; a
further amount causes the phenon-:onn uf rJ:ces~il·e lifl·, to be fol-
lowed, a: certainly as fi1tigue fi>llows cxtretno labor, by the
Jlhenomcua of diminished or exhausted l!fe. The connection of
th1s nervous sy!)tcm with the IJlood circulation has been stated al
length in the ('arly portions of this work; and it is unly necessary
here to rccal that, wherever there is cxltauslion of the nutritive
11cn·ous energy of an organ, there is excess of blood in the minute
l,lood-vesscls, thut energy being insufficil'nt to afford to the hlood-
W'ssels the power of pa~sing on the IJlood they contain. In nn
inflamed eye, we behold vessel;:; distended with IJlood : those
vessel::; cannot pass it on because their ganglionic nerves, after
having been violently excited by a cold air, it may he, have gone
to the other extreme of feebleness, so much so as to be uualJle to
give the vessels contractile energy enough to throw the Llood out
of them. lienee, e.tccss o/blood and dr.ficiency c!f nutritit·e nervous
tncrgy constitute the essential cifdisease(l action l?f a part.
llut when an organ is thus situated-that is, with too much
hlood nod too little nutritive energy-other organs come, in cou-
st qu ·nee, to be conversely situated. \Ve have a striking instance
of this in <lropsy ofthe belly; the large surf1lCe of membrane (the
pc1·itoncum) in this state of vascular relaxation, increased blood
nnd dt•creascd nutritive nervous power, causes vascular contracliOJI,
dctrcasctl c1uantity of blood, and increased nutritive nervous power
in the kidneys (hence the decrease of urine); in the skin (hence
the pnlcnPsS and coldness of it); of the mucous membrane of the
mouth nnd throat (hence the dryness and thirst) ; and of the
mucous membrane of the colon (hence the constipation). Blood
306 ACTION OF TRE WATER TUA:TMKNT
being plus in the dropsically inflamed part, is mintU in other parts.
And a similar arrangement obtains in all cases of chronic disor.
der; there is always some organ or set of organs whose excessive
supply and retention of blood render them irritable in themselves,
and a source of organic irritation to other organs. From a corn
on the toe to an ulcer in the stomach, organic irritation, represented
by excess of blood and decrease of nutritive nervous energy,
obtains.
Now it has been shown, in the First Part of this volume, that
all nutrition in all the organs of the body depends upon the gan-
glionic nervous matter distributerl to the minute blood-vessels of
each of them ; and that, as nerves composed of that matter are
everywhere, the organzc or nutritive sympatlties (for they mean the
same) of parts are dependent on them. Further, it has been
shown that these nerves have their great central portion in the
viscera, and more especially in the viscera of the first digestion-
the digestion of food. Hence it is that all organic irritations of
any organs are referred to this great centre ; and, according to
the state in which it is, or the amount of the shock they give it, is
the degree and duration of disease. If a man break his leg, the
organic irritation thereby produced in the leg is referred to the
visceral centre of all organic sensation ; if that centre be sound,
the leg will do well ; if not, it will not, but a gangrenous or a
chmnic inflammation of the limb will be established. If a man
catch cold in the head, and is all sound in his nutritiv~ nervous
centre at the digestive organs, the cold will soon disappear with-
out spreading; but if he be not sound there, the lungs will be in
a delicate state in consequence, and the cold of the head will
extend to them, and cause chronic cough. Similar proofs may
be drawn from every sort of disease in any part of the body.
And the fact is beyond a doubt that, according to the condition of
the gr2at organic nervous centre in the primary nutritive viscera,
is the degree and duration of any diseased action elsewhere. So
long ns a stomach will digest food well, no chronic disease can
come; nor will it kill, until the stomach can no longer make
sufficient blood out of food for the waste of the frame.
It is upon tlte organic power enjoyed by ct·cry blood-vessel in the
body, a poux:r represented by the ganglionic nervOlu system, and
having its centre in the riscera, that the 1oatcr cure operates; and
it is by it that the water cure produces it~· res-ults. It is by the
liberation Clf this power from oppression, and the restoration of its
IN CHRONIC DISEASE. 3u7
energy, that the water cure rouses in it those salutary efforts
which constitute the only means of obtaining permanent cure.
V. The condition of the viscera, on which chronic disease de.
pends, is one of irritation or inflammation, oppression or con-
gestion, nnd obstruction. In applying the water cure, it is ne-
Ce;:,sary to ascertain which of these states obtains. It has been
stated in the last paragraph (IV.), that when inflammation or
cougestion exists in a part, it is to the detriment of the circulation
in some other parts. And so in the inflammatory or congestive
state of the viscera under consideration, all parts of the body are
deprived of the fit quantity of circulating blood save the part
chronically tliscased (a rheumatic limb, for in~tance), and the
viscera, which make its disease chronic. In rheumatism. for
instance, there is gorged liver and stomach, and inflamed fibrous
sheaths ; but the circulation in the skin flags, the kidneys are
scanty in action, so are the bowels, &c. In other words, there is
n mal-distribution of blood, from deficient organic energy in the
vi~ccra, to rid themselves of the excess they contain; for, if they
can be made to do that, the chronic complaint et..ases. This is
the case both when the1·e is fulness and when there is want of
Lloocl in the system generally; for, as has been already stated,
when there is general deficiency of blood, Nature always centres
the little there is in the internal parts. The principal aim of the
water tn~atment in chronic disease is, therefore, to pmeure a better
distribution of blood. If there be bloodlessness as well, tileforma-
tion of hlootl is another chief aim, but always in connection with
its improved distribution ; otherwise the blood made will augment
the congestion of the viscera.
VI. Having ascertained whether the phase of visceral fulness
is that of irritation, inflammation, congestion, or obstruction, it is
expedient to act upon some of the organs which have been de-
prived of their supply of blood, and whose nutrition has been
curtailed hy the cxcess in the viscera. In all chronic diseases,
the skin is especially affected in its nutritive energy. As blood
nccumulates within. it diminishes outside; so that in very old
chrouic maladies, there is not a particle of blood to be found in
the shrivellt'd, bloodless surfacP of the body. It is upon this sur-
face that the proccssPs of the water cure are especially directed.
Endued in the healthy state with nn enormous supply of blood
and nutritive' ncrvou~ energy, and, moreover, closely connected
with the brain and spiual cord by innumerable nerves proceeding
308 ACTION OF THE WATER TREATMENT
from them, the condition of the skin, as regards nutrition, is na.
cessarily of vast importance to the rest of the economy. And
this is more striking still, when it is considered as the surface
which receives the impression of all atmospheric changes, forms
a great excretory organ, and is the scat of a considerable portion
of the process of waste always going on. In chronic disease, all
these important functions are diminished or deranged. Deprived
of Llood, but still deriving exquisite sensitiveness from the nerves
it receives from the brain and spinal cord, it retains its suscepti-
bility to all external circumstances without having blood enough,
and therefore nutritive power enough, to re-act upon and resist
them. For a like reason its action of excretion and waste is di-
minished. The organjc sympathy which it has with the viscera
within, by means of ganglionic nerves, is disordered, and the
cquilibrjum between it and the mucous membranes, which are
the internal skin, lost; whilst by the net-work of animal nerves
it takes from the spinal cord and brain, it sends up to those organs
the impression of every atmospheric agent, and receives from
them the impression of every mental process of perception,
tbought and will. And be it remembered, that in chronic dis-
ease the nutrition of the brain is always more or less deranged,
am] that the skin, thP.refore, recmves impressions from a
disordered source.
Thus standing between the two great nervous centres, connect-
ed with the ganglionic centre by the nutritive nerves it possesses,
and \vith the brain and spinal cord by the animal nerves with
which it is so copiou~ly supplied, it may readily be conceded,
that the system of treatment which makes the skin the surface on
which to produce its operations is, at }past, no contracted one.
Acting upon the sl<in, we can affect powerfully or feebly the nu.
tt·ition of the primary nutritive viscera, and of the brain and spi-
nal cord, &c. ; antl, through them, the nutrition of the entire
or,ranism. Bein<r external and patent, we can ascertain the exact
0 0
amount of the result of the 1·emedies ; and on this account. as
well as because the sldn is not a primary or secondary nutritive
organ, and therefore docs not immediately compromise exist-
cncC', we know it to be the safest part for the application of
means. Besides all which, it is, in chronic disease, the organ
whose blood circulation has been most seriously deteriorated by
the visceral congestion, and which, therefore, most urgently pre-
sents itself as that by which to re-establish the equilibrium.
IN CHRONIC DISEASE. 309
VII. The action of the water cure, then, is upon the gangli-
onic or nutritive nerves of the skin, connected with the great
ganglionic centre of the viscera, and upon its animal nerves, con-
nected with the brain and spinal cord (it being always kept in
mind that the brain and cod. are, as far as their nutrition is con-
cerned, themselves masses of ganglionic nervous matter). As
the viscera are invariably diseased in chronic disorder, and as
the brain and spinal cord are the organs in which they the soon-
est excite morbid sympathies, this action upon the skin is adapted
to produce results upon both these great centres of chronic disease
at once, and tltis without direct application to either : an important
consideration. For it is by virtue of this that the water cure is
an artistical treatment which aids, but does not interfere with the
natural etlbrts of the body towards health. By the adaptation of
the means to the organic capabilities of the viscera and skin, J
am enauled to produce a certain amount of reaction in the blood
circulation of the skin. For instance, I apply a dripping sheet
to the skin of a patient, after ascertaining the condition of his
viscera; by doing so, I excite the nutritive nerves of the skin,
and, by that, cause contraction of the blood-vessels of the sur-
face; contracting, they drive the little blood they may contain
out of them upon the viscera. If I have calculated well the pa-
tient's condition, this sudden invasion of fresh Llood will rouse
the viscera to efforts to get rid of it, and those efforts will be di-
rected towards the surface, whose vessels arc most ready to
1·eceivc the blood ; and this will be the skin, since, after their
vehement contraction by the water applications, its vessels will
have fallen into exhaustion, relaxation, and consequent capability
of receiving blood. This process, repeated day after day, and
two or three times a d.1y, and aided by the impressions made by
other processes to be mentionPd, at length re-establishes the blood
circulation of the skin; and this re-establishment of blood in
the outer surface of the body, ensures the diminution of blood
in the inner surface of the body, the visceral mucous membranes,
and their nerves. But I have shown that all chronic disease con.
sists in irritation, inflammation, or congestion of the primary
nutritive viscera; in other words, in excess of blood in them.
Therefore, diminution of blood in them is cure of such disease;
and permanent cure, because they have effected it by their own
efforts. All that I have done is to apply a stimulus to a skin
which was below par in vitality, in order to rouse, sympathetically,
310 ACTION OF THE WATER TREATMENT
an inner part which was above par in vitality, and would be bet-
ter for sending some of its excessive blood to the skin which
wanted it.
All this supposes adaptation of the means to the organic ca.
pacity of the patient : this cannot be too much insisted upon. It
" ould all have been reversed had I, instead of the dripping sheet
alluded to, ordered a cold shallow bath. The stimulus of this
woulu have driven a larger quantity of blood from without inwards
than the viscera would have organic power to resist and throw back
again ; it would therefore have remained in the viscera, increased
their blood, decreased that of the skin, and thus have invetcrated
the chronic disorder. This shows strikingly the necessity for
professional nicety in the numerous cases where the vis vita. is
materially impaired by the long-continued mal-distribution of
blood. It also shows the absurdity of treating all cases alike, or
nearly so, as is too often the fact with the ~i-devant bath servants
and pseudo-doctors who pretend to practise the water cure.
So much for the direct nutritive sympathy between the gangli-
onic nerves of the skin and those of the viscera, which is brought
into active and healthful play by the water appliances to the
skin.
But these appliances also convey impressions from the skin to
the viscera indirectly, through the medium of the brain and spinal
cord, whose nerves are distributed in the texture of the skin. It
is needless to repeat the rationale of this, the strict sympathy be-
tween the brain and viscera being sufficiently understood to
account for it. Still, it plays an important part in the action of
the water cure, and especially of those parts of it which are tonic
and stimulating, and have the result of removing obstinate con-
gestions and obstructions. The prolonged shallow bath, the
douche, and the sweating process, act very much by the stimulus
they excite in the cerebro-spinal system, and the communication
of that stimulus to the viscera. In a minor way, rubbing sheets
and foot baths effect the same, removing such temporary conges.
tions as are indicated by nervous headache, occasional giddiness,
&c. It is clear that such a power of acting on the brain should
be used with discretion, and only after accurate investigation of
its condition ; and I have spoken on this point in the section on
"Apoplectic Fulness of the Head." How this is to be done with-
out professional knowledge, I leave those to determine who trust
themselves to the guidance of the self-constituted practitionen
IN CHRONIC DISEASE. 311
alluded to in the last paragraph. It is the more necessary to be
precise on this matter, as it is, in great measure, by the instru-
mentality of the cerebro-spinal system that the great changes
effected by the water cure are produced. So much is this the
case, that in many instances we are obliged to suspend or rt.·lax
the treatment in order to afford rest, for a time, to the nerves,
which give signals of distress in fidgettincss, broken sleep, iJJl.
paticnc~, and irritability, &c. Immediately previous to any cri-
tical action also, symptoms ofthis kind evidence the unusual ex-
citation and labor of the cerebro-spinal centre of nerves. Excita-
tion, indeed, of that centre communicates to the visceral ganglionic
nerves some of that power by which they are enabled to throw
off their chronic disorder; and it will therefore be at the highest
when that disorder is nearest to its end. \Vhen in this state,-
that is, approaching a crisis,-patients generally contract great
horror of all the baths and processes which had previously pleased
them; and this plainly because the applications to the skin add
to the excitement which they already experience, and which are
due to the state of the brain: there is a genuine instinct in the
horror they feel. If the treatment be scientifically and carefully
conducted, according to the organic state of each patient, the
whole of this action on the brain and spinal cord is perfectly easy
and perfectly safe ; but if all the persons be treated alike, that is
ignorance and quackery, and the water cure is not accountable for
its consequences.
Excitation, however, is not the only state of the cerebro-spinal
centre which the water treatment induces. Some ofits processes,
such as hot fomentations to the stomach, the wet-sheet packing,
and the prolonged sitz bath, have a decidedly soothing effect on it;
a sense of quietude, and even sleep, attending their employment.
These, accordingly, arc the processes that apply to active irrita-
tions and inflammations rather than congestions and obstructions,
in which last they often do harm. They soothe the extremities
of the animal nerves that are distributed to the skin, and, pro tanto,
removing irritation from their centre, the brain, this latter sends
less excitation to the viscera, and thus the whole frame is quieted.
Part of this quieting of the yiscera must, however, be attributed
to the operation of the soothing processes on the ganglionic nerves
of the skin directly communicated to the viscera, and without the
intervention of. the brain; for visceral irritations are often re.
moved by them, without, at least, any appreciable alteration in
312 ACTION OF THE WATER TREATMENT
the function of the brain in the direction of quietude. Yet this
only applies to such visceral irritations as have not materially in-
''olved the brain in their disorder; if that oa·gnn plays a promi-
nent part in the morbid phenomena, the soothing processes arc
certain to act upon it, and through it upon the viscera. Of tho
rationale of these processes, I shall have occasion to speak herc-
•·fter.
VIII. Acting, therefore, upon the ganglionic nervous power
vf the e:L'lcrior of the body by the production of cxciteancnt ot·
soothing, as the occasion may require, the water cure effects a
change in the visccml or internal centre of that power. It has
been abundantly shown, in the course of this \VOrl\, that the ex-
istence of chronic di~ease in any part is attl'ibutaule to chroniu
excess of blood in that visceral centre, an cxc.:css accompanic<.l Ly
irritation or oppression of the ganglionic function there. By
operating, as has been said, upon the skin, the irritation in ques-
tion is soothed or the oppression relieved ; in other worus, by the
dh·crsion made upon the skin, the excess of blood in the viscera is
diminished, whilst the quantity of blood in the skin is increased.
And let it always be kept in mind, that this operation on the skin
means operation on the nutritive nerves of the skin, and that this
diminution of blood in the viscera is the result of an action which
this operation on the skin has enabled the centre of the nutl"itivc
nervous system to commence, and which a continued operation
on the skin enables it to maintain; that action being what is
called " a naturaleffort towards self-restoration."
In the manner in which this operation on the skin is com-
menced, in the tact with which it is maintained, relaxed or pushed
according to each patient's position and power, consists the scien-
tific application of the water cure. It is easy enough to instruct
a patient to go on with the same processes for a week or two, and
never see him meanwhile; but such proceeding betrays igno-
rance as well as indolence on the part of the practitioner. The
disngreeables which always attend the attempts of the \'iscera to
right themselves may be materially diminished by accurate and
frequent observation of the progress of the treatment; and even
although the event of cure might be the same without it, the
physician's duty is plainly to make it. I am aware that in some
water cure establishments, continental ones especially, the con
trary to this is inculcated and practised ; that the patients are
.unulated, knocked about, and kept in an incessant state of ex.
IN CHRONIC DISEASE. :na
citement and constitutional turmoil, and in the end are cured ; but
this is what any one can do; this is pure hap-hazard ; and, lastly,
this is not saf~. Neither is it a whit more successful than the
more considerate and considered plan which is constantly adapt-
ing the applications to the state of the body, so as to avoid all
unnecessary tumult and suffering. This may be done, it ought
to IJe done, because it is safer and more efficient. I have already
alluded tu the manner in which the application of even a shallow
bath, instead of a rubbing shel•t, may increase the chronic visce-
rnl congestion ; imagine this blunder continued through weeks or
months, uud with still more powerful processes than either of
these ! No : the object of the positive means of the water cure is
to aid, not toforcr, the visceral energies; to withdraw causes of
diseuse from them, to produce a diversion in their favor, and to
as~ist them, in t/te e1·act proportion in which t.l1ey require it, when
that diversion is made.
To return. The aim of the natural effort thus excited is to
rid the noble parts of the body of excess of blood. The relaxed
and enfeebled blood-vessels of those parts obtain, from the re-
newed activity and power of their ganglionic nerves, the power
of contracting, of driving their oppressive weight from them.
By this the equilibrium cif the circulation comes to be gradually
established, and with it the equilibrium cf organic sensation.
Hence the fact experienced by so many water patients, " that
they never had wann feet until they used cold water;" that
water gnve energy to the viscc:ral blood-vessels to tltrozc blood
towards the feet, and it remained there, because it was sent
thither by the power of the frame; whereas the hot water for-
merly employed added its own artificial heat to, and drew blood
towards the feet, that heat and blood receding when the water
was withdrawn, and leaving the feet colder than ever. And
this applies to the circulation on the entire surface of the body.
Still repeating the tonic and soothing applications to the skin, the
inner organs gain day by day, by sure and lasting progress, the
power of sending their exce~s towards the skin, whither it is in-
vited by the processes going on there. This may proceed until
sweats, exudations of different kinds, eruptions, boils, &c., an-
nounce that excessive circulation of blood goes on in the outer,
instead of~ as it pt·eviously had done, in the inner skin or mucous
membranes; so completely are things reversed, and the vital
parts saved by the water treatment.
15
3JA A.CTIO!i OF THE WATER TREATMENT
But the blood-vessels of the internal parts arc relieved by
another action of their own. So soon as, by the contracting
action just spoken of~ they are rid of a certain quantity of >lood,
they reaain their secretory power, which had previously been
impeded
0
or suppressed by the loss of ganglionic uervous energy,
and by the morbid accumulation of blood in them. Now that
they have regained some of their energy, and dimini.,.hcd ~omc of
their contents, they furf1er diminish the latter hy pouring out
their usual fluids; which are generally at first disease<) in kind,
but gradually in1provc. In this manner it is that the dry tongue
becomes moist, together with the mucous membrane of the
stomach, which begins by pout·ing out acid and mawkish secre-
tion, but ends by secreting healthy mucus; awl the liver, too,
from being torpid, yields diseased and then sound bile. This
secretory action sometimes occurs to such an extcut as to excite
the stomach to vomiting, and, after several days of preliminary
qualms, which announce the state of organic cffo1·t, quantities of
mucus and bile nrc rejectE-d, forming in certain complaints a
bilious crisis. This renewal of functional activity both releases
the blood from some of its parts, and decreases the quantity of it
in the organs in question, and quickens its passags through ves-
sels in which it had hitherto stagnated.
The retention of excessive blood in the uppr.r organs of diges-
tion, and in the brain and spinal cord, has been shown to be the
efficient cause of constipation. As the irritation of the digestive
organs induces that of the brain and spinal cord, so, when the
former lessens, the latter diminishes nlso. Thus two morbid
causes being removed, the lower bowel begins to act, and by it
the blood is relieved of certain parts which had hitherto been re-
tained in its curt'cnt from the inactivity of the colon. In this
manner further relief is brought to the mass of blood in general,
and the upper digestive organs in particular. Sometimes the
surface of the colon, which, like the skin, had been long inactive
in consequence of irritation elsewhere, is not only released and
rendered active by the cessation of such irritation~, but, like the
skin in that respect also, is made the part on which the excessive
blood of the irritated organs is thrown for relief. In such instan-
ces purging takes place, and is occasionally critical of the disor-
der of the stomach, liver, &c.
. IX.. The removal of ir~itation and congestion from the primary
d~gest1ve organs necessardy allows of better digestion of food, aqd
JN CHRONIC DISEASE. 315
therefore leads to the formation of better blood. This is an im-
portant consideration in chronic disease, where the mal-distribu-
tion of that fluid has time to deteriorate the whole mass of it by a
long course of bad digestion. From such poor and morbid blood,
morbid solids are deposited; and as these regulate the distribu-
tion of that, the mal-distribution inveterates. It is clearly neces-
sary to form new and better blood, and to remove the old and
morbid mass. We have seen bv what means of the water cure
"'
the new blood is formed: we shall presently see how the old
blood is removed.
\Vhen blood is deficient in the body, the same rationale of its
f(>rmntion applies. There is still the same congestion and bad
distribution to remedy, and, that done, the digestive organs recom-
mence their blood-making functions. It is to be remarked, that defi-
cient blood implies a much more advanced and complicated charac-
ter of chronic disorder than mere mal-distribution in a frame well
supplied with blood. Hence the water cure requires to be more
carefully applied, and for a longer period, in the case of blood-
lessness, than of simple visceral congestion; you have not only
to dislrilmtc, but to make the blood as well. One striking and ex-
cellent feature ofthe water cure is, that the same appliances which
indirectly aid in the formation of improved blood, directly aid in its
improved distribution; these appliances being the negative and
positive means hitherto under consideration.
X. Chronic internal congestion tends to bad digestion and
olood-making: no disease can go on without, sooner or later, ac-
cording to its degree of intensity, vitiating the circulating fluid.
And this is aided very much by the absorption of medicinal sub-
stances in the ordinary mode of practice with them. On this
point there can be no doubt: again and again I have detected the
odor and color of colocynth, of aloes, of gamboge ; in one instance
of camphor even, in the cutaneous exudation upon compresses.
\Vhether their presence in the circulating blood has a deleterious
effect on nutrition may be a question, since proof, when there is
diaestive disease to account for the bad nutrition we see, is hard
~
to get at; all physiological probability, however, favors the
belief of its mischievous operation. Be this as it may, diseased
blood attends old-standing internal disorder ; and as the means of
the water cure already reviewed tend to remove that disorder, we
have next to ask what means are applicable for changing the
mass of unfit blood which follows it 1
316 ACTION OF THE WATER TREATMENT
They are to be found in the water d"}-nking, the exposure ~
pure air, and the e.xercise, which form so Important a part of th1s
hygienic treatment. .
In treatin(r of water drinking as a means of changmg the mass
of circulatil7g blood, it is impossible to avoid reference to the
chemical doctrines of LIEBIG on this subject. But I shall be
brief in exposing the mode in which they apply to this process.
Three years ago I wrote a work,* which contains the rationale of
such application, and the chief portions of which I republish as
the Appendix to this volume, where it may be read at greater
length. At present it is only necessary to state, that LIEBIG's
experiments go to show, that all the elements of the blood are in
the food we digest; that all the elements of the solids and fluids
of the body are in the blood ; that the antagonist processes of
deposit or solidification of the blood, and of breaking down or re-
liquefaction of the solids, are incessantly going on; that waste
of the whole material of the body is also incessantly going on ;
that these acts of change and waste (waste being, according to
him, an actual process of combustion), constitute the leading
phenomena of the living body. Further, he shows that the
supply of material fo1· this waste is in the digested aliment con-
verted into blood; and that the rapidity of waste, as well as of
the changes alluded to, is varied by different circumstances.
And the circumstances which quicken the waste and changPs
most strikingly, are a copious supply ofwater to the blood, exposure
to cold air, and exertion ofthe nervous power in bodily exercise.
According to this view, so long as the digested food supplies
the materials for waste, and a proportionate amount of water, air
and exercise are taken, the stationary condition of health, or of
equal supply and waste, obtains. When the food taken and
digested exceeds the waste, in consequence of avoiding water, air,
and exercise, diseases of repletion, inflammatory diseases, take
place. When, on the contrary, excessive dilution, long exposure
to cold, and exertion of body, hasten the waste, supply in the shape
of food not being in proportion diseases ofdepletion and emaciation
take place. Persons, says LIEBIG, die ofchronic diseases because
their material is wasted without proportionate supply. In other
" "The Dangers of the Water Cure examined," &c. 8vo., 1843. Sim-
ultane?usly with this ~ork. appeared Dr. E. JoHNsol'f's " Hydropathy,"
whcrem the sar_ne apphcabon of LJEBrG's doctrines is made, but more
fully, and, certainly, more cleverly than in my production.
IN CHRONIC DISBA.S.E. 317
words, chronic disease kills from failure of the central and
primary nutritive power situated in the digestive organs, as I
have stated in the First Part of this work.
Granting these chemical doctrines of LIEBIG to be sound (and
only a few minor objections have been urged against them), we
have at once the key to the mode in which water drinking,
abundant air, and exercise, produce a change in the circulating
blood. They produce it by expediting the chemical changes and
waste. And whilst the positive and negative mf!ans which have
been above dilated on are relieving the central organs of nutrition
from oppression, and thu::; causing a better digestion and supply-
ing better blood, the water drinking, air, and exercise, are quick-
ening the operations by which the old diseased blood is to be
wasted and got rid of.
I insist upon the division of these two effects of the water treat-
ment. The effect of better distribution of blood is brought about
by the processes mentioned in the first eight divisions of this
chapter, by the external applications of the water cure. The
effect of change cif the mass of blood is wrought by the internal
application of water, the exposure to air, and the exertion of the
frame. These are distinct acts, although they go on simultane.
ously in a body, whose chronic disease requires that both should
be excited.
And here, in my belief, founded on large experience, is a
question of great importance in the practice of the water cure :-
\ Do all chronic diseases require that both a better distribution and a
tol.alchange ofthe blood should be effected 1 The same experience
compels me to answer, ,; unquestionably not: there are diseases
in which the only proximate cause is a mal-distribution, and in
which the mass of the blood is not diseased." Let us examine
into this a little; it involves the question, whether large doses of
water and great exercise in the air arc essential to the cure ofall
chronic diseases 1 Physiological reason aids experience in proving
the negative.
\Vhen it is said that such and such chemical changes are
effected by water drinking, let it be alway~ remembered, that we
know of no increase in the functions of a living body without in-
crease in the functional activity ofits nervous system. All agents
whatever produce their first impression on that system ; all the
chemical changes implied in secretion, nutrition, &c., are pre-
r,eded by a change in the vitality of that system. 'fhe water
318 ACTION OF THE WATER TREATMENT
cure has been treated of as a mere affair of chemical transposi-
tions, but that is a very unphilosophical view to take of it, those
transpositions being secondary to, and the result of certai~ _
con-
ditions of the nerves. Now, the presence of a large add1t1onal
quantity of water in the circulating mass proves a stimulus to the
organic nerves which so plentifu11y supply the minute blood-
vessels. In these blood-vessels the chP-mical chan~es in question
take place, and they are stimulated to augmented activity of
change by the water. This activity continually increases, so
long as large doses of water are continued, and with it the activity
of the nervous system, which at length becomes involved in its
whole extent, the animal as well as the ganglionic system, the
brain as well as the viscera. This is amply exemplified in the
increased rapidity of pulse, of appetite, of secretion and exertion,
of sensitiveness, amounting to nervousness, sleeplessness, and
irascibility, which attend large water drinking. And it is quite
true, that the heart may be stimulated to excessive and morbid
action, and the brain to maniacal and apoplectic fulness, by the
excessive taking of water. The enemies of the water cure say
that it always produces these results; but it is only the abuse of
water drinking that renders the body liable to them ; neither, so
far as I read and hear the accusation, do the accusers appear to
understand how even its abuse is to cause the mischiefs they pre-
dict. The explanation is that which I have given; and an illus-
tration of the danger of large and sudden dilution will be found
in Case XXI.
Well ; suppose a patient with general fulness of body and
apoplectic tendency in the head were to be told to " drink as
much as he pleases-the more the better" (a not infrequent in-
struction with routine water doctors), the chances are very much
in favor of the tendency ending in a seizure. Or suppose the
other extreme of emaciation and bloodlessness, that state in which
ull the blood of the body is centred in the citadels of life, the
viscera ami brain, the certain result of large water drinking
there would be to increase the unequal congestion of those parts,
probably to induce paralytic pressure in the head. In both cases,
the ner\"ous Rystem would be greatly increased in activity ; in
the former, the already too fuU brain would be further and ra-
pidly filled, until sttdden pressure occurred ; in the latter, the
same pressure, only more gradual, would occur the absolute
quantity of blood in the body being smaller. Or ~uppose a case
IN CHRONIC DISEASE. 319
in which the pulse is rapid, the stomach highly sensitive, the
brain excitaLlc,-a case of ordinary nervousness, in short,-the
consequence of large water drinking there would be to increase
the nervousness tenfold. And several analogous cases might be
instanced, where the malady being one of active irritation and
ma/..distribution. alone, the vigorous application of this part of the
water cure is sure to prove more harmful than useful. Where
the n1alady is one of obstruction and diseased blood alone, or con-
joined with mal-distribution, water drinking may usually be
carr-ied to a considerable extent with benefit ; and it commonly
lwpprms that cases of obstruction are those of diseased blood also,
the fiH·mer causing the retention of chemical elements which
vitiate the Llood. I shall return to this subject in the succeeding
chnptca·.
Abundant exposure to air and great exercise aid in changing
tht' qunlity of the blood, by expediting the waste alluded to; for
this waste is etlectcd Ly the action of oxygen upon the com-
bustible materials, the carbon and hydrogen of the body. This
takes place still more rapidly when exercise of the limbs, and
thcrcfcH·e of tho brain and spinal cord which u•ill the movement
of them, is added to exposure to ail·; and the colder the air the
tuore rapid the waste. A man skating on a frosty day consumes
more o.xygen, uud therefore is himself more consumed, than if
he were seated in a temperate room, or even in a frosty air.
An'l a petsou driving in u carriage consumes less than one walk-
iug, fw...itlcs having much less strain upon his nervous system.
Thus the question of mal-distribution or disordered blood should
he raised, when th~ quantity of air and exercise is to be de-
tenuined. N either in this nor in water drinking is an unchanged
oa·dcr fot· all cases admi~siblc.
XL The ultimate action, therefore, of the appliances of the
watPr cure in chronic disease is, to induce a betler distribution of
blood, by withdrawing the t•xcess of it from the nutritive viscera; to
cause lite formation t:?.f~·ormd, nutritious blood : and to rid the body
o.lthe diseased bloorlwlridz circulatecl in it.
Tlw-:c phenomena take place in the order in which they are
mentioned. First of all, the Yiscera are liberated from the blood
" hieh opprc""er. them. As a consequence of this, these viscera
prnct ,,.] to malw better blood, the means which aid its healthy
distribution still going on. And lastly, ns the Yiscera gain more
organic power by being liberated from their oppression, and the
320 ACTION OF THE WATER TREATMENT
whole body gains more organic power by being nourished with
better blood. waste is more quicldy and safely carried on, so as
to insure the expulsion of diseased fluids from the body. But
though such are the physiological processes, it must not be sup-
posed that each one waits until the prC'!cecling one is fully ac-
complished. So soon as internal congestion begins to diminish,
better ulood-makin()' and nutrition begin also; and, with these,
e.
the elimination of diseaseJ blood. The triple process depends
for its vigor upon the restoration of the organic, ganglionic, vis-
ceral powcr,-the power to which, as a curative, and the only
truly curative agent,-the generic name of Nature is applied.
The water cure, uidiug in the liberation of this power of Nature
from oppression, subsequently aids it in the effints which it makes
to restore utterly and permanently the equilibrium and the in-
tegrity of the nutritive liquid, the blood. With this equilibrium
and integrity comes health-permanent health, if morbid causes
be avoided.
In the course of the efforts which Nature makes, with the co-
operation of the water cure, it sometimes happens that the new
distribution of blood which they bring about is so energetically
effected as to cause morbid congestions of blood in other organs
than the diseased viscera. In this manner congestion of the
lower bowel takes place, and is exhibited in diarrltma ~· general
congestion of the skin tal<es place, and is exhibited in sweaf.s of
nervous kinds ; or partial but more intense congestions of the
skin take place, and are exhibited in eruptions of various kinds,
and in boils of various degrees. To these exhibitions of transfer.
red irritation and circulation the name of crisis is given. Be-
cause, in the matters eliminated from the bowels in purging, and
from the skin sweats, rnoist eruptions, and suppurating boils, there
is more or less of a morbid character, it has been said thal it is by
them that the diseased condition of the blood is rectified ; that,
in fact, they carry off the diseased matter of it. But this will not
stanJ : the disorder of the blood consists in the absence of
elements which should render it fit properly to nourish the tissues,
and not in the presence of the mucus, sweat, or pus, as such,
whi(;h arc thrown off respectively by the bowels and skin ; that
conjecture is one of the most coarse and gratuitous of the ex-
ploded humoral pathology, but has been renewed by several
unlettered and illegitimate practitioners of the water cure. It is
true that the cutaneous secretions have on some occasions 8hown
IN CHRONIC DISEASE.
the presence of medicinal substances in the circulating blood ;
but it is not probable that the mere presence of medicines consti-
tutes the disease of the: blood ; and critical action much more
frequently llappeus without than with their elimination. Indeed,
crises of all ldnd 5; occur without evidence of any sort of disorder
save a mal-di:stribution of blood; just as frequently, in fact, as
when there is the aduition of disordc1·cd blood.
Critical nction, th('n, as a result of the water treatment, signi-
fies that the viscera have been enabled to throw their irritation
and bluod upou some other organs, the lower bowels or skin; and
that thi~ excess of blood and this irritative action attempt relief
by throwing out large frocal secretion, or unusual cutaneous
secretion. That is all that ca11 be said of a crisis; it is an out-
ward awl visiLle sign of the exercise of a power on the part of
the inward organs, to save themselves by a transfer of mischief
to pnrts less essential to life. To push this by continued treat-
ment under the idea of extracting more "bad stuff" is sad stuff,
and may Le harmful ; we should be content with the evidence
the cri!ii::> giVt'~ of etlicient rousing of the self-restorative power,
and dimiui...h, or even altogether cease the treatment, for a period
at least.
The oecurrcncc of a crisis, however, is neither frequent, nor is
it ncccs~ary in many cases. The gradual progression of improved
distribution of blood, of improved formation of blood, and of waste
c
Jf disea~cd blood, effected by a judicious application of the water
cure and n regulation of diet, tends towards a recovery which is
quite as effectual and permanent as that of which a crisis is a sig-
nal. Of this I have satisfied myself in many instances: and any
one who obsca·ves the treatment and employs thought upon it, will
see how unnecessary were all the wonderful crises which were,
at an early date of the water cure in this country, imported from
the continent to astonish the English public. Such crises may
Itave taken place, but I am certain very often very unnecessarily.
Violent treatment, no doubt, will excite them much more frequent-
ly t\Jnn mild treatment; but I maintain that this last suffices for
all purposes of cure, and causes much less inconvenience and
mischief. In the one case you cautiously and gradually work
upon the nutritive nervous system, keeping it up to the point of
slow, contmued effort of self:restoration ; in the other, you force
it suddenly to a violent effort, and in doing so produce vehement
revulsive and tumultuous action in the great nervous centres. I
15*
322 ACTION OF THE WATER TREATMENT
do not believe there is an atom of danger in the latter, in the care
of an educated physician ; but it has not, so far as my experience
goes, advantages enough over the slower plan to render it a great
a1m.
The facility of exciting critical action varies very much in in-
dividuals; nor is it easy to say beforehand who shall fall under
it the most readily. As a general statement, it may be said that
persons of moderate stoutness of body, with a circulation rather
slow than otherwise, incline to the critical action of the skin which
i;:; exhibited in boils. These are also more frequent when the
patient has been a great physic talwr, especially a taker of vege-
table purgatives; or if he has been an excessive drinker of alco-
holic liquors. On the other ham], when lht· patient is lean, wiry,
of vivid nervous system and circulation, internal crises of purging
or vomiting, or external crises of diffused eruption or of sweat are
more generally met with; or when the malady is one of mal-
distribution only, and especially of the class called nervous; in
these an itchy eruption, or a feverish attack euding in sweat, are
the usual critical signs. But all these points are of comparatively
small consequence; the patient may very commonly be cured
without any crisis, properly so called; and the practitioner who
insists upon it may gratify the marvcllousncss, but will very dis-
agreeably disturb the economy of his patient by his pedantry or
his quackery. But although the phenomena of a crisis, as above
mentioned, are not necessary in very many cases, a change in
the nervous and circulating functions must be wrought by the
treatment,-a change equivalent in degree to that of which sweats,
eruptions, &c., are evidences, but procured and exhibited in a
more quiet and less vehement manner.
Xli. The preceding numerical heads, of the subject of the
action of the water cure in chronic disease, include the rationale
of that action, so far as the vital agency of the body is concerned.
I have only briefly alluded to the chemical changes effected in the
body by the drinking of water; they will be found more in detail
in the Appendix. But it should always be remembered that,
however curious and potent a part these changes may play in the
action of the water cure, they arc secondary to the changes of the
vital condition; nor can they be commenced or continued without
that condition being previously altered. A physician may be
well acquainted with the chemical phenomena announced by
LIEBIG, and with their application to the explanation of the re.
IN CHRONIC DISEASE. 323
sults of the water treatment ; but unless he is able well to measure
the vital organic capabilities of his patient, his blood-making and
nervous power, the chemical applications will rather lead him
aEtray than assist him in the treatment of disease; he will only
be able to sec a series of chemical changes, and will take what
LIEBIG says is the shortest way to effect them, without consider.
ing whether the living body, not the chemical laboratory, is able to
bear the means for rapidly producing the changes in question.
Remarks of this kind are necessary, because the doctrines of
LIEBIG have been insisted and expatiated upon by writers, until
readers behold nothing in the water cure but a series of chemical
changes which they can themselves induce by their own devices.
I have known this chemical crotchet lead a patient to treat him.
scif with enormous doses of watE'r, for the purpose of expediting
the processes of the laboratory, which he conceived his body to
be, and thereby put his brain into the most imminent peril, apo-
plexy having as nearly as possible occurred from the violent
stimulation of the nervous system thus excited.
In order to make more clear the views which observation has
led me to adopt concerning the mode of action of the water cure,
nnd which I have advanced in this chapter, I will recapitulate the
subject of each of the foregoing numerical heads, which are all
connected by a chain of experience and reasoning.
I. The power of Nature is advanced as the only truly curative
power.
11. The water cure is shown to be that form of medical art
which is best adapted to aid Nature in her curative efforts, and
the least liable to interfere with and thwart them.
III. The first step towards aiding that power of Nature is to
withdraw from the organs all mental and bodily irritations. This
constitutes the negative means of the water cure.
IV. \Ve here inquire the seat and centre of that power of Na.
ture which is liberated from oppression, and excited to action by
the withdrawal of mental and bodily irritants. And we find it
to be in the ganglionic system of nerves dispersed throughout the
body, but having its central portion in the viscera, which are thus
the sympathizing centre for all diseased actions in the body.
V. Hence, it becomes essential, in applying the water cure in
chronic disease, to inquire minutely into the organic condition of
the viscera. And we find that to be a condition of excessive
324 ACTION OF THE WATER TREATMENT
blood, in the shape of chronic irritation, inflammation, congestion,
and obstruction.
VI. It therefore is of consequence to avoid means which tend
further to increase the quantity of blood in the viscera, and to
employ those which tend to bring it from the viscera.toward~ those
orO'ans which, in consequence of the excess of blood In the Ytscera,
ha~e been deprived of a sufficiency of it. This is especially the
fiu.;t as regards the skin, the vitality of which is the most seriously
compromised by the internal congestion. To the skin, therefore,
the second series of means are applied : these are the positive
means of the water cure.
VII. Treats of the organic power of the skin, its connection, by
ganglionic influence, with other parts, and how it acts directly
upon the viscera, and indirectly on them, through the brain.
VIII. The viscera, liberated from oppression by the ·negatit'e
means, and aided by the positit'e means of the water cure, acquire
sufficient power to rid themselves of their excess of blood by send-
ing it towards the skin, and by outpouring of secretions from the
stomach, liver, lower bowels, &c.
IX. The removal of internal irritation, congestion, &c., by
these means, enables the nutritive viscera to form better blood and
better solids ; and, by means of these solids, to effect and main-
tain a bettP.r distribution of the blood of the body.
X. Whilst the blood is thus being better distributed, and formed
of a better kind, the elimination of the old morbid blood is being
effected by another means ofthe water cure, namely, water drink-
ing. This it does by expediting those chemical changes of the
body which are known to take place under the influence of the
vital, organic power of the body, and which in a certain time
change the whole of its fluids and solids. Air and exercise, other
positive means of the water cure, assist in these chemical changes.
These means, therefore, should be applied according as the dis-
ease to be treated implies mal-distribution of blood alone, or that
with the addition of diseased blood. It is in this latter case that
they are more particularly and largely demanded.
XI. Making Its first impressions, therefore, on the nutritive or
ganglionic system of nerves, the water treatment in its ultimate
action has a triple result,-to cause a better distribution of blood,
to induce the formation of better blood, and to purify the blood.
These stand in cause and effect as they are mentioned ; the better
distribution leading to better blood-making, and this giving the
IN CHRONIC DISEASE. 325
body power to sustain the increased waste which is requisite to
purify the whole mass of blood. A visible evidence of these re-
sults is sometimes exhibited in the form of a crisis; but this is
not essential ; and the treatment which tends to cause it is, for
the most part, better postponed for one less vehement in character
although equally efficacious in result.
Regulated by these views of the action of the water cure, I
have found it a safe and successful mode of treutmC'nt in a num-
lJCr of chronic disorders, the major pnrt of which nrc mentioned
in this volume. I fear that my views, and the practice founded
on them, will be considered heterodox by those \VIm arc of opinion
that wuter cures everything, and can pos::;ibly do no ham1 ; who
tlacrcforc prescribe pretty nearly the same routine of violent pro-
cesses and huge water drinking to every patient, whatever his
malady or his organic condition; who, in short, are "water doc-
tors" and nothing more.* But this is not to be controlled ; facts
have stared me in the face for four years, which demonstrate•the
possibility of avoiding a great number of disagrceubles by a sci-
entific adaptation of the appliances of the water cure to the
organic capabilities of each patient, and of arriving at a success-
ful termination quite as surely as if the patient hnd been all day
in water, and water all day in him. Besides, it is folly to sup-
pose that improvement is never to be made in this mode of treat-
ing disease ; that as PRIESSNITZ originated it, so it is to remain
through all time. PRIESSNITZ is far too clear in mental vision,
and original in thought, himself to stick fast in one routine ; for
in the course of his long experience he has considerably varied
his practice; and it is satisfactory to know that now, after more
than twenty years' experience, his treatment has lost almost all
the violence which characterized it in former years, and that he
too finds he can do as much with much milder means. I doubt
not that, in due time, he will discover that such means are still
more efficient when diet is regulated, and that the abominations
of his table, to which all who have seen it bear witness, will be
refonned. \Vith keenness to observe he has the tact to adapt his
practice to the facts which observation imposes on him. Not so
• I have heard a saying, " that water cures the mischief that water does,
-go on drinking,''-attributed to PRIESSNITZ, but am unwilling to believe
that eo acute a man could have uttered such nonsense.
326 ACTION OF THE WATER TREATMENT IN CHRONIC DISEASE.
the small persons who run over to Graefenberg for a few weeks,
and return to practise the same processes on delicate English-
women and Englishmenwith sensitive and care-worn brains, which
they had there seen practised on phlegmatic Germans and hard-
headed Poles; and who, though they fancy themselves PaiESSNITZ,
and come back "doctors," are in reality as much one as the
other. From such I am compelled to differ in my ideas of the
best manner of applying the water cure ; and I am also com-
pelled to hold, that its employment requires as much nicety and
discrimination as any other plan of treatment, and may not safely
be trusted to a routine. Knowledge of sound physiology and
pathology are never more required than in the practice of the
water cure ; and in no system of treatment will the great truths
of those sciences find more ample and beautiful confirmation.
DETAILS OF THE WATER CURE. 321
CHAPTER II.
DETAILS OF THE WATER CURE AND EXPLANATION OF THEIR
ACTION
Divh1ion of the processes-Hot and warm fomentations-Packing in damp
towels and shects-Sitz baths-Abdominal and local compresses-Drip-
ping or rubbing sheets-Shallow bath-The douche-The sweating
process-Foot and hand baths-Other ablutions and frictions-,Vater
drinking-D1et, air, and exercise.
[The portions of this chapter which are included in these
marks, " " are reprints of a contribution from my pen to DR.
WILSON's pamphlet, '' The Practice of the Water Cure," in
which they were published].
TnE processes of the water treatment have been multiplied by
charlatanism as well as by ingenuity and judgment. Water has
been squirted in all imaginable ways, and has been made to Bow
from all directions in all kinds of streams, upon the human body;
and complexity has been largely employed to lure such persons
as simplicity might fail to attract. This is all very well for those
who see nothing in the water cure but an "establishment in full
operation," and rely more upon the possession of" every variety
bath," than of the requisite knowledge to apply water. Patients
may be for a time amused, or their confidence and hope re-excited
by such contrivances as "ascending douche baths," "wave baths,"
"ascending sitz baths," &c., but, although I have seen very many
at Malvern who ha\'C gone through all these ingenuities elsewhere,
they had never had their diseases explained to them, and were
pretty nearly as far from a cure as ever. And so it will ever be
when the lucrativeness of the water cure is more considered than
its philosophy, and so long as professional men, by holding back
from investigation of the subject, allow so excellent a plan of
treatment to be usurped by non-professional adventurers and soi-
disant " doctors."
Putting these contrivances aside, I shall confine myself, in this
329 HOT AND WARM FOMEN'fA'liONS.
chapter, to the explanation of those processes which _are ess~ntinl
to the water treatment of chronic disease, and the varwd. modifica-
tions in the application of which suflicc to meet all ca~es t~a~ ~tre
propc1
• to be submitted to that treatment. _Any prc.ct:se. davtston
of them it may be uitlic.:ult to maliC; but as 111 chrome dtscnse we
have recognized one condition, which is that of active irritation of
the viscera, anti rcq ui res to be subdued, luu·crcd, and another con-
dition, which is that of depression and obstruction, and tcquires to
be roused, stimulated, and to have tone itnparteJ: so these pro-
cesses of the water cure may be divided into ~ueh as are adapted
for subduing irritatil'e and inflammatory action and such as have
the power of giving tone to, of stimulating, aml rousing organs
whose function is at a low ebb, or obstructed amJ t01·pill. Modi-
fications, however, of one or two processes may be so made us to
make them either sedative or tonic, as the sitz bath, a long dura-
tion of which is lowering and sedative, wbilst a short duration is
tonic and stimulating. But these instances at·e not numerous
enough to warrant sub-divisions: and I therefore proceed to treat,
in the first place, of those applications whose general effect is to
subdue irritation.
§ I. HoT AND WAR:\l Fo:l\tENTATIONs.
This invaluable mode of applying water was first put forward
in this countt·y by myself in the Lectures by B&oussAIS, which I
published in the year 1845. Among the Freneh it has long been
esteemed and practised. I know no more powerful agent for sub-
duing a certain phu~c of visceral irritation, and I employ it very
frequently. Although a simple remedy, it is very little known or
practised in this country, and I shall therefore state the mode of
its application, which I shall not do with the other water cure
appliances, they having been described again and again, until the
public..: who read works on the water treatment must be wearied
of it. No English work on the water cure speaks of fomentations
such as those now under consideration.
A piece of flannel thrice folded is placed into a dry basin, and
very hot or warm water is poured on it sufficiently to soak it.
The flannel is then put into the corner of a towel, which is twisted
round it and wrung until the flannel is only damp. It is taken
out of the towel and jmmediately placed over the part to be fo-
mented, and upon it is placed a double fold of thick flannel, dry,
or part of a light blanket. The patient then, if it be the abdo-
BOT AND W.ARl\1 FOMENTATIONS. 329
men which is fomented, draws the ordinary bed clothes over him,
and remains quiet for five or eight minutes, when another flannel
freshly wrung out is applied, the fonner one being withdrawn.
And this goes on for the whole time prescribed for the fomentation.
The most ordinary place for applying this process is on the
belly, and especially the portion of it between the bottom of the
breast bone and the navel, and across far back on both sides: this
may be called general fomentation, its effect being on the pheno-
mena of the whole body, in contradistinction to local fomentations
of joints, &c. In this manner you include-the colon as it
crosses the uppe1· part of the abdomen, the stomach in all its length,
the lir:er to the right, the spleen to the left, and a portion of the
small guts situated above the navel: ami, if the fomentation ex-
telltl all over the abdomen, the remainder of the small guts, the
head of the colon (where the freces are formed), the bl.adder, a~td
the womb. And last though most important of all, you include
the large and thick networks of ganglionic nerves, and the gan-
glions themselves, which pervade and regulate the functions of
these great organs of primary nutrition and excretion. This is
no small consideration, and ci priori the application of a process
at once soothing and counteracting to such organs recommends
itself to a physiological physician. But the actual result passes,
in many cases, all anticipation. Often and again I have seen it
procure sleep to adults, and to children especially, when opiates
ouly fevered and irritated. I have seen jt, upplicd at night, pro.
cure relaxation of the kidneys and bowels by the morning, when
all diuretics und purgatives had failed. I have seen it arrest the
most violent bilious and nervous headachc~s. I have seen it stay
fits of asthma, of tic douloureux of the face, of toothache, of
sciatica, of spasm of the bladder, of universal convulsion in in-
fants both from teething and indigestion. I have seen it stop the
most violent and long continued vomiting, and relieve, even dur-
ing application, extreme acidity and flatulence of the stomach.
These things I have seen, not once, but scores of times, and in
nny of them I should use it with confidence of quick relief, more
speedy in some than other cases. The explanation of such re-
~ults from a remedy applied over the seat of the great centre of
tite nutritive nerves of the body, will not be difficult to those who
h.we read the exposition of acute and chronic disease given in
the Fil'st Part of this work.
The temperature of fomentations over the belly is of great
330 BOT AND WARl\I FOMENTATIONS.
importance. \Vhere the symptoms indicate a purely injla~~­
tory state of any of the viscera-when, for instance, mucous mdJ-
gcstion prc\'ails-thc temperature should be high, nearly at the
boiling point: the object then being to countcrirritate, to. draw
blood to the surface, in doing which the nerves of the skm are
Yehcmently ~timulated. But when the visceral irritation is of a
nervous character, and therefore capricious in its phenomena, it
bcho\·es to apply the fomentations only warm, so as not to excite
but soothe the nerves of the skin : for if you excite them, the ex.
citation will be propagated to the brain, and produce malaise
there, and sometimes will even be a means of increasing the vis-
ceral irritation it was intended to subdue. I have often seen fo.
mentntions to the abdomen, improperly tempered, induce severe
headache, throbbing and restlessness, the irritation produced on
the skin being promulgated to the viscera and the brain. In
more vehement inflammatory action within, such a reflection, as
it were, back on the nervous centres from the skin, is not likely
to occur, the irritation in these being already very great and of a
decided character. These are the leading indications as to tem-
perature, and the gradations between the extremes of pure in-
flammatory and nervous disorder must be left to the discrimina.
tion of the practitioner.
Hot fomentations should never be applied to the abdomen ex-
cept when the patient is in the recumbent posture, and can take
rest after them. Being a lowering remedy, especially in dimi-
nishing the excitability of the brain, exertion of the limbs should,
upon no account, be allowed immediately subsequently on their
application. Indeed, it is better that sleep should be taken : and
hence, bedtime is the best time for them. They should never be
applied within at least two hours and a half after a meal, with
the digestion of which they would otherwise interfere. The du-
ration of this process varies from twenty to sixty minutes every
day, or every second day, according to the indications afforded by
the degree and kind of internal disorder.
Fomentations, although directly lowering, are, indirectly, a
strengthening process. The inflamed stomach of a patient acts,
by ~ympathy, as a spur to the function of the brain, which there-
by exhibits a degree of impulsive energy that passes for power:
the patient can walk and talk quickly, has incessant desires to
~llOV(', &c. : but all this is fictitious strength, just as the energy
1mparted by alcoholic liquids or tonic medicines is fictitious. Fo-
HOT AND WARM FOMENTATIONS. 331
mentations, by reducing the inflammation of the stomach, with-
draw the spur from the brain : and the patient, feeling in conse-
quence much lo;:,s of his locomotive propensity, says they are
weakening him. But they are plainly only reducing his bram
to its actual and genuine level of strength by taking from it the
morbid stimulant which gave it .fictitious power. And, mean.
time, the digestive viscera, being strengthened by the reduction
of their inflammation, will, as they improve, afford such natural
stimulus to the brain as will give it a sustained energy. I dwell
upon this, as patients often make complaint, in the first parts of
the water treatment, that they are weaker : these fomentations,
and the wet-sheet packing generally forming those parts; where-
as they are only weaker for a time in the animal nervous system,
but arc becoming permanently stronger in theit· nutritive nervous
system ; and that is the great consideration : strong viscera are
always accompanied by strong brain and spinal cord. It is, how.
ever, neccs~ary to mark well the point at which to discontinue
the use of this remedy; if they be continued one day beyond the
reduction of active irritation, they really weaken, and induce the
headache and other symptoms already mentioned, which attend
their employment at an excessive temperature. In this respect,
the pulse is the best indicator: when it has lost sharpness and its
jerky character, hot fomentations are superfluous, and their con-
tinuance would render it small, weak, and exceedingly irritable.
Hot and warm fomentations form an excellent commencement
to the treatment of those cases, where with active irritation exist-
ing in the viscera, there is such a want of vitality and blood in
the entire body as to render the immediate employment of the
cold remedies adapted for the reduction of that irritation impossi-
ble or hazardous. I have constantly found that in old persons,
delicate females, bloodlP-ss and greatly debilitated patients, espe-
cially in those affected with bronchial aml asthmatic disorder of
the lungs, it became possible to apply the colder remedies of the
water cure by first using these fomentations for a period. A cer.
tain amount of the mal-distribution of blood within was thereby
overcome, and a better circulation to the exterior thereby attain.
ed, which enabled the skin to re-act upon the cold wet sheet,
when it would otherwise not have done so, without much sense
of misery, ut least. Extreme congestion and extreme general
weakness may be thus coaxed, as it were, in commencing the at-
tempt at self-restoration, whilst other means would have over-
33:& PACKING IN DAMP
whelmed them. By their aid I have often been enabled to begin
the treatment of delicate persons in the middle of winter, who
must else have postponed it until summer heat assisted the skin.
When there is a good amount of feverishness present, hot
fomentations, applied for half an hour immediately after a wet-
sheet packing and the rubbing sheet or shallow bath, are excellent
means for seconding the febrifuge qualities of the packing, and
the two together are almost sure to induce perspiration and
terminate the fever.
Local fomentations with hot and warm water are not often re-
quired in chronic disease. In the exasperations ofgouty or rheu.
matic in.ftammaticm of the joints which occur in the course of the
general water treatment, they may be used with advantage, at a
low temperature. At the same temperature they are applicable
in certain skin diseases, particularly in chronic erysipelas. In
bad paroxysmR of neuralgia, they afford relief applied at a high
temperature, the general fomentation being at the same time
employed.
\Vheo, in disorders of obstruction, the efforts induced by the
treatment have gone to the length of causing ~orne degree of fever-
ishness and nervousness, the application of warm fomentations at
bedtime reduces these symptoms, and thus allows the main treat-
ment by the tonic and stimulating processes to be continued.
§ 2. PACKING IN DAMP TowELS AND SHEETS.
The same remark which has been made regarding the weaken-
ing and lowering effect of fomentations applies to this process ; it
is directly lowering, but indirectly strengthening ; it reduces
excess of blood in one m·gan in order to send sufficient to another,
which has too little. Still, it materially reduces the circulation ;
aru.l where that is very feeble, from deficiency of blood in the
whole body, it requires care in application. Hence I have found
it necessary to introduce (for it is not spoken of in works on tho
water cure) the use of towel as well as sheet packing. In very
delicate and bloodless patients, I generally begin packing with a
single towel placed down the front of the trunk : nnd they will
be able to warm this, and not have the circulation so lowered as
when the whole body is enveloped in a damp sheet. By degrees,
as the blood begins to circulate better, I put a towel on the back
as well as the front of the trunk, and so gradually and safely get
TOWELS AND SHEETS. 333
on to the employment of the sheet over the whole body. Another
advantage of this partial packing at first is, that the arms are
free, and this is no slight consideration to nervous and delicate
persons, to whom the constrained and helpless position of the
entire sheet packing is sometimes very disagreeable, and might,
by acting on the nerves, be harmful. By the usc of fomentations
and the towel packing, I have been enabled to undertake and
successfully raise up patients whom, without them, I must have
altogether declined to treat.
The novelty of such a process as wet-sheet packing past, it
becomes one of the most agreeable, because one of tho most
soothing, of all tho water remedies. By it the nerves proceeding
from the brain and spinal cord to the skin, and which are mor-
bidly sensitivo in all chronic diseases, arc relieved, for the
moment, from the irritation of the air, and placed in the mild
atmosphere of warm vapor which is made by the heat of the
body acting on the moisture of the sheet. Instead, therefore, of
irritations proceeding from the extremities of those nerves, spread
over the skin towards the brain, this last is quieted by the tem-
porary withdrawal of them ; so much so, that the patient ordina-
rily sleeps whilst packed, and will sleep then when he could not
sleep without it. On coming out of it, thcreftlre, the nervous
energy of the skin having accumulated strength by the rest thus
given to the nerves, is in the best condition to react upon the bath
which follows. Add to which, that the quietude of the brnin has
freed the viscera from irritations which it sends to them in the
ordinary progress of chronic disease, and thui they, too, are in
the best condition for reacting on the external application of cold.
The whole body has been rested, its organic powers have been
accumulated, and it can now respond to the stimulus to be applied
to its external surface. Accordingly, the shallow or sheet hath
is applied immediately, at an appropriate temperature, and the
result is a rush of blood to the skin ; a rush, be it remarked,
produced by the organic powers of the body itself, and not liable,
therefore, to be followed by a reflux. This process repeated day
after day, and sometimes twice daily, at length fixes a quantity
of blood in the blood-vessels of the outer skin, and thereby
reduces the disproportionate quantity which was congested in the
inner skin or mucous membranes.
"Scientific medical practitioners are aware that there are two
ways of giving health aod strength to a frame laboring unde1
334 PACKING JN DAMP
disease-viz., by relieving the irritation of some particula~ part,
which disturbs and oppresses the other organs, and by dtrectly
giving tone to the really enfeebled. body· . .
" The curative and strcnuthemng operatiOn of the wet sheet
mainIy consists in the forme~ of these ways. In all chronic, as
in ali acute disorders, there is one organ, or series of organs,
whose irritation or inflammation proves oppressive to the other
organs, und the cure is to be found in the reduction of this irrita-
tiou. This fact goes far to explain the very extensive, almost
universal, employment of the wet sheet in disease. Its extraor.
dinary power in allaying irritation is one of the most curious facts
of the \Vater Cure, and of which it is really difficult to give a
full ami satisfactory rationale. 'Vhen properly modified to meet
the actual state of the patient, it may be said to be the most sooth-
ing application that can be administered to the external sentient
surface. It may be compared in its calming effects to a poultice
placed all over the body; but this is only stating a fact in other
words. It carries off feverish heat, and this heat is employed in
converting the moisture in the sheet into vapor; so that the pa-
tient may be said to be in a steam bath of his own making. This
warm vapor settling on the skin, makes it soft and moist, and is
Y
e1·y often mistaken for perspiration ; Lut the wet sheet, used for
the purpose of reducing it·ritation, is not, as a general rule, allowed
to remain long enough to induce swcating,-which is a directly
opposite process, and intended for a different purpose from the
wet sheet. But whatever be the physiological principle upon
which the wet sheet acts, it will. be found, during the treatment
of most diseases by the Water Cure, an indispensable remedy,
and one on which the practitioner can safely rely.
"Being applicable where there is morbid irritation, it is an in-
valuable remedy in all internal and external inflammation, acute
and chronic. In acute disease it is frequently changed, the pa.
tient not being permitted to remain in it longer than suffices to
warm the sheet, which in fever, for instance, may be a quarter
of an hour, or even less. It is thus changed several times con-
secutively, increasing the time as the heat is reduced, and the
shallow bath, cold or chilled, follows. In this process two evident
effects are produced, an imm.ense quantity of heat ia carried off
from the surface, the pul.se becomes sl!ft, andfalls in rapidity.
" After this, when the patient has been some time in bed, tho
heat on the surface again accumulates : but as the internal organs
TOWELS AND SHEETS. 335
have been relieved, and the skin placed in a more favorable state
for perspiration, this last commonly ensues, and Nature relieve6
herself. Should, however, perspiration not take place, and in-
stead of it, a return and continuation of the dry feverish skin, the
wet a-;heeting is recommenced a.s before; and so on every five or
six hour~ perhaps. It should be remarked, that in complaints
which a high degree of fever accompanies, it is generally neces-
sary to employ only three or more blankets for a covering.
" This is the ordinary mode of applying the wet sheet in acute
disease; and its application is only modified in frequency, accord.
ing to the intensity of the feverish or inflammatory symptoms.
'' Among the advantages of this safe, simple, and refreshing
means of reducing fi·ver and inflammation, is that of not causing
any actual loss of strength to the patient, as by bleeding and
strong medicines; and, as a necessary result, it is not attended
by long convalescence or debility.
" But in chronic diseases of long standing, a variety of modifi-
cations arc called for, both with reference to the symptoms origi-
nally presented, and to those which arise in consequence of the
water treutammt.
" Patients often pt·esc.:nt themselves in whom the vital energy is
so woefully lowered by long disease and bad nutrition, with uad
blooJ, that any considerable amount of stimulu::~ would prove too
much for their powers. These persons would ·never at first get
warm in a cold wet sheet, because, as this '\ ithdmws the animal
heat from the surface, the internal parts do not possess vigor
enough to labor to supply that whic.:h has been abstracted. The
pntient, therefore, remains cold and miserable, and is, moreover,
liable to have the hc~ul congested and headache follow on the wet
sheet. In such cascs,-and they are to uc judged of beforehand
by close examination of the peculiarities of the patieut,-it is ex-
pedient to wring the sheet out of warm water, and have it applied
around the body at a temperature of about i0° or 75° ; a tem-
perature which, as it does not suddenly abstract a large amount
of heat from the debilitated body, gives the latter a smaller shock,
and more time and opportunity to supply, by the action of the
internal organs, that which has been lost on the external surface.
Gradually, as, by the aid of drinking water, and uy the reduction
of irritation by the sheet, the internal organs and the skin recover,
and the patient acquires appetite and power of blood-making, the
temperature of the sheet is then lowered until it comes to be ape
386 PACKING IN DAMP
plied quite cold, by which time the heat-begetting power of ~ho
body equals the heat-withdrawin~ power of the sheet; after_wh1ch
the balance is chan"cd, and the body generates more calonc than
the sheet can withdr;w in the time usually given to lying in it.
"For a similar reason, it is necessary in some instances to ap-
ply the wet sheet only over the tru~ of the body, leaving the
extremities, or at least the legs, with the dry blankets around
them. For there are persons whose organic energy may suffice
to supply the surface immediately over the vital organs with ca-
loric, but would fail to do so with regard to the limbs, which are
more distant fmm the active centre of vitality. The sheet is
then made to reach only to the hips; and this is persisted in until,
as in the former instance named, the appliances of the cure in.
crease the amount of organic energy in the body generally. As
this is in progress, more and more of the sheet is gradually ap-
plied over the limbs. As a general rule, it is better not to include
the feet for the first few times of packing in the sheet; the ex-
ceptions being those individuals in whom there is either a great
amount of feverish heat, or the nutrition of whose body has not
been much encroached upon by long disease. This necessary
modification is practised by PRIESS:NITZ to some extent.
"It is not unfrequently necessary to exclude particular portions
of the trunk from the operation of the wet sheet. Thus, in asthma,
for example, the patient is ofttimes able to bear and derives the
greatest benefit from the remedy, when a dry towel is placed be-
tween the skin of the front of the chest and the sheet; when
otherwise he would be unable to get warm in it, and the difficult
breathing would be most distressing. Where also the heart is
nervously irritable, the same application of a dry towel over the
region of that organ is found to render the sheet more bearable
and efficient for good; when the sheet becomes warm, the dry
towel can be put at the side in some cases. But this only applies
to nervous disorders of the contents of the chest; all inflamma-
tory diseases there, from a simple catarrh to the most serious states,
require that the sheet should be in immediate contact with the
surface of the chest.
"There is no case in which this indirect application of the
sheet to the stomach and boUJels is desirable ; it would seem that
that part being the starting point of almost all ailments, both bears
and requires the full operation of this most powerful and wonder.
TOWELS AND SIIBETS. 887
working agent in the water cure. The sheet will always be
found first heated over this region.
" The time in which it is necessary to remain in the wet sheet
must vary with the powers of the individual submitted to it.
Suppose a patient to be forty or forty-five minutes before he feels
thoroughly warm in it, it is generally advisable to leave him for
an hour and tw<'ntv minutes, or an hour and a half from the first
packing. The accumulation of warmth then produces sufficient
circulating power in the skin to re-act upon the subsequent ablu-
tion in the shallow bath or dripping sheet. Moreover, this slow-
ness in wunning in the sheet implies an inveterate degree of irri-
tation and oppression in some internal organ, which therefore
requires a full quantity of the soothing and derivative effects of
the remedy in question.
"\Vhen, however, the patient speedily-that is, in ten or fifteen
minutes-gets thorougl•ly warm in the packing, an hour is the
outside time requisite for him to remain. There are some cases
where even this is too long, and they arc known by headache,
swimming, and sensations of fainting, showing themselves. In
these cases, the in·itntion to be removed not being of that inveterate
kind which interferes with blood-making and heat-making, caloric
soon accumulates, and to such an extent as to cause the sheet to
pass from its soothing to its irritating and depressing stage of
agency ; and the pulse falls so low as to cause irregular circula-
tion in the brain, and the phenomena above mentioned.
'' Between these extremes of peculiarity as regards the action
of the wet sheet, there are numerous shades. But to detect any
of them, and thus to obtain all the good available from the re-
medy, requires not a small amount of medical knowledge and
experience in the practice of the water cure.
"As one great result of the wet sheet is to produce augmented
and healthy secretions from the mucous membranes-especially
the d1~estive-the state of those membranes should be accurately
examined previous to ordering it and during its use. It is by
\'irtuc of this power that it effects such wonders in some cases
of ob~tinate constipation.
"The sec•·ptor) agency of the wet sheet alluded to points out
its impropriety-or the care with which it must he used-in all
case~ where the feebleness of the bowels readily leads to exhaust-
ing diarrhrea.
u So long as there is internal irritation to remove, the patient
16
388 THE SITZ BATH.
goes on daily gaining power of speedily warming in ~h~ ~heet,
and the time for his remaining in it consequently dummshes.
But when irritation is subdued, the wet sheet, if continued too
long, tends to produce the symptoms of depre~sio~ already ~en­
tioned; the patient does not feel comfortable m. 1t, though .•t be
warm . he O'ets out of it weary and weak, and Ius head begms to
' t:l
suffer.
" 1\fany curious phenomena take place in some patients by fre-
quent use of the wet sheet; amongst the most singular is that of
its becoming of a beautiful rose color. This wil1 sometimC's con-
tinue for a week or two, then cease, and in o. few weeks return
again. In other cases, the sheet is found, when taken off the
patient, after an hour's packing in it, to be glutinous, and to have
extracted fretid matters from the skin."
§ 3. THE SITz BATH.
In one of the forms of administration, this is decidedly a lower-
ing bath, and is admirably adapted for the treatment of active
irritations, as well as conditions of obstruction ; so that it is
applicable in almost all cases of chronic, as it is in very many
of acute, disease.
" The sitz bath is used either as a tonic or derivative. In the
former case, it is taken cold, and for a time varying from five
to fifteen minutes, seldom exceeding the latter period.
" The rationale of its operation in this character is sufficiently
simple. The stimulus of the cold causes the blood-vessels of the
part and neighborhood to which the water is applied to contract,
and thereby rid themselves of any excess of blood: and as this
stimulus has not been carried to a great extent, there is very lit-
tle subsequent return of relaxation in those vessels; still there is
some; and it is for this reason that it becomes necessary to apply
the stimulus again after short intervals; short sitz baths always
l'equire frequent repetition, sometimes as often as six or seven
times in the twenty-four hours. It will appear from the above,
that the short or tonic sitz bath is applicable in all cases where
there is an enfeebled or congested state of the parts contained
within the hips ; for instance, in excessive menstruation, leu-
corrhrea, loss of muscular tone, and protrusion of the lower
gut, &c.
u It is, however, more especially for its derivative effect that
THE SITZ BA.TH. 339
the sitz bath is most frequently employed. The class of disor-
ders for which such effect is desirable is far more numerous than
those in which the t()nic result is wished; and it includes some
phases of brain congestion, obstructions of the liver, congestion
of the stomach and its nerves, stoppage of courses, and constipa-
tion of tho lx>wels,-diseased states which include all the forms
of digestive and nervous complaints. Here the stimulus of the
cold is applied so long, that the blood-vessels of the parts contained
within the hips, after a violent tonic contraction, fhll into a state
of great consequent exhaustion and relaxation, whereby a large
quantity of blood is admitted and retained in them. The result is
douOly advantageous; for first, a mass of blood is drawn from the
upper organs of digestion, the liver, stomach, &c., and even from
the head, whose obstruction and congestion it therefore relieved;
and secondly, this blood so made to congest in the lower organs
of digestion, and in the genital and urinary organs, secretes the
matters peculiar to those parts, and thus the bowels are made to
act, and the monthly evacuation of females is removed, and the
functions of the kidneys and bladder are promoted.
" The temperature at which it is fit to take the sitz bath is
important. Its tonic eftect, as already explained, is best and
indeed only obtained by the cold degrees, that is, under sixty
degrees. The degree at which to obtain the derivative effect will
vary with the organic capabilities of the patient, and these the
physician must ascertain by previous investigation. It must also
have reference to the patient's power of taking exercise after it;
for if he remain cold for want of exercise, the tonic and not the
derivative result will ensue; and it has been shown that the cases
for these are diametrically opposite. Patients in a very low con-
dition of vital activity, but in whom it is desirable to produce
derivation of blood to the lower organs of digestion, should in the
first instance be submitted to water of a tepid temperature or
nearly so, and the degree should be lowered as the strength in-
creases. The amount of derivation in such event is not so great
nor so permanent as when water at forty or fifty degrees is used ;
but a judicious practitioner will suit his remedies to his patient's
power, and not go by blind rules. The Water Cure is the cold
water cure only in time and place, and where the individual
peculiarities permit, or the patient has been brought into a state
to benefit by it.
In applying the sitz bath in its tonic character, it is desirable to
340 THE ABI>Oi'tll.NAL COl'ii'KE~~.
use it often ; and Lis, because the r~lax~d blood-ve~el~ of the
viscera of the pelvis may not have tame to fal_l ag~m m~o ~n
exhausted state, and re-admit fresh blood. It as cluefly m tts
de.ri"ative action that it produces a lowering effect, and is there-
fore adapted for ~tates of active irritation of the digestive viscera
and head. By such a bath the pulse is reduced in rapidity and
hardnc~s, to an extent that many would scarcely credit, who think
that bleeding and fox-glove arc the only means of reducing it.
On the other hand, the derivation of blood that is made to the
lowcl' organs of digestion is most powerful, in conjunction with
othe1· remedies of a stimulating character, in removing obstruc-
tions of the liver, spleen, &c. It is in this wny that it cures piles:
it derives from the liver towards the rectum, induces bleeding of
the piles, and thus relieves at once them and their cause in the
liver. Both the short and the long sitz bath have the effect of
quieting the brain and nervous system. In sleepless nights, the
best opiate that can be taken is a cold sitz bath of four or five
minutes' duration, and the sound sleep that certainly follows is
well worth the exertion of the resolution to get up and take it.
I have repeatedly known patients to fall asleep in a cold sitz bath
of long duration, and they always pronounced it a refreshing sleep.
Both the short and the long sitz bath arc beneficial in removing
headaches of a nervous or bilious kind, in staying vomiting,
flatulent spasms, &c. When used to open the bowels, it is well
to rub the abdomen with the wet hand during the last eight or ten
minutes of the bath.
94. THE ABDOMI:'iAL CoMPREss.
In the great majority of cases presented for treatment, I have
not found any superior advantage in the compress which goes all
round the trunk over that which I ordinarily suggest, and which
is applied over the abdomen alone; whilst the 1attPr has the ad-
vantage of being of smaller bulk. The object of the compress
is to produce and maintain over the abdominal viscera an amount
of moist warmth which shall act as a counteracting and soothing
ag£"nt to the irritation which is fixed in those viscera. The sym-
pathies between them and their anterior coverings are exhibited
in various ways, in the acts of emptying the bladder, the bowE>ls,
womb, in spasms of the muscles of the belly, &c.; the irritations
of diatension in those viscera producing violent contraction of the
THE ABDOMINAL COMPRESS. 341
muscles which enclose them. In the converse instance, if cold be
applied to the cxtf'rnal belly, it produces rumbling in the bowels,
expulsion of wind, of urine, contraction of the womb in floodings
of that organ, &c. At all times, under ordinary circumstances,
a degree of contraction obtains in them sufficient to sustain their
contents; a contraction which is due to the sympathy in question.
\Vhcn the calibre of the bowels decreases, as in some forms of
ga.~tro-entcritis, the muscles of the belly cling to them, until the
spine may sometimes be felt through the trunk. \Vhcn leeches
arc applied over a portion of the viscera which is inflamed, the
blood they draw is invariably dark colored and disordered,; draw
it half an inch beyond that portion, and it is vermilion and healthy-
looking. This curious exhibition of the organic sympathy be-
tween the bowels nnd their exterior coverings was first mentioned
by BRoussAis, and I have verified it in a great number of in-
stances during the last fourteen years, partiCularly in cases of
duodenal inflammation and enlargement. It is upon this sympa-
thy between the viscera and their coverings that the action of
the compress is founded. Properly applicJ, therefore, it is a
constant opinte to that constant irritation within which is the
groundwork of all chronic diseases. lienee in almost all those
chronic diseases, it is applicable; but it must by no means be
worn equnlly long by all patients. In some, females particularly,
the sympathy alluded to is so exquisite, that when the internal dis-
order is of a nervous character, the continued employment of the
compress tends to bring on feelings of sinking, hysterical nervous-
ness, &c. In such instances, it should be worn only fiJr two or
three hours at a time, or should be frequently refreshed from cold
water. Others exhibit this close sympathy by the clfcct of the
compress in inca·easiug the secretions of the intestines: I hnve
known strona men, whose bowels would nt uny time act after
~ -
three or four hours' wearing of the compress, as freely as if they
had taken a mild npcrient. Indeed it is in this latter cnpncity
that it is usunlly employed ; although, from what precedes. it is
plainly n narro'' ed view to take of its operation. Its aperient
effect is due to the relief which its soothing and counteracting
action brinrrs to all the viscera of the abdomen, nnd eS(leciallv to
~ .
that portion of their nervous system which regulate~ the functions
of the upper digestive organs. Hence, when those nerves are
exquisitely sensitive, and congestion and obstruction do not exist,
but the nervous condition only, the phenomena of depression al-
342 THE ABDOl\IINAL COMPRESS.
ready mentioned are liable to occur. The same is probable in
any cast?, if the compress be not wrung afresh from cold water
sufficiently fn·quently. . . . .
Aidina thus in the withdrawal of ur1tahon from the VIscera,
the com~ress influences in a very marked manner the function of
the brain and spinal cord, and, through them, the power of the
limbs. In this, as in other particulars, it is a kind of partial wet-
sheet packing. That it soothes the brain and spinal cord is shown
in this, that if freshly applied when sleepless at night, it is as
certain a sedative and narcotic as can be taken. Or let a person
be wearied, jaded with walking or talking, and put on the fresh-
ened compress, he will fiud renewed alacrity. An invalid will
also quickly find the difference between walking with and with-
out the compress, so much does it improve the walking power. In
all these cases it acts by reducing visceral irritation, which kept
the circulation in the brain and spinal cord in the irregular con-
ditions wlaich produce sleeplessness, restlessness and oppression.
Tlaus quieting the brain by the medium of the viscera, it, on the
other hand, causes the brain to cease from sending its morbid
sympathies to the viscera. Its action in this way, however, is
interfered with, if it be allowed to become too hot without being
refreshed. Hence it is not always advisable to wear it at night:
in those who are not constitutiOnally heavy sleepers, it is apt to
break the sleep or render it exceedingly dreamy. On the same
principle is to be explained an extreme state of mental fidget,
which I have occasionally seen it produce, and which disappeared
when it was refreshed.
In many instances of nervous indigestion I have found it best to
take the compress off during and for an hour or so after a meal,
especially the heavy one of dinner; it seemed to increase the
fulncss, &c., of the stomach. I can only explain this by its in-
terfering with the rush of blood towards the stomach, which takes
place when the important function of digestion begins, and requires
so much of the secretarial power of that organ. The heated
compress retains so much blood over the stomach as to counteract
the rush of blood towards it. But in the course of an hour or
two, digestion being fairly in progress, the stomach, congested
with blood, heated, and becoming jaded with its labor, is assisted
out of these disagreeables by a fresh compress, which gives it
~wer to expel flatulence, and draws the now unnecessary quan-
tity of blood from it. When applied to females who suffer from
J'BE ABDOMINAL COMPBBSS. 843
disorder of the upper organs of digestion, but are subject to ex-
cessive menstruation, it is auvisable to confine the compress to the
portion of the abdomen above the naYel. In very excitable but
fPeble persons, it is well to wear it only when walking or on
horsehack.
Sooner or later the abdominal compress causes an eruption of
some kin I on the skin unclerneath it. Before or at the same time
with this, it may bring on an exudation of glutinous matters. In
one case (of bad nervous headache in a lady who had taken enor-
mow:; quuntitil!s of physic for it) I saw an exudation of matters
of a brmvnish hue, which stiffened the compress as if with starch,
and gave out the unqucstiouable odors of colocynth and aloes.
It c·outinuc 1 l\H· one week in varying quantity, then ceased, and
broke out again in five weeks afterwards, continuing for a fort-
uight, and smelling of aloes, gamboge, and at times of camphor.
I Ita\'e otten seen colors aml smelt odors of various kinds pervad-
ing the comprr·ss, hut could never be certain of either beyond the
fact of a strong medicinal smell. In the instance alluded to,
there was not the slightest doubt on the subject.
Local compr<>sses are adjuvants to the abuominal one in certain
maladies. Applied o\'er gouty and rheumatic joints, they certainly
obviah~ a great dcul of the pain and tension attendant on the inflam-
matinn of the unyidding fibrous texture of the ligaments and mus.
culnr ~heaths. In fact, in all local inflammations, they arc useful,
although not curative. But if the pain be of the 11eurnlgic kind,
I hnve not founll them of much use : in nervous gout, for instance,
thPy nrc infinitely less palliative than in the chalky kind: in
toothache from cold they act with wonderful efficacy, whilst in
that of purely ~ympnthctic kind they avail little. Yet in the
paroxysm of sciatica, a large wet compress round the thigh is a
P'"Ptty cFHtain rc·lief to it. Also in the nervous condition of the
neck of tho bladder in males, which leads to the passage of frc-
qnent nnd small quantities of water, ami is often an accompani-
ment of ncrvou~ncs~, the compress to the perineum is of benefit.
In these and wme other instances, it would appear that, if the
nervous pain or irritation is severe enough to involve the surround-
ing tissues in temporary acute inflammation, the compress acts
wcll. For the rest, it is well to apply it to all local pains and
irritations : in most of them it will be very beneficial, and it
never docs hnrm. Like the abdominal compress, the local one
urges the pnrt to exudation of matters and to eruption. The
THI DRIPPING OB. RUBBING SBBE'f•
former generally consists of excessiv~ deposit of cuticle m a
semi-fluid state, and the quantity of th1s taken from the .surface
of a knee-joint in 11 single day would s~~rcely be c.redtted.. I
cannot say that I have met with tl~e I~e,.hcm~l exu?atton of Oint-
ments, &c., prP-\ iously applied, whtch IS mentaoned m some works
as of very common.occurrence.
An excellent locul compress is one applied all over the head,
and well covered with a thick dry night-cap. If the patient has
plenty of hair, it is sufficient to wet that and cover it. In ordi-
nary cold in the head, this compress worn all night is of almost
certain efficacy; the patient awakes with his face bathed in per-
spiration, and the mucous membranes of the nose and eyes free
from irritation, and secreting their usual bland fluid. For fever-
ish headaches and fo1· sleeplessness, this is also a good remedy.
For bronchial cough, a compress is applied over the chest, and
certainly facilitates expectoration; that is, reduces inflammation.
But here the sympathies are even greater than in the abdomen ;
and if retained too long, and without sufficient freshening, it is
apt to induce faintness, hysterical breathing, palpitations, &c. In
sore tltroat, of a purely inflammatory kind, a compress is useful;
but in relaxed ~ore throat it is doubtful, or at least should be very
frequent1y changed.
It is well, during the application of compresses to any part,
to wash it from time to time with cold water, on the same princi-
ple that one washes tho body after packing in the wet sheet, to
strengthen and give tone to the skin.
I believe that a great deal remains to be observed and recorded
concerning the operation of the compress in its general, that is,
its abdominal, and in its local application. I feel convinced that,
in a quiet way, it works a great part of the good result in chronic
disease.
§ 5. THE DRIPPING OR RUBBING SHEET.
This is the first of those appliances of the water cure which
act by stimulating the nerves and circulatory systems of the body.
The remedies hitherto mentioned reduce irritation in tnc organs,
and thereby leave their organic energy at liberty to act, if, after
all, it be sufficient in dcgree,-a point which the practitioner
should be able to determine beforehand. In order to aid it when
thus set at liberty, certain stimulating means are used ; these aro
THE DRIPPING OR RUBBING SHEET. 345
the dripping sheet, cold anll tepid sponging, and the cold and tepid
slutllow bath. \VItcn the state of irritation has passed on to that
of ob;:,lructiun nnJ excessive congestion, and the vis vita is op-
pressed, and unable to act from that cause, or when it is desira.
ble to bring it into such play as to induce a critical and vehe-
nwutly counteracting action on the skin or other great emanato-
ries, other stimulating processes are found for that purpose in the
sweating proct·ss and the douche bath. A minor process having
the same aim is the foot bath.
The dripping )',beet is generally used as a preparative process
fiu· the skiu, if that ot·gan has been hitherto unaccustomed to the
impt·es~ion of watc r below its own temperature ; and the shock is
con1!iidcrably modified by the attendant friction. The blood-ves-
~d~ of the ~k i n contraet in the first instance, and subsequently
relax, admitting more blood into their calibre; a double action,
\\ hid1 i:s reiterutr·d by the friction, until a good amount of blood
is fixed in the !-;l\ in, to be maintained by subsequent exercise.
But brsit.lcs this, stimulating impression is made upon the myri-
ads of nerv1~s of animul life spread over the skin, and derived from
the Lraiu and spiual cord, n10difies the circulation in these last, and,
t111·ough them. uHect:-s the vital energies of the viscera. It is in
this ll HlllllC' I' that it takes off languor, gives alacrity to mind and
limb, cleans away intellectual and moral cloudiness, at the same
tim~ tll'lt it g c'IH'J'ates nppetitc, removes thirst, causes expulsion
of llatulL·ncc, &c. 1\fure than this; its repeated and frequent
use will reduce some of the symptoms of very intense derange.
nu•nt of tlw anil11al uervous system, such ns attacks of tic and
violent .o;pasms of the limbs and trunk. When speaking of the
"et-shcct pucl\ing, I have alluded to the favorable condition in
"hich it plaeed the skin and viscera for the best reaction on the
subscqucut proecss of the dripping sheet. \Vere the patient to re.
lllain just as he comes from the packing, his skin would be very
liuLle to take cold from the operation of the air, the stimulus of
which i'j not strong enough to ensure sufficient re-action. But
when the dripping sheet, with the friction, comes to play upon
tho ~ld: · with itlS organic energy accumulated in the packing, the
re-action is great. th£ blood remains in the skin, and its presence
prc\·ents the taking of cold. Hence it, or some cognate process,
is indispensable after the wet-sheet packing. For this purpose it
is sometimes prudent, in cases of great organic feebleness, to
commence with a tepid sheet, and only gradually reach the cold
16*
346 TRE SH..o\LLO\V BATS.
temperature. But when it is used nlon~, for the purpo~ of r~­
freshina the animal nerves and the bram, or for reducmg theu
painfut'or spasmodic affections, it should nlw~ys be c~ld, and_ the
accompanying friction strong_ and long-cont~n~ed; s1x or e1ght
sheets in succession are sometimes thus admm1stered. To very
delicate persons I often apply, in the first instance, only friction
of the truuk and arms with a wet towel; dry and dress those
parts, and then have the legs rubbed in lilw manner. Re-action
and comfortable sensation may thus be obtained, which would be
wanting were an entire sheet thrown at once over the entire
body. In persons with apoplectic heads such a commencement
is likewise advisable.
As the dripping sheet, although less stimulant, answers in
some degree the objects of the shallow bath, to be present]y men-
tioned, it is a good substitute for it, when that bath is difficult to
obtain, as in travelling. If the1·e be feverish pulse and heat, the
dripping sheet taken at bed-time induces sleep, by relieving the
brain from the irritation of the skin. But if there be no signs of
feverishness, it will rather prevent sleep, by exciting the skin,
which then excites the brain.
§ 6. THE SHALLow BATn.
This application is the next in tonic and stimulating action to
the dripping sheet, and stands between that bath and the douche.
Seated in eight or ten inches of water, with the Jegs extended in
it, the patient is sponged and splashed with the water of the bath ;
or, besides this, has more or less water poured over the shoul-
del·s, and very often over the head as well ; considerable friction
being, meantime, employed. Thus there is a constant displace.
rnent and renewal of water on the surface, and repeated ~timula­
tion is thus applied to its nerves. The dripping sheet differs in
having no renewal of fluid, and therefore affording much less
stinJUlus, and withdrawing much less heat; whilst in the douche
the displacement and renewal of the water is not only more
continuous, but is accompanied by the additional stimulus de-
rived from the weight of falling water. It is thus that patients
suffering from active irritation comrncnce with the dripping
sheet; and, irritation being subdued and better re-action en-
sured, end with the douche. Between these the shallow bath
forms a ver?' useful and widely-ap}Jlicable medium; patients
are longer m that stage of chronic disorder in which they
THE :SHALLOW BA'f.H. 341
can bear the shallow bath than in those stages in which the drip-
ping sheet is sufficient, or the douche too powerful.
"From the silting position in which the patient is placed, the
feet and hips aa·e necessarily more cooled and powerfully acted
upon by the water than the othet· parts of the body. After the
bath, the determination of blood is greatest to the lower extremi-
ti(}s ; and the great nervous centres of the brain and digestive
organs arc relieved by their sympathy with these parts. By the
gen~.:;ral ablution and rubbing, a chill is prevented, and the circu-
latiun etjualizcd on the whole surface of the body.
" \Vhen used alone, it is simply for th~ purpose of maintaining
-vigol'Ous ci1·culation on the surface, and the best time for taking
it is on getting out of bed in the morning.
"EmployPd after the envelopment in the wet sheet, it operates
by indir·ectly fixing the circulation on the external skin. The
wet sheet hns the property of equalizing the circulation of blood
when it is congested on the mucous membrane or in any internal
part, anrl an increased quantity of blood flows towards the skin.
But as the warm vapor, which has been for some time surround-
ing the body when enveloped in the sheet, renders the skin soft
nnd scusiti\'c, it becomes necessary to obviate this by stimulating
the skin with water, and inducing a slight shock, the secondary
cflcct of which shall ue to sP.nd a rushing tide of blood to the sur-
face, and render it independent oftho external atmosphere. Thus
tho hlood is first of all gently drawn to the surface, by the sooth-
ing and gradual action of the wet sheet and the vaporous warmth
that is generated, the skin at the same time being rendered sensi.
live; taking advantage of which sensitiveness, you, in the second
place, induce, by fa·iction in the shallow hath, a rush of blood to
thP. skin; and by repeating this double process day after day, a
healthy and equable circulation is induced throughout the body;
the blood being at length permanently fixed in proper quantity in
tJ•c skin, at the expense of the morbid excess which existed here-
tcfore in the diseased internal part. The more intense and great
fixatua·e of blood in internal parts is, the more frequ~ntly this pro-
cess requires to be repeated and the longer continued. In some
acute inflammations, indced,-as of the lungs or brain,-friction
in the shallow bath requires in some cases to be persevered in for
a len~th of time, after using quickly repeated wet sheets.
" The temperature of the shallow bath, after one wet sheet,
will be regulated by the considerations that have been noted when
speaking of the wet sheet itself.
348 THE SDA ...LOW BATH.
"As a sequel to the sweating process, the shallow bath is em·
ployed to obviate the relaxation of the skin which would infallibly
ensue, were that surface merely dried after the outpouring of
sweat by its blood-vessels. To these last the cold acts as a grate-
ful and beneficial tonic and stimulant ; but the secondary effect
is still to fix a good quantity of blood on the exterior. The dura-
tion of the bath after sweating, varies from two to eight or ten
minutes. The temperature, as a general rule, is always cold;
the frame that is suited for sweating being in most cases able to
bear the common temperature of water.
" For the purposes aimed at in using ablution and friction after
the sheet or blankets, the shallow bath is in almost every particu-
lar preferable to the plunge bath. The plentiful friction produces
an equally great and fixed circulation of blood in the skin ;
whilst the shock of the water being more gradually applied, no
risk is to be apprehended of the brain suffering from the sudden
and violent revulsion which accompanies the plunging up to the
throat in cold water, the skin still glowing with heat. A physi-
cian should well examine his patient's powers, and be well certified
of the integrity and strength of his brain circulation, before he
orders the piunge bath."
The temperature of the shallow bath is regulated entirely by
the patient's organic energy. It is of the greatest importance to
ascertain this; for, to a person of good re-active power, too warm
a shallow bath will prove a cooling and miserable process, and
will be followed by flabby, clammy, am] pale skin ; whilst, if it
be applied too cold to a very debilitated patient, the same results
will follow, but in consequence of a more direct process. In the
former case, the blood-vessels of the skin, not having received
sufficient stimulus, cannot re-act sufficiently, and therefore receive
and retain very little blood ; in the latter case they have received
too much stimulus, have thrown their blood too vehemently on the
internal organs, which, from feebleness, are unable to send it back
again to the skin. Practitioners of the water cure should cer-
tainly refer to these considerations of organic energy in regulat-
ing the temperature of the shallow bath ; but to hear some
practitioners of drug medication, one would imagine that in no
case should a temperature under the boiling point be applied to
the human body ; whereas, if they would take the trouble to learn
by experience, rather than assert in prejudice and ignorance, they
would find that the body, even in a weak state, is capable of re-
THE DOUCHE.
acting on a much lower temperature than even ignorance or pre-
judice would imagine, and they are generally \'ery imaginative
too.* But it is, on the whole, better, in cases of bloodlessness and
emaC'iation, to begin at about 100 or 750, and gradually reduce
the degrees as we may find necessary. The repeated shocks of
renewed water in the sponging and splashing, added to the abun-
dant fl'iction that should be employed, render complete re-action
attainahle at that temperature, at the commencement of even
many extreme cases of the above kind.
§ 7. THE DoucHE.
Under the head of "Shallow Bath," I have referred to the
stimulus afforded to the nerves of the skin by the repetition of
the shock in the acts of affusion and friction, and also to the with-
drawal of heat by the frequent changing of the water in those
acts. The whole result of the shallow bath thus applied is a re-
action towards the surface, and of the pulse, in proportion ,,,.ith
the temperature of the water and the duration of the bath and
friction ; the colder the water and the longer the friction, the
greater the re-action,-always supposing that the body is in
toleruhlc organic strength. But all this is a slow process com-
pared with the douche, to which it has a clo~e resemblance, save
in dt>gree. In the douche, the stimulus afforded by the repeated
changes of water is very much g1·cater, for the water is pouring
incessantly upon the body, and therefore is incessantly changing.
By this, too, a great amount of heat is withdrawn from the surface.
Anrl instead of the friction of the hand employed in the shallow
hath, there is the stimulus imparted by the weight of a column of
water falling eighteen or twenty feet, and varying from one inch
to two inche~ and o. half in diameter.t Besides this, the water is
• Thus two apothecaries swore, the other day, at a coroner's inquest,
that water at S5" Fahrenheit would cause fatal congestion, and spoke of
waf('r at that tempf'rature as a cold bath. They did not swear that they
had seen it produce such a result, only to their belief that it would; but
what is their belief worth without experience? Not so much even as that
of the laccman, who passed him:self off for a doctor and administered the
bath. though accused of manslaughter for so doing. If they had consultE'd
medical writers 011 the subject, they would further have found that 85°
1''ahr. constitutes a t~pid bath.
r I employ douches at Malvern of thE> several diameters of one inch,
two inches, and two inches and a half; the fall being twenty feet.
350 THE DOUCHE.
made to fall tipon the back and along the course of the spinal
cord, when it is used for producing a constitutional change ; al.
thouuh it is also applicable as a topical remedy. The whole
resu~, then, of this incessant change of water, of this withdrawal
of heat from the surface, of this weight of falling water upon a
sensitive part of the body and along the course of the spinal
cord, is to bring on immediate and great re-action of the nerves
of organic and animal life, and consequently of the circulation.
After a shallow bath, this re-action is only obtained after more or
less exercise, and is by no means to the same extent ; but after
the douche, the pulse is immediately quickened, the nervous sys-
tem roused and excited, and the skin reddened and warmed.
Hence it is one of the remedies only applicable to those who
either begin the water treatment with a tolerable amount of vital
energy, or at the latter end of the treatment, when, by means of
the other processes, they have acquired it. Applied moderately
and for a short time, it is tonic to the brain and stomach, and de-
rivative to the skin; continued for a long time and for weeks in
succession, it goes further, and aids in rousing that constitutional
tumult which terminates in a crisis of some kind.
" The douche is a powerful auxiliary to the general treatment,
but its use requires great discretion,-a careful inquiry into the
state of the constitution of the patient, and a knowledge of the pa-
thological state he may be laboring under. It puts the whole
system into a state of activity and excitement, forcing the blood
to the surface, acting on the stomach and bowels, and increasing
the activity of all the functions. \Vhen used at the proper time,
it forwards the crisis that the system may be preparing.
"It is never applicable as long as any amount of local irritation
exists ; and to ascertain the exact point at which, such irritation
being about to cease, the system requires to be stimulated and
aided in its efforts to throw it on the exterior, some tact and ex-
perience is required. If a patient be sent under the douche in
whom there is an inflammatory condition of the stomach, for in-
stance, this will certainly be exasperated, and the head will simul.
taneously suffer. For, as the shock of the falling water is first
. impressed upon the extremities of the nerves which proceed di-
l'ectly from the brain, it is conveyed immediately to the latter
?rgan, which, sympathizing strongly at all times (and especially
m the supposed case) with the stomach, transmits to the inflamed
digestive organ the shock itself received from the skin; and thus
THE DOUCHE.
Drain and stomach are thr ')Wn into disorder at once, and headache,
tremhlings of the legs, somnolence, and sometimes nausea, are in-
duced.
" For the same reason the douche is inapplicable in cases of
apoplectic fulness of the head, though not always so in ccmgestive
or atonic fulness of that organ. And great care is requisite in
determining which of these states predominates. In pure con-
gestion of the brain, unaccompanied by any inflammatory condi-
tion of the digestive canal, well regulated douching is of the first
benefit, and will prevent the palsy of the limbs which more or
less extensively follows if it be left to itself. \Vhereas, the same
in apoplectic fullness would in all probability hasten a seizure;
and unfortunately such has been the result in some establish-
ments where the advice of competent medical men has been dis-
pensed with.
"So also when that species of indigestion is present, in which
the nerves of the entia·e abdomen have lost their power of con-
trolling the circulation there, and now the liver, now the stomach,
nnd again the bowels, nre the seats of transitory inflammations,
and the co-nstant symptom is au irritated or depressed state of
mind, the douche is rarely applicable, or requires to be used with
reference to the passing condition as shown by the pulse, tongue,
&c. ; it may thus be beneficial to-day and injurious to-morrow,
and the physician must exercise his attention and discrimination
accordingly. Such cases are but too ft·equently those which
come for assistance from the water cure, after seeking it for a
long time in vain ft·om other plans of treatment.
" On the other hand, the douche is highly beneficial, and may
be freely employed when, by fomentations, wet sheeting, and sitz
baths, &c., local inflammations of the mucous membranes of the
digestive or ul'inary canals have been subdued, and the tonic
effects of the treatment alone arc required. This is the reason
why it is so seldom used in the outset of the treatment; for the
inflammatory states in question form the basis of the great major-
ity of diseases that are presented to the water cure.
" Again, when the malady of the solid organs of digestion,-
the li\'er, spleen, and sweetbread,---consists in a sluggish reten-
tion of blood in their substance, which impedes their function, and
thus generates slowness and imperfection of digestion, torpid
bowels, &c. ; the state, in short, to which the term ' obstruction'
is commonly applied-in such cases, a stimulus applied to the
352 TH~ DOUCHE.
extremities of the nerves, and transmitted through the whole ner-
vous system rousinrr the circulation, is what is wanted, and is
, 0
well supplied by the douche.
" \Vhen a similar state of' obstruction' exists, and has existed
for a long time in some portion of the brain or spinal cord, main.
taining a state of palsy of more or fewer of the voluntary muscles;
in palsy of some yeat·s' standing, anJ when the appetite and ui.
gestion are good; this application of the douche is of the first con-
sequence. But, as before explained, there must be no local
internal inflammation.
" \Vhen more or fewer of the limbs have been stiffened hy old
rheumatism or gout, und the chronic inflammation and derange-
ment of the digestive organs, which first caused this lamentable
state, has been subdued in a great degree or enti1·ely, tlte douche
plays a powerful part in reproducing that action of the joints
themselves, which affords the natural lubricating fluid in them,
as well as rousing that action in the nervous system which ena-
bles the muscles of the limbs to resume their function, and thus
assist in getting the joints into play again. Here, too, the inter-
nal inflammation must be first of all got rid of; in every case this
. . ~
Is a sme qua 7llm.
"In patients who-from the devastating effects of mercurial or
iodine courses-have that portion of the nervous system which
regulates the circulation and secretion shattered, and the func-
tions of digestion and blood-making are rendered vicious, and the
blood therefore impure and unfit to nourish the body in a healthy
manner, the douche, by powerfully arousing the flagging nerves
in question, and thus causing improved circulation and digestion,
is essential ; in conjunction, however, with other nppropl'iate parts
of the water treatment.
"Such is a very brief outline of the conditions of body which
require or are opposed to the employment of this powerful agent
of the water cure. Circumstances of the pulse, the nervous
energy, and of the skin, may and do from time to time arise in
the course of a general malady, which cull upon the practitioner
to usc the douche for a few days and then stop; but it is impos-
sible to detail those circumstances in any bool<, however extended;
medical precision and tact, combined with experience, alone can
appreciate them.''
The local application of the douche all'lo requires consideration.
The particular pha.C~Je of the disorder in the part should be ascer-
THE SWEATINfi PKOCESS. 358
tained, and the quantity of douching well adapted; otherwise
the chanceH are, that an inflammation almost extinct may be
roused into activity. I have seen this happen in the knee of one
of those clever persons who fancy that, because the remedy is
plain water, and is not written in Latin, every one is a good judge
of its application ; he vigorously douched n joint from which all
pain and swelling had gone, and in which stiffness only remained;
the inflammation, pain, and swelling re-appeared, and he was ill
with it for many weeks. .Moreover, the douche is a part of an
entire treatment, and cannot be applied locally with benefit unless
the viscera have been reduced in their irritation; all the douch-
ing in the w01·ld will not cure a chronically diseased elbow or
shoulder, if the stomach and liver secrete morbidly. The ordi-
nary rule is to apply it on the back and spine for a giVfm time,
so as to affect the whole body, and then to use it for a period to
any part of the body which may require it.
§ 8. THE SWEATING PROCESS.
In this process, the excitation of the whole nervous system and
of the circulation is pro(luced by accumulated lteat applied to the
surface ; and although in this it differs from the douche, which
excites by the incessant application of cold, the result upon the
functions in question is pretty nearly the same. The douche,
however, implies the greater amount of visceral ~nergy, since the
excitement is n reaction on the immense and rapid withdrawal of
heat from that surface, and on the indirect !:ilimulus thus afforded;
but in the sweating process, the direct stimulus of heat is applied
to that surface, excites and irritates the nerves of the skin, that
excitement nml irritation are conveyed, by sympathy, to the
brain nnd viscera, und both then labor to drive blood towards the
skin sufficient to force and supply a copious perspiration. By
Yirtue of this exciting action the sweating process is rightly
esteemed one or the most effectual means of rousing torpid and ob-
structed ,·isccra into activity, by throwing an immense amount of
irritation on the exterior surface, and thus leaving their function
in better state to be enacted. Hence it is especially useful in tbe
turgid ancl congested conditicms ofthe liver, whether those induce
indigestion with jaundiced skin, or gout, or rheumatism, or dropsy;
in all these it acts by rousing the circulation, calling a great
amount of blood and excitement to the surface, and thus pro.
354 THE S\\ E.ATING PROCESS.
ducing derivation in favor of the obstruc~ed vh..cu~. How t?e
relief of this diminishes the symptoms whiCh constltl.lte the diS-
eases in question will be seen under those particular heads.
Patients who come to try the water cure have generally been
told by their previous medical advisers, that "they may try the
sweating process, but upon no account the wet-sheet packing."
This has happened so often, that it has ceased to amuse or
astonish me by the ignorance of physiology displayed in it. The
truth is, that if there be one process of the water cure more easily
abused, and therefore more dangerous than another, it is the
sweating process. Compared with the wet-sheet packing, it is a
hazardous remedy, for it excites and taxes the nervous and circu-
lating systems in an extraordinary manner, whereas the wet
sheet soothes them in an equally extraordinary manner; and I
apprehend that the patients who require soothing arc infinitely
more numerous than those who can bear to be excited in the
head and about the heart. Accordingly, the sweating is to be
avoided whenever there is active irritation of the viscera or
feverish symptoms of the skin, pulse, mouth, &c. Thus it is im-
proper in common cold and influenza; it aggravates them,
whilst the wet sheet is rapidly beneficial.
"In most cases where there is a determination of blood to the
head, or where there is reason to suspect the existence of chronic
disease in the brain, the sweating must be practised with very
great care and discrimination. Where there is extensive chronic
inflammation in the digestive mucous membrane,-in some case8
of hypochondriasis, irritability of the heart, nervous debility, &c.,
this process must be deferred, or not used ut all. \Vhere these
contra-indications do not exist, and the sweating still produces a
loss of flesh, or an increased state of irritability-when the patient
does not feel well, and obtains full re-action after the bath, in
such cases it is advisable to discontinue it.
" \Vith the repetition of this process, great changes take place;
at first the perspiration is small in quantity, clear in its nature,
and difficult to be produced; as the patient advances, it becomes
more profuse, and impregnated with the most disagreeable odors,-
viscid and glutinous,-{)f a dark yellow and even brown color,
and sour, fretiJ, &c., in its smell. When these morbid pheno-
mena appear, the perspiration may be considered of a critical
nature. As a general rule, where there is no evident reason
why this process should not be used, sweating, followed by the
THE SWEATI5i PROCESS. 355
cold bath, is not debilitating; what is lost in one way is repaired
in another. The appetite is so much increased, and the functio~s
of the skin and digestive organs so improved, that the loss of a
little fluid by sweating has only a salutary effect. Fat is replaced
by hard elastic flesh, and languor and debility give way to a state
of cheerfulness and activity.
"It is necessary to bear in mind that it is not the mere pouring
out of sweat that relieves or cures disease. \Vhat is desired to
be done by the sweating process, is to rouse the system to those
efforts of cure which constitute the peculiarity of treatment by
the water cure. The sweat poured out is only an indication that
these efforts huve been made ; in the same sense that the crisis is
only an indication of similar efforts on a more continuous scale.
Hence, if we find that the process taxes the patient's powers, and
especially his head, it is proper, for the first time or two, to take
him out of the blankets and use thP bath, when a considerable
heat has accumulated in the skin, and bifore any sweat has flowed.
In this manner we are enabled to coax, as it were, the skin into
sweating, without exciting the brain and nerves in a harmful
way; for after a few trials of this kind, the skin opens and gives
out its fluids, without any injuriou~ straining of the system.
"Another way to counteract the headache which sometimes
attends sweating, is to place a towel well wrung out of cold
water, over the slomach a11d bowels, and then envelove the patient
for the process. A brisk walk, or a light meal, taken two or
three hours previously, ofttimes too curtail the process; but it is
generally better to obtain the sweat without those aids; it is then
more entirely the work of the system ; there is less offorcing in
it ; it is more natural, and therefore more beneficial."
The usual water-cure mode of inducing perspiration is by ac-
cumulated blankets tightly bound round the patient. I confess
to have been ~trongly prejudiced in favor of this mode and against
nny other, from a helief that the general excitement of the sys-
tem, as shown in quickened pulse, &c., and which it is so essen.
tinl to produce, could only be roused by the gradual accumula.
tion of the body's own heat in the coverings alluded to. I have
subsequently had occasion to throw aside this prejudice, in
consf.'quence of having ascertained, by repeated experiments,
that a hot air bath (from which, however, the head is carefully
excluded) causes all those phenomena of nervous and circula.
tory excitement in equal degree J the pulse in both cases rising
----
356 THE 'SWEATING PBOCBSS.
from twenty to thirty beats in the minute, until the breaking out
of perspiration. And not a small advantage of this air bath is,
that it occupies from thirty to forty-five minutes, whilst the blan.
ket packing is a business of tlu·ee to five hours. Still, the head
is taxed in both; and it is therefore sometimes advisable, as al-
ready stated, to begin by simply heating the patient in blankets,
and by degrees advancing to the full perspiration. \Vhere it is
desirable to actually purge the skin, as in chalkygout, in old rlteu.
matism, and sometimes in dropsy, the air bath has the decided ad-
vantage of causing and keeping up a more profuse sweat. On
the other hand, when we only desire the sweat as an evidence of
excitement, and the warmth of weather curtails the blanket pro-
cess, it may be as well to employ it.
But this hot-air bath, with the exclusion of the head, is a very
different thing from sweating, as has been done, in rooms heated
to 150o of Fahrenheit, the patient breathing air at that degree of
temperature.
" The inhalation of hot and dry air is in every way deleteri-
ous. It cara·ies off all the moisture that ought to lubricate the
windpipe and air passages of the lungs, and thus renders the mu.
cous linings of those parts especially sensitive. Not only so, the
immediate contact of the stimulating atmosphere with the sensi-
tive lining of the air-tubes was never intended by nature, and the
mucus is poured out for protection from such contact. Accord-
ingly, this hot, dry air, by abstracting the moisture, tends to pro-
duce cough and sense of stricture about the chest. This was the
leading objection to the use of Arnott's stove in chambers, as all
may remember; and it was a very valid one.
" But farther, it is in complete opposition to the principles of
the water cua·e to inhale heated air at all. Rightly proceeding on
the doctrine that the blood is to be rendered healthy, so as to
permit the body to work its own restoration, the admission of pure
cool air into the lungs for the purpose of oxygenizing that fluid
is above all essential. Now, hot aia· being rarified, does not
contain one half the oxygen that cold air does, and the blood con-
sequently loses just by one-half its vivifying and strengthening
agency : the dark blood from the veins is not sufficiently changed
by the air, and a blood unfit for the purposes of life is allowed to
flow through the body, and especially in the brain, where it con-
gests, and produces the tense headache that attends the inhalation
of hot air. The consequence of all which infallibly is, that when
THE SWEATING P&OCBSS. 35'J
rheumatism, and one or two other complailt.s, are relie'Ded by
this hot-air sweating (and they have been so relieved), their return
may be relied upon; no cure has been effected, because the very
first principle of cure,-the formation of a healthy, rich blood, to
enable the body to effect its own restoration,-has been sinned
against. lt is one of the abuses of the water cure that ought to
be deprecated by all who understand that cure and wish its
success.''
An essential sequence to the sweating process is a cold bath,
either thP. shallow bath, or the plunge or douche. The object is
to restore to the skin the tone which it has lost, for the time, by
the direct application of heat, and by the excessive play of its
function in sweating. The water should therefore always be
cold : and for another reason. It is desirable to make an impres-
sion on the centres of the nervous system, in those maladies in
which the sweating process is proper, and this is most effectually
made by the impression of cold on the ~kin at the moment when
it holds an immense amount of heat, and is ready to transmit
quickly and precisely the stimulus of the cold : the brain, mean-
while, having been put into a position to receive and readily react
upon any such impression on the extremities of the nerves of the
skin. The result of the impression and rP.action is an amount
of light and exhilarating feeling, that cannot fail to act favorably
upon the parent mischief, and is, at the same time, a symptom of
its relief. In old standing pa.l.sy, I have employed the douche
after the sweating with much benefit : it is much more effectual
than the plunge baths, the action of which is not so. striking as
might be expected.
I will not stay to answer the very old and long exploded objec-
tion to the application of cold water when the skin is damp with
perspiration procured in a pas$ive state of the body. Old ladies
of both sexes, who ha\·e nevet· seen it employed, hold by the danger
and destruction that attend it; but their opinion may be profitably
exchanged for that of persons who, like myself, see it done every
day with no particle of danger, and with considerable benefit.
The hot, comfortable blankets in which such old ladies rejoice,
require, as I have said, more care in administration than the cold
bath which follows them.
358 FOOT AND HAND BATHS, .lND
9 9. FooT AND HAND BATHs, AND MINoa ABLUTIONS AND F:axc.
TIONS.
Whilst the preceding processes of the water treatment have
been mourned over as most dangerous, foot baths and hand baths
have been ridiculed as most inert. Practical investigation, hew.
ever, sets aside this objection; one instance in which a cold foot
bath has relieved a nervous headache or toothache, or in which it
has warmed the feet, is worth a thousand assertions about the ab-
surdity of such a remedy from ignorant inexperience. Besides,
physiological facts are in favor of its power in acting sympatheti.
cally on the function of the brain and spinal cord, and, through
them, on the viscera. The feet and hands, the soles and palms
especially, contain an accumulation of animal nerves and of blood.
vessels which is not equalled by any portion of the exterior of the
body. This is necessary to them as the organs of touch and pre.
hension, and of station and walking. In these characters a very
large quantity of animal nervous matter is essential to them, in
order to bind them by the closest sympathies with the great cen-
tres of thought and volition, so that their applications and move.
ments may be accurately directed by the mind. Disease shows
this close sympathy: in no part of the body does pain appear in
more exquisite form than in the maladies of the feet and hands,-
witness goul and whitlow. Lock-jaw, an evidence of the most in-
tense irritation of the brain and spinal cord, is more frequently
induced by wounds of the feet and hands, particularly the former,
than by those of any other part of the frame. The least tickle-
some persons prove exceedingly so when the operation is per.
formed on the soles of the feet and palms of the hands. \Vhen
the brain is oppressed and stupor has overcome it, to what part
are stimulating remedies applied for the purpose of relieving its
circulation, after all other applications haw~ failed 1 To the con-
geries of animal nerves in the sole of the foot. When the brain
is faint, where are reviving remedies most effectually applied 1
To the congeries of animal nerves in the palms of the hands.
These considerations are worth recalling when the efficacy of
foot and hand baths is in question. They aid the numberless
facts which attest the power ofthose remedies in relieving a vari-
ety of nervous conditions-pain, lassitude, fidgets, &c., which
show an irregular or c'lngested state of the circulation in the
brain and spinal cord. But inasmuch as they remedy the circu-
IIUNOR ABLUTIONS AND FRICTIONS. 359
lation in those animal nervous centres, they also act upon the
ganglionic nervous centre in the digestive organs ; and it is found
accordingly that flatulence, nausea, sinking, gnawing and other
morbid sensations about the stomach, are materially relieved by
foot and hand baths. And with this double relief, freshness and
alacrity are imparted to the frame generally. By this beneficial
operation they assist the more general means of the water cure,
although themselves only palliative of particular symptoms. Y(;t
how necessary is this subjection of smaller symptoms in tl.e
course of chronic disease! Sometimes they are the coups d'epin-
gle, which exasperate the leading malady into an incurable
inveteracy.
The shock and friction of the feet and hands in these baths
has, for a secondary result, the attraction and retention in those
parts of a great quantity of blood, and, consequently, of increased
temperature there. In fact, a cold foot bath of twelve or fifteen
minutes, followed by a walk of half an hour, is the most certain
way to warm the feet that can be devised; just as, per contra,
the most certain way to ensure cold feet is to soak them in hot
water. The same applies to the hands. \V hen the patient is in
condition to take it, a walk is necessary to obtain the circulating
re-action alluded to. When he is not, and the action of a foot
bath is desirable, I usua11y order some mustard flour to be added
to the cold water, and prolonged dry friction with rough towels or
brushes to succeed the bath : this seldom fails to cause re-action
and warmth. In either case, the warmth remains for several
hours. Vcry frC'quently I have heard persons say, they have not
known cold feet since they began to take cold foot baths.
It is necessary to bear in mind, that the water should not be
deeper than the feet. The object is to gradually warm the water,
and thus render the re-action gradual and permanent; and this
would not happen with too large a quantity. A small quantity
of snow rubbed upon a frost-bitten part will gradually restore it,
'-¥hen a large quantity of ice, or, on the other hand, boiling water,
woulrt annihilate vitality at once. It is preferable that the feet
should be rubbed by an attendant and not against each other,
especially in nervous nnd debilitated persons, in whom the exer.
tion would be likely to mar any good to be anticipated from t.ne
re-action.
Partial ablutions and frictions are beneficially employed oa
360 WATER DRINKING.
other parts of the body against individual symptoms. The heM
bath is an instance: when the brain is wearied and the whole
body fatigued, it is most reviving to keep the bach: of the head
up to the ears in cold water for five or eight minutes. Beyond
this I have not found, from this topical bath, any of the astound.
ing results that have been attributed to it by some writers. 'Vhere
there is the smallest tendency of blood to the head, it, at least,
does as much harm by the strictly horizontal position it requires
as it can do good by the abstraction of heat from the scalp.
In local spasmodic pains, continued friction with the hand and
constantly renewed cold water is very effectual ; a cloth fre-
quently dipped in the water will do, but on the whole the hand is
better; why, it may be hard to say. In this way I h11ve put an
end to sudden and severe neuralgic pains of the knees and
shoulders ; and even to bad nervous headache by frictions on the
nape of the neck. I have relieved spasmodic state ofthe urethra
by friction and ablution of the loins and downwards, where
the nerves going to the urinary organs are given off by the
.
spme.
In relaJ:ed s01·e throat, relief will be found from pouring a stream
of cold water on the nnpe of the neck and letting it run over to
the front of the throat, the patient holding his head over a basin.
This should be continued for th1·ee or four minutes; wet fl'iction
should then be used for eight or ten minutes; and the whole pro-
cess repeated twice or thrice a day.
§ 10. WATER DRINKING.
All the prebeding details of the water cure effect a change in
the nervous energy of the body and in the distribution of its
blood. We now come to those details which more immediately
operate in changing the quality of the blood ; and these are water
drinking, food, air, and exercise.
I have already (page 317) given my reasons for repudiating the
indiscriminate prescription of large water drinking in the cure
of chronic disease. A great number of cases-of nervousness,
for instance-depend on irregular distribution of blood alone.
In such, large quantities of water are decidedly injurious, they
augment the nervousness tenfold. In another set of cases--those
with blood tending towards the head-they are decidedly danger-
ous. Again, when the patient has a very irritable pulse, aad is
WATER DRINKING. 36!
constitutionally a person of vivid sensations, large water drinking
is rarely admissible. Prom three to six tumblers daily are the
limits in such inl"tnnces as the above ; and that should be taken
in very divided quantities, a wine-glassful at a time being often
as much as is good. In all these cases, as well as in some of the
wor~t instances of nervous indigestion, the great centre of the
nutritive nerves is so exqui~itely sensitive, that the shock of even
half a tumbler of cold water upon the stomach is transmitted to
the brain and there causes giddiness, confusion, nervous aching,
&c., and this the more certainly the lower the temperatum of the
water. On this account I have now and then raised the water
to 550 or 580, when the driuking of it was indispensable, until
the nerves of the stomach became more able to bear the natural
temperature ; and have been consoled for the heresy therein im-
plied Ly the benefit therefrom obtained. For, as the external
remedies derive from the interior to the exterior of the body, the
stomach becomes less sensitive, and both the temperature and the
dose may be carefully increased. This stimulating property of
cold water taken internally should always be l'ept in mind.
Most of those who know nothing, but asse1t a great deal, about
the water cure, say that water drinking lowers the powers of the
body, whilst many professors of the water cure order such extra-
vagant doseR of it as to make one think they consider it a very
weak agent. Both en in not recoguizing the stimulating charac-
ter alluded to, and which requires due apportionment to indh·idual
cases. The cold of the water stimulates the blood-vessels of the
mucous membrane, and expels the blood from them. For this
reason it is that it is necessary to drink some water after
every bath, this last always C!lusing a flow of blood, for the
time, towards the internal membranes, to remedy which,
cold water is drunk aud exercise taken immediately. In-
deed, without these precautions, the external processes would
fail in half their good effect, or be positively harmful. But if the
blood-vessel~ of the mucous membrane are excessively irritable,
this stimulation by the cold may cause violent reaction in them,
and thus actually increase the quantity of blood in them. Here,
then, is a reason for care in the quantity of cold conveyed h...Y the
water to the stomach. ·Further, the cold of the water stimUlates
the extremities of the nerves which come from the brain and
spinal cord to the muscular coat of the stomach, and convey sen-
sations to and from those purts. The result of this stimulation
17
862 WATER DRINKING·
is contraction of the muscular coat, and this conlraction constitute.
hunger, one of the well-known consequences o_
f cold.water dri~k­
ing. But here, again, if too much cold be apphed, th1s con~ract10n
will amount to spasm of the stomach, an event I have w1tnessed
in not a few instances of persons who treated themselves by
certain water cure treatises, which record the wonderful effects
of wonderful imbibitions of cold water.
Added to the stimulus of cold is the stimulus of weight, which
so heavy a liquid as wate1· cannot fail to afford; and together with
the weight, the bulk should be considered. It is true, that absorp-
tion of the water speedily takes place ; but it is more or less
speedily, according to individual peculiarities. Vcry many suf.
ferers from nervousness and nervous indigestion will give marks
ot very slow absorption, by rejecting a portion of the water after
an hour or more. Absorption is quickened by exercise : but if
the patient be distressed by too large a quantity of water taken
at once, exercise becomes a painful or impossible thing to him.
Between the inordinate stimulation of cold and of weight and
bulk, the stomach distresses, and almost paralyses, the brain and
seat of the will; whereas, if taken in proper quantity, water is
one of the most effectual sustainers of the animal nervous system
and of locomotion; many persons, whom walking before break-
fast would distress, are enabled to do so with comfort and alacrity
by taking small draughts of cold water. Here, then, is another
reason for discriminating in the prescription of water drinking.
Supposing the water absorbed and carried into the circulating
blood, it then proves a stimulus to every capillary blood-vessel in
the body. It thus quickens the great functions of nutrition, of
depus1t, and of waste, which are carried on in these minute and
mysterious extremities of the wondt·ous circulating system.
Quickening their office, it also quickens that of their great
centre-th(: heart, and the pulse becomes more rapid with copi-
ous water drinking. But as a large proporlion of the capillaries
of the body exists in the brain and spinal cord, their increased
(unction in those organs proves a source of augmented nervous
phenomena, the sensations becoming generally more vivid, and
processes of digestion, &c., going on in the viscera being felt,
whiclt the brain had previously failed to recognize. Some excita-
tion of the nervous system is unquestionably unavoidable in the
course of rousing the self-restorative power of the body; but the
exposition I have briefly offered of the mode in which water
WATER DRINJONG. 363
drinking operates on the nervous and circulating systems may
warn persons, as yet uninformed of the science of the water cure,
from the folly and hazard of prescribing or taking the huge doses
of water which were at first thought and taught to be essential in
all cases of disease.
Still, as I have all along repeated, there are cases of torpid,
obstructedfunction, in which it is both safe and necessary to pre-
scribe copious water drinking. In these, nothing short of consi-
derable stimulation of the nervous and circulating systems by the
cold, the bulk, and the action in the capillaries implied by the
• water, suffices to bring into play the conservative power of the
body. But there is nothing to fear for the head or heart in such
cnscs; the functions of both are far too much oppressed to be
suddenly driven to the other extreme. Yet in no case is it de-
sirable to swallow the twenty or thirty tumblers before breakfast
which we are told are so delightful and refreshing; it is to be
hoped they weru tumblers of short measure.
From what precedes, it is plain that water should be drunk in
that state of the stomach which best fits it to receive and to
transmit its stimulus, as well as to absorb it most readily. If the
stomach docs all these readily, a smaller quantity of water pro-
ducC!s an equal result with a larger quantity in a less favorable
condition of stomach. When the stomach is empty, and has been
so for several hours, its nervous as well as its absorbent energy
has accumulated, and the water stimulates, and is absorbed with
alacrity. \Vhen the brain has beeu at rest for several hours,
it and the whole nervous system are in the best state for
receiving stimulation from the stomach. Accordingly, these con-
ditions obtaining for both organs in the early morning, after sleep
and before breakfast, that time is best fitted for water drinking,
the principal portion of which should therefore be practised then.
In other parts of the day, for a like reason, water should be taken
three or four hours after meals, and after every bath or process
whatever. Exercise of some sort should follow the drinking, in
order to promote absorption. If very much heated wi,th exercise,
the water should be drunk very slowly. In most cases of mucous
indigestion, a tumbler of very cold water taken in sips an hour
and a half after a meal, or even earlier, assists the stomach, heated
and jaded by the process of digestion, in its laborious function :
this is the only exception that I am aware of, to the rule of drink.
ing with the stomach empty.
364 AIR AND EXERCISE.
The rubbish which is talked about water drinking causing
dropsy, thin blood, weak stomach, &c., is disposed of in the
Appendix.
§ 11. AIR AND EXERCISE.
As in the preceding article, so in this, I am compelled to anim.
advert on the indiscrimate rule, or rather no-rule, that has been
impol·tcd into this country. or air, indeed, it may be said, that
an invalid cannot have too much, provided it be of the right tern.
perature and hygrometric quality ; seated or exercising, let him
take as much as he pleases. But this is not the climate for such
happy combination of atmospheric qualities, and to thrust all pa-
tients alike into all winds that may blow is heroic, but may prove
hurtful to some ofthem. Still, anything like" coddling" should be
avoided; patients should have abundance of air, and it is only
necessary to regulate well the outgoings of asthmatic, pulmonary,
and certain neuropathic persons, who should especially avoid east
and southeast winds and night air. The morning air, like the
morning sun, is the finest in its operation on the nervous system,
and that system is then in the best position, after sleep, to receive
its influence. The walk before breakfast is therefore the most
requisite of any in the day. The air of towns is inimical to the
cure of chronic disorders, except some rare instances of that pro-
tean disease, asthma. That of hills is the best, because the most
dry and the most stimulating ; and it thereby effects the greatest
changes in the blood. Low situations, and even high situation~
with a clayey, retentive soil, mar very much the curative
process.
The air of rooms in which patients under the water cure sit
should never, even in the winter, exceed 55° or 58° ; and even
lower is desirable. That of their bed-rooms should be ten or fif.
teen degrees lower, and indeed can scarcely be too cold. When
the body is warm with bed-clothes, air at 35° or 38° is much
more conducive to sleep than that at 65° or 70°, to which tem-
perature t,;ome persons raise the atmosphere of their bed-rooms.
Everybody (especially excitable neuropathic invalids) sleeps
better in winter than in summer.
With regard to exercise, it must be regulated entirely by the
state of the patient's nervous system, and by the food he takes
and digests. If there be none of that nervousness which begets
AIR AND EXERCISE. 365
tremulousness of mind and body, and if the stomach allows of the
digestion of a fair quantity of meat and other nutritious articles,
the patient ought to walk a good deal in order to dissipate the
nervous energy and the aliment. To tell persons to live low and
take constant exercise, or, on the contrary, to feed them highly
and keep them on the sofa, with the view of strengthening them
(as I have known to be attempted), is an absurdity of which one
would imagine an educated physician incapable, did we not hear
sometimes of the injunction to "walk, walk, walk," being laid
indiscriminately upon all patients alike. Only consider what
parts arc drawn upon in the actofwalking. You bring into play
the scat of the will, the brain, and spinal cord ; examine, there-
fore, what is the condition of those parts, whether it be one of
irritation and excessive function, or of oppression and deficient
function ; if the former, you most unquestionably increase the
irritation by exercise of the will in long walking, just as you
would inflame your eyes by prolonged use of them ; if the latter,
you do right to urge the will into action, in order to overcome the
oppression. But when you excite the brain and spinal cord by
walking, you excite, by sympathy, the great organic centre at
the digestive organs; so that it behoves to consider the state of
those organs, whether it be one of irritation and excessive func-
tion, or of oppression and deficient function. Now it so happens,
that these conditions of the digestive organs correspond with
similar states of the brain and spinal cord, and that therefore the
same rule, as regards exercise, applies. Thus, in nervous indi..
gestion, it is not well to take long walks or great exertion, for
stomach and brain arc acutely sensitive; whilst in congested
liver torpor pervades both it and the seat of the will, which should
therefore be exerted in a strong and prolonged manner. Not
only so; exercise wastes the blood and the nervous energy of the
frame, and whence is a fresh supply to come 1 From the food
which the stomach is to digest. But if the stomach cannot digest
much food 1 \Vhy, then you must not waste that which the food
and blood supply more quickly than they can renew it. And
this bt·ings me to the proposition with which I started, that the
amount of exercise must be regulated by the nervous energy,
nnt.l the quantity of food taken and digested. I know it is pro.
posed, ant.l in some places acted upon, to eat a great deal, to walk
incessantly, and to employ an immense quantity of the roughest
portion of the water cure, in all cases. Very possibly this sue.
366 DI.ET.
ceeds; but I know it cannot succeed without a vast amount of
disagreeables to be borne by the patient ; and I also know that
cure is obtained with a regulated amount of those means, and free
from the "reater part of the disagreeables.
With this rule regarding exercise, the practitioner will deter.
mine whether walking, riding, or driving, be the appropriate form
of it, and the amount of each. In the Second Part I have stated
the details of this matter in each malady treated of. It is only
necessary to add here, that in all cases where the patient's limbs
are in condition to walk at all, more or less of that exercise should
be taken after each bath ; or failing the capability of walking,
artificial exercise, in the shape of considerable friction of the
limbs, should be practised.
§ 12. DIET.
Some writers on the water cure have made a boast, that no
restrictions in diet are required in that mode of treatment. There
can be no doubt that, in the water cure, the appetite and diges-
tive powers augment so rapidly, that at an early stage of the
treatment food can be taken more freely than in other plans of
treatment: all the appliances have that tendency. But, on the
other hand, experience gives me no room to doubt that, by appro.
priate rpgulation of the diet to each case, restoration is secured in
much less time, and with much less of that constitutional tumult
which harsh practice rouses. Accordingly, I have to forbid
some patients the use of animal food three or four days in the
week, and others for a week together: to some I forbid all pud-
dings, even farinaceous, after meat : to others all vegetable mat-
ter but bread, &c. All this is subject for weekly or even daily
change ; and it is impossible to lay down rules applicable to all
cases. Two facts I have particularly noticed, that in some in-
stances of digestive disorder the stomach tolerates best stimulating
food, which contains a good quantity of nutriment in a small
Lulk, such as meat, bread, beans; and that in other instances it
is advisable to avoid food of concentrated stimulus, and take that
which contains smaller amount of nutriment in a larger bulk, as
is the case with vegetable matters. As a general fact, it may
be said that nervous disorder of the digestive organs is less tole.
rant of bulk than inflammatory disorder ; nothing oppresses a
nervous dyspeptic so much as a mass of vegetable matter ; wh.ilat
DIET. 36'7
animal food, put into nn inflamed stomach, causes local pain, and
exquisite restlessness and distress generally. The practitioner,
therefore, has to determine the particular state of the digestive
organs, and then choose between nutriment in a small space,
which stimulates hy its concentration, and nutriment spread over
a large mass, which stimulates by its bulk. Again, as to quantity,
he must be especially careful on this head, as on it depends the
amount of exercise and of water processes. Here, again, it is
idle to attempt a general recommendation, except it be that it is
sof(•r to uc under than over the mark. In no part of the physi-
cian's office is more acuteness, firmness, and precision required,
thnn in this affair of dlet. Persons who would shrink from the
utterance of o.n untruth in all other things, do not scruple to evade
and deceive in this ; as if conscious of the extremity of mental
fePhlenc..s displayed in the incapability of resisting the desire
which babies and brutes gratify without control. When in good
health and strong c
•xercise of body, it matters little as to the kind
of food which man takes, nor is it desirable to starve; that would
place him in the worst condition for resisting the causes of dis-
case ; and there is some truth in the lines,
" Gross riot treasures up a wealthy fund
Of plagues, but more immedicable ills
Attend the lean extreme."
Rut when the " plagues" have arrived, it uehoves to act upon
the rule of giving the stomach-the centre and sustainer of all
plagues-as little to do as possible, compatibly with the support
of the body and with the amount of its exertions, and thus afford
it the best chance of recovering itself; which, as I have all along
said, is the only recovery worth obtaining. This rule, then,
excludes all things that minister rather to the palate than to the
body's support ; but there are a great many good things among
those which a patient in the water cure, and who eats only for
the sustenance of his organs, may take. To show this, I append
a list of lauful articles of diet, and I maintain that it ought to suf.
ficc fot· all except those to whom "in solo vivendi causa palalo eat,"
who live but to ent, instead of eating to live. But lest things not
mentioned should be construed into lawful, I subjoin a list of
articles which are unlawful.
368 DIET.
DIET TABLE FOR PATIENTS UNDER WATER TREATMERT.
1. TID~GS PERMITTED.
Soups,-Plain beef, mutton or chicken broth, or with the addition of
carrots, young peas, cauliflower, rice, vermicelli, semoule, sago, pearl
barley, or other farinaceous substances, but without other condiments
than salt. These to be taken only under peculiar circumstances of
sickness.
FisH.-Turbot, soles, cod, haddock, whiting, mullet, trout, pike, and
perch, simply boiled, and eaten with a little plain butter, may be taken
occasionally.
MEAT AND ANIMAL PRonucTs.-Beef, mutton, lean pork, veal, venison,
roebuck, hares, fowls, turkeys, pheasants, partridges, woodcocks, but not
the trail, and, indeed, game of all sorts when not too old, nor too long
kept: the meat may be roasted, broiled, or stewed in its own gravy, with
a few carrots, turnips, or potatoes-further, good fresh butter, mild and
tender cheese occasionally, and fresh curds.
VEGETABLES AND RooTs.-Asparagus, artichokes, spinach,cauliflower,
young cabbage, sea-cale, French beans, young peas, tender beans (but
not the skins), carrots, mild turnips, parsnips, beet root, potatoes, rice,
macaroni, with gravy or milk, but without cheese.
CONDIMENTs.-The only condiments are salt, sugar, vinegar and lemon
JUlce. The two latter, with young meats, chicken and fish only.
SwEETS AND FRUITs.-Plain puddings of milk with eggs, flour, bread,
rice, vermicelli, macaroni, semoule, sago, arrow-root, or other farinaceous
substances, eaten with butter or sugar, or the fruit of pies or puddings,
to some ices-further, well-ripened pears, grapes, raspberries, gooseber-
ries, strawberries, oranges, and even apricots, peaches and nectarines
occasiona11y, remembering always to reject the skin and fibrous parts.
DRINKs.--Water, toast and water, barley or rice water, and sometimes
milk, milk and water, weak black tea, almost cold.
2. THINGS PROHmiTED.
SouPs.-Soups ofall kinds, unless made expressly for the patient, un-
der peculiar circumstances of sickness.
FrsH.-EeJs, salmon, salmon-trout, mackerel, herrings, sprats, and
white-bait-all sorts of salted, pickled, smoked, or potted fish-turtle,
oystE'rs, lobsters, crabs, crawfish, prawns, and every kind of shell-fish.
1\IEAT AND ANIJ\I.AL PRODUCTs.-Ducks, geese, and the flesh of very
young animals generally-meat or game pies and puddings-all pickled,
salted, smoked, or potted meat, forcemeat, and sausages of all descrip-
tions--butter not perfectly fresh and good, strong or decayed cheese, hard·
boiled eggs, and honey.
VEGETABLEs AND RooTs.-Succory, scorzonere, lettuces of all kinds,
DIET. 869
water-cresA, mustard and cress: sorrel, celery, radishes, cucumbers, leeks,
onions, mushrooms, and truffies.
Co~nDIF..S1's.-l\Iustard, pepper, cayenne, ginger, nutmeg, mace, cinna-
mon, cloves, allspice, caraway seeds, saffron, lemonand orange peel,laurel
and bay leaves, bitter almonds, orange flower water, mint, thyme, sage,
par~<ley, fennel, horseradish, shalots, and indeed every species of spice--
all fish and game sauces, c·\tsup, pickles, and other similar compounds.
SwEETS AND l"nmTs.-Rich pastry and dumplings in general-all
pntldings, cream~, preserves, jellies, comfitures, marmalades, all fruits
not perfectly ~;wcet and ripe, and in general all stone fruits, melons,
apples, currant:-:, nnts, walnuts, filberts, and almonds.
DniNKs.-Winc, spirits and liqueurs of every kind-so also negus,
punch, bishop, and ~imilar compounds-porter, ale, beer, spruce or ginger
beer, ~oda-wat<•r, seltzer or other mineral waters, all efiervcscing draughts
prepared from powders, lemonade or other acid beverages-coffee, green
tea, strong black tea, aromatized chocolate, and butter-milk.
Still it must be repeated, that all tables of diet are general, and
that the judicious and attentive practitioner must prescribe a diet
for each patient. There are a few suggestions, however, which,
not referring to articles of food only, apply to all who are under-
going the water treatment:-
1. Eat 8lowly, and chew your food well; otherwise you leave the
stomach to do the c.lnty of the teeth as well as its own, besides failing to
mix a sutlicicnt quantity of saliva with the food, which plays an impor-
tant part in digestion.
2. Drink no hot liquids: tepid are the next best: and cold the best of
all : in fact, unless on special occasions, all liquids to be drunk should be
cold.
3. The lest; yon drink of anything at meals the better: not because
the liquid dilutes the gastric juice, as some have said, but because it
gives a stimulus to the secretory vessels of the stomach, different from
that of the dry aliment which is the right stimulus, and the consequence
is likely to be the secretion of an improper gastric juice.
4. After eating, let as little excitement as may be proceed from the
brain and spinal cord to the stomach, as it may interfere with digestion.
Therefore, remain seated, if in the air, the better; or if you move, let it
be ~Jowly. fl,or the same reason, avoid all subjects which are a strain
upon the mind: take the thoughts of others in books of easy reading,
rather than exert your own.
5. Let five and a half or six hours intervene between the three meals
of the day: and let the last be a scanty one. Two hours and a half
should elapse between the evening meal and bedtime. And the same
time, at least, after any meal before any water cure process is practised,
17*
31'0 DIET.
except foot baths, which may be taken as soon as you please. Sweating
may be practised an hour after a meal.
6. Avoid fruits at all times, except before or at breakfast. Dessert of
any kind is inadmissible. It is better to avoid tea altogether, but if it be
taken, it is safer at breakfast than in the evening, the day being before
you : whereas it might make the night wakeful.
7. About two hours after a meal, especially dinner, the stomach being
heated and jaded with digestion, is pleasingly stimulated by a small tum-
bler of very cold water taken in sips, as you would take wine. It gives
a fillip to the muscular coats of the stomach, which then contract, and
expel any air that is disturbing that organ.
Wine and all alcoholic liquors are among the forbidden things
in the table. For a man who has appetite- enough to cat a dinner
of fish, flesh, fowl, and sweets, to add to these stimulants that of
four or five glasses of wine, day after day, is one of the most pre-
posterous conventionalities that social extravagance ever invented.
And yet to see the solemn regularity with which it is done, one
might fancy it was an act of superlative wisdom, instead of the
stale routine of an absurd and injurious custom. Put it in this
way: either the stomach has appetite, and does not require the
stimulus of alcohol to make it digest, or it has not appetite, and
should not have food put into it to digest. Where, then, is the
necessity for the daily wine-bibbing 1 Besides, the stomach will
only bear a certain amount of stimulation, and if it receives it
from the wine, it is unable to receive it from food also; so that
the digestion of the latter is materially interfered with by the
former, and the appetite for the stimulus of aliment diminished in
proportion as that of alcohol is applied. But it is an old tale to
repeat the numerous arguments against a foolish custom, for
which there is but one argument- that it i8 a custom. Of one
thing I am convinced, that it is less injurious to drink a bottle of
wine once a week, and be sick after it, than to keep up a slow,
smouldering irritation of the stomach, by two glasses of the same
wine taken with stupid precision every day "when the cloth is
removed.''
If such is my creed regarding vinous liquors for those who are
in apparent health, the reasons for avoiding it in those whose
viscera are a focus of irritation, as in chronic disease, will be
potent, and need not be detailed. I would not let the opportunity
pass of expressing my belief in the infinitely superior wisdom of'
abstinence from alcoholic liquids under ordinary circumstancea
CLOTWNG. 311
of health and disea~e. But were the case one of extreme exhaus-
tion from loss of blood, or any other depletory cause, or from ex-
cessive hysteria, I should not hesitate to administer any wine or
spirit that was nearest; they are, strictly speaking, medicinal
means of ready application, and, as such, may be wisely em-
ployed in time nnd place ; but healthy men, and men with
chronic disease, do not require medicinal means every day after
dinner. Yct there arc men silly enough not only to take a nau-
seous pill of drugs bifore dinner, but this more pleasant, but
equally deleterious draught of physic after dinner !-Strange jn.
fatuation !
§ 13. CLOTHING.
'rhroughout this work it has been shown that the essential of
all chronic rlisease is excess of blood in the internal organs, to the
detriment of the circulatory activity of the exterior of the body,
of the skin especially. On this fact the whole treatment de-
scribed in the preceding pages is based, and it renders the cloth-
ing of the body a thing of some importance. It is an aim to
bring to, nnd fix in the skin, a quantity of blood which shall both
diminish the excess within, and render the skin more able to re-
act upon external agencies, cold, damp, electricity, &c. Now
this is not to be done by concentration of heat about the skin : the
more you exist in a hot atmosphere, or in a mass of fleecy hosiery,
washed leather and triple coats, the less able does the skin be-
come to re-act upon cold, and the more, therefore, does that cold
tend to drive the blood from the exterior to the interior, and in-
crease the congestion of blood there. It is said that all this
excessive clothing is to keep out the cold: but, in this most un-
steady of climates, at least, the thermometer varies from 50 to
200 in a day, and can it be said that the same amount of cloth-
ing is necessary in both temperatures 1 On the contrary, the
very excess of covering at the higher temperature, renders the
skin exquisitely sensitive to lower temperature, which comes on,
very frequently, in half an hour; if the clothing is only enough
at aoo, what is it at 45°1 or if it be just enough at 45°, how ex-
cessive and enfeebling it must be at 60°! To keep the skin
in active warmth by a quantity of under clothing, is a most fal-
lacious and injurious attempt.
But further, a considerable amount of the waste of the body is
372 CLOTHING.
effected by the skin, and such waste cannot go on without free
contact of the atmospheric air; contact which is materially pre-
vented by the mass of garments alluded to. The consequence is,
that materials are retained in the circulating blood which ought
to be expended at the skin, and, by their retention, prove a
source of disorder to the organs in general. For such waste and
elimination the presence of blood in the skin is necessary, as well
as that of air upon it: and it is therefore e~sential, on this score
also, tofoe blood there.
Lastly, we have to consider the enormous number of nerves,
having their centre in the brain and spinal cord, which are
spread over the skin, and convey sensations thence to the brain.
When the skin is imperfectly supplied with blood, and not re-
active, all changes tell painfully upon these nerves, and in that
manner keep the brain in irritation from that source. Now, a
steady state of the cutaneous nerves cannot be obtained without
ensuring a good and.ftzed supply of blood to the skin.
On every score, then, it is desirable to avoid all clothing which
shall have for view to keep the body in a state of artificial heat.
The skin should be made independent in this respect ; its warmth
should be the result of the chemical changes actively going on in
its actively circulating blood-vessels : and its nerves should be
able to throw off, by the re-action of the circulation, those
sources of irritation which its subjection to them proves so dis-
ordering to the brain and spinal cord. In speaking of the wet-
sheet packing I have endeavored to show how it quiets the brain
by withdrawing the skin from all irritating sources.
From all this it may be inferred, that exposure of the skin to
the free access of air is an essential part of the water cure, and
that therefore the application of much warm under-garments is
not to be practised. But here, again, reservation must be made
regarding the organic capabilities of each patient ; what is excess
of clothing to one may not be so to another; and to withdraw tho
flannel jackets of every one who begins the treatment, simply
because he is a water patient, is a blunder of routine which
would materially thin the number of the practitioner's successful
cases. Look at the number of patients who have not bloot\
enough to supply the exterior as well as the interior of the frame;
in such you cannot bring the blood to the surface until you have
made more of it : the attempt to do it by trusting to the re-action
to be produced on the admission of air to the bloodless skin, is
•
CLOTHING. 373
enough to annihilate some of those f• agile individuals. Look
also at the numbers of patients who, although they have blood
enough, have it centred in the chronic irritation of the interior,
and who, besides, have had the skin hermetically sealed by flan-
nel, or silk, or leather, for twenty or thirty years: to strip them
of those coverings simultaneously with the commencement of the
water treatment, is a rashness that would be punished by the ex-
asperation of the internal irritation into active and dangerous in-
flammation. Accordingly, I make it a practice in similar cases
not to interfere with the clothing until the appliances of the water
cure have wrought such change in the body's organic state as to
remler certain the power of the skin to generate its own sufficient
warmth without the necessity for retaining it by a quantity of
under clothing. This period varies in individuals, and I fre-
quently allow several weeks to pass before attempting a change.
It must always be remembered, that a prolonged feeling of physi-
cal mise1·y, such as the abstraction of warm clothing is apt to
beget, is a state of malaise to the brain, which therefore re-acts
unfavorably on the rest of the body; and I hold that a patient
who suffers so much in that way, derives as much injury from
the miserable feeling as he can possibly derive good from the
free accPss of air to the skin. You mustfill the skin before you
give it increased work to do.
Again, when you do begin to withdraw clothing, it is well to
do so piecemeal, especially in such cases as I have indicated. In
a climate like that of England, with its varying barometer and
thermometer, it appears to me more reasonable, if additional
clothing be necessary, to heap it in the shape of outer garments,
which may be donned and doffed with the vicissitudes of the at-
mosphere. In withdrawing the under clothing from delicate pa-
tients, it is often well to substitute some outer covering when the
temperature requires it, at evening or early morning, until the
skin is wholly able to support itself.
\Vhcn, however, a full-blooded patient presents himself for
treatment, with, it may be, apoplectic fulness of the head, active
irritation of the liver, or some similarly conditioned malady, in
which it is necessary to reduce the whole quantity of blood, as
well as re-distribute it, I have no hesitation in withdrawing the
flannel clothing at once and entirely. There is then no fear that
the air will withdraw more heat from the surface than the interior
13*
374
can afford to renew ; and we also advance the process of waste
by the skin, which, in such cases, it is desirable to obtain.
In any case, when once the withdrawal of extra clothing is
judiciously effected, it aids materially the progress towards reco-
very ; it is both an evidence of past improvement, and ground
for more and more rapidly-acquired improvement in the future;
the reasons for which are to be found in the commencement of
this article.
§ 14. HABITS OF LIFE.
When the nervous system of an individual has been long habit·
uated to the application of certain stimulants, and to the impres-
sion of certain circumstances at certain periods of the day or
hour, and when, with these, his health has gradually deteriorated
and become seriously compromised, the withdrawal of these
periodical stimulants, and the alteration of these periodical cir-
cumstances, become an essential part of a plan of medical treat-
meet which is professedly hygienic. As in the medicinal plan of
treatment, the vulgar and half-educated practitioners alone put
their whole trust in the drugs that are prescribed; so in the water
treatment, he has a very narrow and vulgar idea of it who thinks
that recovery is effected by the bathings and water drinking
alone, and leaves untouched the habits of the patient. It is not
the mind alone that is the creature of habit, but every sentient
twig of a nerve, and every irritable capillary blood.vessel of every
tissue of the frame. Let a man who has hitherto lain in bed
until 8 A. 1\t., be roused at 6 A. M., it is not his brain only that is
afflicted by the change, but his appetite for breakfast is altered-
he is thirsty, feverish, shivering; his aptitude for his avocation is
diminished, it is more laborious to him : as a consequence, he
cannot eat his dinner so well, and so on through the day, and per-
haps several days of disagreeable revolution. The altered im-
pression on the animal brain bas told upon the organic centre at
the stomach, and thence has changed the organic action of the
whole frame. Gradually, however, both animal and organic
systems or nerves accustom themselves to the new order of things,
to the impression of light, sound, locomotion, &c., between the
hours of 6 and 8 A. M. ; and inasmuch as it is more in accord.
ance with the wishes of Nature, as exhibited in the human body,
that sleep should not be prolonged far into daylight, this new
HABITS OF LIF£, 375
arrangement of time for rising eventually proves a wholesome,
although at first an unpleasant one. In this, as in the remedial
treatment of disease, we are obliged to refer to Nature, and make
all our art consist in repeating her dictates and imitating her
staring facts. For, look at the man who lives most closely
according to her promptings; he goes to bed early, because he
is tired; he gets up early, because his brain will not sleep any
longer ; he works, because his own hunger and that of others
dependent on him urge him ; he eats, because he is keenly
hungry ; and, last not least, his stomach digests well, and his
brain sleeps soundly, because the cares, scramblings, envy, and
~lander of conventional society are not his. He lives, as nearly
as can be done in a country calling itself civilized, after the
manner of Nature, and he gets his reward in the riches of health.
Now the sufferer from chronic disease who strives to rid himself
of it by the means of the water cure, must condescend more or
less to the natural habit of life. He must learn to rise early,
and to walk or work so as to gain appetite: when this appetite is
acquired he must eat, whether the hour be fashionable or not:
and he must go to bed early from the motive of fatigue alone.
Ancl he will uo all this in a very short time and find pleasure in
it, and look back on the former habits as on a fevered dream.
Let any one measure the time it took to fall into the bad habits,
and he will find that it takes a much shorter time to fall into the
new and good ones. And this process is expedited by the various
details of the water cure which have been passed in review;
each one, when properly applied, adding to the alacrity, impres-
sibility and re-active energy ofthe nervous systems, in which and
by which habits are formed and changed. Allusion hos been
already made to the facility with which water patients abandon,
not by degrees, but immediately, the stimulus of wine, without
experiencing any disagreeable want. The same applies to previ-
ous habits of all kinds. They are to the invalid a sort ofstimu-
lus, a stimulus which his nervous system expected and responded
to at certain times, and flagged or fidgeted if they were not
applied at those times. The man who has been in the habit of
dining at 7 P. l\1. with all the forms, strong lights, liveried servants,
two or three courses (though he, perhaps, only eat of one), and
one or many guests, discovers when he is deprived of them, that
all these accompaniments of eating were actual stimulants to his
nervous system, and that he cannot eat without them; one course
876 HABITS OF LIFE.
the fewer, the absence of a guest, or even wearing a morning in-
stead of an evening dress, makes all the difference in the happi-
ness and appetite of this creature of habit. From such wretched
slavery as this, he may be emancipated almost immediately by
the applications of the water cure, and with little or no suffering
to the nervous system. For a few days, he will feel a little
queer, as tf" somehow there was something somewhere wanting,"
but the withdrawal of internal irritations, and the stimulation of
water applied to the extremities of his nerves, and conveyed to
their centres, very shortly affords to the latter a sustaining action,
which fully compensates for that which the previous injurious
habits had supplied.
In this manner, the water cure becomes a means of eradicating
unwholesome, and of planting healthful habits in those who sub-
mit themselves to it. Nor is this confined to the body. How
frequently have I seen persons, who were dying of ennui in the
midst of the f:;timulating gaieties of London, find the day all too
short in this quiet village of Malvern ! I have seen men, whose
jaded and morbid minds could previously take no nutriment save
the garbage of English and French novels, devour the strong meat
of History and Biography with keen and large appetite. And I
constantly remind my patients that the treatment is renovating
their minds as well as bodies, ridding them of the silly wants and
unmeaning necessities which were in part the causP, in part the
effect, of their physical disorder. Doubtlessly, much of this is
owing to the removal of that disorder, which tal\es the weight off
the mental function. But in all chronic disease, there is more or
less loss of volition, which can only be roused by the necessity
for acquiring some good habit; therefore, although it were not
directly essential to the body's health to impose certain rules of
life which require exertion of the will, inasmuch as they differ
from previous halJits, it is well to insist upon them, for the sake
of their indirect operation on the nervous system of the body ; I
am convinced that the mere necessity of undergoing some process
three or four times a day, aids those processes in bringing about
the general result of health. And so far from this derogating
from the credit due to the water cure, I think it rather exhibits the
philosophical character of that treatment which thus acts on mind
and body simultaneously.
With this general view of the operation of habits of life, and of
the necessity of altering them, uncJer the regime of the water cure,
iiABITS OF LIFE. 377
it is unnecessary to enter into extended details : and I shall only
schedule a few of the more important habits to be dropped and to
be adopted.
Early rising should be practised: the sun, the air, the exercise,
and the water drinking are all more beneficial then, than at any
other part of the day. No water patient should be in bed after
6 A. l\1.
The longer the patient is in bed before midnight the better, due
time being allowed since the last previous meal. Physiological
experiments countenance the old saying that " an hour's sleep
before twelve o'clock is worth two after it."
He .should learn to sleep on a hard bed: for excessive heat ex
cites the nerves of the skin, and these convey the excitement to
the brain, which thus becomes dreamy or restless. Six hours'
sleep is enough for excitable persons : phlegmatic and impassible
persons require seven or eight hours. If you have had either of
these quantities, re~ist further sleep: the second sleep is seldom
refreshing, nnd rather disturbing to the brain.
Avoid hot rooms, easy chairs, and lolling on sofas: all these
take from the energy and the volition of the nervous system.
In order to keep the nervous system in wholesome play, let all
the day be accurately divided by baths, packings, walkings,
readings, &c., and let each division be rigidly adhered to and
made a point of honor. In short, make a business of the whole
treatment; a business with a great aim at the end.
Avoid extensive correspondence by letters, especially with
commiserating friends. It so happens, that most friends express
themselves more anxious about your health than about their own :
pour faire t'aloir which anxiety, thC~y usually give you dismal
pictures of your comlition, nnd add warnings about the "dreadful
water cure." Attend to the water cure, since you ha,·e under-
taken it, and not to your friends.
Besides alcoholic stimulants, give up the scarcely less delete-
rious stimulus of tobacco, in the shapes of snuffing and smoking.
Both tell injuriously on the nerves of the stomach as well as on
the brain. In the German water cure establishments the patients
smoke; they also eat saurkrout and heavy pastry: and, it is said,
they get well. Be it so: but, I repeat, business-worn English-
men are not heavy Germans, and could not safely bear the raugh
treatment which the indulgence in these hurtful habits obliges in
order to overcome the malady. Nay more, I defy any one to
3'78 HABITS OF LIFE.
cure a ~OU.f disorder or a shattered constitution whilst the
patient is allowed to snuff or smoke tobacco. I would have no
patient who refused to give it up : the physician should control,
not pander to, his patient.
Other precepts regarding habits are suggested by individual
cases, into which it is too long to enter in a volume. The above
are of general application : and, for the rest, it suffices to state
that all habits which strain the nervous system on the one hand,
or allow it to become torpid from want of employment on the other,
are to be avoided.
A few words on WATER CURE EsTABLISHMENTs will not inaptly.finish
what has preceded. There can be no doubt that certain advantages of
regularity and ready inspection of patients attend the application of the
water treatment in these places. But in order to fulfil their proper aim,
this regularity and inspection should be faithfully carried out. The doc-
tor should be the master of his house, and should firmly resi8t the wishes
and caprices of all who would ron counter to the stringent rules of water
treatment. There is too much reason to believe that establishments are
rendered attractive to patients by the amusement and the license that are
permitted, and the object of keeping them for a long time by such means
preferred to the lt'gitimate object of cure. They who proceed on such
grounds can scarcely be called professional men,-they are hotel keepers.
Thus I know of an instance in which a variety of indigestible articles
were daily served on the breakfast table of an establishment because
some self-important and vulgar patients had the taste to call the simple
and wholesome fare" shabby." In another instance, a clique of patients
set all wrong by keeping the others waiting for meals, and being great
people, persuaded the doctor to alter the hours for meals continually, to
the annoyance and detriment of the other inmates. I know of another
instance in which a patient threatened to quit an cstablishment. if any
veto were placed on his tobacco smoking: the doctor yielded, and the
patient smoked. Had these been princes of the land, I would have
directly st-nt them to seck other advice. These things going on in water
establishments, will eventually and deservedly bring them into disrepute.
Few cures will be made, when the patient is allowed to regulate his own
treatment and habits : and no one is so ready to publish the failure and
run down the treatment as a patient who bas been so mismanaged. He
takes his own way, but leaves the responsibility with his doctor: and
this is just, for the doctor is to blame who sacrifices his dignity to his
cupidity. This thing needs much reform. A good rule for the public
would be to suspect all those who advertise and pufftheir establishments,
who put forth the amusements as baits for the fanciful invalid, and won·
derflll cures for the desperately diseased. In this matter there is but one
•
HABITS OF LlFE• 379
legitimate mode of proceeding : let the physician cure patients,-they will
be his advertisements; let him publish his experience in a scientific fonn,
and readers will then believe he knows what disease is; whereas the ad
captandum and exagg~rated stuff, thrust before t.he public a.q a medical
exposition of the power of the water cure, is no more so than are MoR-
Riso~'s propositions about disease, ending in the recommendation of his
pills, a true account of that condition. Both the newspaper and the book
advertisements are sheer quackery : and water cure establishments will
thus become mere traps.
Again, it appears an arrangement of very doubtful propriety to placo
male and female patients in the same establishment. Dy means of the
bath attendants (and the uneducated will babble), the infirmities of females
arc Jiahle to become known to everybody with whom they sit at table ;
and I very much question whether this squares with our English notions
of delicacy. Other dh5agreeables I have known to occur from this
mingling of the sexes in the same house, which induce me to suggest
tha.t the treatment and lodgment of females should be altogether distinct
from that of men. \Vhat would a parent or husband say to the presence
of women of doubtful character in the same house with his wife or
daughter? Yet this has happened. Moreover, a total absence of con-
straint is an essential part of the treatment, and the infirmities of English
pride and stiffness are too apt to engender it where ladies are introduced:
there happens a great deal of fine dressing and other superfluities of ex-
istence, which were each sex-the men certainly-alone, would and
ought to be dispensed with by persons engaged in the attempt to recover
health.
Until these circumstances are altered, water cure establishments are
not very likely to answer the health-seeking aims of invalids, nor to ad-
vance in public and professional favor, the admirable system of treatment
which they profcHs to carry out. Sobriety and propriety are, in this
country, rightly demanded by the thinking in matters of serious impor-
tance; and what can be more serious than the practical trial of a mode
of remedying diReasc? Such trial ought not to be confided to those who
require puff.~, direct and indirect, to draw the unthinking into establish-
ments where the means of lengthening their sojourn is far more a subject
of con!!ideration than their restoration to health. In due time, this sys-
tem of hotel keeping will fail with the public, and then all the benefit
which is unque:stionably derivable from treatment in a water cure estab-
lishment will have an opportunity of being obtained, the physician com-
promising none of his professional dignity, and the patient being bound
t<t the single object of regaining health.
APPENDIX.
I.
ANSWERS TO OBJECTIONS URGED AGAINST THE WATER
TREATMENT OF CHRONIC DISEASE.
[The whole of this Appendix is from my pen, but was published by Dr.
\Vilson and myRelf in a work entitled "The Dangers of the Water
Cure examined," &c.; a few verbal alterations only being made.]
TnE accusations advanced against the water treatment are first stated
at the head of each section, and then answered. As most of them have
been made by medical practitioners, generally of the apothecary kind, it
is well to mark, that the chief refutation of them is drawn from authors
who deservedly stand high in the estimation of the medical world,
whether of the drug or water persuasion-authors whom mere apothe-
caries never read.
1. THE WATER TREATMENT THINS THE BLOOD.
Such an effect of water drinking is not mentioned by any of the au-
thors who have made the diseased conditions of the blood their study.
Let the writings of HoFFMANN,1
FRIEND,2
S cHWENCKE,3 BUEcBlfEa,•
1 De Sanguine et ejus Observatione. 4to. 1660.
s Emmenalogia, Opera omnia. London, fol. 1733.
3 Hoomatologia, sive Sanguinis Historia. 4to. 1743.
• De nimia Sanguinis Fluiditate et Morbis inde Oriundis. 4to. 1749.
382 APPENDIX.
HEWSON,1 HEY,1 GRUNER,' THAcKRAH,• BELBOMME,5 ScHULTz,• B&L--
LINGERI,7 STEVENs,' and a host of others be consulted: and we defy the
reader to find in any one of them the thinning of the blood attributed to
dilution with water. These writers are most minute in their enumera-
tion of the causes of the blood's deterioration, and some of tht'm give
precise accounts of their experiments on this head, but nowhere do we
find water mentioned as an impoverisher of the vital fluid. On the other
hand we do find, from the experiments and observations of ScHWENCXE,
F RIEND, CouRTEN, PITCAIRNE, and THACKRAII, that the employment of
those medicinal agents, the fixed and volatile alkalies (including the car-
bonates of potash, soda,9
and ammonia, sal volo.tilc, &c.) has a particu-
lar effect in attenuating the vital fluid, breaking up its coagulating
power, and thus inducing a diminished vital cohesion of the various tex-
tures of the body formed from it. Further, we find from the experiments
of LE CANU,'0
that another very favorite remedy of drug medication has
the po·wer of singularly "thinning" the blood, by the remo\'al of the
rich red globules which give it color. He found that a first bleeding
furnishE.'d in 1000 parts of blood 792.897 of water, 70.210 of albumen,
9.163 soluble salts and animal extractive matters, and 127.73 of glob-
ules. But after a third bleeding, a few days afterwards, in the same
patient (a female), the proponions were 834.053 of water, 71.111 of
albumen, 7.329 of soluble salts and extractive matters, and 87.510 of
globules,-showing a diminution of 31 per cent. in the course of a few
days, of that ingredient of the blood which chiefly constitutes its rich-
ness!
Again, what say medical authors of mercury-another favorite medi-
cine and" sheet anchor"-and its agency on the blood? DIETRICH tells
us, that soon after salivation has been established, the blood exhibits an
inflammatory crust ; at a later period its color deepens, and it:; conjuga-
biliJy is diminished; the proportion of clot, and therefore offibrin, to serum
(or watery part) becomes smaller; the jfJrmation rf albumen arul mucus
sinks to that of serum: the whole organic formation of the patient is lus
consistent and cohesit·e.11 Another writer of weight says, in the most
1 Experimental Inquiry into the Properties of the Blood. Svo. 1771.
2 Observations on the Blood. London, 1799.
:t De Pathologia Sanguinis. Jena, 1791.
4 On the Properties of the Blood. 8vo. Hl19.
6 Observations sur le Sang, 4to. Paris, 18:23.
6 Meckel's Archiv. fur Anatomie und Physiologic, 1826, No. iv.
7 Annali Universali di Medicina. April, 1827.
s Paper read to the London College of Physicians, in May, 1830.
9 HuxHAM says (Essay on Fevers, pp. 48 and 308), that alkalies indues
a scorbutic cachexy ; that is, a dissolution of the solid parts of the body.
1o Nouvelles Recherches sur le Sang, in Journal de Pharmacie. Sep·
tember and October, 1831
11 Op. supra cit., 80.
TIIIN BLOOD. 383
nait·e manner imaginable: "A full plethoric we.man, of a purple red com-
plexion, consulted me for hremorrhage from the stomach, depending on
engorgement, without organic disease. I gat·e her mercury, and in sir
u·eeks blanched her as white as a lily."1 From all which it would appear
that there are shorter and surer modes of " thinning the blood " than by
water drinking.
There is a di~;eased state denominated Ana:mia or Bloodlessness, in
which the blood ie deficient both in quantity and quality : a familiar and
too common instance of which is the green sickness of girls. Now, in .U
the medical works on this disease, allusion is never once made to water
drinking as a known cause,-not even to the possibility of its being a
cause of it. One would imagine that, in writing on so flagrant an ex·
ample of "thiu blood," this would scarcely be passed over were it so
certain a cause as it is 1ww said to be, of the disease in question. Yet
for anything of the kind, it is vain to search the pages of BECKER,2 AL-
BERT,3 JANSON,• CH0!\1EL,5 Rocn£,6
or CmuBE,7
all of them authors of re-
cognized ability and consequence. On the other hand, bad, moist air,
Jloor and insufficient J()()(], exclusion from light, residence in lwl rooms,
and exce..,sire sccretivns and eracuations (purgatives and diuretics, to wit),
arc recited as the mo£t common cau8es of the impovcril:ihed state of the
blood alluded to. To these are to be added as cause any disease of the
digestive organs which, interfering with the proper digestion of the food,
lead8 to the formation of blood deprived of the red globules. Nay, Dr.
Cm·LANn gays that general bloodlessness will not take place without some
such disease. His words are :
" It iH probable that general anremin. will not take place, unless con-
secuJirelg of remarkable torpor of the vital influence: or of some morbid
condition of one or more of the organs which contribute to the formation
of blood. \Vhere the digestive powers and the functions of the livtr are
weakened, nnccmia is not infrequent. I am disposed to view the liver
as being equally, if not more concerned in this function of blood-making
than the lungs."
And abrain he says :
"Deficiency of blood, as respects both its diminished quantity and its
poor quality, or the defect of red globules, is often associated with visce-
ral disease, of which it is generally the consequence."'
• Dr. Farre, as quoted in Ferguson's Essays on the DUetUU of Womm,
Part I., p. 216.
' Diss. Resol. Casus Pract. Amemire. Leyden, 1663.
s Dissertatio de Anremia, 132.
• De 1\lorb. ex Defcctu Liquidi Vitalis, 1748.
' Dictionnaire de .Med. et Chirurg. Pract., tom. ii. Art• .8.nhnic
• Dictionn. de Mecl., tom. ii. Art. Enimie.
r Transact. of Mcd. and Chirurg. Society of Edinburgh, vol. i.
• Dictionary of Practical Medicine, p. 174, sect. 42-44.
384 APPENDIX.
Further on he lays down, as "a grand pathological inference," the
following:
"The interruption or obstruction of any important secreting or elimi-
nating function, if not compensated by the increased or modified action
of some other organs, t:itiates the blood more ar less; and if such vitiation
be not soon removed, by the restoration of the f unclion primarily affected,
or by the increased exercise of an analogous function, more important
c..nges are produced in the blood, if the energies of life are insufficient
to expel the cause of disturbance, to oppose the progress of change, and
to excite actions of a salutary tendency.m
Taking this sentence as a text, and having an t'ye to those which pre-
cede it, we shall take the liberty of preaching a little sound J>hysiology
to thos~ who talk about " the thinning of the blood."
or the patients who resort to 1\Ialvern for the treatmcclt by water, air,
exercise, and diet, seven out of ten labor under the interruption or obstruc-
tion of more or fewer of the organs which minister to the digestion of
food ; and the periods of their ailments date variously from two to twenty
years previously. During these long years they have run the gauntlet
of all the means of drug medication, and, however painful it may be to
repeat the fact, they all tell us that they are worse than when they began
so to run. During these years, too, the obstructed salivary glands, the
obstructed liver, the obstructed bowels and kidneys, the interrupted or
vitiated secretion of gastric juice, and the general disorder of the
digestive mucous membrane, and of the nen'es supplying it, have, in
greater or smaller array, and therefore in varied degree, maintained a
diseased digestion of the food, whence a vitiated blood comes thus to be
formed. Besides tllis, more or fewer of the obstrncted organs ceasing
to pour out their secretions and excretions, the elements of these are
retained in the circulating blood, which they further vitiate. And to this
the want of proper elimination of matters from the skin (to which, in the
great majority of instances, no attention whalet·er has been paid), and, last
not least, the absorption into the blood of the infinite variety of poison-
ous medicines that have been tried in the years of suffering ;-and some
idea may be formed of the sort of blood which is circulating in the bodies
of patients so circumstanced, and the character of the solids deposited
from that blood. In fact, the leaden or parchment complexion, the yellow
eye, the dry or waxy lip, the foul tongue, fetid breath, diseased secretions
and excretions generally, the puffy, morbid fat, and flabby muscles, all
testify to the vitiated condition of the vital fluid. Now supposing that
the water prescribed to be drunk by these patients had only for final aim
to "thin" the blood, we are at a Joss to behold any great mischit'f in
diluting such a mass of semi-poisonous liquid. But when we find the
skin becoming florid, the eye clear, the lip red and plump, the tongue
clean and moist, the breath sweet, the bowels and kidneys affording
1
Op. cit., p. 190, sect. 124.
THIN BLOOD. 385
healthier excretions, and the muscles hardening, under the operation of
water drinking, it is reasonable to suppose that it does something more
or something else than '·thin" the blood; particularly when the increased
consumption of the oxygen of the atmosphere during the exercise of
which they tnkc abundantly, is given into the account. And that changes
such as thel'\e occur in the process of our treatment at this place may be
seen by any one who plea!'es to ask patients for a comparative statement
of their previous and present condition. To account for this, a few
physiological data may be gi\'en.
The learned LtED!G informs us that "the two first conditions of IUlimal
life nrc nutritious matters and oxygen introduced into the sy~tem,"' and
that in the varied transformations eflected by the varied combinations of
the element~ of food and oxygen, the phenomena of animal life consist.1
These trnn:-;formntions arc all efiecteu in the blood, derived as it is from
the food and the oxygen of the atmospherc.a For the due performance
of the vital functions-i. e., translormations-the presence of water in
the blood is absolutel.'l necessary.1 This is especially shown by the pro-
portion of water in healthy blood, which, according to LAVOISIER and
SEGUI~, as quoted by LnmJG,5 is eighty per cent., as \VCll as by the
enormous proportion which it bears in the chemical eompositioo of aU
the secretions. Hence it is essential that all the food be so changed in
the ~tomach as to become equally soluble in water, and thus be capable
of entering into the eircnlation.G \Vhilst from the food thus changed
two clement:-, carbon and hydrogen, arc dcri\'cd, these are carried
round with the blood and meat with oxygen introduced at the lungs
and through the skin; and, combining with it in those places, car-
bonic acid gas and the vapor of water arc formed and expelled from
the body, one part of the oxygen mingling with tltc carbon to form the
ga~, and the other part of it with the hydrogen to form the water.' Now
if sufficient supply of carbon and hydrogen b~ not tnken in the shape of
nutriment and drink to meet the supply of oxygen afforded by the
atmosphere, death br star\'ntion or ~hronic disease takes place. Of this
LIEBIG says :s
" The time which it re<tuircs to eausc death by starvation depends on
the amount of fat in the body, on the degree of exercise, as in labor and
exertion of anv kind, on the temperature of the air, and finally, on the
1n-eseucc or ab;ence qf water. Through the skin and lungs there esca~
n certain quantity of wat('r, arul as the presence if water is essenJ.ial to
tllt ~•mtinuance t{ the ritalmotions, its dissipation hastens death. Cases
have occurred in which a full supply of water being accessible to the
1Organic Chemistry in its Applications to Physiology and Pathology, p.l2
s Ibid ,.p. 9. 3 lbid., p. 8.
4}bid., pp.3, 43, 136, 140, 141, 142, 148, 153 to 159, 180, 181.
• Ibid., p. 13. • Liebig, pp. lOS, 109.
'Ibid., p. 13. •Ibid., p. 27
18
386 Al•PENDlX.
sufterer, death has not occurred until after the lapse of twenty days. In
one case life was sustained in this way for a period of sixty days."
This certainly docs not look as if the water had imp<,reri$hed the blood.
But further: according to the same authority this same " thinning"
water is absolutely necessary in chronic disease, at least the want of it is
a chief canse of death in them. LYEDIG tells us in the very next para-
graph-
" In all chronic diseases death is produced by the ss.me cause as in
starvation-viz., the chemical action of the atmosphere. \\'hen those
substances are wanting whose function in the organism is to support
the process of respiration; when the diseased organs arc incapable
of performing their proper function of producing these substances; when
they have Jost the power of transforming the food (in which water so
materially aids) into that shape in wl1ich it may, by entering into com-
bination with the oxygen of the air, protect the sy::;tcm from its influence,
then the substance of the organs themselves, the fat of the body, the sub-
stanceofthe muscles, the nerves and the brain are unavoidably consumed."
From all this we learn that the presence of water in the blood tends to
quicken those transformations of the blood in which the act of life essen-
tially consists. Moreover we learn that if, whilst the clements carbon
and hydrogen are being freely and rapidly formed from the aliment, the
body is placed in such a condition a.., to obtain a good amount of oxygen
to combine with them, a vi\id degree of Yitality is imparted to the entire
organism, and the strides of chronic disease and of death arc arrested.
Now these are precisely the states brought about by the water treat-
ment. The very first of its effects is to produce appetite ; many pa-
tients being actually ashamed of the quantity they cat, or are in-
clined to eat. Whilst carbon and hydrogen are thus largely formed
by food, a proportionate quantity of oxygen is made to be taken in by
means of exercise; for as the number of respirations regulates the quan-
tity of oxygen inspired, and as thei\e are more freqncnt in exercise, the
result is the presence of a large quantity of that vivifying gas to meet
and combine with the large quantity of carbon and hydrogen supplied
from the aliment, that is, the solid food and water. The results of this
more vivid vital state are to remove the obstructions and interruptions of
the organs above mentioned, and thus to restore secretions ; to produce
more rapid transmutations. and thmJ to renew the previously vitiated
blood ; and, by the gradual substitution of healthier blood, to cause a de-
p_osition of healthier solids. And we submit that none of these results
give the slightest indication of impoverished blood.
We have entered into these physiological explanations in order to
show the laical reader how much and how little he should rely on the
loose off-hand assertions of his professional friend, from whom some ra-
tionale of the so-called " thinning of the blood " may reasonably be ex·
pected. Be that fluid thinned or not, the water cure has the results above
mentioned, and we might content ourselves by referrine to the tip, ill
TlliN BLOOD. 387
the complexion alone, of those who have tried it, of redder and richer
blood circulating where for years it had ceased to circulate, being con-
gested on some internal organs, there causing obstruction of function.
'fo hear the solemn trash vented on this matter of the blood, one might
imagine that water were a thing abhorrent to the human organism, and
to be drunk only when all drugs had failed, or not even then. \Vhere·
as we are told by a high physiological authority that " water consti·
tntes four-fifths of the weight of the animal tissues, and without it
they arc wholly insusceptible of vitality."1 And LIEBIG states~ "that
6361 parts of anhydrous fibrine (i. e. fibrine deprived of all water), are
united with 30,000 parts of water in muscular fibre or in blood." With
thc~c two data the laical reader will be the less astonished to hear, from
good authority also, that the water actually assists in the formation of
the solid parb1 of the body. Count RuMFORD announced this long ago,3
and PEREIRA holds the same opinion. RosTAN likewise remarks that
,; water is the principal source of vegetation, itself the source of all ani·
mal life, that it acts on the animal both by its admixture with atmo-
spheric air (as in respiration and by the skin), and by its presence in the
digestive canal, where it acts directly by aiding in the renovation and
grmt·th of the inditidual."! We daily behold the muscles of patients
acquiring increased volume and firmness under the operation of the
water cure, and the exercise they are enabled to take soon after com-
mencing it tells of anything rather than the helplessness that attends
impoveri:shed blood and attenuated solids. The first surgeon in Europe,
DrEFFENBAcn, of Berlin, recently stated that, in amputating limbs after
accidents, he invariably found the severed muscles of those who had
been treated by water, and were habitual water drinkers, of a much more
vivid red color, of greater compactness, and more contractile than in
any other individuals.
But the whole assertion regarding thin bJood proceeds on grounds that
betray intense ignorance both of physiology and of the water cure. It
supposes that the whole water imbibed enters into and remains in the
circulating blood quasi water, that no chemical transformation of it
takes place in the body at all ; this is ignorance of physiology. And it
supposes that all who are treated by water are told to drink the same,
and that a large quantity of water, without discrimination of the in-
dividual cases of disease presented ;-this is ignorance of the water
cure. So between the horns of this compound ignorance, and of wilful
misrepresentation, we leave the declaimers about the " thinning of the
blood."
I Miiu.J:a, Elements or Physiology, p. 7.
t Organic Chemistry in its Application to Agriculture and Physiolcv.
• Euays, vol. i., p. 194, 5th edition, 1800.
• Element. of Materia Medica and Therapeutiee, vol. i., p. 69.
• Coun Elementaire d'Hygiene, tom. i., p. 228.
388 APPENDJX.
2. "THE 'VATER TREATMENT EXHAUSTS THE ANIMAL HEAT."
From this very absurd proposition, we might, as in the former in-
stance, appeal to the patients who have been treated nt .Mal\'ern. The
great majority of them arrive here with the skin so exquisitely alive to
any the smallest decrease of temperature, that, in some cases, we found
tires blazing in their rooms in the month of August. The same scnsi-
tiYeness is testified, and indeed maintained, by the accumulation of ftan-
ncl, silk, and soft leather, in which they are clothed on their arrival
here. How is this to be accounted for 7 And how is it to be explained
that, after a longer or shorter trial of the water cure, these same patients
go out into all weathers, in early morning and at night, throw aside
their multiplied under clothing, and defy rain and snow, and keen frost 1
We propose, in answer, to turn to the pages of an authority which our
medical brethren will scarcely gainsay.
Referring again to the doctrine of LIEBIG, given when addressing our-
selves to the question of "thin blood," and which makes the vital ac-
tivity consist in the transformation of the elements of the food into the
blood, this again into the solids and secretions, and these again into blood,
containing carbon and hydrogen, to be consumed by the oxygen of the
atmosphere ;-we find in the work of the same learned author, that the
source of animal heat is attributed to the same process of consumption of
the carbon and hydrogen of the food by the oxygen of the atmosphere.
He says,•
" The mutual action between the elements of the food and the oxy-
gen, conveyed by the circulation of the blood to any part of the body, is
the source of animal heat."
This being established, let us next ask by what means this heat is
maintained under varying circumstances 7 And let the same author
answer:
" In the animal body the food is the fuel; with a proper supply of oxy-
gen we .obtain the heat given during its oxidation or combustion. In
winter, when we take exercise in a cold atmosphere, and when conse-
quently the amount of inspired oxygen increases, the necessity for food
containing carbon and hydrogen increases in the same ratio; and by
gratifying the appetite thus excited, we obtain the most ejfic-ienL protection
against the most piercing cold. A starving man is soon frozen to death ;
and every one knows that the animals of prey in the arctic regions far
exceed in voracity those of the torrid zone.
"In cold and temperate climates, the air, which is incessantly striving
to consume the body, urges man to laborious efforts, in order to furnish
the means of resistance to its action, while in hot climates, the necessity
of labor to provide food is far less urgent.
" Our clothing is merely an equivalent for a certain amountof food. The
more warmly we are clad, the less urgent becomes the appetite for food,
1
Orga11ic Chemistry in its Applications to Physiology and Pathology,p. 17.
HEAT OF THE BODY. 3139
because the loss of heat by cooling, and consequently the amount of heat
to be s11pplied by the food, is diminished.
" If we were to go naked, like certain savage tribes, or if in hunting or
fishing we were exposed to the same degree of cold as the Samoyedes,
we should be able with ease to consume ten pounds of flesh, and perhaps
a dozen of tallow candles into the bargain, daily, as warmly-clad tra-
vellers have related with astonishment of these people.
" According to the preceding expositions, the quantity of food is regu-
latt~d by the number of respirations, by the temperature of the air, and
by the amount of heat given oft'to the surrounding media."t
To apply this. Our" warmly-clad" patients come to Malvern without
uppetite, nnd afraid of the slightest cold air. We subject them to the
action of cold air, by causing them in due time to throw off their warm
clothing: we further subject them to the action of cold water applied to
the skin in the fihape of baths ;-and, lo! in a few days they get an ap-
petite ! How this comes to pass, let the above quoted paragraphs say.
WP defy the whole medical fraternity to disprove the truths they contain.
\Vell, then; behold the patient with an appetite,-in other words, with
tlte capability of supplying carbon and hydrogen abundantly to the
blood ; behold him taking exercise, and thus augmenting the number of
his re~pirotions, in other words, supplying oxygen to meet the carbon
and hydrogen which his appetite aftords; behold, in consequence of the
mutual action of these elements, an increased rapidity of supply and
waste, of vital ar.tivity and chemical combustion,-AND THEREI-'ORE AN
AUt; :'\mNTED Al\lOUNT OF ANII\JAL HEAT.
Dut it may be flaid that all this applies only to the operation of exter-
nal ould, and affords no argument against the as~ertion that the drink-
ing of cold water abstracts the animal heat. This is true, as far as
the mere withdrawal of heat is concerned: but the ultimate eflcct on the
increase of food taken, and of oxygen consumed, and therefore of animal
hPat generated, still holds. Hear LIEBIG again :
"The cooling of the body, by whatever cause it may be produced, in-
creases the amount of food necessary. The mere exposure to the open
ail', in a carriage, or on the deck of a ship, by increasing radiation or vapor-
ization, increases the loss of heat and compels us to cat more than usual.
The mme is true if those who are accustomed to drink large quantifies if
cold water, which is giren ~If at tempera/ m·e of tlte body, 98·5:::> It in-
crea:e.~ the apprtitr.~ and persons of u·cak constitution find it 11ecessary, by
cvnJinued exercise, to supply to thf system the oxygen required to restore the
heat abstracted by the cold tcaler.''J
\\-hat can be more confirmatory of the philo~ophical principles on
which the ;vater cure proceeds than this proposition of so justly dis-
tinguished a writer 7 And every word of it is practically proved on
these 1\Ial\'crn hills, where, by exercise in the open air, after the various
processes of the treatment and drinking water, the capabilities of taking
• Op. cit , p. 21. 11 Op. cit., p. 24.
390 APPENDIX.
food and of resisting cold are gained for those who heretofore poaseseecl
neither.
To hear the absurdities uttered on this subject, one might be Jed to
imagine that the evolution of animal heat was a process carried on to a
very scanty degree in the human body, nnd that the quantity of it gene-
rated in twenty-four holtr5 in an adult man, would be utterly expended
on the water of the shallow and hip-baths taken in that period. The
non-professional reader will, therefore, be surprised at the following
statement, made on accurate experiments undertaken by natural philoso-
phers of the highest character.
"According to the experiments of DEsPRETz, 1 oz. of ca1·bon evolves,
during its combustion, as much heat as would raise the temperature of
105 oz. of water at 32° (the freezing point) to 167°, that is, by 135 de-
grees; in all, therefore, 105 times 135°= 14207 degrees of heat. Con-
sequently, the 13·9 oz. of carbon, which are daily converted into carbonic
acid in the body of an adult, evolve 13·9 >4 14207°=10747·3 degrees of
heat. This amount of heat is sufficient to raise the temperature of 1 oz.
of water by that number of degrees, orfrom 32° to 197509·3° ; or to cause
136·8 lbs of water at 32° to boil : or to heat 370 lbs. of water to 98·5°
(the temperature of the human body); or to convert into vapor 24 lbs.
of water at 98·5° ! If we now assume that the quantity of water vapor-
ized through the skin and lungs in twenty-four hours amounts to 48 oz.
(3 lbs.), then there will remain, after deducting the necessary amount
of heat, 146380·4 degrees of heat, which are dissipated by radiation, by
heating the expired air, and in the excrementitious matters."'·
'Vhy here is heat generated by one individual in twenty-four hours,
almost sufficient to boil the water in which he bathes, and that which he
drinks! And yet persons calling themselves educated medical practi-
tioners and physiologists, talk about the water cure ': exhausting tho
animal heat!"
Should, however, the reader desire to learn the most effectual way of
llcslroying the ]lOWer of generating animal heat, let him pursue the plan
which so many dhivering patients who come to Malvern have followed.
Let him drink spirits and wine, eat condiments, swallow purgatives, and
especially mercurials, take "a course of iodine," and, as an occasional
interlude, Jose a little blood; and we stake our reputation that he will
shiver to his heart's content, and find himself many degrees lower in the
scale of Fahrenheit tl1an cold water, cool air, early rising, and exercise
can possibly place him.
1 LIEBIG. Op. cit., p. 31. The quantity of carbon (13·9 oz.) stated is
calculated, from the analysis of all the aliment taken in twenty-four hours,
by a company of the body-guard of the Grand Duke of Hesse Darmstadt,
consi:)ting of eight hundred and fifty-five men. It was composed of beef,
pork, potatoes, peas, beans, lentils, sour krout, green vegetable, bread in
soup, salt, onions, leeks, fat, and vinegar: in all containing, after analysis,
fot· each man, 13·9 o~. of carbon daily.
TONE OF THE STOl\IACH. 391
3. "THE \VATER CURE DESTROYS THE TONE OF THE STOMACH.,.
Is it the cold of the water imbibed which destroys the tone 1 How then
comes it to be given, by universal consent, in fevers, where the tone of
the stomach is already low enough 1 Is there a physician in these
days bold enongh to assert that warm water destroys the tone of the
stomach ~ess than cold ? \Vhere is the tone of the stomach in
gout ? Yct from IIEYDEN1 downwards, cold water is the recog-
nized beverage for gouty persons. Dr. PEREIRA tells us that the
drinking cuhl water •• facilitates the recovery of epilepsy, hysteria,
and fainting, and alleviates gastric pain and spasm ;" and further, that
" large tir:wghtH of cold water have sometimes caused the expuh;ion of
intc::;tinal worms ;" -ctlccts which, we submit, it could not have produced,
had tlw colrl wn.tl~r had the res;ult of '~ destroying the tone of the stomach."
I IL~ also :-;tatcs, that ·' ice-cold water, or even ir.e, when swallowed, causes
coniI'll ·tifJn (ccr~'l.iul~· imlicative of increa:.:ed tone) of the gastric blood-
vessels, and thereby clteck.3 or ~tops ~angnincous exhalation (certainly
indic:ath·c of decrea:-rd tone) from the mucous membrane of the stomach:"
that on taking ice, or icc-cold water, "temporary contraction of the
alimentary canal is produced: that a feeling of warmth follows that of
cold in the pit of the stomach, and quickly extends over the whole body,
(:-;o it docs nol exhaust the animal heat!) accelerating somewhat the
circulation and promoting the ~ecretioru; of the alimentary canal, of the
kidney~, and the Fkin."3 I•'inally, the same elaborate writer says of
cold wah•r, that "it is a vital ~timulus, and is more essential to our
existence than aliment."., In all which we are at a loss for any signs of
de:struetion of Lite 1:-itomach's tone.
Is it by dilution or the gastric juice that cold wat<'r impairs the tone
of the stu:uach '? The latit cited author seems to think the affirmative,
when he ~ays, " \Vater serves at least two important purposes in the
animal economy ; it repairs the loss of the aqueous parts of the blood,
caused by the action of the secreting and exhaling organs ; and it is a
:-;oln'nt of \'arion:-; alimentary suh~tances, and therefore assists the
!'toma.ch in the act of digestion, though, if taken in rery large quantities,
it nt:l) ha\ can oppo~ite eflect, by dilulin.g the gastric juice."4 Unfortu-
naft>l) f(Jr tlac truth of this provi~o, with reference to the water cure, no
modic:tl man prncti:::,ing it as he ought to do, would prescribe cold water to
bo drunk ·' in \'cry large quantities" at a meal, nor for two hours at least
afterward:--; on the contrary! not more than a small tumbler should be
tah:cn "lail...t (•at:ng. AnJ, as regards copious drinking of it when
the. tornach is empty,-in the early morning, for i~sta.nce, w~en it is
E.'spccially recummcmJable,-we have the best authonty for saymg, that
• \rthrit'ifn ~"'um Magnum; a Ph)sical Discourse on the Wonderful Virtues
of Cold \V..tcr I.ondou: 17"2 1.
:2 E ll'lneula of Materi.t .i\lc:lica and Therapeutics, vol. i. page 32.
Published in 1542.
~ Op. cit.• p. 3<L. • lb., pp. 68, 69.
392 APPENDIX.
no gastric juice at all is secreted in the stomach, until the natural stimulau
of nutritious aliment is applied to its cavity,• and therefore no dtlution of
it can take place, and no diminution of tone t11ence be caused.
Lastly, is it by its bulk that cold water impairs the tone of the stomu.ch 1
If the six or eight tumblers of water, imbibed by a person before break-
fast, all remained in the stomach unabsorbed, its bulk would probably ir-
ritate the stomach to the point of vumiting, and the exhaustion ol 'tm
stomach subsequent on such effort, frequently repeated, might induce
atony of its coats, as repeated vomiting from any cause tends to do.
But this cannot take place in the course of the water cure; first, becamw
its practice does not countenance the taking of more than one tumbler at
a time, and insists on exercise in the intervals between each; and, se-
condly, because it is well ascertained that the absorption of water by t!Je
stomach is a surprisingly rapid process, ''all drinks," according to Dr.
BEAUMONT," being immediately absorbed, none remaining on the stomach
ten minutes after being swallowed.''2
We heard a medical practitioner,
who had seen a case similar to that of St. Martin (a perforation from
the surface of the belly into the ca,·ity of the stomach), say, a short time
ago, "that the sucking up of water by the coats of t11e stomach, resem-
bled the manner in which rain is taken up by the burning sands of a
desert." And all physiological inYestigation proves that the empty sto-
mach has amazing vivacity of function in this particular. For the rest,
we are contented to refer again to the words of LIEBIG (at page 68),
that" large quantities of cold water increase the appetite;" and to the
daily exhibition of tllis fact in our patients. And we therefore contend
tl1at that which augmenls the appetite of the stomach cannot be clestructite
of its tone. It were well for mankind, had they no more effectual way
of destroying the tone of the stomach than by drinking water !
•!. ~,THE ' VATER CuRE rRonucEs DRorsv ;" and,
5. ~'THE WATER CURE I~JURES THE KIDNEYS BY Th"DUCING EXCEs-
::HVE AcTION OF THEM."
\Ve place these opinions in juxta-position, in order that the reader
may form some idea of tJ1e anilities which mere prejudice is capable of
uttering. Here are two states: one supposing a want of action in the
J\idneys, the other an excess of action in them. How in the name of
logic can both acknowledge an identical cause? Yet both are gravely
asserted to arise from drinking water! Let us endeavor to place those
who hold by the retention of the water in the body, acd those who assert
its too rapid exit therefrom, at ease on both points.
• Case of Alexis St. Martin, in Dr. Bcaumont"s "Experiment• and Ob-
serf1ations on the Gcutric Juice and tlte Physiology of Dige1tion," p. P6.
Edinburgh, lb38.
2
Op. cit., p. 9!J.
DROPSY. 393
. Two kinds of dropsy arc described by all medical writers on the sub-
Ject: tha.t which ariQc,., fro:n inflammatory, or some analogous action in
the sc:at of the Jrop:•iral coiJcction (the chest, belly, or the cells underneath
the ~km): ~nd that which elt::sucs upon obstruction of the circulation by
reason of liJscase of the heart, the lungs, the liver, the spleen, or some of
tlH! large n·ins of the bcdv. Of late vears it has been shown uy BRIGHT I
• J ' ,
CRRISTisoN,
2
OREGon.~·,:~ OsnOR!.IiE,1 1\lAHTI:i SoLoN,5 and RAYER,6 to bo
counectcd in ~::orne instance;; with a particular organic disease of the ldd-
ncy: of which we shall by and uy say more. \Vith whatever condition,
however, of the dropsical part the disease may he allied, one fact is invari-
able in the hi::itory of dropsy, viz. the diminished action of the kidneys,
and therelore the diminished quantity of fluid C\'acuated uy them; a di-
minution of which paticuts in the water cure, we venture to say, never
yet complained. Refciring to the dropsy connected with local inflamma-
tion, we find the greater number of authors attributing it to suppression
of the pcn::;pirat!on. or of any of the natural secretions and discharges,
and to the drh·ing in of any eruption. Referring also to the dropsy
d~pendcut on disca~c of the heart, lung!':, liver, &c., we find all medical
writers l'Xplaining this by the !;toppage of the circulation in consequence
of obstruct~ous in those organ~, and the subsequent congestion of blood
and etl'usion of it~ watery parts in some of the cavities. But in all the
trc:ltises on this disea:se, from Hrri'OCRATEs7
downwards, the medical or
the non-profc::sional reader will seek in vain for the use, or even the abuse
of wat~'>r as a cause. It i.'l frue that many of the older writerti tortured
their drup:::-:ical patients (who are alway3 thirsty) by forbidding liquids;
hut every pr.tctitioncr is now well aware of the absurdity, and even in-
jury of the re::triction, whkh, howe\'cr, still obtains as correct with very
many of the laity. Upon this erroneous and injurious notion, the opi-
uion that "water drinking causes dropsy" is calculated to play, as they
who emit it well know. But would any educated practitioner venture,
in a case of dropsy, to act upon snch a notion, and debar his patient
from as much water as he chose to drink 1 \Ye opine that he would be
pointed at as an ignoramus and scouted by his brethren for hi~ utter
want of scientific and practical :knowledge. If, then, the free taking of
water be not conducive to the increase of dropsical disease, U'lr.en the
kidneys and skin are carrying C!.ff liq~tids imperfectly, how should it pro-
duce dropsy u·hen both the kidneys and skin are acting freely-nay, carry-
a Reports of Medical Cases. London, 1827.
• On Dropsy from Disease of the Kidney. Edin. Med. and Surg. Jour-
nal, vol. xxxii., p. 262. 1829.
3 Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xxxvi., p. 315. 1831.
' On Dropsies, &c. &.c. London, 1835.
• De l'Albuminurie. Paris, 1~38.
• Traite des Maladies des Reins, &.c. Paris, 1839-4Q.
' Aphori~m. 3 to 7; et Opera, passim.
18*
3~4 Al'.PEi\lJlX.
ing off more than the usual quantity of fluids by virtue of the exercise
enjoined in the water cure'? The proposition carries absurdity on the
face of it.
But we further maintain, that in those cases wherein the dropsy is
attributable to ob~truction of circulation in the liver, spleen, or sweet-
bread, the copious drinking of water, aided by the other applications of
the water cure, is a powerful agent in the cure of drop!'y. If there be a
diseased state which our plan of treatment is more especially calculated
to remove, it is to be found in that obstruction of the liver and other solid
orgaus of digestion, which, in the majority of instances, gi\·e:; rise to
drop:>y. Of the removal of such obstruction, we have already gh·en the
ratiouale. And inasmuch as in the case before ut-:, the dropsy is attackPd
1n its source, and the torpid liver, &c., put into action, we h~tve good
reason to prefer the water treatment before that which only aints at
stimulating the kidney~ by allltinds of irritating diuretif:;, lca.\insr the
original ~cat of the mischief in the liver to take its clumcc, or, po:ssibly,
to be deteriorated by those 'ery diuretic.s (calomel, colchicum, squill, and
t;O forth) applied to the stomach.
This leads us to the consideration of that species of dropsy which is
connected with the organic disorder of the kidneys denominated "granu-
lar disease,:' and described by Bu.IGllT, CnRISTISON, and others. When
it is alleged that the water cure causes disease of the kidneys, we arc
not aware that particular allusion has been made to this "granular" con-
dition ;-very probably, they who pronounce the opinion never heard of
such a condition. But as medical writers have never yet spoken of any
other state of the kidneys as producti\·e of dropsy, we conclude that the
disease in question is the one intended to be seen through the hue of
prejudiced ignorance which surrounds this opinion. If the authors who
have published on this subject are to be relied on (and they comprise the
most respectable names in medicine), the causes of the complaint in
question are, 1, suppressed action of the skin ; 2, drinking of spirituous
liquors; 3, the employment of stimulant diuretics; and 4, courses of
mercury. But none of them allude in any way to copious dilution with
water as a cause.
\Vith regard to the suppressed actiun of the skin, it can scarcely obtain
in the water cure, where the increased action of that important surface
forms a prominent feature, and wherein sweating is a principal agent. On
this last, indeed, Dr. OsBORNE places his greatest reliance in the cure of
dropsy :t asserting that "sweating being accomplished, the disease, if free
from complications, never fails to be removed.'12
Neither do spirituous liquors figure in the water cure, which may
therefore, quoad hoc, be declared guiltless of cau8ing renal dropsy. Why
do not our medical brethren, who utter warnings about water and dropsy,
raise their voices on the subject of .t;;pirits and dropsy ? for all the writers
l 0 .
p. Cit., p. 44. I lb., p. 61.
DISEASE OF THE KIDNEY. 395
above cited ~peak of spirit drinking as the most fertile cause of this kind
of dr~psical disorder, which, according to Dr. BRIGHT, destroys not less
than five hundred per~ons annually in London alone.
Then, as rcg-d.rds the employment of stimulant dirlret:cs, they enter not
into the simple pharmacopreia. of the \Vater Cure. Dr. Osnon:o;E states,
that theHe medicines, ets squill~, cream of tartar, and even the diuretic
Ealts, are not guiltle~s in contributing to the production of this disease of
the kidney; and that by over-stimulating the kidneys, they become the
means of stopping the urinary secretion, and inducing the renal disease
and its consequences.' And Dr. GREGORY, in his report of cases,"' says,
"tltat the mo:st remarkable diminutions in the urinary secretions took
place ajltr the aclmini:;tration of squills arul cream if tartar:" evidently
pointing to their effect iu exasperating the malady. Further, in quoting
these anthor~, it is necessary to remark, that they SJ>eak of the "stimulant
diuretics," nnd particularize some of them, as above. The laical reader
wiII undcn;tand the force of this when he learn~ that diuretics are classed
by physicians into the "aqueous" and the" t;timulant," the latter includ-
ing the saline, the acrid, the oleaginous, &c.3 It is not probable that
uccur.tte writers ~hould have pas~ed over the "aqueous"' diuretics had
they ~en detectable as a source of dropsy from the cause in question ;
the rathl'r as, besides simple water, the8e include the infusions of simple
hcrhs and grains, copiously imbibed. So that, taking authority of a high
character, that terrible agent, water, does not produce dropsy so frequently
as tho::,e plea...:l.nt medicines, squill, colchicum, &c.
La:stly, a rc\'iewcr in the Edinburgh J.llcdical and Surgical Jvumal'
(supposed to be PROFESsOR CnmsTISON), accuses 11wrcury of causing
diseased kidney leading to dropsy, and alludes to Dr. BLACKALL's obser-
vations to the same effect. He says, "Two decided examples, if not
more, we have seen, in which no doubt conld he <'ntertain('d as to the
influence of this mineral in producing the morbid degeneration of the
kidnev. 1\fercurr seems in this case to act very much like other exces-
~ive ~timulant~, a;1d by over-exciting the glandular part of the kidneys. to
lay the foundation of the morbid change., Sir AsTLEY CooPER also
cla~l'es mercury ai' n not infrequent cause oi drop:.:;y of the belly, Epeak-
ing of it in that ngcncy as '·by no means an extraordinary case:·s
StilJ we have nothing of water in all this; and mercury is nstmredly
no part of the water cure. The fact is, and eclucated.medical ~l'n k~ow
it, that when a large quantity of water is introduced mto the can~utatlon,
it passes off hy the ~kin in the shape of sweat, if ext~mal. beat be ap-
plied: or by the kidneys, if the surface be kep~ cool,.tins tx:mg a process
of filterincr onlv, and unaccompanied by the stamulatton wtuch marks the
operation ~f s~line and acrid diuretics, who~e aim is to force the kidneys
1 Op. cit., p. :ll. 2 Edinb~rgh 1\l.cd. and ~urg. ~ournal, ubi supr11.
1 Pereira's Elements of Matena Med1ca, vol. 1., p...00.
• No. cxxviii., p. 19G 6
Lancet, April 3, 1824.
396 APPENDIX.
at the expense of other organs. It requires no depth of reflection to con-
clude which is the more likely to bring on renal dropsy. We may add,
by way of rider, that Dr. CoPLAND enumerates" the drastic operation of
purgatives" among the causes of dropsy :1
but does not place copious di-
lution in the list.
6. ';THE \VATER CuRE CAUSEs RliEUl\IATISM."
If so, the dogma on which Homreopathy is based, and which aBserts
that the same remedy which cures will cause a disease, is correct. For
in no complaint hitherto submitted to the water cure arc its curati\·e
effects more decided, and even surprising, than in rheumatism, whether
acute or chronic. But the comfortable prejudice in favor of abundauce
of flannel, a wilderness of fur, and the atmosphere of 0\'en~, stampR the
promulgation of this dread of rheumatism with the only ingenuity thn.t
it can fairly claim : for daily and hourly experience leave it without a
vestige of foundation. To obtain rheumatism by the joint operation of
cold and moisture, two conditions are necessary ; first, that the individual
should be predisposed by a certain irritative condition of the digestive
organs, especially the liver, and of the nervous system; secondly, that
evaporation of the moisture from the surface of the body should be unim-
peded, and the individual in a state of rest. Place a man with sound di-
gestive organs between damp sheets, covered by dry blankets and coun-
terpane, and let the whole be arranged so as to forbid the passage of air
underneath the bed-clothes, and it is altogether impossible for him to
become rheumatic. In such case, the warmth of the body quickly trans-
forms the damp of the sheets into vapor, which being confined about tho
skin, engenders an atmosphere warm enough to satisfy the most comfort-
loving matron in the community. More than this: the consequence is
not rheumatiHm, even when there is the predisposition in the digestive
organs; witness stage-coachmen and post-boys, who invariably suffer
their under-coat to be well soaked with rain before they put on the upper
dry one kept in reserve: and who, although given to those ways which
irritate the digestives, neither get cold nor rheumatism by this proceed-
ing. The like applies to the well-known habit of the Highland shep-
herds, of wringing their under-garment out of cold water and covering all
with a dry coat, as the best means of keeping themseh es warm, when they
sleep on the mountain-side : yet they are not celebrated for their absti-
nence from whiskey, nor for attacks of rheumatism. All that is required
is, that evaporation of the damp clothing by the passage of air should be
avoided; experience tea.ches this, and the reason of it should be eVident
to every medical man.
On the other hand, let a man's stomach and bowels be maintained in
& state of irritation by purgatives, let him, more particularly, be in the
1 Dictionary, p. 627. Art. DropBy ofthe Abdomen.
RHEUI'YlATISl\1 AND WATEK. 397
habit of taking minute or large doses of mercury or iodine, it will be
found how readily he takes rheumatism even by exposure to cold air,
not to mention the dampness that is its usual concomitant in this island.
Yct p:tck the same mau in damp sheets, and keep all but his face her-
metically excluded from the air, and though he were brimful of the re-
sults of mercury, he runs no more risk (not a3 much in the ultimate)
of becoming rheumatic by it than if he were in a bed heated by half a
dozen warming-pans. It is mere idleness to deny thil:i without experi-
ence ; u'e have seen the fact scores of times ; we have never seen rheu-
matism ensue on such treatment; and we take ]eave to doubt whet~cr
the persons with this rheumatic crotchet in their heads have ever tried
or seen tl'icd the wet sheet, or any other portion of the water cure.
Would they desire to have other medical authority than ours for the
harmlc:ssness of cold water and damp clothes? Dn. HEBERDEN, the
first physician of his day, says:
"ln England, few make any doubt of the great danger attending wet
rooms and dt1mp clothes or beds. Is this opinion founded upon experi-
ence 1d1ich has been sl!ffrrt·d to grow up and get strength merely for want
of being examined! If we inquire into the argumt•nts in favor of this
notion, we shall hardly find any other than the random conjectures of the
sick about the cause of their iiJness, or than their artfully substituting
this origin of it instead of some other, which they arc unwilling to own.
I hardly know a distemper, of which at different times I have not been
told, that it was occasioned by lying in a damp bed or by sitting in a wet
room; and yet I do not know any one u·hich u,ill certainly be produced by
these causes; and people frequently expose themselves to such causes
without suffering any ill efiects. * * * It is a common practice in cer-
tain disorders to go to bed at night with the legs or arms wrapped in
linen cloth soaked in Malvern water; so that the sheets will be in many
places as wet as they can be ; and I hat·e kllown these patients and their
bed-fellows receire no harm from a continuance of this practice for many
months. Nor can it be said, that the 1\fah·crn water is more innocent
than other water might be, on account of any ingredients with which
it is impregnated ; for the Alalt-ern ll'aler is purer than tltat ofany other
springs in England, which I erer examined or heard of."
Is it the coldness of wet linen which is feared ? but shirts and shePts,
colder than any unfrozen water can be, are safely worn and lain in by
many persons, who, during a bard frost, neither warm their beds nor
their shirts. Or does the danger lie in the dampness? But then how
comes it to pass that a warm or cold bath and long fomentations can
be used without the destruction of those that use them? Or is it from
both together? Yet we have long heard of the thickness and continu-
ance of the cold fogs in the north-west of England ; but have never
yet been told of any certain ill effect which they have upon those who
live in them."'
I Medical Transar-tions, vol. ii.
398 APPENDIX.
7. "THE CRISIS lNDtr:::ED BY THE WATER CURE IS DANGEROTTS."
A writer in the Quarterly R etiew for December, 1842, clubs this
"word of fear" with the last named, prophesying that "the water cure
will flourish until some person of note is crippled by a rheumatic fever
or dead from a carbuncle." The employment of this term" carbunc1e"
as indicative of the crisis, lays bare either the gross ignorance of the
writer on the subject of the water cure, since he gives it as the only
critical result, or the dishonesty of his purpose in thus attempting to
fix a formidable name on the agglomeration of two or three simple boils.
Let us inquire what" carbuncle" really is, and what the water boil
really is.
"Carbuncle," says Dr. CoPLAND,1 "has very generaJiy been con-
founded with malignant pustule." This is so true that, putting aside
uun-profcssional persons, who evidently attach tlae idea of mortification,
&c., to the term (on which account we presume the reviewer employs
it), we venture to say that seven out of ten medical men, if asked to de-
fine carbuncle, would call it " a malignant tumor." The author just
cited offers a distinction between carbuncle and common boil by repre-
~enting the latter as " having only a single opening, being smaller and
more conical, and by several appearing in succession." Now, although
the critical boil of the water cure sometimes (by no means always, nor
cnm in the majority of instances) has more openings than one, and is
not so conical nor narrow based as a single ordinary boil, yet it agrees
with the account of this last in appearing in more than one place. To
reconcile the discrepancy and to fix the true character of the water boil,
we beg to refer,.first, to the opinions of DuPUYTREN2 and RAYER,3 who
describe carbuncle as" a tumor formed by the conglomeration and con-
fluence of several boils :" secondly, to the facts announced by Dr. CRAI-
GI£,1 viz., carbuncle " is accompanied by sickness, languor, restlessness,
and sleeplessness; that the patient generally suffers much headache and
thirst, and his tongue is loaded with a thick, brown, dry fur: that he gene-
rally loat11es food, and in some cases vomits more than once: that he
raves, faints," &c., &c.; and lastly, to the predisposing causes of car-
buncle, which are laid down by Dr. CoPLAND,5 as consi&ting in " high,
rich, or gross living, with insufficient exercise, a fuU, gross habit of
body, and neglect of personal cleanliness,"--causes which, he says," not
only predispose, but even more directly produce it."
It so happens that the water cure boil is never accompanied by the
constitutional symptoms above recited by CRAIGIE; the patient loses
1 Dictionary of Practical Medicine, p. 1056. Art Furuncular Dilttutl.
2 Lectures in the Lancette Franraise for March, 1833.
3 Theoa·ctical and Practical Treatise on Diseases of the Skin, translated
by R. Willis, p. 549.
• Elements of Practice of Physic, vol. i., p. 640.
6 Loc. cit.
CRlSlS o~· THP. WAl'EK. CURE. 399
neither sleep nor. ~ppctite: there is no disord~ r of the tongue nor, by any
chance, any vomttmg: and delirium and fainting are circumstances alto-
gether unknown in its history. If any of the patients treated by us at
.Malvern, who have had t!Je cri8is of boils, will assert that any one, or all
of. t.he~e sy~ptoms of carbuncle, usually so called, accompanied such
crJSls m the1r per::;ons, we arc ready to give up the point, and allow that
the water cure boil is of the gt!nttine carbuncle species, and of a danger-
ous character. In the meantime, as the like cauge generally produces
th~ like effect, and as the boil induced by our treatment does not produce
the same symptoms as the " carbuncle'' of authors, we are justified in
denouncing the dishonest motive displayed in attaching that much-feared
name to it.
J<~urther, it so happens that the water cure boil, so far from being con-
nected with "high, rich, and gross living, with insufficient exerciee, with
grnss habit of body, or with neglect of personal cleanliness," as is the
case with the " carbuncle of authors," appears, after strict but nutritious
dieting, ahnnda.nt exercise, diminution of morbid fulness of habit, and,
mo:st assuredly, after no neglect of personal cleanline~s, if water applied
in all manner::; can clean the human skin, or purify the human frame.
The identity of true carbuncle with the water boil thns fails in the com-
pari:;on of causes, as well as of symptomatic eflects: neither being trace-
able to the like can:;cs, nor marked hy the like rc:;ults. \Vhcre, then, is
the h"ne.,t moth e in maintaining their identity?
The only point in which they agree is the formation of more than one
opening, in which case they !Llso agree in the more extended base and
lc~~ conical shape than an ordinary boil. But, as we ::;aid, this is an
occasional occurrence only; in very many instances, none but simple
and single boils are produced, to which it would be as fair to attach the
name and attributes of "carbuncle,'' as to the larger ::;pccies alluded to.
\Vhat then is the genuine water boil about which ~uch a hubbub is made?
It i:3 a conglomeration of several Rimple boils, and in so far, according to
DuruYTRE~'s and RAYER's definition, a carbuncle; but inasmuch as
these are generated in, and are indeed the signals of, a body cleansed of
its grossness and impurities after weeks or months of wholesome diet,
exercise, and watery applications, and not of a body in all the flush of
dietetic iniquitiPs, these congregated boils have neither the carbuncular
discharge, nor are accompanied by the severe and dangerous constitu-
tional symptoms attendant on the genuine carbuncular inflammation.
Inasmuch, too, as the danger of an external db.;eased point is in exact
proportion with the condition of the stomach, and other vital organs
within, and these are invariably put into order bifvre the appearance of a
cri='is of boils, the reason wherefore these latter induce no constitutional
derangem('nt, and are therefore attended with no dan::,rer, whilst th~
"carbuncle" of authors is, will be clear to the reader. The water boal
ofthe most e.rtemire kind is only a" carbuncle" in the arrangement of the
several boils which form it; in all other particulars it is no more a car-
400 APPENDIX.
bnncle than an epl1emeral pimple on the nose is: nor is there any reuon
why persons-great or small-should be " dead from it," as the sapient
Quarterly Reviewer somewhat gleefnlly anticipates.
Let it be understood, however, that we by no means class ourselves
with those practisers of the water cure who appear to consider a crisis
of boils essential, and who, therefore, are much given to stimulate the
system without precise measurement of its capabilities. Let it furtl1er
be understood, that were we bent upon such coarse practice, there is
scarcely more than one case in twenty in which it is possible to induce
the crisis in question. Of upwards of five hundred patients who have
'OOen under treatment at .l\Ialvern, not more than twenty-two have had
an eruption of boils-large, smaJI, or conglomerated. Dut we can
truthfully aver, that not one of these was deprived of an hour's sleep,
nor debarred of the usual exercise and diet for a single day ; and, as we
said before, there is no reason why they should be, if sufficient measure-
ment of the constitutional powers of the individual be made throughout
the progress of the case, and common sense with sirnple means take the
place of mystifying practice with complex means, when the boils mal\e
their appearance.
But how does it happen that the public have only boils and "carbun-
cles" held up in terrorem,-that species of crisis which is the most rarely
obtained 7 We think this question has been answered in the preceding
pages. Yet it were well that the reader should further learn that other
crises exist to which nt>ithcr the formidable prestige nor name of "car-
lmncle" can, even by perversion, be appended.
There is the simple lifflorcscence of the skin which is apt to occur in
females.
There is also scattered and itclling eruption of pimples scarcely above
the level of the skin, which is not an infrequent termination of nervous
cases.
There is the crisis of an attack offerer of a few days' duration, a
very desirable ending of inveterate hypochondriasis.
There is the critical sweating ; and the exttdat.ion if glutinous, arid
and sometimesjCEtid mailer ; and there is a crisis of diarrha!a.
Any of these is much more frequently met with, in the treatment of
chronic disease, than the boils, the appearance of which depends quite
as much on the constitution of the individual, as on the appliances of the
water cure; for, as we said, in some constitutions it is impossible, do
what one will, to produce this lU~t-named species of crisis.
The principles and the facts of the crisis may be thus summed up.
Whenever an organ or series of organs in the state of morbid excite-
ment, which is present in acute and chronic disease, is placed, by art, i1
a condition to cast off that excitement, the act is announced by a change
in some other organ, or series of organs.
This change is a crisis.
The nature and amount of this change, as well as of the organs in
CUISIS 0.1-' THE WATER CURE. 401
which it takes place, depend on the constitution of the individual, the
nature ~nd amount of the means employed, and the part to which they
arc apphed.
But as this change never takes place until the orrran first diseased has
cast oil" it~ morbid excitement, the change a.llmled t~ i. e. the crisis, does
uot itself rclic\'C the former, but is a ~'ignal that it has relieved it~clf; in
the ~an~e !nanner that tears do not bring relief to the mind, but arc a sign
that rclJct has been brought. It is for this rea~on that a crisis of some
~ort i3 clc:.,irable; it is an evidence or good having been effected.
Still as, al'tcr all, the crisi:i is it~clf a morbid st:tte, it is desirable to
produce it on Horne organ not immediately and :-;trongly connected with
the central vital parts,-thc stomach and lowel~, urain, &c.
l•,or the t;amc reason, a crisis appearing, it iH uunccc~l'ary and impru-
dent to urge the m<.'ans with the view of increasing its amount. It is a
s1gn of relief, amll'lhould l>c accepted a~ such simply.
Now the processes of the \Vater Cure place the primarily diseased
parts in a state to ca!St otl' their cxc;tement : they further tend to make
the skin (an organ not immediately inrolving the. great central organs),
the recipient of that morbid excitement; and it remains for the practi-
tioner to regulate th~ amount cf this new excitement of irritation, not
suffering boils, eruptions, sweat. &c., to tax the powers of the patient
l>cyond the requirements of the case.
\Vhcn the malady consists simply in the retention of some eracuation,
and is not of such standing as to have vitiated the circulating blood, the
restoration of the evacuation is in itself a critical act, and no change in
any other organ is likely or desirable. The early :-;tagc!S of constipated
bowcll:!, of retained monthly How, or of suppre~scd }JCr8piration, come
under this category.
\Vhen also the organic constitution of the individual is of a vivid cha-
racter, and the disease of the internal organ of comparati\'cly short dura-
tion, this last is found not unfrequently to throw itself on some other
internal organ which does not so much im·olve the centre of life: then is
there an internal crisis. This has been instanced in the appearance of
loose bowels after irritated stomach and li\·cr, which being more impor-
tant parts, have their disease carried off uy the lower bowel, n !)art of in-
finitely less importance to the individual's li fc. The same applies to the
pouring oft· by the kidneys of acid and saline matters, as sometimes is
the calSC.
Thus the crisis effected by the 'Vater Cure occurs either oli the skin,
the lower bowel. or the kidney~, the parts which Nature, when she is
allowed to terminate disease by her own eflorts, chooses for the same
purpose. In doing this, the practitioner of the 'Yater Cure only follows
Nature ; but to hc.tr the hue and cry about the crisis, one might imagine
such an act had ne\'er been perpetrated by 1'\aturc, or assisted by art,
before the time when Priessnitz developed his mode of treatment. Yet
it would perhaps be ditlicult to find a suujcct in the whole range of medi·
402 APPENDIX.
cine which has engaged the attention of so many eminent medical writ-
ers, from HIPPOCRATEs,' to CoLLEl'l,2
RtcHTER,1 FxAR,• Hn.DENBRAKD,•
KREYSSIG,• who all insist on the importance of acting upon the broad
hint given byNature for her own relief. And the crisesenumerated by all
authors are precisely those we have alluded to, not excepting the terrible
boils which our medical brethren would fain make the world believe had
never been heard of.
I I.
PROPOSITIONS ON THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF
THE WATER CURE.
I. A series of unnatural symptoms constitutes a disease.
IJ. This disease is referable to a morbid condition of some of the tex-
tures of the body.
III. All disease is originally acute, that is to say, the symptoms are
more or less rapid and pressing in their character, and more or less cha-
racterized by fe\·er.
IV. Acute disease is the effort of the morbid organ or organs to throw
offtheir disorder upon some less important organ or organs. Thus acute
inflammation of the liver, stomach, or lungs, causes fever, that is, an
effort to throw the mischief on the skin, the bowels, or the kidneys.
V. If, from the great extent of the mischief to be thrown off, and the
feeble constitution, acquired or natural, of the individual, this effort is not
successful, the body dies from exhaustion.
VI. If this effort be only partially successful, more or less of the inter-
nal mischief remains, but gives rise to symptoms of a less rapid and press-
ing and more permanent character. These symptoms then constitute a
chronic disease.
VII. Except in the case of accidents to the limbs, we know of no
disease which is not essentially internal. Skin diseases are invariably
connected with disease of some internal organs, especially the stomach
and bowels, and are regulated in their character and intensity thereby.
This is so true, that where there is a skin disease, the crisis effected
by the water cure invariably takes place on the spot where it exists.
VIII. Acute disease, then, is the violent efiort of internal and vital
organs to cast their mischief on external and less important organs.
1 Opera. ed. Vander Li:ulen, t. i. t:l passim.
'\Vork.; hy Thomson, v. i., p. 593.
1 Die Spccielle Therapic, p. i., p. 57.
4 De Curandis Hominum Morl,is, v. i., p. !iG.
• fnstitutioncs practico-m<:!dica~, v. i., p. 00.
I Encyclopid, wortcrbuch der 1\Iedicin, Wissenschaften, p. 8, p. 646.
PROPOSITIOHS OF THE WATER CURE. 403
IX. Chronic disease is the enfeebled effort of the same organs to
the same end.
X. But as from the diminished power of the constitution this is
always ineffectual, the morbid state of the organs tends constantly to-
wards disorganization, or what is called organic disease. This is more
certaiuly the case, if the original causes of the malady are at work.
XI. Disease therefore is curable when the power of the system is
sufficiently strong to throw the morbid action from a more to a less
important organ.
XII. Disease is incurable when the power in question is insufficient
for the last-named purpose; and when it has become organic, that is,
when a change of structure has taken place.
XIII. From these premises it follows that the aim of scientific treat
ment should be to aid the development of the power of the system and
its efforts to rid its vital parts of mi~chief.
XIV. That mischief invariably consists in the retention of an un-
natural quantity of blood in them, to the detriment of other parts of
the organism,-a retention commonly known by the terms acute in-
llammaliun, chronic inflammation, and congestion.
XV. In endeavoring to develope the powers of the system, the dissi-
pation of this inflammation or congestion must be constantly kept in
view, as the end of which the constitutional efforts are the means.
XVI. But as the circulation of the blood e\·erywhere h~ under the
influence of the organic syst-em of nerves, the power and efforts of these
last arc e~sentially to be strengthened in order to dissipate the inflam-
mation or congestion referred to.
XVII. Curative treatment is therefore made through the instrumen-
tality of the nervous system.
XVIII. Violent and sudden stimulation of the ner\·ons system of the
internal organ~, is invariably followed by exhaustion and increased in-
flammation and congestion. Hence the impropriety of alcoholic and
medicinal stimulants.
XIX. But the gradual and judiciously regulated stimulation of the
nervous system according to the organic powers, conduces to the de-
t•elopmenl and maintenance of its strength.
XX. This ~timulation is the more steady and certain in its results
the more universally it is applied to the entire nervous system.
XXI. To the external skin, therefore, and to the internal skin (as
represented by all the lining membranes of the lungs and digestive
o1·gans), this stimulation should be applied, those parts containing the
larrrest portion of the nervous system spread through them.
XXII. Pure air applied to the lungs, proper diet, nnd water applied
to the dige~tive organs, and zcatn npplietl to the extemal skin, fulfil
this intention of stimulation and 8trengthening most eifcctually.
XXIII. Further, as that portion of the nervous system (the brain
and spinal cord), in which the will resides, requires the development
404 APPENDIX.
of its powers, exercise of the limbs is requisite, the stimulation of the
air, diet, and water aiding thereto.
XXIV. PURE WATER, PURE AIR, PROPER DIET, AND REGULATED EXER·
CtSE, ARE THE GREAT AGENTS lN EFFECTING THE CURE OF DJSEA.SE BY
.A.IDING TllE NATURAL EFFORTS OF THE BODY, TIIROUGH TilE INSTRU·
JIJENTALITY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
XXV. IN THE DUE APPORTIO!OIENT OF THESE AGENTS, ACCORDING TO
THE POWERS OF THE CONSTITUTION AND TJIE PHASES OF DISEASE, AS
ASCERTAINED BY l\lJNUTE 1\IEDICAL EXA:\IINATION, CONSISTS THE SCIEN•
TIFIC AND TilE SAFE PRACTICE OF THE \VATER CURE.
XXVI. As strengthening of the system by the regulated stimulating
of the nervous system is the means, so the throwing o1fdisease by more
important on less important organs by that acquired strength, is the end
of that practice.
XXVII. During the efforts of the system thus aroused for so beneficia]
an end, if agents are employed which divert those efforts and tend to
centre stimulus on the more important organs, augmented mischief is the
certain result. Such agents are to be found in alcoholic and medicinal
Etimulants, applied to the internal skin and nerves: in hot and impure
air applied to the external skin and nerves; and in exciting and factitious
pleasures and anxious cares applied to the great centre of the nerves, the
brain.
X..XVIII. These and the mal-apportionment of the stimulation included
in water, air, diet, and exercise, give rise to th~ only "Dangers of the
\Vater Cure."
XXIX. The proper apportiOnment ot the stimulation in question origi-
n:ttes and maintains a steady effort of the system to save its vital parts
at the expense of parts which implicate life less immediately.
XXX. 'l'he result of this effort is shown in one of the following ways:
1, the re-establishment of obstructed and suppressed secretions; 2, in the
elimination of diseased matters through the bowels, kidneys, or skin; 3,
in the formation of a critical action of some sort on the f'kin.1
XXXI. Such result constitutes the CRISIS OF THE WATER CunE.
XXXII. The Cri8h; being the result of the extrinsic efforts of the vital
or~ans, is to be viewed as the signal of their relief, not as the instrument
uf their relief.
XXXIII. Still as, during the crisis, the tendency from the internal to
the exh·rnal organs is most strong, it is more than ever necessary to
avoid the causes which act in diverting this tendency and in reconcen-
trating the mischief on the internal parts.
XXXIV. At the same time, the tendency in point being then strongly
cstabliehed, it is not necessary to stimulate the system further in that
' For the various kinds of critical action, see what has been above stated
on the subject of the crisis of the \Vater Cure.
PROPOSITIONS OF THE WATER CURE. 405
direction, and all treatment except that which allays irritation accordingly
ceases.
XXXV. A crisis being the evidence of cure of the internal disease,
no recurren~e of the latter is to be apprehended, unless the morbid causes
are re-applied.
XXXVI. It is, however, possible: and in a great number of cases hap-
pens, that complete recovery from disease is effected by a slow proceEs
without any perceptible evidence of a crisis, either external or internal.
'JlJE BKD.
