{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1847__neale___the_unseen_world.pdf","mytitle":"The Unseen World","mylang":"de"}
0
€fJ t Utt5ttn Eorlll;
.
COMMUNICATIONS WITH IT,
REAL OR IMAGINARY,
INCLUDING
APPARITIONS, WARNINGS, HAUNTED PLACES,
PROPHECIES, AERIAL VISIONS,
ASTROLOGY, &c. &c.
tr<-~ ,
I ' .
/ r \.
. .
I ; . ( l t. - -
LONDON:
JAMES BURNS, 17, PORTMAN STREET,
roRTM.lN ~QU.lRE.
MDCCCXLVII.
· - - - - - - - - -·-·- -- - · ·--- - - -
Oig1izedbyGoogle
PREFACE.
THE following little book makes no pretence at
being a systematic treatise on the subject on
which it treats : its aim is to set forth Christian
views on a point of popular belief which writers
have generally considered worthy of ridicule or
pity, or at least susceptible of a natural expla-
nation.
With respect to stories hitherto unpublished,
the writer has related none which he has not
good grounds for believing ; and he has endea-
voured to state, in each particular account, the
degree of evidence by which it is supported.
rngitizedbvGoogle
V1 PREFACE.
He ought, perhaps, to state, that he never saw
Mr. Dendy's very interesting PhikJsophyofMystery
till he had almost concluded his own work. He
has inserted, in different places, a few striking
relations from it.
CONTENTS.
NIGHT PAGE
I. The subject proposed
II. The eymboliam of external nature • 15
III. Aerial apparitions • 29
IV. Warninge of approaching death 58
V. Family apparitioDB : apparitions in fulfilment of a
promise 91
VI. Of places aaeerted to be haunted : revealed secrete 113
VII. The alleged useleBB11esa of apparitions : their poeei·
bility 141
VIII. ApparitioDB at the moment of death 163
IX. Witchcraft : prophecies : astrology 189
rngitizedbvGoogle
- --- ~· ·--..:~------
COMMUNICATIONS
REAL OR IMAGINARY,
NIGHT I
THE SUBJECT PROPOSED.
SoPHRON. The wind has shifted to the north.
It will be a bitter night.
EusBBIA. It is almost a pity to shut out the
sight of such a sky, so intensely blue and solemn.
PisTus. It is solemn : the winter night has a
moral character of its own, if I may use the ex-
pression ; a beauty differing from that of all other
seasons, and, as I think, surpassing them.
EUSEBIA. Yet what can be more beautiful than
a summer night 1 At the time, I mean, when the
west has lost its more gaudy hues, and the only
trace of the departed sun is the calm still belt of
green that reposes above the distant hills, as if
they were the barriers of this world, and that quiet
ocean of light the gulf which parts us from the
realm of spirits. Then there is the soft scent of
B
2 NIGHT I.
the sleeping flowers, the dewiness of the air, the
few bright stars that peep through the still faintly
illuminated sky, the joyous song, it may be, of
the nightingale, the merry chirp, that seems,
wherever you go, to be equally close to you, of the
grasshopper. It is repose in its truest sense,-life
enough to banish the idea that nature, as people
talk, can ever sleep ;-rest enough to lead on the
mind to a more perfect, even an eternal repose.
P1sTus. It is true. But do you not see how
much of this world there is mixed up in our ideas
of the summer night ? Flowers, and birds, and
dew, and the brightness over the western hills. It
is beautiful, but still it is earthly: we view it
through our own medium, and it takes its colour
from that. It is not so now. The sky, and the
sky alone, so glorious, yet so awful, so spangled
with brightness, so mysterious in its depth, that
is all. There is nothing that can remind any sense
of earth ; nay, the very cold seems to enhance
the solitude, to tear away all connexion between
yourself and external nature, to make you feel
more utterly lonely. And you stand and gaze on
those bright worlds, till you seem as if you were
banished into the desolate regions of space ; and
there, without any orb near you, looked forth
into the perfect blackness around, and watched
the Il1otions of the worlds that above, beneath,
and on every side, were moving along in their
mysterious path. It is the time when you feel, if
ever, that there must be a world of spirits ; when
THE SU.EJECT PROPOSED. 3
the mind seems almost brought into contact with
that invisible universe ; and when, more than at
a.ny other period, it longs to know something of
its future home, and to hear some of those "un-
speakable things which it is not lawful for a man
to utter."
SoPHRON. There can be no subject more inter-
esting,-perhaps, also, more perilous,-than the
union and sympathy of the seen with the unseen
world. Certainly none more interesting ; for who
would not wish to know somewhat of those beings
by whom he is daily, hourly, acted upon 1 who
seem to have the power of suggesting thoughts or
plans, constantly and as a matter of every-day
occurrence, and occasionally of interfering for our
physical safety in a, perhaps not strictly super-
natural, but still most marvellous, manner: beings,
too, whom we hope hereafter to possess as our
associates for ever ; and who, actually at this
time, are the associates of many whom we have
loved and lost. And perilous also ; for much to
pry into the concerns of that world is to attempt
to raise the curtain which Gon has drawn, and
which death only is appointed to rend for ever.
We are somewhat like men who by night are
treading some dangerous path, a precipice on each
side : while all is dark, they can proceed safely ;
show them the light, and with light comes certain
destruction.
PIBTUS. And yet it is curious that, care as little
B2
4 NIGHT I.
as they may for it in other ways, all present
intercourse with the unseen world will be a sub-
ject to interest every one ; variously indeed, ac-
cording to the various character of the mind, but
still really. And why not 1 It is an article in
the Church's Creed; it is a main point of her
teaching. Common minds will feel and express
it in vulgar ways ; and tales of witchcraft, appa-
ritions, prophetic dreams, and the like, will never
want hearers and believers. Others, while not re-
jecting these things, will rather fix their thoughts
on that communion which, at this very moment,
they are holding with the departed faithful of all
ages ; on the illapses of thought which have no
natural origin ; on all those mysterious proofs,
-the more mysterious, the moiie. real1-that we
are knit together in one fellowship with the in-
habitants of a better country, that is, a heavenly.
EusEBIA. The Japanese belief, that birds of
Paradise are the souls of doves, is a good type of
that feeling.
" In the bright fables of an eastern land,
Where song and moral travel hand in hand,
They say, the dove laments not as alone,
That lingers here, her sweet companions gone ;
She knows that, denizen'd in brighter skies,
They shine as glorious birds of Paradise :
And though she may not see their sportive rings,
Nor the fleet glancing of their rainbow wings,
(For earthlier vision clogs her earthUer eye,)
To know and feel them near is ecMUy.
THE SUBJECT PROPOSED.
And so, methinks, comes such & season, fraught
With heav'nlier communing and purer thought,
What time we linger o'er the quiet rest •
Of those, the lovely once, and now the bleat !"
5
P1sTus. A very pretty fable, and most true in
its antitype. In a thousand ways, clogged and
shackled though it be by its mate, the mind will
assert its native powers, and will communicate
without the aid of its grosser companion. Un-
doubtedly it does so towards the living ; and to
my mind undoubtedly also towards the departed.
What is commoner, for instance, than to feel all
one's affection awakened, for no assignable cause,
in a moment, for some absent person whom we
love, but of whom we have neither been speaking
nor hearing 1 Again : it has passed into a pro-
verb, that if a totally unexpected visiter arrives,
those to whom he presents himself have been at
that moment talking of him. And so, if two
friends are in conversation on a given topic, and
an entirely different train of thoughts suggests
itself to one, it is almost certain to present itself
also to the other, even though no common exter-
nal object should have given rise to it.
SoPHRON. Very true. It is by noticing appa-
rently trivial details like these that we must
arrive, if ever there should be such a science, at
some insight into psychology. But the difficulty
of "Know thyself" is as great to us as it was to
Chilon of old. What are those lines, Theodora,
rngitizedbvGoogle
6 NIGHT I.
you were repeating the other day on this same
subject of communion with the invisible world 1
They would be much to the point.
THEODORA. I will'read them to you.
"As touching this same union, I have read
A tale, that teachetb this,-how far apart
Wisdom and knowledge, when it list them, dwell ;
Howe'er the YUlgar deem. There dwelt in France
A maiden, who was wont to sing their wild
And wondrous legends at the shut of eve,
And to her lover's wed her voice and lute.
Her lover died ;-and 'twas her mournful use
In the same chamber, at the self-ea.me time,
To sing the self-same strains ; and as his harp,
Neglected now, responsive echo gave,
She deem'd his spirit breath'd amidst its chords.
Thus pass'd she every eve, and in the thought
Found sweetest consolation : till at length
One of those same philosophising fools
Who, knowing all, feel nought,-who pluck a flower,
Give it a name, and tread it under foot,
And call tJiat wisdom, told, and truly told,
How nature's laws ordain'd that when the hand
PaBB'd o'er one harp, the self-ea.me chord then struck
Should vibrate on its fellow. She, the while,
Lost the sweet type to gain the useless truth ;
And so her harp was silenced ; and she pined
Until abe join'd the parted one again."
PisTUs. To inquire into all the methods in
which this intercommunion of the visible with
the invisible is carried on would be a task not
ill-suited to these long winter nights, and perhaps
not unprofitable to us. What say you 1 Shall we
enter on the inquiry, bringing to it what separate
THE SUBJECT PROPOSED. 7
information we may each of us possess, and
making our common remarks on every thing that
is related 1
SoPHRON. Content. Any thing which helps us
to realize our connexion with the unseen world is
useful ; and we will boldly enter on the subject
you propose. And, in listening to any details
which the wisdom of the world would reject as
improbable or impossible, we shall, I hope, be
guided by a wiser feeling. We will weigh them
on their evidence only : if that is sufficient to
convince a man in his every-day conduct, it shall
be sufficient for us ; if not, while we stigmatize
nothing as impossible, because it is unusual, we
shall return a verdict of " not proven."
THEODORA. I shall be most glad to listen to
such a discussion. We have, I think, nine nights
before we separate : will it not be better to ob-
serve some kind of order in the treatment of our
subject 1 else we shall surely be quite over-
whelmed with its magnitude.
SoPHRON. We must not cramp ourselves too
logically ; as well because the nature of the in- ·
quiry does not well admit of it, as because its
various branches run so naturally one into the
other. Still some such kind of arrangement is
undoubtedly desirable, and we shall do well to
determine on it previously.
EUSEBIA. So I think ; and then we shall come
better prepared to the consideration of the ques-
tion.
8 NIGHT I.
P1sTus. We shall begin, I presume, on generals;
and descend to particulars.
SoPHRON. Let us commence by considering the
various ways in which it has pleased GoD to
ordain that external nature shall sympathize with
revealed religion ; for I would rather use the term
sympathy than that of symbolism. We will see if
we cannot find such evident types of, or agree·
ment with, the great mysteries of the faith in
the face of things around us as to make another
kind of argument from analogy applicable also
to them. That is the lowest branch of our sub-
ject, because, strictly speaking, it cannot be said
to involve any thing supernatural: but still it is
a. branch, as coming quite within that communion
of the two worlds on which we have been dwell-
ing. From this we shall proceed to consider those
instances in which it has pleased GoD to make
great aerial phenomena attend, or predict, great
disturbances on earth. This will involve a con-
sideration of armies fighting in the air, fiery
crosses, comets, and meteors ; and will lead us to
refer incidentally to the "famines, and earth-
quakes, and pestilences in divers places," which
are the " beginning of sorrows."
P1sTus. The arrangement, I think, is good
Then let us proceed to aerial apparitions or signs,
whether natural or supernatural, such as whirl-
winds and sudden tempests, as connected with the
death of great men, stationary lights, corpse lights,
S. Elmo's lights, firedrakes, and Will of the Wisp.
THE SUBJECT PROPOSED. 9
Sol>HRON. From that we shall advance in our
investigation to an inquiry on what principle, and
with what reason, ancient lore peopled solitary
places with supernatural beings, whether demons,
or an inferior kind of divinities ; and why the same
belief has descended to our own times; whether
connected with water, as Naiads; with woods and
hills, as Fauns, Satyrs, Dryads, Hamadryads, the
Brown Man of the Moors, Fairies, the Good Peo-
ple, Trolls, Telchens, Pixies, and Pixycolts ; or
with houses, as the old Lar and our own Robin
Good-fellow. Then it will be time for us to de-
bate the grand question, if the spirits of the
departed have ever been permitted to visit the
living in a visible form. And here we shall do
well to tum our attention to those instances
where, at the moment of a person's death, he has
been believed to appear to friends at a distance ;
to those where the spirit of a departed man has
forewarned of death, averted danger, or revealed
a secret ; and to those manifestations where such
visit has apparently been without use.
PrsTus. Let us also go into the subject of
family apparitions: those cases, I mean, where
the head of a house is asserted to receive inti-
mation of the approaching decease of any mem-
ber of it by a known signal, which is perfectly
intelligible to himself: Dreams will naturally
next occupy our attention : and this will as natu-
rally be connected with the subject of second
sight.
rngitizedbvGoogle
IO NIGHT I.
SoPHRON. We shall then only have to discuss
the grounds on which ancient belief in astrology
and witchcraft rested, to bring our inquiry to an
end.
THEODORA. It is a most comprehensive one ; and,
if discussed with an unprejudiced mind, almost
fresh ground.
P1sTus. I think so. But, in my opinion, we
a.re also bound to notice any instances of impos-
ture, or innocent mistake, which may have given
rise to the belief in a supernatural interference,
when in reality none such existed.
SoPHRON. We are: and that branch of our sub-
ject, though less novel, will also be profitable.
PxsTus. It is, I think, b. proof of our fallen
nature that the whole subject of apparitions
should be invested with such terror. Why we
should not rejoice in the visitations of the inha-
. bitants of a brighter and better world than our
own, on any other hypothesis, seems unintelligi-
ble. And even supposing the apparition to be
permitted to come from the place of the lost, still
it is strange that one does not reason with Ham-
let,-
"____.. for my eoul, what cab i' do to that,
Being a thing immortal as itself1"
What ha.rm such apparitions could possibly do us
it is hard to say : we a.re all that they a.re, and
something more ; and that something bearing at
least an approximation to that which they will
be. In one sense we a.re more perfect beings than
THB SUBJECT PROPOSED. 11
they are : we have the body, debased, it is true,
a.nd sinful, to which they will one day be re-
joined, a.nd without which they will not, a.nd can-
not, be complete. Physica.l harm they cannot do
us ; that were contrary not only to experience,
but a.lmost to possibility. If it were not for sin,
I believe that we should feel no fear.
SoPHBON. Do you think so? Well, I a.m not
quite of your opinion. I believe that the sight of
~ spirit, divested of the body, is so perfectly un-
natura.1 to persons existing in a compound nature,
brings so painfully to mind the great struggle
which must take place when the two are dis-
solved, and sets forward so prominently the
idea of duality in a single being, that, had we
never fa.llen, we yet should have felt a revulsion
a.t it. That Adam conversed familiarly with an·
gels may be very possible : but if those angels
assumed a material form, as was undoubtedly the
case in most of such instances as a.re recorded in
the Old Testament, the cause for terror I have
stated disappears.
PIBTus. According to you, it would follow that
the act of death would be terrible, were the sup-
position possible, to a perfect man ; that it would
have been so to Adam had he never fa.llen, and
had yet been removed to the more immediate
presence of GoD in the same manner that has
been appointed to his descendants, only without
physical pain.
SoPHRON. So I think it would. If the sepa·
12 NIGHT I.
ration from an intimate friend of twenty years is
so excessively painful, where yet the degree of
intimacy is nothing to that which connects soul
and body, what must be the severing of the spirit
from its earthly attendant 1 What must it be for
the soul to lose the command of the organ it has
so long employed, and informed, and governed ;
through which it has received the greater part of
the impressions it has obtained, and which it is
now about to leave to corruption, and dust, and
the worm 1 What the tie is which unites the one
to the other, none, of course, can say ; whether
moral, or physical, or composed of both, it must
be broken : and do you imagine that so strong a
link can be shattered without pain of some kind1
P1sTUs. How then will you account for the
serenity and beauty which the face of a corpse
will often assume in the moment of death 1 We
know, for example, that in death from a gunshot
wound the countenance is generally very peace-
ful ; in that from a sword, or such like instru-
ment, distressingly convulsed. . Does not this
seem to show that there is no pain but physical
pain, and that when this is felt it leaves its
impression, and that when no impression is left,
it is because there is no pain 1
SoPHRON. I grant you that there is far more
suffering attendant on death in some cases than
in others. But that which is involved in the very
act of death is, I am inclined to think, the same.
The placidity which usually accompanies death
THE SUBJBCT PROPOSED. 13
from a gunshot may a.rise only from the short-
ness of the physical pain which accompanies it ;
for two equally, to all appearance, sudden deaths
may invol:ve very unequally prolonged periods of
bodily suffering. It is believed by many phy-
sicians that death, considered as the annihilation
of physical sensations, does not instantly accom-
pany decapitation ; and there have not been
wanting eminent men who assert that feeling
exists for many minutes after the stroke has been
given. This would well answer your objections.
But you say that the face assumes that serene
expression in death. I should rather say, after
it ; for the shadow, or convulsion, or by whatever
name you choose to designate it, that passes over
the face in the very article of death is always
awful
THEODORA. I do not comprehend what you said
just now of its being unnatural and painful to see
·a duality of operation in one being.
SoPHRON. I can explain it to you by a very
familiar instance. Did you ever see the meta-
morphosis by which the pupa of the dragon-fly
assumes its perfect state 1
THEODORA. No.
SoPHRON. Thus it is : the pupa, which is pro-
vided with legs, climbs some way up a flag, or
other water plant, which it grasps tightly, and
then stretches and strains itself in every direc-
. tion : presently the head bursts, and the antennm
and head of the fly protrude ; also its two front
14 NIGHT I.
legs. The pupa holds on with i"ts legs : the fly
endeavours to extricate itself from the pupa with
its own, and finally succeeds, leaving the lifeless
husk on the plant which it ascended. But the
sight of an apparent struggle between two ani-
mals possessing the same body is very unplea-
sant.
THEODORA. It is getting late, and we must, I
fear, conclude. You will begin, then, to-morrow
night with the manner in which external nature
symbolizes revealed truth 1
SOPHRON. very willingly.
NIGHT II.
THE SYMBOLISM OF NATURE.
SoPHRON. IT is wonderful that such an age as
the last could produce such a book as "Butler's
Ana.logy." His is a method of argument,
which, till tried, must have been thought of very
slight weight ; but, once made proof of,-and
proved by such a hand, it possesses a force per-
fectly overwhelming and crushing. He, of course,
did not exhaust it ; nay, he probably did not carry
it on so far as he would have done in a more
believing age.· Perhaps, also, the fact that his
was not a poetical mind, might have in some
cases rendered his details less perfect than bis
design. But, had he chosen, there are two re-
markable instances of analogy in symbolism of
external nature, as compared with revealed
mystery, which, to any unprejudiced person, must
·be quite convincing.
EusEBIA. You refer, of course, to the mystery
of the Most Holy Trinity, and of the Sign of the
Cross.
16 NIGHT II.
SoPHRON. I do. Let us begin with the former ;
-the instances of which are perhaps less obvious,
and probably less striking.
P1sTUs. The whole of science, taken in whatever
point of view, seems to depend on three original
principles. In colour we have three neutrals,
black, white, and grey. In acousticks, three primi-
tive sounds,-the medient; tonic, and dominant.
Form can address itself to the eye but in three
ways,-in architecture, painting, and sculpture:
the kind of lines which produce form are three,
and each of these has three subdivisions; the
straight line has three positions,-horizontal,
perpendicular, oblique ; the crooked has three,--
as presenting either a right, acute, or obtuse
angle ; and the curved has three,-for it may be
a portion of a circle, a volute, or an ellipse.
Again, every one knows the remarkable proper-
ties of the figure three-properties which no other
number has, or could have.
SoPHRON. And even in simpler matters than
these, the same trinal arrangement is visible.
All time must be past, present, and future : every
deed must have a beginning, a middle, and an
end. Now, it is all very well to say that there is
an absolute necessity for this, so that even Omni-
potence could not have ordered it otherwise :
granting this necessity, whence does it arise?
Do we not gain the more abundant confirmation
of our position? But it surely is incumbent on
others to prove this necessity. It is quite possible
SYMBOLISM OP NATURE. 17
to conceive a state of things in which it should
not be the case ; it is quite within the range of
imagination, that time should have a fourfold
division, or that the progress of any event might
be capable of being divided into two stages, besides
the beginning and the end. There is no essential
lmpossibility in this. If it be possible to con-
ceive a thing which has neither beginning nor
end, as eternity; if it be possible to conceive a
thing which has beginning, but no end, as the
soul of man ; we may safely assert the possibility
of the conception of something that has four, five,
or even more separate stages of existence, intrin-
sically and essentially. But if this conception be
possible with regard to one thing, it is certain
that it might be so with regard to every thing ;
which is enough for us.
P1sTUs. Look again at what has so often been
brought forward as an illustration of the same
mystery,-a luminous body like the sun. From
the substance itself, light and heat are insepara-
ble. Take again the threefold division of the
mind, which so naturally suggests itself; the will,
the · understanding, the imagination. It is a
· world, so to speak, of triplicity ;- and so eve~
heathens seem to have felt, and to have shaped
their myths accordingly.
SoPHRON. Why, it even descended to a proverb,
-Every three is perfect. The better nature con·
sists of three, says Plutarch. They assil:;"n the
number three to the highest GoD, says Servius.
0
rngitizedbvGoogle
18 NIGHT II.
So Jupiter has his triple thunderbolt, Neptune his
trident, Pluto his three-headed dog: there were
three fates, three furies, thrice three muses : even
primeval nature had its Triad, ..cEgreon, Briareus,
and Gyges : and whole volumes have been written
on the various trinities which the Greeks a.nd
Egyptians adored. So also in India : so, in fa.ct,
wherever there has been a system of religious
worship at all.
P1sTus. From whence, I suppose, you would
gather that the impress of external nature is found
in these trinities ; the great mystery of the one
ever blessed ·Trinity having moulded and in-
formed them : which is the point of our considera-
tion.
SoPHRON. Just so; yet I confess that to myself
the Cross is more wonderfully set forth in nature
-and the difference of the manifestations of
these two mysteries is in itself most striking.
Things, as considered in their essence, present the
former ; things as presenting themselves, and
taken in reference to us, the latter. It is extra-
ordinary how almost all human arts bring out
this form strikingly, and how new inventions are
every day bringing it out in new ways.
EusBBIA. And also, I think, in many of these
instances, the idea of resistance and self-denial,
that is, the very doctrine of the Cross, is ex-
hibited. A bird, for example, while perched on
the bough represents no particular figure ;-but
he cannot rise from the earth a.nd struggle up
SYXBOLISK OP NATURE. 19
through the air, except by making the sign of
the Cross.
PISTUS. It is the same thing with swimming :
make an effort against the water, and you must
do it in the form of the Cross. The same thing
also in rowing. Let a boat fall down the stream,
and you may steer her onward: make her ascend
against it, or struggle with the sea, and a.gain you
represent the Cross.
SoPHBON. And, of course, every one knows that
the masts of a ship are most striking figures of
the same thing. I never saw this more wonder--
fully exemplified, than once in walking from
Queenborough to Sheerness. It is a low marshy
tract of country ; and on that day a haze hung
over the landscape, and seemed completely to blot
out every feature of interest that the scene might
otherwise have presented. But to the left, a low
embankment ran along the side of the Medway ;
and above that rose the bare lower masts of six
or eight men of war laid up in ordinary in the river.
Without sails, cordage, or upper yards, the central
ma.st on each rising above the mizen and fore-
mast, they looked exactly like a series of those
Calvaries which you see in foreign lands ;-three
black Crosses, standing out against the white mist
of a hot August sky.
P1sTus. I remember that, on a still autumn
afternoon, I was hurrying homewards through
one of the pleasant valleys of Surrey. The grass
was beginning to grow crisp ; the shadows, half an
c 2
20 NIGHT II.
hour before so well defined, to melt into a grey
confusion ; a frosty purple hue to steal over the
sky ; a solemn, yet not melancholy stillness to
draw in over the scene. Before me was the west,
kindled into such a fiery redness, that you
wondered how such tints could look so deadly
cold; half the sun's orb was below the horizon;
half, dilated to twice its natural size, was cradled
among the distant hills ; but between me and
that scene of splendour, and cresting the top of a
low knoll, the sails of an old windmill seemed to
impress the sign of the Cross on the whole land-
scape, and to tell, as with an audible voice, by
what means only we can attain those bright
worlds of which the western sky is a type and a
promise.
EUSEBIA. And it is strange that the very means
of procuring earthly food should be in the figure
of that which has procured us all our spiritual
sustenance.
THEODORA. So again, a barn is almost of neces-
sity built in the form of a Cross, as if it would
set forth the means by which the faithful shall be
gathered up into the everlasting garner hereafter
EUSEBIA. A curious illustration connected with
sound has not, that I am aware of, been ever
noticed. If on a thin metal plate you sprinkle
sand, and then strike, on a stringed instrument,
that note which is the fundamental sound,-the
key note, if we may use the expression, of tho
plate, the sand will immediately arrange itself in
rngitizedbvGoogle
SYXBOLISl\l OF NATURE. 21
the form of a Cross, as if the metal coUld not
bear to be impressed with any other sign.
SoPHRON. Look at crystallization, again. Into
what exquisite crosses do congealing substances
form themselves ! He that should desire some
new ideas for the gable crosses of his church, could
hardly do better than study a book of crystallo-
graphy.
PrsTus. That the same holy form is marked on
the petals of almost every flower, all botanists
know. I remember once, in an African mountain,
that jutted out into the calm tropical sea, I was
wandering on with a friend in the heat of the
day, and exploring the various crags and ravines
by which it descended to the shore. There was a.
burning sky above,-not a single cloud tempered
the rays of the sun,-the barren soil, volcanic in
its origin, and every where shooting up its red
crumbling rocks through the thin layers and
patches of mould that were scattered upon them,
produced neither trees nor grass,-nothing but
dwarf thistles, that on all sides were sending out
their downy little seed vessels on the bosom of
the wind. We longed for water,-we longed· for
some cooling fruit ; and to all appearance we
might as well have longed for ice and snow. At
length we discovered, loosely anchoring itself
a.mong the hot and detached rocks, a. .pleasant
little plant, with leaves and berries not unlike
that ofthe mallow. "We may, however," said my
22 NIGHT II
friend, "eat of these with safety : it is a cruciferous
plant." "Why so f' said I, who am no botanist,
and could not see the connexion between his
statement and his reason. ".Are you not aware,"
returned he, "that all cruciferous plants bear
fruit which may be eaten, to say the least, with
impunity, and which is often singularly nutri-
tious and wholesome f' "Is it not wonderful,"
answered I, "that the sign of the Cross impressed
on the leaves of a plant should proclaim to man
that it will not hurt him 1 Is it not as if there
went forth such virtue out of the bare form, that
no evil thing had power to endure its presence?"
EusBBIA. Nor is this the case where the hand
of GoD has immediately impressed the sign, but
where the hand of man has done so too ; as if
Providence would have him, choose he or not,
make use of the same form by which he was saved
from perdition.
SoPHRON. It is proved in many modern in-
ventions and contrivances, in none more so than,
where you would least expect to find it,-
in railways. Is it not curious that in the best
managed of them the signals should be made by
this form 1 Most conspicuous, on a high embank-
ment, is the tall Cross that stretches forth its
arms to warn of danger ; hallowing, as it were,
those long lines of traffic, and seeming to promise
security in the whirl and hurry of almost incon-
ceivable speed.
SYMBOLISM OF NATURE. 23
THEODORA.. Certainly a meaning which never
entered the minds of those who contrived that
system of signals.
P1srus. It is a singular thing, too, though
known to every one, that if, in looking at any
bright light, the eye be almost closed, the rays
will, to all appearance, put themselves in the form
of a Cross.
SoPHRON. It was a tradition in Mexico, before
the arrival of the Spaniards, that when that form
(whi~h is found engraved in their ancient monu-
ments) should be victorious, the old religion
should disappear. The same sign is also said to
have been discovered on the destruction of the
Temple of Sera.pis at Alexandria, and the same
tradition to have been attached to it. One can
hardly imagine this prophecy to have been
current in more ways than two ;-either by a
supernatural intimation, or by a continuous tradi-
tion. It could hardly have been by the force of
analogy, and by observation that the1 whole of
nature was signed with the Cross.
P1srus. The constellation so named is one of
the most striking that glorify the southern sky ;
very beautiful it is when beheld from the deck of
the ship, as she flies westward before the trade
winds. And still more majestic, perhaps, in
crossing a mountain range by night, when the
dark peaks tower up before you, and the golden
Cross surmounts them still, and seems to beckon
from another world beyond them.
24 NIGHT II.
SoPHRON. This celestial Cross naturally brings
to mind the instances in which the appearance of
such a sign has been strictly supernatural. Of the
Cross seen by Constantine, enough has been
already written to satisfy, and more than to
satisfy, every common inquirer that such a.
phenomenon did really exist. And that which
appeared at Jerusalem during the Bishopric of
S. Cyril is equally remarkable, and at least as
certain.
EusBBIA. Of what kind was that 1
SoPHRON. You shall have it in the saint's own
words. Reach me down his works, Pistus ;-that
folio immediately beh~nd you. Here is his
account written to Constantius. " In these holy
days of the holy Pentecost, on the seventh of
May,"-the year was 351,-" about nine o'clock,
appeared in the heaven an enormous Cross, com-
posed of light, over the height of holy Golgotha,
and reaching to the holy Mount of Olives. Nor
was it seen by one or two, but, most manifestly,
by the whole multitude of the city. Nor,-as it
might be natural to suppose,-was it a. thing
which like a mere phantom passed away rapidly,
but was visible above the earth for many hours,
exceeding in glory the rays of the sun."-And he
proceeds to tell how young a.nd old crowded to
the churches ; and even the very heathens adored
the Gon That had done this great wonder 1• And
1 S. Cyril, Hieroeol. Opp. p. 247. Ed. Par. 1640.
SYl'llBOLISl'll OF NATURE. 25
this does not depend on Cyril's testimony alone,
amply sufficient as that would be to any right·
minded person : a crowd of witnesses, heretical as
well as catholic, bare testimony to the notoriety
of the fact.
P1sTus. Yes, as poor Gibbon says with respect
to the heretical witnesses, " they could not refuse
a miracle, even at the hand of an enemy."
SoPHRON. Strictly supernatural, perhaps, this
Cross was not ; for it seems to have been encircled
by a magnificent rainbow, and may in some de-
gree have partaken of the nature of a halo. Such
appearances have been observed at other times,
and occasionally in connexion with mock suns.
P1sTus. The length is said to have been more
than half a mile; a point, of course, which must
have been a mere guess. It seems, however, to
have been visible at Antioch, and, it is also said,
to the armies of Constantius and Magnentius.
In that case it must have been of a very different
character from a halo.
SoPHBON. Nor have such appearances entirely
ceased in our own days. In 1838, at Jerusalem,
for many successive nights, a dark Cross was ob-
served in the same quarter of the heavens, as if
the stars over which it extended had been blotted
out.
EusEBIA. I perceive that we a.re somewhat tres-
passing on the next part of our subject.
SoPHRON. We a.re so. Did you ever hear the
rngitizedbvGoogle
26 NIGHT II.
Greek tradition concerning the origin of the tree
of which the true Cross was made 1
EUSEBIA. No.
. SoPHRON. Thus it is. When Adam, they say,
was dying, he sent his son to the garden of Eden,
to request that the angel who kept the way
thereto would send him some of the fruit of the
Tree of Life, that he might taste it and live. The
angel denied the request, but gave to the son of
Adam three seeds. "Place them," said he, " in
thy father's mouth ; and when they shall have
grown into trees, he shall be freed from his sick-
ness." The son returned, and found that Adam
had already expired. Taking the three grains, he
placed them in his father's mouth, and buried him
thus. From these grains, in process of time,
sprang three trees, of which the wood of the Cross
was made 1•
THEODORA. A very beautiful fable. It is sur-
prising how many tales there are connected with
the SAVIOUR and His Passion, which in different
times and places have been invented for the pur-
pose of accounting for the natural habits and
instincts of animals and plants.
EUSEBIA. Like that sweet superstition, current
in Brittany, which would explain the cause why
the robin redbreast has always been a favourite
and protege of man. While our SAVIOUR was
1 Joan. de Monte Viii&, It. Terr. Sanct. i. 17. ap. Kornman.
de mirac. mort. iv. 14.
-~---- - -
SYMBOLISM OF NATURE. 27
bearing His Cross, one of these birds, they say,
took one thorn from His Crown, which dyed its
breast; and ever since that time, robin redbreasts
have been the friends of man.
THEODORA. In like manner, the aspen is said to
have been the tree which formed the Cross; and
thenceforth its boughs, as filled with horror, have
trembled ceaselessly.
Prsrus. It is also believed by the poor that the
stripes on the shoulders of the ass represent the
sign of the Cross, in commemoration that on that
animal our LoRD made His final entrance into
Jerusalem.
SoPHBON. An example, which in modern times
would be considered ludicrous, of the manner in
which our ancestors made external nature bear
witness to our LoBD, occurs in what is called the
Prior's Chamber in the small Augustinian house
of Shulbrede, in the parish of Linchmere, in
SusseL On the wall is a fresco of the Nativity;
and certain animals are made to give their testi-
mony to that event in words which somewhat
resemble, or may be supposed to resemble, their
natural sounds. A cock in the a.ct of crowing,
stands at the top, and a label, issuing from his
mouth, bears the words, Ohristus natus est. A
duck inquires, Quarulo, <[Uando 1 A raven hoarsely
a.nswers, In hiic nocte. A cow asks, Ubi, ubi 1
And a lamb bleats out, Bethlehem.
Pisrus. I fear, as you say, that to modem ideas
such a representation would be rather irreverent
28 NIGHT II.
than edifying. In the same way it was, and may
be still, believed, that if you enter a cowhouse at
midnight on Christmas eve, you will find the ani-
mals on their knees.
EusEBIA. And Shakspere will tell you that
"Some say, that ever 'gainat that 8ell80n comes
Wherein our S.i.vrouR's Birth is celebrated,
The bird of dawning croweth all night long."
P1srus. A trudr symbolis~ than any of the
above is, I think, to be foundjn the hatred that
all ages and nations have borne to serpents. "I
will put enmity between thee and the woman, and
between thy seed and her seed," seems to have
been literally as well as metaphorically fulfilled.
SoPHRON. The symbolism of the chrysalis and
the butterfly had been discovered long before the
fall of. paganism, as the Greek name for the
latter plainly showed.· It is a marvellously true
emblem ; almost sufficient to prove that which it
represents.
THEODORA. It is growing late ; we cannot enter
on our next subject to-night. And we shall find
it, I think, even more interesting than that of this
evening.
Pisrus. Unless it be through our own fa'ults.
Good night.
NIGHT III.
AERIAL APPARITIONS.
SoPHRON. It would be a curious subject of in-
quiry, why the inhabitants of mountainous regions
are so much more given to believe in tales of su-
pernatural incident, than those who live in the
flatter and tame parts of the same country.
P1sTus. The habit of constant communion with
nature in her deepest solitude has a necessary
tendency to make the mind reverential. With
such beauty and majesty continually before the
eye, .it seems almost to follow, that the power
which made and sustains all these things must be
also recognized ; a kind of perpetual converse
with the unseen world is maintained ; and, where
nothing of human littleness may be visible in the
course of a long day, the traveller naturally turns
his thought to those unseen companions whom he
believes to be accompanying him. So much for
the moral grounds. Then for the physical ; the
wonderful phenomena of light and shade ; the
extraordinary sounds which are familiar to moun-
tain ears; the opening out of a new kind of land-
30 NIGHT Ill.
scape, fantastical beyond the wildest valleys of
earth-I mean cloud scenery; the hours of intense
stillness ; the clearness and brightness of the at-
mosphere ; the lightness of the air ; the necessity
of observing those little signs of approaching
tempest which a common eye and ear would fail
to catch ; all these things may be, in part, the
cause of this-superstitious, to use the modem
phrase-feeling in mountaineers.
SoPHRON. And not only so ; but there is no
doubt that constant association with magnificent
scenes calls out all the affections of the mind in
their full force. Wilberforce, I think, somewhere
remarks, that he always seemed to love his friends
better in a mountainous country than any where
else ; and doubtless it was more than seeming.
P1srus. Sailors also, who, though in a different
manner, are conversant with the most sublime
scenes, are naturally credulous of supernatural
tales. And it is curious that, both in their case
and in that of mountaineers, this feeling should
be united with great physical courage ; whereas
soldiers who are, in time of peace, usually im-
mured in towns, and, in that of war, are most
commonly located in flat and uninteresting coun-
tries, are given to scepticism rather than super-
stition.
EusEBIA. Yet sometimes they will exhibit great
sensitiveness to natural scenery. The German
troops, who, in the rising of 1745, were advancing
on Inverness, could hardly be prevailed on to enter
AERIAL APPARITIONS. 31
the pass of Killicra.nkie, so terrified were they at
the stupendous height of its mountains.
PisTus. Closely connected with this is the al-
most invincible desire which many persons feel to
precipitate themselves from the summit of a high
place. There is a precipice in Sky where tourists ·
are usually held by their guides, lest its dizzy
height should induce them to throw themselves
over.
THEODORA. I should think it probable that
some, at least, of the suicides committed from the
top of the Monument, were the effect of the same
feeling. In cases where the person who thus de-
stroyed himself was actuated by no known cause,
and appeared in good spirits at the time of his
ascent, it is not only most charitable, but really
also most likely, that he should have been carried
away by the frantic desire that most persons, in a
slight degree, have felt.
SoPHRON. It is well known that there are
plac'es in the Alps, and in the Andes, where such
panics are not unusual, and where they are almost
certain death. The only remedy in such cases is,
to look up ; and if you can do that steadily for a
few moments you are saved.
PISTUB. Yes ; if it is into the clear blue open
sky ; but (I can speak from my own experience)
there are cases where the looking up makes bad
worse. If a precipice towers above you on one
side, while it yawns beneath you on the other,
the additional height does but distress you the
32 NIGHT III.
more ; and if, besides this, light fleecy clouds are
flitting rapidly over the summit, it is dizzy work
indeed.
EusBBJA. It must be :-it turns the brain to
stand, on a March day, at the bottom of a church
tower, and, looking up steadily to the vane, to
watch it as the clouds drive past it. To do so
without feeling giddy requires a very steady head
indeed.
P1sTus. I believe that people with the strongest
nerves have the most dreadful fits of panic when
they have them at all. I have wandered far and
wide in the most precipitous places of mountains,
and never felt it but once. I had a mind to try
if the Pico do Cidrii.o, one of the loftiest and, at
the same time, steepest mountains of Madeira,
could not be scaled from the Pico dos Arrieiros.
It was a fine day in spring: we tethered our
horses on the Arrieiros, and then, with our moun-
tain poles and a shepherd for guide, we com-
mitted ourselves to the narrow isthmus that joins
the two mountains. Narrow it is; for on either
side it slopes down almost perpendicularly into an
abyss of some two thousand feet, while, at the
top, it is in many places not more than eight feet
broad, and its material of crumbling scoria. In-
deed, so thin is it, that it vibrates or seems to
vibrate in a heavy gale. When we had accom-
plished half the distance, we sat down to rest,
and gaze at the wonderful chasms which opened
below us. Seeing a small crack in the earth,
AERIAL APPARITIONS. 33
I looked down into that, and lo ! the opposite
chasm was distinctly visible through it. At last,
' however, up ladders of rock, assisted by the shep-
herd's banisters of roughly-spun rope, round
comers where you trusted yourself to the young
oak or the sapling til, and hung for a moment
over a. depth that it makes my blood run cold to
recollect,-now creeping along this side of the
isthmus, now working like worms along that, we
stood under the shadow of the great Cidrao itself.
Here, on a little platform of turf, my friend sat
down, weary and sick at heart, while I resolved,
with a good courage, still to follow my guide. On
we went : the path was a ledge of about eighteen
inches,-& steep precipice above, a steep preci-
pice below,-all bare rock,-no twining root or
friendly twig to give the hand a firm, nor even
an imaginary hold. Just then the northern gale
swept a mass of clouds into the abyss, and it
seemed as if we were walking along the edge of
the world. I began to feel a little uncomfortable,
when my guide, by way of consoling me, wrenched
a. large rock from its place, and hurled it down-
wards into the clouds. I lost it in that soft bed ;
but half a minute afterwards its crash came up
from beneath, echoed from crag to crag, and seem-
ing as if it came from another world. Oh, I shall
never forget that moment ! My brain seemed to
turn round, my limbs to have no power of sup-
port, and I felt that horrible desire of leaping
after the rock, the descent of which I had just
D
34 NIGHT III.
witnessed. That was my only panic, and I thought
.it would have been my first and last.
THEODORA. This, and cases like this, are the
most undoubted instances where the influence of
external nature has a visible and physical effect.
The great question is, to what immediate cause
are we to attribute it ?
SoPHRON. If you ask my opinion, I have long
believed it to be the immediate effect of temp-
tation. The name, panic, proves that the spiritis
who were supposed to haunt wild and lonely
scenery, were also supposed to be gifted with an
extraordinary influence over the mind ; just as
in Gothic lore fairies were gifted with the same
power of depriving their unwelcome visitants of
reason. Now that the evil spirits by which we
are surrounded should delight in making GoD's
works, which in themselves are very good, occa-
sions of the misery of man, is extremely likely in
itself, and consonant with all analogy. We do
not remember, or we will not believe, that the
presence of Christians must make an inroad on
the powers of darkness ; that they cannot exer-
cise the same influence over mankind in such
regions, as in wild and lonely mountains, which
Holy Church can scarcely be said to have vindi-
cated ;-almost inaccessible to men,-intended, to
the end of the world, to be none of his, to whom-
ever else they may be given. By general consent
there is an intrinsic connexion between night and
evil. All nations have then thought wicked spirits
AERIAL APPARITIONS.
to have most power :-at nightfaJl it is, that, by
universal agreement of mankind, appearances
from the other world do almost always occur ;
and every one must have felt bow inimitably
true is Shakspere,-
" Good things of day begin to droop and drouse,
While night's fell agents to their prey do rouse."
It is from a natural horror of the dark that chil-
dren will cry in it ; and the nearer that men ap-
proach to a state of nature, the more do they
shrink from it as from an evil thing. You may
get over your dislike to it, and so you may to any
other ill object ; but from the beginning of the
world, allegorically and physically, it has been
connected with the idea of sin. A deed of dark-
ness, and powers of darkness, carry their meaning
in their face. Now, it is in its solitude, its nega-
tive of life and action, its separation of man from
man, its individualizing human beings, by keep-
ing each from aiding or being aided by his brother,
-all the features, in short, in which night is evil,
that it resembles the lonely scenes of which we
speak. True ; there is a brighter side to the pic-
ture. Angels may delight in solitudes unstained
by sin ; and peaks like those of Chimborai;o and
Himalaya. may be, could we only hear it, vocal
with the songs of the just made perfect. But
still it is a. solemn thought that the doom has
been once spoken, which, till the regeneration of
the heavens and earth by fire, must remain in
D 2
86 NIGllT III.
some sense in force: "Cursed is the ground for
thy sake." The Church, we know, has a power of
reversing this curse ; but till she has blest, it re-
mains and must remain. The sorest temptations
which the history of the Church can recount, have
taken place in the desert ; also, I grant you, some
of the most glorious victories. We must expect
the one, we may hope for the other.
PIBTUB. It seems to me that it is very difficult
to carry on such speculations without falling into
one of two dangers : pantheism or materialism.
A pantheist will grant all you have been saying ;
he, too, will speak of the ministry of angels, and,
perhaps, the assaults of less happy- spirits ; but
then his angels will be the sweet whisper of the
wind, the bright contrasts of light and shade; the
dewy forest, or the glorious landscape ; while his
ill spirits are but the natural effects of gloomy
valleys and frowning rocks ; of barren wastes and
desolate sands. ' This doctrine we all reject with
horror. But, ·then, is it not to materialize our
notions of the blessed angels, to imagine them to
take delight in earthly beauty, they who have so
glorious a Land of their own 1 And, again, is it
not to undervalue the strength of our ghostly
enemies, to imagine them desirous of,-or stand·
ing in need of,-physical advantages of situation?
SoPHRoN. I think not. Think only of the
analogy between the revelation that we have of
heaven, and the natl.ire, as we know it, of this
earth. In the first place, none can deny, that after
AERIAL APPARITIONS. 37
the resurrection and the final judgment, the just·
made perfect will not be, as angels, simply
spiritual essences, but be endowed, as when on
earth, with material bodies. Now material beings
necessarily presuppose a material locality: mate-
rial sight would be simply useless unless there
were material substances to see, material hearing
unless there were material sounds to hear. This
obviates one great objection to what I am saying ;
that the whole apocalyptic description is only the
lowering of heavenly ideas to earthly minds.
If a merely spiritual state were being described,
doubtless it would so be ; but when (to say the
least) much that is material must be mixed up
with it, the argument vanishes. Consider, again,
the remarkable terms in which the abode of the
elect is mentioned, after the final doom : " a new
heaven and a new earth." And lest any one
should think that this is a merely casual expression
of S. John, (granting that such things might be,)
S. Peter also, and Isaiah, speak of "new heavens
and a new earth." If, now, there were no
analogy between the old and the new, between
the first and the second earth, to what purpose
this particular and thrice repeated expression 1
And most remarkably is it said, "there was no
more sea." There is therefore so strong a re-
semblance between the two earths, that the
absence of the sea in the second is thought a
.point worthy of note. Therefore, all the varieties
of natural beauty besides this, it may be pre-
38 NIGHT III.
sumed, still will exist. If of one thing in a
series it be recorded that it is abolished, the
natural presumption about the others is, that they
remain. And, in the mystical descriptions of
heaven with which Holy Scripture abounds, we
:find frequent :reference to the other most remark-
able components of earthly scenery. To trees ;
for there is the Tree of life ;-to mountains; for
there is the utmost bound of the everlasting
Hills ;-to lakes, for there the glorious LORD will
be a place of broad streams ;-to rivers, for there
is the River of the water of life. Surely it is
impossible to believe that these things are purely
metaphorical; nor can it even be said that the
expressions are used in a sacramental sense.
How is it possible to imagine immaterial beauty,
which bears a close analogy to material, and yet
is fitted for material beings? And if not, the
closeness of the similitude between heaven and
earth is only to be known to those Blessed Ones
who know even as they are known.
THEODORA. Hence, then, you would conclude,
that if the souls of the righteous may after the
general resurrection find their happiness increased
by a beauty in all points like the beauty of
earth, differing from it only in transfiguration or
beatification, not in spiritualization ; which souls,
nevertheless, are not material, though acting
through a material medium, and are not impaired
in vigour by their connexion with that medium,
but on the contrary, derive fresh happiness and
rngitizedbvGoogle
AERIAL APPARITIONS. 39
excellence from their union, or rather re-union
with it ; then, a.t this present time, angelic spiritS
may well be supposed to delight in earthly and
material loveliness, and that without any mate-
rialization of our notion of those pure and bodiless
essences.
SoPHRON. Such is the inference I would draw ;
and with what sanctity does it invest the beauty
of this world ! "Thou hast ma.de him a little
lower than the angels," may thus be true of man,
not only a.s regards his own nature, but in some
degree also as taken in reference to the physical
substances by which he is surrounded, and with
which he is brought into contact. That is one
branch of our difficulty. Now let us consider
that with reference to evil spirits. Can it be
denied that solitude has always exposed those
who have sought it to :fiercer temptations? And
have they not, as S. Antony, obtained the greater
glory in overcoming them ? Even our Blessed
LoRD Himself was led up into the wilderness,
before He was assaulted by our great enemy.
And in such desolate and gloomy places did the
demoniacs live,-" always he was in the moun-
tains and in the tombs, crying and cutting him-
self with stones." Nor must we pass over the
fa.ct, that the swine, when permitted to be
possessed, were violently hurried down a. steep
place into the sea., as if by a. remarkable analogy
with the desire of self-destruction, to which we
have just been alluding.
40 NIGHT Ill.
THEODORA. We may draw, then, two conclusions
from what has been said. The one, that in scenes
of desolation and loneliness the mind would be
most likely to be open to supernatural impressions;
the other, that in the same scenes such impres-
sions would be most likely to be conveyed to the
mind.
SoPHRON. We shall find that this is well borne
out by experience, and that, in many ways, such
supernatural expressions may be traced, and have
been recorded.
P1sTu8. Another observation should also be
made,'namely, that it is in these very situations
that we may most often be at a loss to deter-
mine whether an appearance be supernatural, or
whether it can be explained on any known prin-
ciple.
SoPHRON. I grant you, it is just here that
physical phenomena are likely to be most strange.
Let us endeavour to remember a few examples.
P1sTus. The lights which are sometimes seen
in lonely places are very curious. It is well
known that in a cross-road near, I think, Lost-
withie~ in Cornwall, there is a stationary light
which always kindles itself at night, at the same
height from the ground, of the same colour, form,
and size ; neither is there any discoverable physical
reason, such as a grotto or chasm whence gas
might issue, by which the phenomenon can be
explained. It is also well known, that on the
wildest heights and headlands of Madeira, at
AERIAL APPARITIONS. 41
night, but especially on stormy nights, lights are
seen to glance up and down the most inaccessible
precipices, where the foot of man never has been,
nor ever, till the general doom, will be ; leaping
from crag to crag over intervening ravines and
chines : sometimes almost mingling with the sea
rocks, sometimes shooting up to the very brow of
the cliff. The fishermen believe them to be
tormented souls, thus working out part of their
punishment, and testify great horror at the appa-
rition.
SoPHRON. Such lights have also been observed
in places where they would least have been ex-
pected. There is a bed-room in Lulworth Castle,
in Dorsetshire, where, on a particular spot on the
wall, a pale phosphoric light is always to be seen,
when the windows are darkened. I have heard,
that to wake in the stillness of the night, and to
see this pale light glaring quietly on you, is a
most unpleasant thing. And so the proprietors
thought, for they had the wall pulled down and
rebuilt, but to no effect : the light appeared again,
and is to be seen there to this day.
PisTus. A man that shall travel much in the
Highlands, must be hard of belief indeed, if he
do not give credit to the tales which he hears of
corpse lights. The belief is strongest in the
Hebrides ; that a light of about the brightness
and apparent diameter of a horn lantern may
be seen, occasionally, to move along the road
which leads to the church, sometimes stopping,
42 NIGHT III.
and never going fast. .Along this same road,
within a few days, a funeral, they say, is certain
to pass.
THEODORA. So also the Dee has acquired the
epithet of "the holy," because it is said that,
whenever a Christian is drowned in its waters, a
Jjght appears above the place where his body lies,
till it is recovered.
PisTus. Mr. Dendy, in his very interesting
Philosophy of Mystery, tells us, that some years
ago, the inhabitants of Borthwen, near Barmouth,
were surprised by seeing, one night, a number of
lights dancing over the estuary of their river.
Gradually all disappeared but one, and that one
settled on a boat then, with its owner, in the
stream. A few days afterwards, her owner was
lost in her.
SoPHRON. No one, that has not seen it, can
imagine how precisely the motions of the appear-
ance called Jack-a-Lantern, or Will-o'-th'-Wisp,
resemble those of a man with a lantern. On a
wide moor, sometimes it will seem to run very
fast in a straight line,-then it will stop, as if.
perplexed, and move a few yards backwards and
forwards, a little higher or a little lower, as if the
person that carried it were doubtful of his way,-
then, as having found it, off goes the light again,
keeping the same height from the ground, and,
as it were, held steadily. It is almost impossible
to believe it other than it seems, till (if you know
the ground) you observe that it has crossed a
AERIAL APPARITIONS. 43
piece of water, or some quagmire that you know
to be impassable, and there ends the deception.
Sometimes, however, these Wills-o'-th'-Wisp a.re
stationary. I have myself seen one that would
make a very pretty picture : standing on a rustic
bridge that crosses a puny stream near its source,
where ashes and willows bend over the well-head
that bubbles up at a little distance, and the long
grass and the red sorrel skirt its clear bas~
ma.king a little nook or shrine for the birth-pla.oe
of the stream, I have seen ·on a dark and cloudy
night a perfect little sun, shooting out its rays on
all sides, and hanging immediately over the
fountain. The effect of this fairy light on the
dewy leaves that dipped themselves in the water,
on the old moss-covered bridge, and on the ripples
of the stream itself, were very lovely.
P1srus. Of a less innocent kind was the cele-
brated Harlech meteor of 1694. Between Harlech
and the Caemarvonshire side of the Tra.eth By-
chan intervenes a low range of marsh land, run·
ning up some way into the country. Just before
Christmas, 1698, a pa.le blue light was observed to
come across the sea, apparently from the Ca.erna.r-
vonshire coast, and moving slowly from one pa.rt
of the neighbouring country to another, to fire all
the hay-ricks and some of the barns which it ap-
proached. It never appeared but at night. At
first the country people were terrified at it ; at
length, ta.king courage, they ventured boldly close
to it, and sometimes into it, to save, if it might
44 NIGHT llL
be, their hay. As summer came on, instead of
appearing almost every night, its visits were con-
fined to once or twice a week, and almost always
on Saturday or Sunday. It now began to cease
from firing ricks, but was hurtful in another man·
ner ; for it poisoned all the grass on which it
rested, and a great mortality of cattle and sheep
ensued. At length it was traced to a place called
Morvabychan, in Caemarvonshire, a sandy and
marshy bay, a.bout nine miles distant from Har-
lech. Storm or fine weather seemed to make no
difference to this meteor ; but any loud noise, as
shouting, firing guns, blowing horns, appeared to
prevent its doing mischie£ It was seen for the
la.st time in the August of 1694.
EusBBIA. We must not forget, among the aerial
apparitions which have been most noted, those
well-attested instances of fiery armies combating
in the air, which have preceded battles. Night
after night, before the destruction of Jerusalem,
armies were seen fighting in the clouds : no
one can doubt that this was one of the many
signs by which the capture of that city was
foretold,
PisTus. The night before the battle of IVry, not
only was the combat of two armies seen, in a kind
of halo of clouds ; but the respective lines of the
Leaguers and the Royalists, nay, even the persons
of the principal chiefs could be recognized, and
the white horse on which Henry IV. did such
deeds of valour was distinguished and observed.
ABRIAL APPARITIONS. 45
And this apparition was visible to thousands at
the same time.
THEODORA. Something similar is said to have
occurred before the persecution of the Waldenses,
in the seventeenth century. Armies were then seen
in the clouds ; strange luminous appearances were
observed over the churches; the bells rang with..
out mortal hands ; and a blue lambent flame hung
over the churchyards.
P1sTus. I will read you, out of Fox, the signs
and prodigies which happened before the massacre
in the Valteline :-
"The Protestants having appointed guards
and sentinels in the steeples of the churches
of the Valteline, besides others which were
commanded to watch in certain places, to give
the sign by fire, to the intent that the whole
valley, being warned partly by the beacons,
partly by the sound of the bells, might together
be ready on the sudden to take arms for their
defence against the Spaniard, if he should make
any incursion upon the valley. About the calends
of May, 1620, in Soudres, the foresaid sentinels
reported, that in a night, as they watched, they
heard, in the church of (S.] Gervase, a. murmuring
as it were of many persons, with great earnestness
and vehemency of arguing and contesting among
themselves ; and from the church there shined
upwards through the steeple a great brightness,
insomuch as the sentinels lighted their torches,
and assembled themselves to go down into the
46 NIGHT III.
church to see what the matter might be. But as
they were descending down the stairs, their lights
were put out ; and returning afresh to light their
torches, they were put out again with greater
strength and with much astonishment and trem-
bling ; and the brightness which filled the church
suddenly vanished ; the weights also of the great
clock fell down, and they heard about ten knells
of a bell, in such manner as it useth to ring to
give the ala.rm ; the which was heard by very
many.
" Likewise in Tyrane there were heard the like
knells by the great bell ; and the magistrate com-
manded them suddenly to go and know the cause;
but he found that it was not done by the act of
men ; and instantly the servants running from
the belfry, and diligently attending to see this
business, they discerned a thing like a cat to de-
scend down into the place.
" Signs and prodigies heard and seen in the
Valteline after the massacre, as hath been affirmed
by divers persons of credit, being departed from
the said valley, and lying in the Valteline after
the massacre. In the Protestant church, and
principally in Teglio and Tyrane, a voice hath
been heard to cry, 'Woe, woe, woe unto you. The
vengeance of Go» is upon you for the blood of the
innocent.'
" Moreover, there was heard the bell of the
evangelick church of Tyrane to ring even at the
same time that the sermon was used to be ~ and
AERIAL APPARITIONS. 47
in that church a voice was heard, like the voice of
Signor Antonio Basso, who eo~etimes h$.d been
there a minister, and was murdered in the said
place, as if himself had been preaching in the
same place.
"In Soudres there was seen to descend an army
from the mountains, every way furnished ; which
sight was the cause that many took their flight
and departed out of Soudres ; but suddenly this
apparition vanished like a cloud. The which
struck a great terror into the minds of the people,
insomuch that many departed out of the valley,
as men that feared a castigation and punishment
from heaven 1."
SoPHRON. On the night succeeding the bom-
bardment of Acre, in 1839, coruscations, like
hieroglyphics, were seen by the English crew, on
the mountains to the east of that town. This
appears to bear some resemblance to the preceding
accounts'.
PtsTus. But the most remarkable, and at the
same time one of the most apparently useless
apparitions of this kind, occurred at Boulogne a
few years since. I have it from an eye-witness.
An English family, resident there during the
summer, were walking on the terrace before their
house one afternoon, watching the coming on of
a magnificent thunderstorm ; and, as was natural,
the conversation turned on tempests. Some one
1 Fox, vol. iii. p. 406. 1 Williama' Jerualem, p. 179.
48 NIGHT III,
having mentioned the celebrated storm of Nov.
26, 1708, some of its disastrous effects were
related. The storm meanwhile came on, and as
it was unaccompanied by rain, the party still
continued out of doors. All at once, an exclama-
tion from one of the children caused them to look
up ; and there, through a kind of broken ellipse
of clouds, they saw, in fiery characters, the nume-
rals, 1708. Nor (as one might say with good S.
Cyril yesterday) did the phenomenon vanish at
once. It remained steady long enough to enable
my informants to attempt a sketch of it. And
afterwards, when several members of the party
were requested to sketch it from memory, they all
formed the numerals the same way, thus
1703
the 8 being of the old-fashioned kind. So won-
derful a story I should not have ventured to
relate to you, were I not perfectly well acquainted
with those to whom it happened ; and, from the
number of concurrent witnesses, it is as impossible
that they should have been deceived themselves,
as that they should attempt to deceive others.
SoPHRON. We shall have, ere long, to consider
the question of the general uselessness of appari-
tions, and whether any argument can be drawn
against their credibility on that score. Your
story is certainly a curious one, however. Of
such apparitions, we must not forget the remark-
able occurrence which preceded the battle of
Campo d'Ourique. Cllunt Affonso was warned by
ABRIAL APPARITIONS. 49
a vision, the night before this great engagement,
which arrested for ever the Moorish dominion in
Portugal, tha.t if he went forth when the bell
sounded for mass on the following morning, he
should receive a sign of his success from Gon.
As his host numbered but ten thousand men,
while that of the infidels was computed at three
hundred thousand, he felt that he could scarcely
be saved unless by a miraculous interference. He
went forth at the appointed signal It was a
cloudy sunrise, and he gazed in vain expectation
for some few moments. At length a whirlwind
seemed to arise in the east ; the clouds were
heaped and whirled together in all manner of
fantastical shapes ; and gradually a space of clear
blue sky presented itself in the midst oft.hem.
In this the Count beheld the Crucified SAVIOUR,
and all the host of Heaven encircling Him with
adoration. And at the same time a voice was
heard promising him victory over his foes, the royal
title, and a succession of sixteen generations to
inherit his throne. This story has been critically
examined by Padre Antonio Pereira, a scholar of
great and deserved eminence in antiquities, as
well as in ecclesiastical literature ; and the result
of his inquiry is, that there are not sufficient
grounds in the arguments of objectors to make its
credibility at all doubtful
THEODORA. Such appearances as those of the
great spectre of the Brocken, though strictly natu~
ral, must have a moft supernatural effect.
~
50 NIGHT III.
P1srus. They must : I have been witness to
one such on a smaller scale. I was standing with
a friend on an African mountain, and gazing into
an abyss or crater that lay stretched at our feet.
It was filled with white foam-like clouds, piled up
orderlessly one on the other. As we looked, the
sun came out over head, and we saw far below us
a vast shadow of ourselves, the head encircled
with a white nimbus, like the glory that ·sur-
rounds the heads of the beatified. Near the same
spot, a traveller, shortly before, had seen himself
and his horse reflected in the same manner, the
nimbus surrounding the animal and its rider.
SoPHRON. Another kind of these aerial appear-
ances is spoken of in Germany and in Scotland.
In Argyllshire there is a belief, that towards
nightfall an armed band will be seen occasionally,
riding full speed along the almost precipitous
sides of mountains accessible but to the goat, or
to the well-trained mountaineer, but which it
would be certain death to horse and rider to
ascend. And as we all know, a belief of the
same kind prevails in the Harzforest, that in
the stillness of those vast solitudes a sound will
sometimes be heard of a hunter's chase,-the bay-
ing of hounds, the clatter of steeds, the cheering
of riders, the winding of horns ; all gradually
growing louder and nearer, and then, by the same
gradual steps, dying o1f into stillness, as if the
chase were gone by.
THEODORA. One can wonder at nothing in such
AERIAL APPARITIO:WS. 51
deep forest solitudes in the way of imaginary (if
imaginary) sounds. Can any thing material be
more like spiritual melody than the sighing of a
pine grove in a summer air-the "soul-like sound"
of Coleridge1 It seems so to realize and to illus~
trate that noble description in Holy Scripture
where David is forbidden to go forth against the
Philistines till he hears " the sound of a going in
the tops of the mulberry trees ;" as if then an
angelic battalion was going forth to battle in his
behal£
PISTUS. I remember, on a winter afternoon, at
that most lovely of times, a frosty sunset, I was
descending one of the hills near the borders of
Surrey and Sussex. There was no sensible breeze;
and as I wound down into the valley, the evening
sky here and there ruflled into billows of grey
splendour, the motionless leaves that strewed my
path, and the silence of approaching night, were
very solemn. Presently I reached a spot where,
on my left hand, was a deep cutting through
sandstone ; and at the top of the bank three firs,
with not a single branch along their straight
stems, threw up their heads into the twilight air.
And from that far-off tuft of branches there came
down such faint and sweet melody, that I could
only think with Dr. Donne, "LoRD, LORD, what
delights must Thou have prepared for Thy ser-
vants in heaven, if Thou providest such ravishing
music for bad men on earth !"
EUSEBIA. The astonishingly supernatural effect
E 2
52 11 NIGHT III.
of wind is no where more curious than in ranges
of open downs, such as lie between Christchurch
Twynam, and Wimbome Minster, which are dot-
ted here and there with aged thorns or stunted
oaks. As you stand at the bottom of the hill, all
may be silent ; presently you hear an old thorn
near the summit rushing and·roaring in the gale,
then one a hundred yards to your right will creak
its branches together, and rustle more loudly ;
then a solitary oak to your left ; as if each, in its
turn, took up a conversation with the breeze, and
complained of its hard usage.
P1sTus. There is nothing more overpowering in
the way of sound than the continual roar of a
stream over a bed of rocks, as you pursue your
solitary way up a mountain glen. ·It is amusing
at first, then it becomes irksome ; then, as you
get further and further from the abodes of man,
and the precipices grow wilder, and the moun-
tains darker, there is something perfectly awful
in the voice of the stream ; nor can I conceive
any thing more likely to deprive a man of his
senses than continual exposure to such a sound in
such a scene.
EUSEBIA. We were to talk, I think, of those
cases in which storms and hurricanes have been
supposed to prefigure any gr~t change, more
especially the death of illustrious men.
SoPHRON. There are some well-known instances
of this: Oliver Cromwell's birth, for example,
was attended by a tremendous tempest ; so also
AERIAL APPARITIONS. 53
was his death. And there is a curious example
of a similar kind in the Irish annals. In 1843,
on the 13th of July, Sir Ralph Ufford ca.me to
Dublin as Lord Chief Justice of Ireland. The
weather, which had been remarkably :fine that
summer, immediately became foul, and continued
so during the whole time that he held that office.
He oppressed the native Irish ; he robbed clergy
and laity ; he did injustice to ricn and poor.
After nearly three years' ill government, he died
universally hated; and no sooner was he dead
than the tempestuous weather ceased, and the
three years' continued wet was changed to a
cloudless season.
P1sTus. We are told that at Zurich, in the year
1280, while a ·sermon was being delivered at the
shrine of SS. Felix and Regula, the patrons of the
church, a tremendous clap of thunder was heard
in a clear sky, and that some few days after the
greater part of the city was consumed by an acci-
dental :fire, and the inhabitants were put under
the ban of the empire. In the year 1440 a simi-
lar clap of thunder was heard in the same town ;
and was followed shortly after by the civil war
which Zurich carried on for more than seven
years against the other cantons.
SoPHRON. I remember also that, before the
battle fought between the Swiss troops and the
Dauphin's army, during the time of the Council
of Basle, under the walls of that city, for several
nights strange noises are said to have been heard
54 NIGHT III.
round and upon the spot of the future engage..;
ment, the cries of warriors, and the shock of
armies 1•
PISTUS. Voices, too, heard in lonely places, are
frequently recorded. At the moment that Leo of
Constantinople was slain, the crew of a ship at
sea heard the words, "This night hath Leo been
murdered." What more magnificent, too, than
the voice which was heard from the deep solitude
of the Holy of Holies, at that last Pentecost,
"Let us depart hence !"
THEODORA. The Arabs believe that, in the Wil•
demess of Sin, at the time of matins, a bell may
be heard as if summoning to prayer, and that this
has been the case ever since the Crusades.
SoPHRON. If from this we tum our attention to
celestial phenomena, properly so called, we shall
find no small weight of Scriptural authority for
expounding them, as being connected in some
mysterious manner with "the changes and chances
of this mortal life." It can hardly be without
some further intent than that of a mere metaphor,
that signs in the sun, and moon, and stars are so
often coupled with distress of nations, with wars
and rumours of wars. "The sun shall be darkened,
and the moon shall not give her light, and the
stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of the
heaven shall be shaken." "And there shall be
signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the
' Felix Malleolus, de Nobilit. cap. 26. 33.
AERIAL APPARITIONS. 55
stars, and upon the earth distress of nations with
perplexity, the sea and the waves roaring." And
again how often in the Apocalypse : "The sun
became black as sackcloth of hair, and the moon
became as blood : and the stars of heaven fell
unto the earth, even as the fig-tree casteth her
untimely figs, when she is shaken of a mighty
wind." And again, "The third part of the sun
was smitten, and the third part of the moon, and
the third pa.rt of the stars : so as the third part of
them was darkened." And in accordance with
all this, we know it to have been the opinion of
the medieval Church, that the last Judgment
would be preceded by fifteen days of peculiar
celestial prodigies.
Pisrus. That comets have appeared before great
events is a thing which is hardly capable of proof,
because it will be immediately and most truly
answered, that some of the most remarkable
comets have announced nothing at all. I am not
aware that the comet of 1680 is capable of ex-
planation in the way of prophecy, nor is that of
1843. The former of these had appeared thrice
before within the annals of history. It was the
same that was seen immediately after the death
of Julius Cresa.r ; that appeared again in the reign
of Justinian, before the most terrific plague which
history records ; that a third time manifested
itself during the heat of the Crusades. All these
three apparitions have not unnaturally been con-
nected with the remarkable events by which they
56 NIGHT III.
were attended ; not to mention that a previous
appearance of the same comet very probably ac-
companied, if it did not occasion, the flood.
SoPHRON. And (what must have been at least
as striking as the comet) you should notice the
remarkable paleness of the sun which accompa-
nied the comets of Julius Cresar and Justinian.
THEODORA. Again, we are told that the comet
which appeared before the great plague of Lon-
don was pale, sickly, and ghastly ; that its motion
was slow, and that it glared with a death-like
paleness ; whereas that which preceded the Fire,
was of a bright fiery radiance, rapid in its course,
angry looking, and very terrible. It was reputed,
also, to hang like a drawn sword over the devoted
city.
P1sTus. That, however, can hardly fail to be
fancied by any spectator. I was in Portugal when
the great comet of 1843 appeared, which you here
in England scarcely saw; but there it was mag-
nificent, and I should think nearly equal to that
of 1680. I can assure you that to see it night
after night hang over the city in which I was
living, quite gave the idea of the sword of Divine
vengeance threatening it.
SoPHRON. After all, what more astonishing in
the belief that comets should prefigure danger,
than in that, which we know to be the fact, that
certain phases of the moon, or crises of the revolu-
tion of the earth, do not only prefigure, but actu-
ally occasion, the changes of the condition of
AERIAL APPARITIONS. 57
human bodies 1 We all know that, in dying per-
sons, if the hours of twelve, three, six, or nine be
passed, we expect the sufferer to linger on to the
next critical time. At the same time, also, the
crises of diseases generally occur; and sailors have
a belief, if a comrade is dying, that he cannot
pass till the time of high water. Again, it is also
clear, that the change of the moon has a great
influence on the symptoms of madmen : who will
venture to explain why 1
EusEBIA. It is getting late ; and we are ap-
proaching a very interesting part of our subject :
shall we postpone it till to-morrow night 1
SoPHRON. we will do so.
NIGHT IV.
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH.
SOPHRON. We have need, again and again, to re-
mind ourselves, as we pursue this discussion, that
what has been superstitiously exaggerated may,
nevertheless, be credibly believed. Nothing more
ludicrous, nothing more vulgar, nothing more
pitiable, than the credit which some attach to
omens ; and verily I believe that Satan is some-
times permitted to verify one or two, that the
sin of believers in such kind of signs may bring
its own punishment.
P1sTus. I think so too: there are well-authen-
ticated stories of the most absurd omens having
been proved true by the event, in a way which
can hardly be the effect of chance, but which may
thus be very plausibly, if not probably, explained.
SoPHRON. I will give you an instance. Who
can suppose that the vulgar ideas of the appear-
ance of certain birds portending certain events, is
any thing more than gross superstition, and, as
such (unless through invincible ignorance), a mor-
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. 59
ta.I sin 1 Yet I knew a gentleman to whom a
most remarkable example of a fulfilled omen oc-
curred. He was out with his wife on their wed-
ding tour, when, behold ! six magpies appeared
together. "Well," said my friend, smiling, " we
know the old saw-
"'One for sorrow, two for mirth,
Three for a funeral, four for a birth.'
So, on that principle, we ought to hear of two
funerals." " I suppose we ought," continued the
lady, and nothing more was said on the subject ;
but they had not driven on more than a few
moments, when a man rode towards them at full
speed, and reined in his horse as he approached
the chaise. "What's the matter r' demanded my
friend. "A most shocking thing has just occurred,"
replied the man. "Two of Mr. --'s sons (who
live over there)," and he pointed to the place,
"have just been drowned in a pond in the park ;
they are using all the means to bring them round,
and I am riding to -- for the surgeon." With
which he struck spurs into his horse, and galloped
on. And as my friend was accustomed, very justly,
to observe, not the least wonderful part of the
story is, that a perfect stranger should, apparently
without any definite cause, have stopped to re-
late the accident then.
P1sTus. We ought to look on such an event as a
trial of the faith of the person to whom it hap-
pened. And no doubt your friend was bound, if
60 NIGHT IV.
ever he again saw six or sixty magpies, to look
on the appearance as perfectly meaningless and
harmless ; and in this way to make good the
cause of faith against superstition, no less its
deadly foe than scepticism.
THEODORA. You do not class with this story
such remarkable accounts as those given by Lord
Clarendon about the death of the Duke of Buck-
ingham and the Earl of Pembroke 1
P1srus. Assuredly not. We have good evidence
for them : and I ask only for such evidence as
would warrant my believing any tale against
which an antecedent improbability lay.
EUSEBIA. But what are the accounts 1 I do not
remember them.
SoPHRON. I will read you that given by Mr.
Douch with respect to Sir George Villiers, rather
than Clarendon's, because it seems more exact;
and you can look at the other at your leisure any
day. "Some few days before the duke's going
to Portsmouth, where he was stabbed by Felton,
the ghost of his father, Sir George Villiers, ap-
peared to one Parker, formerly his own servant,
but then servant to the duke, in his morning
gown, charging Parker to tell his son that he
should decline that employment and design he
was going upon, or else he would certainly be
murdered. Parker promised the apparition to do
it, but neglected it. The duke making prepara-
tions for his expedition to Rochelle, the appari-
tion came again to Parker, taxing him very se-
rngitizedbvGoogle
---··
- -·-- _ .......~ _
____...__
'
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. 61
verely for his breach of promise, and required
him not to delay the acquainting of his son of
the danger he was in. Then Parker the next day
tells the duke that his father's ghost had twice
appeared to him, and had commanded him to give
him that warning. The duke slighted it, and told
him he was an old doating fool That night the
apparition came to Parker a third time, saying,
' Parker, thou hast done well in warning my son
of his danger ; but, though he will not yet believe
thee, go to him once more however, and tell
him by such a token,' naming a private token,
'which nobody knows but only he and I, that if
he will not decline this voyage, such a knife as
this is,' pulling a long knife out from under his
gown, ' will be his death.' This message Parker
also delivered the next day to the duke, who
when he heard the private token believed that he
had it from his father's ghost, yet said that his
honour was now at stake, and that he could not
go back from what he had undertaken, come life,
come death. These three several appearances of
the apparition to Mr. Parker were always at mid- .
night, when he was reading some book. This
fact Parker, after the duke's murder, communi-
cated to his fellow-servant, Henry Ceeley, who
told it to a reverend divine, a neighbour of mine,
from whose mouth I have it. This Henry Ceeley
has not been dead above twenty years, and his
habitation for several years before his death was
at North Cerney, in Somersetshire. My friend,
62 NIGHT IV.
the divine aforesaid, was an intimate acquaint-
ance of this Henry Ceeley's, and assures me he
was a person of known truth and integrity."
That is the story ; and the only circumstance
which seems suspicious about it is easily to be
explained. It would appear that Parker did not
communicate the apparition to Ceeley till after
the duke's murder: but it would also appear that
other people had been told of it before. Claren-
don, so much used to investigate evidence, was so
much convinced of this story as to insert it in
his history. It may also be seen at much greater
length in "Lilly's Observations on the Life and
Death of King Charles I. :" not that this is any
testimony to its truth.
EUSEBIA. And yet how many difficulties arise,
unless you make it a mere question of evidence!
How much more natural, one should say, how
certainly much more effectual, would it have been
had Sir George Villiers appeared to his son, rather
than to his servant ! Strange, too, that if he
could foresee his son's death in the event of going,
he could not foresee his son's determination to
go!
P1sTus. What a.re we, that we should presume
to decide on the various causes that may operate
on the motives, or limit the knowledge of a spi-
ritual visitant 1 You may reject a great number
of historical facts, if you once take to that species
of reasoning. The story of Joseph will fall to the
ground at once. Why did he not, you may ask,
' t' : ~ \ ' \ .. ' ') ' I ' '
,
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. 63
send some one into Canaan to gather intelligence
of his family, instead of waiting twenty years and
more till Providence brought them to him 1 And
who can answer the question 1 It does seem, I
confess, as if the phantom had taken the least
likely means for accomplishing its immediate
end : but who shall say that there were not other
ends to be answered by this roundabout method
of communication 1 Certainly the unwillingness
of the messenger is a strong proof that he was
convinced of the truth of his own tale.
SoPHRON. In other versions of the story it is
added that Sir George Villiers commanded Parker
himself to prepare for death, and that he accord-
ingly shortly afterwards did die. The death of
the Duke of Buckingham was also foretold by a
Scotch seer, and darkly foreshadowed by a dream
of the Countess of Denbigh, his sister.
THEODORA. The other story is one of a more ordi-
nary kind. I will read it you from Clarendon.
" A short story may not be unfitly inserted, it
being very frequently mentioned by a person of
known integrity, whose character is here under-
taken · to be set down, and who, at that time,
being on his way to London, met at Maidenhead
some persons of quality of relation or dependence
upon the Earl of Pembroke, Sir Charles Morgan,
commonly called General Morgan, who had com-
manded an army in Germany, and defended
Stoad, Dr. Feild, then Bishop of S. David's, and
Dr. Chafin, the earl's then chaplain in his house,
64 NIGHT IV.
and much in his favour. At supper one of them
drank a health to the lord steward, upon which
another of them said, 'That he believed his lord
was at that time very merry, for he had now
outlived the day which his tutor, Sandford, had
prognosticated upon his nativity he would not
outlive ; but be had done it now, for that was his
birthday, which completed.his age to :fifty years.'
The next morning, by the time they came to Cole-
brook, they met with the news of his death."
PisTus. The story of Lord Lyttelton is in all
respects similar. He was warned, he asserted, by
a ghost, that on such a day, at twelve o'clock, he
should die. The announcement preyed on his
spirits ; and his friends on the fatal day assem-
bled to see the event. It was suggested to put
the clock back, which was done ; but at the
true mid-day Lord Lyttelton died. I should think
more of this story did I not fear that theFe were
grounds for believing that Lord Lyttelton was
determined to take poison, and thus had the
means of accomplishing a prediction which he
feigned for the purpose of giving his death a kind
of notoriety.
EusEBIA. The case might also have been so
with Lord Pembroke; or, in both instances, ex-
cessive terror may have verified the prediction.
SoPHRON. Here is an instance of the same
thing in which neither solution will serve. At
one of Marlborough's battles, I think that of
Ramillies, a young officer was engaged who had
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. 65
been intimate with Sir John Friend. I need not
remind you that the latter was executed by Wil··
liam of Orange for adherence to the interests of
the exiled family. He assured his friends that
he should not survive the battle. At its con-
clusion, while the allied horse were pursuing the
remains of the enemy, a knot of his acquaintance
rallied him on his despondency, and congratulated
him on his safety. " You speak," he replied, "as
you think. I shall die yet." Scarcely had he
said the words when the last cannon-ball fired by
the vanquished army laid him dead on the spot.
In his pocket was found a slip of paper, with
these words, after a certain date: " Dreamed, or
-- --," (the blank was supposed to be in-
tended for " was told by a spirit,") "that on May
22, 1706, Sir John Friend meets me." On that
May 22 the battle of Ramillies was fought.
P1sTus. To this story, if properly authenticated,
no reasonable objection can be offered. It is not
often that one has written evidence of a presenti- .
ment of this kind.
SoPHRON. I suppose no one can doubt that
simple presentiments-I mean such as could have
no reason assigned for them-of death or misfor-
tune, have occurred again and again.
" The shadows
orgreat events pa8ll on before the events,
And in to-day already walks to-morrow."
An example of this came under my own know·
F
66 NIGHT IV
ledge. A lady residing in the north of Sussex
had occasion to leave her family for a few days,
and to go up to London. One morning she was
seized with an unaccountable and most distressing
depression of spirits (her bodily health being per-
fectly good), which nothing seemed capable of
alleviating or diverting. Her friends did all in
their power to console her ; but she repeated
several times, " I am sure that some great misfor-
tune is going to befal me." They persuaded her
to join the rest of the family at dinner, and then
proposed that she should go to the opera.. She
was most unwilling to do this, and every hour
seemed to increase her agitation. Her friend8>
however, insisted ; and she was going up stairs
to dress, when a thundering knock was heard
at the hall door. "I told you," she cried, " that
I should receive some dreadful intelligence ; and
there it is." She was right : an express had
been sent up to inform her that one of her chil-
dren had been drowned in a pond in her garden.
But such presentiments have generally been sup-
posed to occur principally just before death ; as if
the soul, when about to fling away her earthly
trammels, became repossessed of somewhat of her
own higher power, and, as Waller so beautifully
expresses it,
"The soul's dark cottage, battered and decayed,
Lets in new light through chinks that time has made."
The ancients held this strongly ; none more so
1
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. 67
than Plato. Just before the death of Socrates he
foretold, says his disciple, that a youth, then pos-
sessed of singular innocence and modesty, would
end by abandoning himself to all manner of
wickedness. And the event proved his words.
Possidonius in like manner affirms, that a certain
Rhodian, on his death-bed, predicted truly, with
regard to six of his friends whose ages were nearly
equal, who would be the first, who the second,
and so on till the last, to die. These stories at
least prove the feeling of the ancients on the
subject. The prophecy of Huss is undoubted
matter of history, and allowed by Catholics as
well as by writers of his own sect. Just before
the fatal pile was kindled (July 8, 1415), "To-
day," he said, "you are going to burn a goose (so
H1"88 signified in Bohemian) ; but a hundred
years hence a. swan will rise amongst you, and
will sing you another kind of song ; and yet, for
all that, ye will let him go." Many persons, as
every physician will tell you, have, during their
last illness, foretold the exact hour of their de-
parture. Christian of Denmark did so to his
physician, Dr. Cornelius. J a.mes Sartellari, an
astronomer of eminence, and physician to the
emperor Rudolph II, foretold, on the second of
December, 1589, that he should die on the tenth ;
and so it came to pass Thurneissen, also an astro-
nomer of reputation, foretold his own death at
Cologne, and requested to be buried by the side
of Albertus Magnus ; which was done accord-
F 2
68 NIGHT IV.
ingly 1• One of the most extraordinary instances
of such knowledge in modern times, was this.
Lady Fanshawe's mother was seized with an illness
which was believed to be mortal. She was ex·
ceedingly anxious to live, for the sake of super·
intending the education of her family ; and several
times, referring to the case of Hezekiah, prayed
that her life might be spared, as his was, for fif.
teen years. She fell into a swoon or trance, which
was at first believed to be mortal On coming to
herself she assured her friends that her prayer
had been heard ; that she should recover ; and
that her life would be prolonged fifteen, but only
fifteen years. And so it was.
P1sTus. And so there are certain marks by
which approaching death is suppos'ed to be inti-
mated to the friends 'of the .person about to be
taken away. One of the most common ·is the
sudden change of a man's personal ·character,
from lightheartedness to gloom ; and more .fre-
quently still,. from gloom and habitual taciturnity
to excessively high and boisterous spirits. Then
it is that, according to Scotch belief, a man is said
to be " fey ;" and in many cases of sudden death,
the credence has been strangely verified.
SoPHRON. That change, whether of personal or
physical qualities, is a very wonderful thing, if
taken as a warning or intimation of the time
when there can be no more change. Yet it is a
1 Kornmannus, de Mirac. Mort. iv. 100.
rngitizedbvGoogle
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. 69
belief as old as the Greek physicians, that some-
times, a few moments before death, the face of the
sufferer will assume a likeness to that of some one
of his most intimate friends ; a thing for which
no plausible reason can be given. Other signs
there a.re of approaching death, which at first
sight seem to have no connexion with it,· but
which yet admit of a very satisfactory explana-
tion. Such is the pulling and picking of the bed-
clothes, so well known to be an unmistakeable
sign of dissolution. To an ignorant person this
symptom seems quite arbitrary; but it is easily
explained, as merely showing that the nervous
system is entirely worn out.
EusEBU.. I think all those dark mysterious
glimpses given us of the other state when it
borders on this, like the rim of the dark half
of the moon that sometimes makes itself visible,
are very solemn. That persons, in the act of
departing from this world, do become sensible
of the presence of spiritual beings, is surely
certain. And i: often think, what a marvellous
moment that must be, when a dying man obtains
the first faint consciousness of the existence of a
world of spirits.
SoPHRON. Wonderful indeed ! And yet perhaps
it may be by no forced transition. You go into a
room that appears to you perfectly dark ; you stay
a few moments, and gradually you become sen-
sible to surrounding objects ; and finally you see
with perfect clearness : and yet at no one moment
70 NIGHT IV.
are you sensible that you are passing from dark-
ness to light. I will give you another example of
the faculties of a sick person being supernaturally
developed by the approach of death. A young
lady, whose friends I knew, was in the last stage
of a consumption. Two of her sisters had been
previously carried off by the same disease. She
had also a brother in India, who, by the last ac-
counts received, was well in health and successful
in business. Two female relatives were sitting by
the dying girl, one on either side of the bed, and
each holding one of her pale emaciated hands in
their own. Suddenly she raised herself in the
bed, and looking towards its foot, exclaimed, her
whole face brightening with joy, " Oh, Gertrude
and Jane!" (the sisters whom she had lost) "and
dear, dear Willie!" (the brother who was in India.)
They were the last words she spoke. Shortly
afterwards, intelligence arrived from India that
the brother in question had also been taken away,
and that previously to the death of his sister.
Now, to my mind, this is one of the most satisfac-
tory stories of the kind that I ever heard. To be
sure, your rationalist may account for it easily
enough, by hinting that to a dying person, when
the mind is beginning to fail, nothing is more
natural than that the appearance of some of those
whom he has most loved should present itself.
But if you look at it in the other light-if you
consider that, apriori, there is no unlikelihood in
the thought that the spirits of the departed faith-
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. 7I
ful may be allowed to tend the death-beds of
departing friends-how simple and how beautiful
is the whole !
P1sTus. The nearest approach that man has
ever made to the invisible world is probably in
those persons who, having been to all appearance
drowned, have been recovered on the use of the
proper means. And what is singular is this ;
by all accounts, after the first short struggle is
over, there is perfect consciousness, but no pain.
It is said that every action of past life is borne in
upon a drowning man's mind with perfect clear-
ness ; all rush on his memory together, yet ea.ch
distinctly ; and if there be any suffering, it is
entirely the moral pain which may result from
that retrospect ; for there is no physical anguish.
On the contrary, the prevailing sensation is an
indescribable calm, accompanied by a pleasant
green light, they say, like green fields : the agony
begins with the attempt at resuscitation. It is
believed that a gentleman, who occupies a dis-
tinguished place in scientific literature, and who
is said to have been longer under water than
any one who has ever been brought back to life,
also, in a more remarkable degree than any one
else, saw something of those "unspeakable things
which it is not lawful for a man to utter." His
intention, it is asserted, was to leave some account
of them, which should appear as a posthumous
work ; but his friends, perhaps wisely, dissuaded
him from it.
72 NIGHT IV.
Soi>HRON. I have heard the story. And so, in
the very instant of violent deaths, the sympathy
between soul and body has sometimes been
strongly manifested. Charles XII. of Sweden,
when struck by a cannon-ball, at the siege of
Frederickshall, must have been a dead man at that
infinitesimal point of time at which he felt the
blow; yet he was observed to clap his band on
his sword. So again, at the execution of Char-
lotte Corday, for the murder of Marat, when the
headsman lifted up the head by its long hair, and
gave it a blow, the face is said to have changed
colour and to have frowned.
P1sTus. The most curious instance I have heard
of a warning of death, occurred in a family who
are not altogether unknown in the theological
world. A young lady, whom we will call Miss A.,
was watching what was supposed to be the death-
bed of her father. Most of the family were
assembled in the house ; for the physicians had
given it as their opinion that Mr. A. had not long
to live ; but one brother was at Eton. One night,
Miss A. dreamed that she was sitting by her
father's side, and that all the family, including
this absent brother, were in the room. A figure,
exactly like the modern representation of death;
a skeleton, with a dart, entered the room. Seeing
Mr. A., it grappled with him ; be opposed his
spiritual antagonist ; and a long and fearful
struggle ensued. At length Mr. A. seemed to
prevail, and to fling his enemy to the ground.
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. 73
On this the spectre started up, seized the brother
I have mentioned, and after a short contest,
brought him down. From that night Mr. A.
continued to rally, till he was restored to perfect
health ; and the next post, or next but one, came
intelligence that the brother at Eton ha.cl been
drowned in the Thames near Windsor.
THEODORA. How difficult to explain this on the
ordinary principle of explaining away superna-
tural occurrences ! That Miss A. had been hoping
her father might yet recover ; ha.cl been comfort-
ing herself with the recollection of instances in
which cases apparently as hopeless had termi-
nated favourably; had been thinking (as, the
explainer would say, she very naturally might) of
her absent brother ; had been recollecting the
dangers to which a boy at a public school is
liable ; and had by an easy confusion, and by
means of a somewhat excited imagination, com-
pounded a dream out of all these various tµoughts,
which dream, by a not unlikely coincidence, was
actually true.
P1sTus. Yes ; and the interpreter of this coin-
cidental arrangement would enunciate his dis-
covery with as much gravity as if it were not
much harder of belief than the supernaturalism
of the original story.
SoPHRON. And yet how useless the interference
here. Useless, I mean, to our ideas.
P1srus. There a.re, however, accounts of such
74 NIGHT IV.
interferences which have manifestly their use.
We know the tale of the German prince, who, in
a full career of wickedness, dreamed that an angel
appeared to him with a scroll, on which were in-
scribed the words, AFTER SEVEN. He awoke in
horror, thinking that his life was doomed, and
that seven days or seven weeks would end it. He
set himself in earnest to the work of repentance :
seven days passed, and he continued in good
health ; seven weeks,-still no change ; seven
months,-and he was perfectly himself: then he
thought that seven years must be meant. The
seven years passed, and he found himself raised
to the imperial throne.
THEODORA. The mercy of such a.n ambiguous
warning is here evident. But, perhaps, in the
same way we may explain those in which the
prediction has not been fulfilled.
SoPHRON. Of which, perhaps, the most remark-
able instance is that which happened to the late
Dr. Isaac Milner. Ilis biographer gives the fol-
lowing account : " Some time before his appoint-
ment to the deanery of Carlisle, Dr. Milner
dreamed that he was led by a friend through
the different apartments of a large rambling old
house, which he was given to understand would
shortly belong to himsel£ After showing him
several rooms, his conductor opened a door which
proved to be the entrance to a steep stone stair-
case, and desired him to ascend. He did so ; and
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. 75
on turning the comer at the top of this :6.ight of
steps, was suddenly arrested by the sight of a
tombstone, bearing the inscription,
Here lieth
The Body of
ISAAC MILmi:&,
Who died
.l, D.
When, happily for himself, he could not discover ;
for in the extremity of his eager effort to read
the date of the year, which he perceived was
given, he awoke. This dream, striking as it was,
gradually faded from Dean Milner's mind, and
would probably in time have been entirely for-
gotten, but for a circumstance which strangely
and forcibly recalled it to his recollection. On
going over his deanery for the first time, in com-
pany, I think, with Dr. Paley, a door was thrown
open which discovered a steep :6.ight of stone steps
leading to the tower, and so exactly resembling
those which he had seen in his dream, that, as he
always declared, when induced to mention the
circumstance, he absolutely feared to ascend and
tum the comer at the top, so strong was the
impression that the tombstone would appear.
Nor did he ever ascend that staircase with per-
fect indifference 1."
PIBTUS. I know another singular example. A
1 Milner's Life, p. 101.
76 NIGHT IV.
gentleman, whom I will call Mr. B., engaged in a
large business in London, dreamed-I will not
pretend to give you the exact dates, but only an
approximation to them-that his wife would die
on the 9th of September in the following year,
and he himself on the 11th of October in the year
succeeding that. He did not, I believe, pay much
attention to the intimation ; but towards the end
of August his wife was taken ill, and actually
died on the fatal 9th of September. Mr. B. now
considered his own decease as certain, and sold
his business at a great loss ; took a cottage in the
vicinity of town, and prepared for death. How-
ever, the day passed, and he found himself very
well When he had learnt to believe that the
prediction would not be verified in him, he was
much at a loss what to do in the way of business,
he having given up all connexion with that to
which he had been educated.
SoPHRON. There are some instances which one
can hardly believe to have been more than coin-
cidences. Such is that which Sir Walter Scott
relates in his journal of Dubuison, a celebrated
dentist of Edinburgh. Dr. Blair, the day before
his death, met him, and made use of a peculiar
expression to him. Some time after, Lord Mel-
ville met him on the same spot, and made use of
the same expression. t<He died the next day. On
this Dubuison said-in jest, however-" I shall be
the next, I suppose."+ He went home, was taken
suddenly ill, and died almost immediately. An-
rngitizedbvGoogle
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. 77
other such is recorded in the parish register of
Garthorpe church, in Leicestershire. A poor
man presented himself for the purpose of being
married ; but, instead of the words, "I take
thee to my wedded wife, to have and to hold
from this day forward," he could only be pre-
vailed on to say, "to have and to hold till this
day fortnight." That day fortnight he died.
And a coincidence of another kind occurred at
the destruction of the Royal Exchange by fire.
At twelve o'clock on that night, the chimes struck
up, for the last time,
" There's nae luck about the house,
There's nae luck at a'."
THEODORA. This naturally introduces the .con-
sideration of those cases where persons, in a
nervous state, have fancied themselves to have
received such intimations of death, and )lave
actually fallen ill from the terror and anxiety
which such imaginary revelations occasioned.
And these are not unusual cases ; nor are there
wanting many instances in which, by the use of
opium or some similar method, the fatal hour
has been safely passed, while the patient, on
awaking, has had no further recollection of the
past, than as a horrible dream, gone by for ever.
P1sTus. There is a curious Comish story of a
warning of death, which very probably is only a co·
incidence, but which was at the time and in the
place believed to be something more than this.
78 NIGHT IV.
A gentleman, in the north-western part of that
county, had a portrait of himself taken, which he
caused to be hung over his dining-room chimney-
piece. One day, without any assignable cause,
the picture fell down, and the portrait received
a. blow on one side of the forehead, which tore the
canvass. A few hours after, the gentleman in
question was riding out, when his horse fell, and
threw him ; he received a blow on the identical
spot of his own forehea.d, and died almost imme-
diately.
EUSEBIA. I have read another curious Cornish
tale. When a man, whose whole course of life
had been marked by the most :Bagitious atrocities,
was lying on his death-bed, near S. Ives, a black
ship, with black sails, was observed to stand in to
the bay, into shallows where seamen felt well
convinced no ship of that apparent burden could
float. At the moment the soul passed from the
body, the vessel stood out again ; nor was it ever
seen more.
SoPHBON. A curious mistake made in the Pro-
clamation of Charles I. was afterwards received as
a.n omen. The herald, instead of the " rightful
and .indubitable," called him the " rightful and
dubitohle heir" to the crown. In like manner
there were, as we all know, believed to be s9me
curious warnings attending Archbishop Laud's
course. It was the day of the Decollation of
S. John the Baptist, as he expressly notes in
his diary, that he was chosen Head o.f S John's
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. 79
College; and when the Head of S. John's pe-
rished by a similar end, the thing was remem-
bered. , And a short time before his imprison-
ment, he writes thus: " At night, I dreamed that
my father, who died forty-six years since, came to
me ; and, to my thinking, he was as well and
cheerful as ever I saw him. He asked me, What
I did here ? And after some speech, I asked him,
How long he would stay with me ? He answered,
He would stay till he had me away with him. I
am not moved with dreams ; yet I thought fit to
remember this."
P1sTus. I do not know whether one can say
that Laud was not moved with dreams ; at least
he has left a good many of his own recorded.
SoPHRON. Yes ; and hardly any, it would appear,
attended with important results. We have not
spoken of the credibility of dreams, nor is this
the place to do so. But, while we are on the
subject of fore-warnings of danger, I will relate
two dreams, both of which were instrumental in
preserving the person to whom they appeared from
harm. The first happened at Edinburgh, where
the story made some noise. A party had been
formed for the purpose of going in a sailing-boat
to Inch-Keith, and among those invited was a
young man who was staying at the time at the
house of his uncle and aunt in the city. The
night before the intended expedition, the aunt
awoke in terror, and told her husband that she
had dreamed of the death of her nephew, who,
80 NIGHT IV.
she said, . would be drowned on the morrow's
expedition, if he persisted in going. Her husband
merely laughed at her, recommended her to put
her superstition out of her head, and to go to
sleep. She did so ; and the same dream pre-
sented itself again to her mind. Again she
mentioned the thing to her husband ; and he,
though beginning to think the dream somewhat
remarkable, advised her to compose herself. .She
went to sleep again ; and the third time she had
the same dream. Now thoroughly terrified, she
requested her husband to go to bis nephew, and
ask him, as a great favour, from her, to stay at
home on the next day. The uncle, with many
apologies for his wife's timidity, did so; and the
young man with some little reluctance consented
to stay. Never morning broke more gloriously
than the next ; and much good humoured banter
passed between aunt and nephew at the breakfast
table, and during the course of the forenoon.
But about four o'clock in the afternoon, one of
the most violent squalls arose that was ever re-
membered in Edinburgh; the boat then return-
ing from Inch-Keith went to the bottom, and
every soul on board her was lost. No one ever
denied the fact of the dream : of course, as to
the cause of it,
Diveret! men divers!! thingt!a said,
as Chaucer speaks. The other tale to which I
referred is hardly less curious. A married lady
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. 81
of my acquaintance dreamed that she was com-
pelled one Sunday to stay at home, while the
rest of her family went to church ; that the house
was one which she had never seen before ; that
she heard a knock at the door, and went to open
it; that a man of most ill-favoured appearance
entered, and began to insult her; on which she
awoke in terror. Some time after, she removed
temporarily to another house ; and it so fell out
that one Sunday she stayed at home herself, in
order that the rest of her family might be able
to go to church. While there alone, she heard a
knock at the front door, and there being no one
else in the house, went down to open it. When
she had reached the hall, the remembrance of her
dream flashed in an instant across her mind, yet
she had not sufficient faith in it to hesitate about
opening the door. She did so ; and behold !
there stood a man, the exact counterpart of him
whom she had seen in her dream. She shut the
door in his face, locked and bolted it, and awaited
the return of her family in great agitation. The
man (whoever he was) could not be found. Now
that this was a providential warning of danger it
is hardly possible to deny, except by denying the
veracity of the narrator. For that a dream
should have been accomplished up to a certain
point, and that the rest should have proved false,
does not seem very likely.
EusEBIA. Except, indeed, that just now you
gave us an instance of something very much like
G
82 NIGHT IV.
this, where the merchant dreamed of the death,
first of his wife, then of himself; and the first
proved true, and the second not so.
SoPHBON. True ; but those were two separate
predictions, the failure of one of which did not
falsify or stultify the other. But in the present
case the dream was so entirely one, that to con-
ceive one part fulfilled, and the other part un-
fulfilled, would be to make the whole, practically
speaking, a lie.
EusBBIA. A similarly providential interference
is commemorated by a sermon annually preached
at Newark. An Alderman Clay, during the
great Rebellion, twice dreamed tha.t his house was
burnt ; be removed from it, and it shortly after-
wards took fire when the town was bombarded by
Cromwell. In commemoration of this deliverance,
the alderman left a sum of money for the purpose
I mentioned.
Pisrus. I have an instance, very similar to your
first in its details, but unfortunately very different
in its termination. The dream happened to a
lady whose husband was a member of the yacht
club. She was at the time staying with him at
Lulworth, in Dorsetshire ; and a regatta. was to
take place on the following day, in which his
yacht was to sail. She dreamed that if he went
on board the yacht, be would be drowned ; and
so earnest were her expostulations with her
husband, that to humour her, he promised not to
go on board. "But at least," he said on the
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. 83
following morning, "you will not object to my
going in a boat to the yacht, to see that all on
boa.rd is right." She was very unwilling to con-
sent even to this; but on her receiving his pro-
mise not to leave the boat, she gave a reluctant
permission. He went accordingly, and finding
that some arrangement of the sails was different
from that which he intended, gave orders that it
should be altered. The men bungled and blun-
dered; in his impatience he went on board, "just
for one moment," and stood leaning over the side
while the sailors did what he thought necessary.
A sudden squall rose ; the yacht lurched, and
its unfortunate owner fell overboard and was
drowned This was the more talked of, because
he had been compelled to assign a reason for not
sailing in his own yacht, and had mentioned his
wife's fears as the cause.
SoPHRON. And this seems an example where,
if the dream had not been so fearfully put to the
test, it would have been pronounced false; for
if neither the yacht nor any of those on board it,
except the owner, were hurt, of course, had he
been absent, it would have been taken for granted
that neither would he have received any injury.
THEODORA. Very probably; and perhaps some
supernatural intimations which have accomplished
their end, may have been set down as mere fancies
on a. similar score.
P1sTus. I know of a. case where there can
hardly, indeed, be said to have been a distinct
G 2
84 NIGHT IV.
warning of death, but which, nevertheless, taken
in conjunction with what followed, seems to me
extremely curious. A gentleman, whom I will
call Mr. A., was confined to his bed with a
rheumatic fever ; his friend, Mr. B., was walking
at no great distance from his house, fully aware
that Mr. A. was ill, and unable to move, when, to
his infinite surprise, he saw him walking at a
short distance before him. Mr. B. quickened his
pace ; the appearance did the same, and at
length turned off the road through a gate into a
path. Mr. B. followed so near, as to be close to
the gate while it was yet held open by his friend ;
who, without any ceremony, slammed it in his
face, and passed on more rapidly than before.
Mr. B. on this went to the house, learned that
Mr. A. was still confined to his bed, and likely to
do well. So the matter passed off for the time ;
but very shortly after Mr. A. was again taken ill,
and died ; and within a short period, Mr. B.
followed him to the grave.
SoPHRON. We shall see, I think, by and by,
that accounts of the appearance of a departed
man to his friend in the moment of death, are
not only the most numerous, but, generally speak-
ing, the best authenticated of all relations of the
appearance of spirits. Your last story borders
more nearly on the power ofsecond sight-ofwhich
we might now perhaps speak.
P1sTus. Before we do so, I will give you one
more instance of a verified dream, which came
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. 85
almost within the sphere of my own knowledge.
It took place in the August of 1845. A friend of
mine, the rector of a fishing village on the Thames,
had a servant, a native of the place, whose bro-
ther, a steady lad enough, was in the habit· of
constantly attending both school and church.
This servant, one Saturday night, dreamed that
she received intelligence that her brother was
drowned ; that she went to see the body ; that
she found it at a particular spot, and in a parti-
cular attitude. She told her fellow-servant, on
waking on the Sunday morning, what she had
seen, and added, that she must get her master's
leave to go home on the Monday, and warn her
brother against going out on the river. But her
intended warning was too late. That very Sunday
the boy was persuaded to go out on the water :
the boat upset ; and, on returning from church,
his sister received the .intelligence that he was
drowned. She went to him immediately, and found
the body on the spot where, and in the attitude
in which, she had dreamed of it.
EusBBIA. A sad instance of a neglected warning.
And, of course, had not the servant told her
dream in the morning, it would, when the event
verified it, have been regarded as a mere delusion,
or something worse.
P1sTus. Now, if you wish, we may speak of
second sight. The most curious feature about it,
and one which, I grant you, is an argument
against its existence, is the very narrow locality
rngitizedbvGoogle
86 NIGHT IV.
over which it extends. At the same time, I do
not believe that any traveller in the islands of
Scotland, who had really taken pains to inquire
into the matter, ever denied it. It corresponds,
in ·a very great measure, with our preconceived
notions of prophecy. The faculty is limited ;
the man that possesses it can only tell of the
future when he has the vision upon him ; at other
times he is but like the rest of men. It is princi-
pally also confined to the arrival of strangers, and
the predictions of death.
SoPHRON. There is something very awful in the
manner in which the seer receives intimation of
an approaching death : in the figure which he
beholds of the doomed person, enveloped, to a
greater or less degree, in the shroud ; the signifi-
cation of the different positions : if it only reaches
to the ankles, the person will live some time, as
much perhaps as one year. The next vision shows
it to be advanced to the knees ; the next, per-
haps, to the chest ; then it rises to the neck ;
and, at last, envelops the head, when death is
certain to follow, whatever be the then state of
health of the fated person, within a few days or
hours.
P1sTus. Not that the vision necessarily goes
through all those stages. Frequently it begins
with the last; and the prophet is aware that some
man has but a few hours to live, whom, perhaps,
the rest of the world are congratulating on his
health and prosperity.
rngitizedbvGoogle
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. 87
EusEBIA. Such a fearful power quite illustrates
Schiller's noble lines:-
" Frommt's den Schleier aufzuheben,
Wo das nahe SchreckniBB drohi !
Nur der lrrthum ist das Leben,
Und das WiBBen isi der Tod.
Nimm, 0 nimm die traur'ge Klarheit,
Mir vom Aug' den blut'gen Schein I
Furchtbar ist es, deiner Wahrheit
Sterbliches Gefliss zu eeyn."
Pisrus. And still more so, when it can predict
(as it sometimes, though rarely, happens that it
can) the death of the seer himsel£
SoPHBON. Dr. Johnson, born as he was in a most
unbelieving age, was too wise a man to disbelieve
in the tales of second sight, coming as they did
under his immediate notice in the Hebrides.
P1sTus. Any more than he did in the credibi-
lity, to say the least, of the tales of apparitions :
a belief for which Churchill, with his minute
mind, took care to ridicule him.
SoPHRON. Another curious warning is to be
found in the account of the plague that depopu-
lated Rome during the pontificate of S. Agatho.
We are told, that, in the dead of night, a
knock, sometimes single, sometimes repeated, was
heard at the door of doomed houses, whether at
the time infected or not infected ; and that as
many knocks as were heard in the night, so many
deaths followed on the succeeding day.
EUSEBIA. I think we are bound always to receive
88 NIGHT IV.
the accounts of supernatural appearances in the
time of great plagues with caution.· The excite-
ment, the prostration of spirit, the prevalence of
horrors, the delirium of stricken men, all these
things give rise to reports and fancies which no
one cares to contradict, and which spread like
wildfire through the populace. You remember
De Foe's account of a fanatic, who, during the
plague of 1665, stood in one of the London
churchyards, and pointed out to a large crowd the
motions of a ghost, which, as he affirmed, had
stationed itself on one of the tombstones, and was
, pointing with its fingers firSt to the crowd around,
and then to the churchyard, as if to signify what
would be the end of the greater number of them
in that visitation. De Foe looked too, and though
the mob declared that they beheld the apparition,
and could describe its motions, he could see
nothing himself, and went away persuaded that
there was nothing to be seen.
P1srus. A curious superstition of a somewhat
similar kind was that, as formerly held, about S.
Mark's eve. It was believed that if a person piaced
himself near the church porch, when twilight was
thickening, he would behold the apparitions of
those persons in the parish who were to be seized
with anysevere disease that year,go into the church.
If they remained there, it signified their death ;
if they came out again, it portended their reco-
very ; and the longer or shorter the time .that
they remained in the building, the severer or less
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. 89
dangerous their illness. Infants; under age to
walk, rolled in ; a belief quite contrary to the
usually received accounts of ghosts, which are
universally (and the universality of the belief is
somewhat curious) said to glide.
SoPHRON. Before we conclude, as we must do,
for to-night, I will give you, in Lady Fanshawe's
words, a remarkable story, which is, perhaps, as
nearly connected with the present branch of our
subject as with any other. She says, "And here
I cannot omit relating the ensuing story, con-
firmed by Sir Thomas Baber, Sir Arnold Breamer,
the Dean of Canterbury, with many more gentle-
men and persons of that town. There lived, not
far from Canterbury, a gentleman, called Colonel
Colepepper, whose mother was wedded unto Lord
Strangford : this gentleman had a sister, who
lived with him, as the world said, in too much
love. She married Mr. Porter. This ~rother
and sister being both atheists, and living a life
according to their profession, went in a frolic
unto the vault of their ancestors, where, before
they returned, they pulled some of their father's
and oftheir mother's hairs. Within a few days after,
Mrs. Porter fell sick and died. Her brother kept
her body in a coffin set up in his buttery, saying,
it would not be long before he died, and then they
would both be buried together: but, from the
night of her death, till the time that we were told
the story (which was three months), they say
that a head, as cold as death, with curled hair
90 NIGHT IV.
like his sister's, did ever lie by him when be slept,
notwithstanding he removed to several places and
countries to avoid it ; and several persons told us
they had felt this apparition." Lady Fanshawe's
high character leaves no room for the least hesita-
tion in receiving this story, one of the most
singular that I know.
P1sTUS. It is, indeed. We must leave the re-
mainder ofthis matter for consideration, I suppose,
to-morrow night ; its interest demands that it
should be discussed at some length.
NIGHT V.
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH.
. THEOPHILA. We were considering last night the
various accounts of cases where supernatural
warning has been given of approaching death or
danger. Have we any thing further to say on
that head 1
SoPHRON. Yes : I have a singular instance,
which you may rely on as strictly true, though I
shall alter all the names, some of the parties con-
cerned being still alive. Lord F. was on his
travels on the Continent when he met a young
man engaged in a similar way, with whom he
grew very familiar. Mr. G. (for so I will call his
friend) gave him, in the course of conversation, to
know that the end of his life had been predicted
to him, and that he had some grounds for believ-
ing that this prediction was not without its weight
and credibility. "As how ?" asked Lord F. "I
was travelling with two friends," replied the other,
" in Italy, and at Florence we agreed to have our
nativities cast by a woman there, who had a great
92 NIGHT V.
reputation for astrological skill She foretold that
none of us would live long, and named the days
on which we should each die. My iwo friends
are dead, and that at the time she named : it
remains to see whether her prediction will be
verified in me." "Pooh, pooh !" cried Lord F.,
" a. mere coincidence : impossible that it should
happen a third time. But what is the day she
fixed?" Mr. G. named one about six months dis-
tant. "And where shall you be then ?" pursued
Lord F. "At Paris." "Why, I shall be there
too. Let it be an engagement. Come you and
dine with me on that very day at seven o'clock ;
and keep up your spirits till then. I shall be
found at No. - , Rue de --. Do you agree
to the bargain?" "Willingly," replied the other;
and in a .short time the friends separated. The
six months passed; and a little before the ap-
pointed day Lord F. found himself in Paris. He
sent a note to Mr. G., to remind him of his en-
gagement, and received for answer that he would
come. However, a day or two after another note
was brought him, in which Mr. G. said that he
was not very well, and must postpone the plea-
sure of dining with Lord F. till another time :
that the indisposition was very trifling, and ere
fong he hoped to have the pleasure of waiting
upon him. Lord F. thought no more of the mat-
ter, ordered dinner on the day that had been
named at seven, for himself, and about six
o'clock sent his servant to Mr. G.'s, with a merely
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. 93
formal inquiry how he was. Seven o'clock came.
Lord F. sat down to dinner; when, just as he was
beginning his meal, the door opened, and in
walked Mr. G. He walked in, it is true, but he
said not a word ; weflt up to the table, and went
out again. Lord F. was alarmed, and rang the
bell, and it was answered by the servant whom
he had sent with the message of inquiry. "How
is Mr. G. 1" he demanded. "Dead, my lord,"
was the reply : " he died just as I reached his
house."
P1sTus. Truly a most wonderful story. Then
we are to understand that, up to the last, Lord F.
had no apprehension for his friend 1
SoPHRON. None whatever. It seems hardly to
have impressed his mind at all after he came to
Paris.
P1sTus. You reserved the most extraordinary,
as involving two supernatural interferences, to the
last.
SoPHRON. There is one remarkable class of ap·
paritions of which we have not yet spoken ; those,
namely, where the head of a family is warned of
the decease of any member of it in a supernatural,
but constantly recurring manner. This belief has
prevailed in all parts of the world, and continues
to our own day.
PisTus. Our first instance may be that which
Dr. Plot gives, and which the famous Platonist,
Dr. Henry More, has transcribed, in hie Supple-
ment to Glanville's book. It occurred in the
94 NIGHT V.
family of the Woods, then settled at Hampton,
near Bridge Norton. Here a knocking was heard
by the principal members of the family before the
decease of any part of it. The first time this was
observed was in the year 166i, when Mrs. Eleanor
Wood, mother to Capt. Basil Wood, an officer in
the royal army during the Great Rebellion, being
by herself, heard a strange knocking in various
parts of the house, for which she could by no
means account. A fortnight after she received
intelligence of the death of a son-in-law in Lon-
don. Three years afterwards three loud knocks
were distinctly heard by the same lady, her son,
Capt. Wood, and his wife, so strongly given that
the pans in the dairy tottered and shook, and
were in danger of falling. Two of these knocks
seemed to be in the house, and one on the door,
whence Capt. Wood concluded that it was a warn-
ing of the death of two members of his own
family, and of one relation. And so it fell out ;
for within six months his mother and wife died,
and also a niece of the captain's. Ten yea.rs after,
namely, on a Sunday in August, 1674, Mr. Basil
Wood, a son of Capt. Wood, then residing at Ex-
eter, heard, together with his wife and two other
members of his family, two strokes struck, as with
a cudgel, on the table in the room where they
were sitting, one before, and one after morning
prayer He wrote this account to his father in
Oxfordshire, who, in a fortnight after, lost his
second wife, and in a quarter of a year his father-
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. 95
in-law. After that time we have no more ac-
counts.
THBOPHILA. A like story was told of the family
of the Torelle, at Parma.. There was a ha.11 in
their pa.lace, in which, before the death of any
member, an old woman was seen sitting by the
chimney-comer. A young lady of the family,
herself dangerously ill, once saw this spectre, and,
of course, gave herself up for lost. She recovered,
however, but another member of the house died 1•
SoPHRON. In like manner a. death in the family
of the Lords of Cha.rtley Park is foretold by the
birth of a. black or party-coloured calf in the
sandy-coloured breed that inhabit the park.
P1sTus. There is said to be a castle in Finland,
on the borders of a small lake, out of which, pre·
viously to the death of the governor, an appa-
rition, in the form ofa mermaid, a.rises, and makes
sweet melody.
SoPHRON. That brings us to the Irish Banshee,
the most poetical form of that belie£ That in
many families, previous to a. death, a female figure
makes its appearance, rending her hair, and giving
every sign of grief, is firmly believed.
EusEBIA. And sometimes the apparition takes
other forms, as in that famous story of Lady Fan-
shawe. She and her husband were on a visit to a
friend in Ireland, and at night they were ushered
into a. large and lonely room at one end of the
castle. Towards midnight Lady Fanshawe awoke,
1 Kornmann. iv. 67.
96 NIGHT V.
her husband still remaining asleep. It was moon-
light, and she lay looking at the beauty of the
sky through the casement. On a sudden the
casement was thrown open, and a female figure,
with long dishevelled hair, thrust in its head, and
shrieked out, " A horse ! a horse !" and forthwith
disappeared. Lady Fanshawe, in an agony ofter-
ror, woke her husband, and told him what she had
seen, and they agreed to continue awake, and
to watch whether any thing further would occur.
Nor did they wait long. The window was again
thrown open: the figure appeared again, and again
shrieked, "A horse ! a horse !" The story is differ-
ently related, as to the double apparition. They
rose, knelt down, commended themselves to GOD,
and were troubled no more that night. On the
following morning, when they went down stairs,
the mistress of the house inquired if they had
rested well On their replying that they had
been much disturbed, she requested them, in an
unusually impressive manner, to relate what they
had seen or heard. They did so. " The same
apparition," she answered, "is always seen in that
room on the death of any member of this house.
When you arrived last night, a poor relation, then
in the castle, was suffering from illness, but no
immediate danger was apprehended. Had I
known that her death was near, I should not
have put you to the inconvenience of occupying
that apartment. But in the course of the night
she was suddenly taken worse, and expired, and I
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. 97
then knew that you would see the apparition you
describe."
THEOPHILA. Dr. Plot, I remember, mentions a
family in Staffordshire, where a white bird, of very
large size, was seen to flutter round the house
before any death occurred in it.
P1sTus. There was or is an oak in Lanthadran
Park, in Cornwall, which by a peculiar change in
the leaves was said to foretell the death of the lord ·
of the manor.
SoPHRON. Wales is peculiarly the country of
such belief. Here we have the Corpse-bird, that
flaps its wings over the doomed person ; the
Tanwe, or deluge of liquid fire over his lands ; the
Elyllon,a kind ofBanshee,that howls and wails over
him. Thus we have in Lancashire the Death-cart,
that rattles through the streets at night, a tradi-
tion, perhaps, of the Plague-cart offearful memory.
Music, also, is said to have been sometimes heard
in a similar manner. Dr. More gives the account
of a whole family in Suffolk "that died one
after another in a little time : and ever before
any of the house fell sick, there was music
heard to go from the house (though nothing
seen), playing all along, which several people out
of curiosity would follow, who observed it to pass
through the field till it came to a wood, and there
they left it or lost it. This was told for a certain
truth to a friend of mine by Mr. Samson, not long
since Fellow of King's College, in Cambridge."
EusEBIA. I have heard a very curious natural
H
98 NIGHT V.
explanation, in one case, of such music. The
family by whom it was told were surprised, one
day, by hearing a very wild but sweet melody
played, apparently, outside their parlour window.
It was heard again and again, at all hours, by
individuals, and by the whole family. Some trick
was suspected ; the servants were watched ; strict
observations were made. All was to no purpose :
· still the same wild sweet strains continued. At
length it was discovered to arise from the crawl-
ing of snails over the window-panes; on the same
principle, I suppose, that a wetted finger will
bring out such exquisite melody from a glass.
SoPHRON. If you wish to hear some of the most
unearthly music that heart can fancy, go, on a
stormy, gusty night, and sit down on th.e leeward
side of the embankment of some railway where
the electric telegraph is used. The various sounds
that the gale expresses from that great 1Eolian
harp are almost inconceivable. Now it is the
deep note of an organ-now a shrill scream; now
it is close above you-now a hundred yards away ;
now it seems to vibrate along the line of wires, as
if aerial musicians were hurrying down them, and
making melody as they went. Something of the
same kind may be heard in a hop-garden, before
the hops are up ; ~d something, also, in a ship
running under bare poles. But this by way of
digression.
P1sTus. To return, then, to our subject. It is
well known that, in a certain noble family now
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. 99
existing, a head appears in like manner, as a sign
of the death of any of the members, to the head of
the family. A late nobleman saw this apparition
many times.
SoPBRON. Assuredly the most unaccountable
ca.sea are those where an animal, or rather, the
appearance of one, answers the same end. Yet
the following story comes to me so attested, that
I really know not how to disbelieve it. A family
in the east of England has a tradition, that the
appearance of a black dog portends the death of
one of its members. It was not, I believe, said
that no death took place without such warning ;
but only that, when the apparition occurred, its
meaning was certain. The eldest son of this
family married. He knew not whether to believe
or to disbelieve the legend. On the one hand, he
thought it superstitious to receive it ; and, on the
other, he could not, in the face of so much testi-
mony, altogether reject it. In this state of doubt
-the thing being in itself unpleasant-he re-
solved to say nothing on the subject to his young
wife. It could only, he thought, worry and
harass her, and could not, by any possibility, do
any good. He kept his resolution. In due course
of time he had a family ; but of the apparition he
saw nothing. At length, one of his children was
taken ill, I think with the small-pox ; but the
attack was slight, and not the least danger was
apprehended. He was sitting down to dinner
with his wife, when she said, " I will just step up
H 2
100 NIGHT V.
stairs, and see how the child is going on, and will
be back again in a moment." She went ; and
returning rather hastily, said, " The child is
asleep ; but pray go up stairs, for there is a large
black dog lying on his bed : go and drive it out of
the house." The father had no doubt of the result.
He went up stairs ; there was no black dog to be
seen ; but the child was dead.
P1sTus. The sign is odd, and, to our apriori
judgment, unmeaning enough, to be sure ; but I
know a like occurrence in Sussex. In this case, a
'vhite rabbit appears, a few hours before death, to
the sick man himself.
SoPHRON. Dr. More tells us of..an Irish family
forewarned in a similar manner, by '·' lights danc-
ing upon a place they call Fairy Mount." . 'rbree
did so on one occasion. "I spoke," he· says,
" with one that was a spectator thereof :half an
hour together, and observed the lights, though
moved swiftly, how their flames were not cast
l1orizontally, but went straight up to the zenith :
who noted also, that two of the family, since that
sign, were lately dead already, and suspected a
third would follow ; which accordingly fell out the
same year, a little while after."
P1sTus. It was believed, in like manner, that
S. Sylvester's tomb in the Lateran foretold the
cleath of the reigning pontiff. So also it was
held, that the family of Lusignan was warned of
a death about to occur in it, by the.appearance of
Melesinda, the queen of Guy de Lusignan.
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH.· 101
SoPHRON. Lavater tells us of a friend of his, the
minister of some Swiss parish, who, in the time
of plague, had a warning at night of the seizure
or death of any of his parishioners, by a noise
in the room above him, as of the fall of a heavy
sack on the boards.
P1sTus. In brief, these warnings are almost
innumerable. It is said that Henry IV. of
France felt, long before, in his breast, the phan-
tom of the knife wherewith Ravaillac slew him.
There are stories of sounds being .heard, towards
nightfall, in churchyards, as if a new grave were
being dug-the stroke of the spade, the rending
of the turf, the falling of the loose earth-which
grave accordingly is dug there in reality in the
course of a few days. So tales are told of all
the pomp of a funeral having been seen to set
out from the door of some house, the inhabitants
being in perfect health ; from which house a
corpse has, no long time after, been carried to the
grave. So again, a noise heard in one of the
sedilia of a church was regarded as the sign of
the death of that ecclesiastic who usually occu-
pied it. There was a curious superstition in
Germany, that, if a person saw his own wraith, it
was either a sign of death immediately at hand,
or of a very prolonged life.
THEOPHILA. Before we proceed any further in
this inquiry, I should like to be told if any in-
stances of apparitions are given by the writers of
the early Church.
102 NIGHT V.
SoPHRON. Undoubtedly. To say nothing of such
examples as those of 8. Agnes' appearance to her
parents at her tomb, we are told that a spectre of
prodigious size appeared at Antioch 1, the night
before the outbreak of the sedition in the time of
Theodosius; the same which gave rise to the
homilies of S. Chrysostom on the Statues. Again,
S. Gennadius, patriarch of Constantinople, was
praying by night before the altar of his church;
when a spectre of horrible appearance presented
itself to him •. He rebuked it, a.nd commanded
it to depart. " I will depart," replied the appari-
tion, " during thy lifetime ; but after thy death,
I will trouble the Church." On this, Gennadius
prayed earnestly for its peace and safety, and
shortly afterwards departed this life. So a.gain,
S. Felix of Nola appeared to the inhabitants of
that city, when it was besieged by the barbarians.
An odd story is related by John Moschus, of S.
Eulogius of Alexandria. He was one night occu-
pied by himself, in matins, when his archdeacon
Julian entered, without, as was customary, giving
any notice, and prostrated himself in prayer.
When the bishop rose, Julian remained prostrate.
At length Eulogius desired him to stand up. " I
cannot, unless you help me," he answered ; which
the good bishop did accordingly. Shortly after-
wards he disappeared, and the prelate thought
that he had left the place. "When did the arch-
1 Sozomen, H. E. vii. 20. t Theod. Leet. lib. i.
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. 103
deacon Julian go out 1" he demanded of the door-
keeper. The. man denied that he had ever
entered. The following morning, S. Eulogius
happened to meet his archdeacon, and commented
on his rudeness in not knocking before coming
in. "By the prayers of my lord," said Julian,
" I never came to this place last night." Then,
says Moschus, Eulogius understood that it was the
-martyr S. Julian, prompting him to rebuild a
ruinous church under his invocation. S. Basilis-
cus, an Asiatic bishop, who had received the
crown of martyrdom at the same time with S.
Lucian 1, when S. Chrysostom was driven into
exile, appeared to him, and said, " Brother John,
be of good courage; to-morrow we shall be to-
gether." The spirit had previously visited the
priest of the church of S. Basiliscus, and had
said, "Make ready a place for my brother John ;
for he is shortly coming hither." And the event
proved the pred\ction. With stories like these
the lives of the Fathers abound ; perfectly analo-
gous in kind, though somewhat differing in cir-
cumstances, from those of later ages. It would
be endless to quote instances. So we read that
S. lletas appeared to one Christina, predicting
the troubles that were coming on the earth ; that
S. Amatus comforted his sorrowing mother by the
assurance that he was with the LoRD ; that S.
Cyprian con:firmed S. Flavian in the view of ap-
1 S. August. de Cura pro Mort. i.
rngitizedbvGoogle
104 NIGHT V.
proaching martyrdom : and scarcely any medireval
biography but contains some such relations.
PISTUS. The ancient pagans believed the same
thing. Plutarch, for example, says, that Damon,
an inhabitant of Chreronea, had, by the commis-
sion of several murders, rendered himself so
odious as to be forced to leave the city. The
inhabitants, anxious to secure his punishment,
enticed him back by smooth words and gentle
speeches, and slew him in the bath. Thence-
forward that house was, to use the modem term,
haunted, and was :finally shut up. The evil genius
of Brutus is known to all the world. But it was
said also that Cassius, a staunch Epicurean, and
therefore a disbeliever in all such apparitions,
beheld the ghost of Cresar, singling him out, as it
were, for attack, in the battle of Philippi 1• A
like story is told of Drusus 1• Mter wasting
Germany as far as the river Albis, he was return-
ing, laden with trophies. A spectre, in the form
of a woman, larger than the race of mortals, met
him, and reproached him wit~ his cupidity.
"Depart," she concluded ; "your labours and
your course are approaching their end." Before
he could reach the Rhine, Drusus was seized with
a mortal disease. Pliny wrote a letter on the
subject of spectres, in which he gives some in-
. stances of their appearance. Curtius Rufus, he
says, when an obscure hanger-on of the proconsul
1 Val. Max. i. 6. 1 Dion. Cass. lv. init.
WARNINGB OF APPROACHING DEATH. l 05
of Africa, was promised the proconsulate of
Africa himself, by a female figure, like that
which appeared to Drusus ; and by the same he
was warned of·death. He also tells a curious story /
of a haunted house at Athens. It was spacious
and commodious ; but the prodigious and unac-
countable noises, the clanking of chains, and the
appearance of an old man, meagre and filthy, with
long beard and uncombed hair, and wearing
chains on his arms and legs, drove one tenant
after another from the place. The proprietors
were consequently compelled to offer the house at
a rent ruinously disproportionate to its size. The
philosopher Athenodorus came to Athens in
search of a house. He was pleased with that
in question ; but on hearing the terms, felt per-
suaded that there must be some unmentioned
drawback in the case ; and, on inquiry, learnt the
truth. He nevertheless engaged the house ; and,
on the first evening of his occupation, when it
became dusk, dismissed his family, bade his slaves
bring every necessity for writing, and employed
himself in the composition of one of his works.
When night drew on, he heard the rattling of
chains, and the noise of steps, first outside, then
inside the room ; still he went on writing ; till at
last, on looking up, he saw the spectre as it had
been described to him. It beckoned to him to
follow; he motioned to it to wait, and continued
his task. The apparition clanked its chains over
the head of the philosopher. Athenodorus rose,
106 NIGHT V.
took the light, and prepared to follow. The
old man led the way slowly, as if loaded with
chains, into the centre of the court, and then
disappeared. Athenodorus marked the spot with
plants and leaves, and retired to rest. On the
following day he went to the magistrates, in-
formed them of the circumstance, and requested
that the place should be examined. Excavations
were made ; the mouldering remains of a man,
whose legs and arms were chained, were dis-
covered, and publicly buried ; and the house was
never again haunted. This is the most thorough
ghost story that I know in the writings of the
ancients.
SoPHRON. Yes : their relations usually concern
figures of stupendous size, and rather of divine
than human nature. This idea of size has left its
trace in one modern language at least : the Por-
tuguese .Avejao, signifies either an apparition, or a
man of monstrous size.
P1srus. As to all these accounts, it is very little
to our purpose, whether they be true or false ; but
very much to our purpose, that the belief in appa-
ritions existed at such early times. I will men-
tion but one more example. Pausanias tells us
that, on the plain of Marathon, four hundred years
after the great battle, the neighing of horses, the
shouts of the victors, the cries of the vanquished,
and all the noise of a well-contested conflict, were
:frequently to be heard. And every one will
remember the appearance of Theseus in the battle
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. 107
of Marathon, and that of the twin brothers in the
fight by the lake Regillus.
SoPH&ON. You will find in most of those ancient
tales, that the spirit which appeared was that of
some man of note. This is not so usual in modem
stories. I call one or two to mind. Louis, Duke
of Imola, shortly after his death, appeared in his
usual hunting dress to the private secretary of his
son Louis, by whom he had been sent to Ferrara.
"Tell my son," said the kingly apparition, "to
meet me on this spot at this time to-morrow ; for
I have a matter of great moment to communicate
to him." The prince either disbelieved the tale,
or suspected some Italian treachery, and therefore
refused to keep the appointment ; but he sent one
of his courtiers in his place. The duke appeared,
faithful to his word, and expressed great grief
that his son had not thought fit to obey his in-
junction. "To him," said he, " I could have com-
municated much more than I can do to you. But
tell him this from me : twenty-two years and one
month from this time he will lose Imola.." The
time was strictly observed: on that night, taking
advantage of a hard frost for crossing the water,
Philip of Milan, who had formed a league with
Louis, treacherously surprised Imola, and added it
to his own dominions. The other is this. A few
weeks before the decease of the emperor Henry
VII., at sunset there appeared in the palace court
of the doge ofGenoa, a horseman, armed cap-Q,-pie,
and of far larger than mortal size : after riding
108 NJGHT V.
up and down for more than an hour, and being
seen by many witnesses, the spectre vanished.
Three nights after, at nine o'clock, two horsemen,
similarly armed, were seen on the same spot ; and
after a furious battle, they departed.
P1sTus. We have one or two of our most curious
topics yet to enter on ; such as the locality to
which some apparitions appear to be confined, and
the apparently useless nature of some of their
visitations. But, since we cannot hope for time to
enter on these subjects to-night, let me tell you two
stories of the appearance of a spirit in fulfilment
of a promise. They are both related by Glanville.
There were two friends, Major George Sydenham,
of Dulverton, in Somersetshire, and Capt. William
Dyke, of the same county, who had, it would
appear, served in the civil wars; and who,
if not professed Atheists, were yet professed
doubters of the existence of GoD, and the immor-
tality of the soul. After many discussions on the
subject, they agreed that whichever of them died
first, should, if it were possible for him to do so,
on the third day after his death, meet the other
in Major Sydenham's. summer-house at Dulver-
ton, and inform him of the reality of a
future state of rewards and punishments. Major
Sydenham died ; and Captain Dyke, on the third
®y after his death, went to Dulverton, accom-
panied by a relation of his, a Dr. Dyke, a physician
of some note, who had been called in to take
charge of a sick child at Major Sydenham's, but
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. 109
who knew nothing of the matter in hand. The
relations slept in the same room ; and the doctor
was rather surprised, when the servant was re-
tiring, to hear Captain Dyke request him to bring
him two of the largest candles he could get.
" What is the meaning of this 1" he demanded,
when the candles were brought. Capt. Dyke told
him of the engagement ; "and this," he con-
tinued, " is the very night, and I am resolved to
fulfil my promise." Dr. Dyke represented that as
there was no warrant for making these strange
engagements, they were to be regarded as sinful
in themselves; that therefore it was sinful to
keep them; that none could say what advantage
evil spirits might take of such an interview; and
that the whole design was a manifest tempting
of Providence. " This may be all very true," said
Dyke, "but I promised to go, and go I will : if
you will sit up with me till the appointed time, I
shall be obliged to you ; if not, it is no matter."
The captain then laid his watch on the table, and
waited in expectation of the hour. When it drew
to half-past eleven, he took a candle in each hand,
and went into the garden, where he walked up
and down till two o'clock, but without hearing or
seeing anything extraordinary. On this he con-
cluded, either that the soul perished with the body,
or that the unknown laws of the world of spirits
had prevented Major Sydenham from keeping his
promise. Some six weeks afterwards, Capt. Dyke
had occasion to go to Eton, to place one of his sons
llO NIGHT V.
at the college, and he was again accompanied by
his relation the doctor. They lodged at the Chris-
topher, and occupied different rooms. On the last
morning oftheir stay, Captain Dyke was unusually
late in rising. When he came into his cousin's
room, he was like a man struck with madness ;
his eyes staring, his knees knocking one against
the other, his whole face changed. "What is the
matter 1" said Dr. Dyke. "I have seen the major,"
replied the captain. "You don't believe me : if
ever I saw him in my life, I saw him now." The
doctor pressing for some account,-" Thus it was,"
said his friend : " this morning, after it was light,
some one pulled back the curtains suddenly, and I
saw the major, as I had known him in his life. 'I
could not,' he said, 'come at the time appointed; but
I am now come to tell you that there is a GoD, and
a very just and terrible One, and if you do not tum
over a new leaf,' they were his exact expresajons,
' you will find it so.' The apparition then walked
a turn or two up and down the room, and going
to my table, took up a sword which Major Syden-
ham had formerly given me. 'Cap. cap.,' he
said, using his common expression, 'this sword
did not use to be kept in this manner when it was
mine.' And with that he vanished." We are fur-
thertold that such was CaptainDyke's truthfulness,
as to preclude the possibility of doubting this rela-
tion ; that it had a very visible effect on his charac-
ter; and that, during the remainderofhis life, which
lasted about two years longer, he seemed to have
WARNINGS OF APPROACHING DEATH. l Jl
the words of his friend continually sounding in
his ears. Now I need not say how far more con-
vincing this story is, than if the apparition had
happened at the appointed time and place, when
it would so certainly have been set down to an
over-wrought fancy.·
SoPHRON. And taking place, too, in day light,
is another thing in its favour. But one thing that
strikes me as remarkable in all these stories, is
this,-you cannot form any idea whether the
apparition is in happiness or misery. This is just
the contrary of a made-up storj : there the per-
sonal state of the spirit would be sure to be strongly
brought out. Now, in the tale you have just told,
no one could possibly decide as to the condition of
Major Sydenham, however much, antecedently, we
might judge against him. But to your second
story.
PrsTus. It is much shorter. The famous
Nicholas Ferrar had a brother, who lived in Lon-
don, where he had considerable practice as a
physician. He made a compact with a favourite
daughter, that whichever ofthem died first, should,
if happy, appear to the other. She was very un-
willing to make the agreement ; but at last con-
sented. She married, and settled at Gillingham-
lodge, near Salisbury. Here, being unexpectedly
confined, she took poison by mistake for medicine,
and died suddenly. That very night she drew
back the curtains of her father's bed, and looked
in on him ; and he announced the death of his
112 NIGHT V.
daughter to his family two days before he received
the intelligence in the ordinary way.
SoPHRON. That shall be the close of our disqui-
sitions for to-night ; let us to-morrow consider
local apparitions.
NIGHT VI.
OF PLACES SUPPOSED TO BE HAUNTED.
SoPHRON. We laid it down, some time ago, as a
probability, that there would be some places
where we might naturally expect to find appear-
ances of the departed more frequent than in
others. In point of fact, we know that the Uni-
versal voice of mankind has declared that the
case is so. That deserted houses, marshy wastes,
battle fields, the places where enormous crimes
have been perpetrated, lonely roads, and such like
spots, are haunted, truly or falsely, has always
been, and still is believed. To-night we will
examine into some examples of this kind.
PrsTus. You will find as a general rule, that
places which once had some connexion with man,
but are now deserted by him, are rather those
which public belief represents as subject to the
visitations of spirits, than such as have never been
in any way connected with him. Holy Scripture
itself, foretelling the destruction of Babylon, can-
!
114 NIGHT VI.
not give a more vivid picture of desolation than
by the words, " their houses shall be full of doleful
creatures."
SoPHRON. Haunted houses have, as we all know,
been the most fruitful source of imposition. I
do not mean those where, from time to time, the
same kind of apparition presents itself, but those
which, for weeks or months together, are kept in a
state of disquiet and alarm by extraordinary
noises ·and disturbances. I do not say that these
things never have occurred ; but I do say that if
many of the freaks-I can call them by no other
word-which have been recounted in such, be
really the work of supernatural agency, then I
can only come to Dr. More's sage conclusion, that
" there are as great fools out of the flesh as there
are in it." And when we consider the ease of
imposition in these matters, by confederates art-
fully arranged, by ventriloquism skilfully managed,
by sleight of hand opportunely practised ; and
when we know that many of these tricks have
been detected, such cases seem to me to be in
themselves suspicious in a very high degree.
The so-called Stockwell and Cock-lane ghosts
were detected, to the great confusion of their
contrivers. The two most celebrated cases that
have ever been known, were, I suppose, what was
usually called the Demon of Tedworth, and the
Epworth ghost. The first occurred just after the
Restoration, and occasioned the most bitter eon-
OF PLACES SUPPOSED TO BE HAUNTED. 115
troversy as to its reality. I conceive that we are
not now in a condition to pronounce a verdict on
the matter.
THEOPHILA. What were the particulars in
general?
8oPHRON. It appears that from March, 1661, to
April, 1663, the house of a Mr. Mompesson, at
Tedworth, in Wiltshire, was disturbed in a most
extraordinary manner. There was thumping and
drumming round the rooms, scratching under the
beds, furniture thrown about when persons were
in the room, children thrown out of bed, articles
of apparel strewn all over the :floor, and many
apish tricks of the same kind. The house was
thronged with visitors, for the thing was known
all over England. King Charles II. deputed some
gentlemen to inquire into the matter. Glanville
himself slept in the house, but nothing ever was
discovered which could give the slightest idea of
collusion. There were, I confess, several suspici-
ous circumstances: a sword presented at the place
where the noise seemed to be, always silenced it ;
there were no disturbances for three weeks after
Mrs. Mompesson's confinement ; there were none
while the royal commission were in the house:
but they took place while Glanville was there ;
and what he says on the subject is so sensible,
that I will read it to you. "It will, I know, be
said by some, that my friend and I were under
some affright, and so fancied noises and sights
that were not. This is the usual evasion. But
I 2
116 NIGHT VI.
if it be possible to know how a man is affected
when in fear, and when unconcerned, I certainly
know for my own part that during the whole time
of my being in the room and in the house, I was
under no more affrightment than I am while I .
write this relation. And if I know that I am
now awake, and that I see the objects that are
before me, I know that I heard and saw the par-
ticulars that I have told." Now, certainly, I
confess, it is rather hard that an honest and
clever man is not to be believed, when he speaks
in this manner. We must also remember that
Mr. Mompesson, if an impostor, was so for no
assignable reason ; that he suffered in his name;
in his estate, in his family. Unbelievers called
him an impostor, believers thought it a judgment
for some extraordinary wickedness ; he was un-
able to attend to his business through the con-
.course of visitors ; his rest was broken, his peace
of mind disturbed, and he never gained the
slightest advantage in an imposition, if imposi-
tion it was, so painfully practised through so long
a time. The Epworth ghost, absurd and uReless
as the whole thing seems, I cannot disbelieve. I
will read you what Southey says on the subject in
l1is Life of Wesley. "Such things may be super-
natural and yet not miraculous ; they may not be
in the ordinary course of nature, and yet imply
no alteration of its laws. And with regard to
the good end which they may be supposed to
answer, it would be end sufficient if sometimes
OF PLACES SUPPOSED TO BE HAUNTED. lI 7
one of those unhappy persons, who, looking
through the dim glass of infidelit.y, see nothing
beyond this life, and the narrow sphere of mortal
existence, should, from the well-established truth
of one such story, trifling and objectless as it
otherwise might appear, be led to a conclusion
that there are more things in heaven and earth
than are dreamed of in their philosophy." And
that must needs be a most well-authenticated
relation which Priestley, if he would not believe,
did not profess thoroughly to disbelieve.
EusEBIA. How is it so well authenticated 1
SoPHRON. Because the various members of the
family, Mr. and Mrs. Wesley, and their daughters,
wrote accounts of the apparition, Old Jefferies,
as they called it, to Samuel Wesley, then in
London ; he preserved them, and they were
printed by John Wesley in the Arminian Maga-
zine. Southey reprinted them in the Appendix
to the first volume of his Life of Wesley. To
relate all the particulars would be impossible. In
brief, they are these. On the first of December,
1716, a groaning, as of a person in great bodily
pain, was heard by the servants outside the hall-
door, but no one could be found there. Strange
knockings were then heard in various parts of the
house ; the young ladies were first informed of it,
then their mother, a woman of remarkably strong
intellect ; and, as Mr. Wesley never appeared to
hear the sounds, they were thought to be a warn-
ing of his death; They at last grew so trouble-
ll8 NIGHT VI.
some, that he was informed of them, and in pro-
cess of time heard them himself. The principal
circumstances attending them appear to have been
these. The house dog at first was furious, but
afterwards shrunk into a corner whenever the
sounds were heard. Before any visitation, the
wind rose round the house ; then a noise was
heard which was compared by different auditors
to the winding up of a clock, to the planing of
deal boards, or to the setting a windmill when
the wind changes. Then, the latches of the room
into which the spirit seemed to enter were lifted,
the windows clattered, and any vessel of brass
and iron rang. After this, in various parts of the
room a dead hollow knock was heard ; and if any
person knocked, the sound was imitated. Mr.
Wesley's door-knock, rather a complicated one,
seemed to puzzle the ghost ; but at length it
caught that. No one seems to have been terrified
at the visitation ; the sisters, in particular, would
appear to have enjoyed the amusement. The
younger children were sensible of its presence
when asleep, for they trembled, and were covered
with a cold sweat. Mr. Wesley told the spirit to
"come to him, that was a man," and not to vex
poor children ; and for the first time, it then pre-
sented itself in the study. The usual time of
appearance wa.a a quarter before ten at night ; but
on Mrs. Wesley'shaving a horn blown, thinking that
the noises might proceed from the rats, it revenged
itself by coming in the day. There were no well
OF PLACES SUPPOSED T(} BB HAUNTED. J19
authenticated stories of its having been seen ; but
it once held the door which a member of the
family was going to open ; and once tried to push
Mr. Wesley down. A neighbouring clergyman,
Mr. Hoole, of Hexey, was witness to the proceed-
ings. In the spring its visits became rarer, its
knockings were at first heard outside the house,
then at a distance, and then ceased. Two other
things I must relate ; the one, t~t, at the be-
ginning of its visits, it always knocked when Mr.
Wesley (a staunch Hanoverian) mentioned King
George at family prayer ; the other, that Mrs.
Wesley desired it not to disturb the house
between five and six, the hour she set apart for
her own private devotions ; and it never did.
P1sTus. It is very curious that, in the gust of
wind which arose before the coming of the sup-
posed spirit, and in the loud knockings heard on
pieces of wood which would not have seemed
capable of supporting them, this case should so
much resemble that at Tedworth, and another
famous instance atSirWilliamYork's house, at Les-
singham, in Lincolnshire, which happened in 1679.
SoPHRON. No places have ever been more usually
supposed to be haunted than mines. This belief
prevails in Sweden, in Germany, in Switzerland ;
and the Kobale, the Trulle, or Gutels, are only
different names given to the same class of spirits
who are supposed to work there, and to be great
imitators of man. Now we cannot wonder that,
in those hours of fearful solitude and darkness,
rngitizedbvGoogle
120 NIGHT VI.
the fancy should invent almost any kind of delu-
sion ; especially where there are so many un-
earthly noises-the dripping of water down the
shafts, the tunnelling of distant passages, the
rumbling of trams from some freshly explored
lode-all these things may give rise to imagina-
tions far wilder than any which are recorded on
the subject. But I think the story I am going to
tell you stands on a different footing. You know
that the Whitehaven mines run far out under-
neath the sea, and are some of the most terrible
in England. A man, who had worked all his life
in them, and had always borne a high character,
was laid on his death-bed, and sent for the clergy-
man of his parish, to whom he had been previously
known. I know not of what kind the disease
was ; it was one, I am assured, at all events, that
did not affect his mind in the lea.St, and that, during
the whole of the account which I am going to give
you, he was perfectly and most manifestly him-
sel£ He related it on the word of a dying man.
He assured the priest that it was no uncommon
thing, in the mines, for the voices of persons who
had long been dead to be heard as in conversa-
tion or debate. I do not think he said that appa-
ritions were seen; but he affirmed that they were
heard to pass along the passages with a loud kind
of rushing noise ; that the miners, as far as pos-
sible, got out of the way on these occasions ; that
the horses employed in the mines would stand
still and tremble, and fall into a cold sweat ; and
rngitizedbvGoogle
OF PLACES SUPPOSED TO BE HAUNTED. 121
that this was universally known to be a thing
that might occur any time. One remarkable in-
stance he gave. The overseer of the mine he had
been used to work was, for many years, a Cumber,-
land man ; but, being found guilty of some unfair
proceedings, he was dismissed by the proprietors
from his post, though employed in an inferior
situation. The new overseer was a Northumber-
land man, who had the burr that distinguishes
that county very strongly. To this person the
degraded overseer bore the strongest hatred, and
was heard to say that some day he would be his
ruin. He lived, however, in apparent friendship
with him ; but, one day, they were both destroyed
together by the fire-damp. It was believed in
the mine that, preferring revenge to life, the ex-
overseer had taken his successor, less acquainted
than himself with the localities of the mine, into
a place where he knew the fire-damp to exi~t,
and that without a safety-lamp ; and had thus
contrived his destruction. But ever after that
time, in the place where the two men perished,
their voices might be heard high in dispute-the
Northumbrian burr being distinctly audible, and
so also the well-known pronunciation of the
treacherous IJ,lUrderer.
THEOPHILA. It seems a mdst difficult thing to
reconcile such stories with what we know of the
state of departed souls. That they should con-
tinue to tenant the places with which they were
connected while in the body, appears almost an
rngitizedbvGoogle
122 NIGHT VI.
incredible thing, whether we suppose them in
happiness or in misery; or, if possible, then how
wonderfully near does it bring the unseen world
to ourselves !
THEODORA. Who can say it is not so near 1 Who,
indeed, can define what they mean by the locality
of a spiritual state 1 There can be no abstract
proof that heaven is not, at this moment, in
one sense, around us. And if, in the case
you mentioned, the murderer and the murdered
man were fellow-partakers of that eternal state,
which, if the former did as you represent, he
could not hope to escape, think of the full bitter-
ness of hatred that must evermore have reigned
between them, of which hatred the labourers in
the mine might have been permitted to hear the
gross and (so to speak) tangible expressions.
Prsrus. If from this we proceed to those more
usual cases of haunted dwellings, where a spirit
is said occasionally to appear, but where no per-
petual disturbance prevails, we shall find no a
priori argument, such as those you just men-
tioned, to lie against the credibility of such ap-
paritions, except it be their uselessness, and, in
some cases, the apparent ludicrousness of their
form or manner of visitation.
SoPHRON. True ; yet there is, so to speak, some-
thing extremely unreasonable in these kinds of
apparitions. They do no good ; they do no
great harm ; they are universally disbelieved
by the " enlightened," and thought rather the
rngitizedbvGoogle
OF PLACES SUPPOSED TO BE HAUNTED. 123
subject of a good joke than of any thing more
serious.
PrsTus. I will tell you a very odd thing, of
which I know both place and person (though by
name only) where it occurred. There was a house
in the east of England, where one room was re-
ported to be haunted ; none of the family slept
there, nor did they usually put visitors into it.
But a young man, who happened accidentally to
be staying there, so earnestly requested to be
allowed to occupy it for one night, that at last
consent was given. " You will be sure, however,
to see the apparition," said the master of the
house ; " so do not blame me for the alarm it may
occasion you." " Oh! not I," replied the other;
"but, pray, in what form does it appear?"
"Nay," said the gentleman, "I will not tell you
that, and then you will not be able to fancy it."
" Very well," said the visitor ; "then I will tell
you all about it to-morrow morning." The young
man accordingly went to his room ; bolted and
locked the door ; looked under the bed, under the
drawers, into the closet; examined the fastenings
of the windows; and convinced himself that no
fraud could be used in the matter. I know not
that he was a disbeliever in such things ; but he
was one of the most constitutionally fearless men
that you can conceive. He went to bed, and to
sleep. In the middle of the night he woke, and
looking towards the bottom of his bed, saw a
woman in a red cloak, fixing her eyes on him.
124 NIGHT VI.
" Who are you f' he cried, not a whit alarmed.
No answer. " What are you ?" No answer.
" What do you want ?" Still no answer. "Well,"
he said to himself, " this is a fancy : I will go to
sleep again." And so he did. Waking some time
after, he was astonished to see the same figure, in
the same place and position. " If this be a real
apparition," said he, " I will make sure that it is
so, and that I am thoroughly awake." He got
up, went to his wash-hand stand, poured out some
water, and washed his face and hands, the ap-
pearance still standing as before. Having thus
convinced himself that he was really wide awake,
he got into bed, turned round, went to sleep,
and woke no more till it was broad day. Then,
on coming down stairs, he was interrogated as to
what he had seen. " I have seen something," he
said; "it is for you to say whether it is the same
figure that generally appears." On hearing his
account, the family assured him that it was.
SoPHRON. Something of the same kind happened
to a friend of mine who was on a visit at a house
in the village of South Malling, close to Lewes.
This house was connected with sacrilege, and was
reported to be haunted. He slept in a room that
opened on to a long passage ; and about four
o'clock in the morning was disturbed by heavy
steps coming along this passage. They stopped
opposite his door: a hand was laid on the handle,
and tried to turn it. "Some blunder," thought
my friend : "you shall not come in, any how."
OF PLACES SUPPOSED TO BE HAUNTED. 125
He jumped out of bed and locked the door, and
the steps seemed to go away. This occurred one or
two nights, but my friend did not mention it in the
family. Some few days afterwards he was removed
into another apartment to make room for another
visitor in that which he had previously occupied.
()n coming down to breakfast the next morning,
"Some one was about early," said the new comer:
" they tried to get in at my door, but I was just in
time to hinder that." Every one protested that the
servants were in another part of the house, and no
other member of the family had passed that way.
The thing was then observed; and the whole
household were convinced that the steps along this
passage, which constantly occurred, could not be
natural.
P1sTus. It is a very odd popular belief which
asserts lanes and roads and ruins to be sometimes
haunted by a spirit which does not assume a human
form. Of this the most curious instance is the
celebrated Manx Dog:-
"They say, that an apparition, called, in their
language, the Mauthe Doog, in the shape of a large
black spaniel with curled shaggy hair, was used to
haunt Peel Castle, and has been frequently seen in
every room, but particularly in the guard-chamber,
where, as soon as candles were lighted, it came
and lay down before the fire, in presence of all the
soldiers, who at length, by being so much accus-
tomed to the sight of it, lost great part of the ter-
ror they were seized with at its first appearance.
126 NIGHT VI.
They still, however, retained a certain awe, as
believing it was.an evil spirit which only waited
permission to do them hurt, and for that reason
forbore swearing and all profane discourse while in
its company. But though they endured the sho.ck
of such a guest when all together in a body, none
cared to be left alone with it. It being the custom,
therefore, for one of the soldiers to lock the gates
of the castle at a certain hour, and carry the keys
to the captain, to whose apartment, as I said
before, the way led through a church, they agreed
among themselves, that whoever was to succeed
the ensuing night his fellow in this errand should
accompany him that went first, and by this means,
no man would be exposed singly to the danger ;
for I forgot to mention that the Mauthe Doog was
always seen to come out from that passage at the
close of day, and return to it again as soon as the
morning dawned, which made them look on this
place as its peculiar residence. One night a fellow
being drunk, and by the strength of his liquor
rendered more daring than ordinary, laughed at
the simplicity of his companions, and though it
was not his turn to go with the keys, would needs
take that office upon him, to testify his courage.
All the soldiers endeavoured to dissuade him, but
the more they said, the more resolute he seemed,
and swore that he desired nothing more than that
Mauthe Doog would follow him, as it had done
the others, for he would try ifit were dog or devil
After having talked in a very reprobate manner
rngitizedbvGoogle
OF PLACES SUPPOSED TO BE HAUNTED. 127
for some time, he snatched up the keys, and went
out of the guard-room; fo some time after his
departure a great noise was heard, but nobody had
the boldness to see what occasioned it, till the
a4venturer returning, they demanded the know-
ledge of him ; but as loud and noisy as he had
been at leaving them, he was now become sober
and silent enough, for he was never heard to speak
more ; and though all the time he lived, which
was three days, he was entreated by all who came
near him, either to speak, or, if he could not do
that, to make some signs, by which they might
understand what had happened to him, yet nothing
intelligible could be got from him, only, that by
the distortion of his limbs and features, it might
be guessed that he died in agonies more than is
common in a natural death. The Manthe Doog
was, however, never ·seen after in the castle, nor
would any one attempt to go through that passage,
for which reason it was closed up, and another way
made. This accident happened about threescore
years since, and I heard it attested by several, but
especially by an old soldier, who assured me he had
seen it oftener than he had then hairs on his
head."
SoPHRON. If from these tales we turn to those
where a spirit has appeared to reveal a secret
which could not else have been known, we shall
have the feelings of mankind far more strongly
with us. The story of the Red Barn was credited
all over England. I will tell you one of a similar
rngitizedbvGoogle
128 NIGHT VI.
kind related by Dr. More. In the year 1680, a.t
Lumley, a hamlet near Chester-le-street, in the
county of Durham, there lived one Walker, a ma.n
well to do in the world, a.nd a. widower. A young
relation of his, whose name was Anne Walker, kept
his house, to the great scandal of the neighbour-
hood, and that with but too good cause. A few
weeks before this young woman expected to be-
come a mother, Walker placed her with her aunt,
one Dame Care, in Chester-le-street, a.nd pro-
mised to take care both of her and her future
·child. One evening in the end of November, this
man, in company with Mark Sharp, an a.cquaint-
a.nce of his, came to Da.me Care's door, and told
her that they had made arrangements for remov-
ing her niece to a. place where she could remain
in safety, till her confinement was over. They
would not say where it wa.s ; but a.s Wa.Iker bore,
in most respects, a.n excellent character, she was
allowed to go with him; and he professed to have
sent her off with Sharp into Lancashire. Four-
teen days after, one Graeme, a. fuller, who lived
about six miles from Lumley, had been engaged
till past midnight in his mill ; a.nd on coming
down stairs to go home, in the .middle of the
ground-floor he saw a. woman, with dishevelled hair,
covered with blood, a.nd having five large wounds
on her head. Graeme, on recovering a. little
from his first terror, demanded what the spectre
wanted : "I," said the apparition, "a.m the spirit
of Anne Walker ;" a.nd proceeded accordingly to
OF PLACES SUPPOSED TO BE HAUNTED. 129
tell Graeme the particulars which I have already
related to you. "When I was sent away with
Mark Sharp," it proceeded, " he slew me on such
a moor," naming one that Graeme knew, "with a
collier's pick, threw my body into a coal-pit, and
hid the pick under the bank ; and his shoes and
stockings, which were covered with blood, he left
in a stream." The apparition proceeded to tell
Graeme, that he must give information of this
to the nearest justice of the peace ; and that, till
this was done, he must look to be continually
haunted. Graeme went home very sad : he dared
not bring such a charge against a man of so un-
impeachable a. character as Walker, and yet he as
little dared to incur the anger of the spirit that
had appeared to him. So, as all weak minds will
do, he went on procrastinating, only he took care
to leave his mill early, and, while in it, never to
be alone. Notwithstanding this caution on liis
part, one night, just as it began to be dark, the
apparition met him again, in a. more terrible
shape, and with every circumstance of indignation.
Yet he did not even then fulfil its injunction ;
til~ on S. Thoma.s's eve, as he was walking in his
garden, just after sunset, it threatened him so
effectually, that, in the morning, he went to a
magistrate, and revealed the whole thing. The
place was examined ; the body and the pickaxe
found ; a warrant was granted against Walker and
Sharp. They were, however, admitted to bail ;
but in August, 1681, their trial came on before
K
130 NIGHT VI.
Judge Davenport, at Durham. Meanwhile, the
whole circumstances were known over all the
north of England ; and the greatest interest was
excited by the case. Against Sharp the fact was
strong, that his shoes and stockings, covered with
blood, had been found in the place where the
murder had been committed ; but against Walker,
except the account received from the ghost, there
seemed not a shadow of evidence. Nevertheless,
the judge summed up strongly against the pri-
soners ; the jury found them guilty ; and the judge
pronounced sentence on them that night, a thing
which was unknown in Durham, either before or
.after. The prisoners were executed ; and both
died, professing their innocence to the last. Judge
Davenport was much agitated during the trial ;
and it was believed that the spirit had also
appeared to him, as if to supply in his mind the
want of legal evidence.
PisTus. I should have been very loth to bring in
such a verdict on such testimony, even if I had
been persuaded of the truth of the narrator. I
should have thought, as Hamlet did,
" - - The spirit that I have seen
May be the devil : and the devil hath power
To assume a pleasing shape, yea; and perhaps,
Out of my weakneu and my melancholy,
(As he is very potent with such spirits,)
Abuses me to damn me."
And I remember that Lavater tells a story, which
would lead to the same conclusion. A friend of
OF PLACES SUPPOSED TO BE HAUNTED. 131
his, the magistrate of some German town, was
riding through the fields in company with his
servant one morning, when ihey saw a man of
high respectability in the neighbourhood engaged
in an act of felony. He rode to this gentleman's
house as fast as he could, found him in bed, and
learnt on satisfactory evidence, that he had not
left his bed all night.
SoPHRON. However, I will .give you an instance
which happened in the house of a well-known
Northumbrian baronet. His mansion stood by the
side of a river, where it made a bend, so that a
terrace ran between the front of the house and the
water, while some of the side windows overlooked
the stream. On this terrace, one morning, one of
the children was playing, while the family were at
breakfast, when he came running in to say that
there was a little baby, all by itself, near the
gravel-walk. The child was laughed at for fancy-
ing an impossibility, there being no baby in the
house at the time ; at last his importunity pre-
vailed on some one to go down with him to the
terrace. There was no infant to be seen ; but still
the boy persisted most solemnly that he had seen
one, and pointed to the exact spot where he said
that it had appeared. On examining this spot,
the earth was observed to have been lately dis-
turbed, and it was proposed to dig up the ground,
and see what might be the cause.. This was done,
and the remains of an infant were discovered in
the very place. This was no sooner known through
K 2
rngitizedbvGoogle
132 NIGHT VI.
the house, than one of the maid-servants threw
herself out of an attic window, and was drowned
in the river.
P1sTus. This appearance of a child to a child
has something singular in it, though I shall be
able to match it by and by. An instance of the
apparition of a spirit for the righting of the poor
is this. It is given by Dr. Fowler, sometime
Bishop of Gloucester. Dr. Britton, who was rec-
tor of Pembridge, near Hereford, during the Great
Rebellion, had a wife of distinguished piety.
Shortly after her death she appeared to a young
woman who had formerly been a maid of hers,
but afterwards married to a respectable yeoman
of the parish. Alice {for such was her name) was
rocking her infant, when:a· knock was heard at
the door ; and on opening ·it; she saw a figure
in ·all respects resembling· that of Mrs. Britton.
When she had a little recovered from her sur-
prise,-" Were not my mistress dead, I should say
that you were she." " I am the same that was
your mistress," replied the apparition ; " and I
have a business of importance to employ you on."
Alice trembled, and requested very earnestly that
she would rather go to Dr. Britton, who must be
more capable of fulfilling her wishes. The spirit
replied that she had already been to him, but
that he was asleep, and her power did not extend
to awaking him. "In brief," it continued, "you
must go forth with me." Alice pleaded the lonely
condition in which her infant would be left, none
OF PLACES SUPPOSED TO BE HAUNTED. 133
else being in the house. The spectre answered,
" The child shall sleep till you come back." There
being no help for it, Alice, most sorely against
her will, followed her mistress from the house
into a large field which lay opposite. "Now,"
said the apparition, "observe how much of this
field I walk round." And it walked round a large
portion of the meadow. "All this," it continued,
"belongs to the poor ; it was taken from them by
unjust means ; and now, without his fault, is the
property of my brother. Go you to him from me,
and desire him, as he loved me-and as he loved
his deceased mother-to surrender it up." Alice
said that she could not hope to obtain credence for
such a message. " Tell him, then," continued the
spectre, " this secret, known only to him and
myself:" and it entrusted her with it. After this
the apparition spoke, as Mrs. Britton had been
wont to speak, on the duties of her servant, and
did not vanish till people were stirring. Alice
went home, found her child sleeping, gave it to
her neighbour's care, and went up to Dr. Britton's.
He knew not what to think of the account, but
sent her to his brother-in-law. That gentleman
laughed heartily at first ; but when told of the
secret, said that he would give the poor their
own, and accordingly did so, and they enjoyed
that field when Dr. Fowler wrote.
EusEBIA. That very much resembles the story
of the Portugal piece, so admirably well told by
Sir Walter Scott.
134 NIGHT VI.
SoPHRON. And that, again, brings to my mind
a remarkable Comish tale, which I will read you
from Hitchins' "History of Cornwall" The scene
of the event was a place called Botaden, or Bota-
then, in the parish of South Petherwin, near
Launceston ; and the account is given by the
Rev. John Ruddle, master of the Grammar School
of Launceston, and one of the prebendaries of
Exeter, and vicar of Altemon.
" Young Mr. Bligh, a lad of bright parts, and
of no common attainments, became on a sudden
pensive, dejected, and melancholy. His friends,
observing the change without being able to dis-
cover the cause, attributed his behaviour to lazi-
ness, an aversion to school, or to some other mo-
tive, which they suspected he was ashamed to
avow. He was, however, induced to inform his
brother, after some time, that in a field through
which he passed to and from school,"-Launces-
ton school, of which I said that Mr. Ruddle was
head master,-" he was invariably met by the
apparition of a woman, whom he personally knew
while living, and who had been dead about eight
years." Young Bligh is said to have been, at
this time, about sixteen. " Ridicule, threats, and
persuasions were alike used in vain by the family
to induce him to dismiss these absurd ideas. Mr.
Ruddle was, however, sent for, to whom the lad
ingenuously communicated the time, manner, and
frequency of this appearance. It was in a field
called Higher Broomfield. The apparition, he said,
OF PLACES SUPPOSED TO BE HAUNTED. 185
appeared dressed in female attire, met him two
or three times while he passed through the field,
glided hastily by him, but never spoke. He had
thus been occasionally met about two months
before he took any particular notice of it : at
length the appearance became more frequent,
meeting him both morning and evening, but al-
ways in the same field, yet invariably moving
out of the path when it came close to him. He
often spoke, but could never get any reply. To
avoid this unwelcome visitor he forsook the field,
and went to school and returned from it through
a lane, in which place, between the quarry-park
and nursery, it always met him. Unable to dis-
believe the evidence of his own senses, or to
obtain credit with any of his family, he prevailed
upon M.r. Ruddle to accompany him to the place.
" ' I arose,' says this clergyman, ' next morn-
ing, and went with him. The field to which he
led me I guessed to be about twenty acres, in·an
open country, and about three furlongs from any
house. We went into the field, and had not gone
a third part before the spectrum, in the shape of
a woman, which he had described before (so far
as the suddenness of its appearance and transition
would permit me to discover), passed by. I was
a little surprised at it ; and though I had taken a
firm resolution to speak to it, I had not the
power ; yet I took care not to show any fear to
my pupil and guide ; and, therefore, telling him
that I was satisfied of the truth of his statement,
136 NIGHT VI.
we walked to the end of the field, and returned :
nor did the ghost meet us that time but once.
"'On the 27th July, 1665, I went to the
haunted field by myself, and walked the breadth
of it without any encounter. I then returned,
and took the other walk, and then the spectre
appeared to me, much about the same place in
which I saw it when the young gentleman was
with me. It appeared to move swifter than be-
fore, and seemed to be about ten feet from me on
my right hand, insomuch that I had not time to
speak to it, as I had determined with myself a.fore-
hand. On the evening of this day, the parents,
the son, and myself, being in the chamber where
I lay, I proposed to them our going to the place
next morning. We accordingly met at the stile
we had appointed : thence we all four walked
into the field together. We had not gone more
than half the field before the ghost made its ap-
pearance. It then came over the stile just before
us, and moved with such rapidity, that by the
time we had gone six or seven steps it passed by.
I immediately turned my head, and ran after it,
with the young man by my side. We saw it pass
over the stile by which we entered, and no fur-
ther. I stepped upon the hedge"'-you must
remember that in Cornwall a hedge means a stone
wall-"' at one place, and the young man at
another, but we could discern nothing; whereas
I do aver that the swiftest horse in England
could not have conveyed himself out of sight in
OF PLACES SUPPOSED TO BE HAUNTED. 137
so short a time. Two things I observed in this
day's appearance. First, a spaniel dog, which had
followed the company unregarded, barked, and
ran away as the spectrum passed by ; whence it
is easy to conclude that it was not our fear or
fancy which made the apparition. Secondly, the
motion of the spectre was not gradatim, or by
steps or moving of the feet, but by a kind of
gliding, as children upon ice, or as a boat down a
river, which punctually answers the description
the ancients give of the motion of these lemures.
This ocular evidence clearly convinced, but withal
strangely affrighted the old gentleman and his
wife. They well knew this woman, Dorothy
Durant, in her lifetime, were at her burial, and
now plainly saw her features in this apparition.
" ' The next morning, being Thursday, I went
very early by myself, and walked for about an
hour's space in meditation and prayer in the field
next adjoining. Soon after five I stepped over
the stile into the haunted field, and had not gone
above thirty or forty yards when the ghost ap-
peared at the further stile. I spoke to it in some
short sentences, in a loud voice, whereupon it
approached me but slowly, and when I came near,
moved not. I spoke again, and it answered me
in a voice neitlier audible nor very intelligible.
I was not in the least terrified, and therefore per-
sisted until it spoke again, and gave me satis-
faction : but the work could not be finished at
this time. Whereupon, the same evening, an hour
138 NIGHT VI.
after sunset, it met me again at the same place,
and after a few words on each side it quietly
vanished, and neither doth appear now, nor hath
appeared since, nor ever will more to any man's
disturbance. The discourse in the morning lasted
about a quarter of an hour.
" 'These things are true, and I know them to be
so, with as much certainty as my eyes and senses
can give me; and until I be persuaded that my
senses all deceive me about their proper objects,
and by that persuasion deprive myself of the ·
strongest inducement to believe the Christian
religion, I must and will assert that the things
contained in this paper are true. As for the
manner of my proceeding, I have no cause to be
ashamed of it. I can justify it to men of good
principles, discretion, and recondite learning,
though in this case I choose to content myself
with the assurance of.the thing, rather than be
at the. unprofitable trouble to persuade others to
believe it ; for I know well with what difficulty
relations of so uncommon a nature and practice
obtain belie£
".' Through the ignorance of men in this pecu-
liar and mysterious part of philosophy and reli-
gion, namely, the communication between spirits
and men, riot one scholar in ten thousand, though
otherwise of excellent learning, knows any thing
about it. This ignorance breeds fear and abhor-
rence of that which otherwise might be of incom-
parable benefit to mankind.' On this strange re-
rngitizedbvGoogle
OF PLACES SUPPOSED TO BE HAUNTED. 189
lation," concludes the county historian, "the
editor forbears to make any comment."
PISTUS. I think that is one of the most remark-
able stories which you have related ; and the very
thing which spoils its interest makes one tne
more undoubtedly receive its truth.
EusB11IA. You refer to Mr. Ruddie's silence as
to the mission of the spirit.
P1sTus. Yes: it has the very impress of truth.
The whole tale is most naturally related. You
see the priest of the seventeenth century, rather
disposed to believe in apparitions, but, with
sturdy good sense, requiring some more proof of
the fact than a boy's word. His minute descrip-
tion of the manner in which the ghost appeared
is very interesting ; and the fact of its visibility
to the dog that was with them, very curious, and
not to be overlooked in a discussion of this kind.
SoPHRON. To my mind the most remarkable
part is his assurance that the spirit would appear
no more. And one longs to know what business
it was that could not be despatched in the morn-
ing, and yet was so easily accomplished in the
evening. One can think of nothing but some
inquiry on the part of the spirit which Mr. Rud-
dle could not answer without further time. And
yet how contrary to all our ideas of an apparition,
that it should come to a man for information !
THEODORA. y OU might say, perhaps, that in the
morning conversation the spirit requested Mr.
Ruddle to execute some commission ; of the ac-
140 NIGHT VI.
complishment of which it received assurance in
the evening.
SoPHRON. That comes to much the same diffi-
culty ; for how strange that it could not have
satisfied itself!
PisTus. And then its confinement to that field
is singular. Mr. Ruddle seems to have felt satis-
fied that it could not cross the stile when he
retired into the adjoining field to prepare himself
for his interview with it.
EusEBIA. It affords. another instance of an ap-
parition presenting itself to the most unlikely
person at first. The spirit wanted nothing with
young Bligh, and only appears to have used him
as an instrument for getting at Mr. Ruddle. And
yet how remarkable its unwillingness to appear
when he first went into the field by himself!
PisTus. And not less so the length of time
which elapsed between Dorothy Durant's death
and her appearance. Well, it is one of the most
striking stories I ever heard.
THEO. The evening has seemed to close quite
speedily. We must reserve any thing else we may
have to say on the subject till to-morrow.
NIGHT VII
OF THE CREDIBILITY OF APPARITIONS.
THEO. Just. look out into the solemn loveliness
of this evening. One cannot wonder that men's
minds should be disposed to receive any intelli-
gence from the world of spirits, at a time when
their own world looks so spiritual itself.
SoPHRON. It is odd that with so much less light
the contrast between moonlight and moon-shade
should be so much more striking than the similar
contrast by day. Such a violent opposition of
tints would in broad daylight be monstrous.
P1sTus. I never saw a more striking contrast
than once in crossing the mountains by moon-
light. We were winding up a pass, one side of
the ravine being in the deepest shade. Foremost
of our party rode a lady, in a white habit, mounted
on a white horse. When she reached the top of
the zigzag which we were ascending, she came
out into the full moonshine, and the effect of that
single horse and rider glaring with a snow-white
142 NIGHT VII.
brightness against the black sky, and amidst the
wild mountain scenery, was indescribable:
SoPHBON. The shadows of the contorted arms of
trees in winter are most curious, and, I doubt not,
have given rise to many and many a tale of
haunted lanes ; the very spots where such ap-
paritions seem most useless.
EusEBIA. Have we sufficiently considered that
argument of uselessness 1 for, it does seem to me
that unbelievers have a right to rely on it, and to
argue that, if GoD ever does break through the
established laws of nature, it might reasonably be
expected that it would be to some good end.
P1srus. You have first to prove that a seem-
ingly useless apparition may not be sent for a
very good end, although we may not be able to
know it. I might urge that any thing which
tends to convince us of the nearness of our con-
nexion with the invisible world has a manifestly
good end, only you would reply that such stories
are seldom believed, and therefore cannot produce
such conviction. Yet they may do so in the
persons immediately concerned ; and that is
something. On the whole, I would rather say
that we know far too little to decide whether any
given supernatural appearance is useless or not ;
and there are cases where some that have seemed
useless and indeed absurd, have afterwards been
proved very much the contrary. I will read you
one of these from a lately published book. "A
OF THE CREDIBILITY OF APPARITIONS. 143
gentleman was returning to his house at Evesham,
(I think,) one summer evening in the late
twilight. When a short distance from the town,
he saw, on the opposite side of the road, a friend,
whom he well knew to have been for some years
dead. Excessively terrified, he quickened his
pace ; the figure did the same : he walked slowly ;
the apparition followed his example. So the pair
kept on, till they were almost in the town, when
the gentleman in question saw two ill-looking
fellows crouching down at the side of a hedge,
and heard one of them say to the other, ' It wont
do, Tom ; there are two of them.' Shortly after
passing these men, the apparition vanished.
Sometime subsequently, it was discovered that
the two men had formed a design of robbing, on
that particular evening, the gentleman in question,
and were only restrained from doing it by the
belief that he was accompanied by a friend."
THEODORA. Mr. Dendy thus beautifully tells
another story of the same kind. " I remember,
as I was roaming over the wild region of Snow-
donia, . • . the Welsh guide was looking down in
deep thought on Llyn Guinant ; and, with a tear
in his eye, he told us a pathetic story of two
young pedestrians,· who were benighted among
the mountains in their ascent from Beddgellert.
They had parted company in the gloom of the
evening, and each was alone in a desert. On a
sudden, the voice of one of them was distinctly
heard by the other, in the direction of the gorge
144 NIGHT VII.
which bounds the pass of I.lanberris, as if en-
couraging him to proceed. The wanderer followed
its sound, and at length escaped from this laby-
rinth of rocks, and arrived safely at Capel Curig.
In the morning, his friend's body was found lying
far behind the spot where the phantom voice was
first heard, and away from the course of their
route. Was this . . . a solemn instance of friend-
ship after death, as if the phantom had been
endued with supernatural power, and became the
guardian angel of his friend 1"
SoPHRON. I can give you two stories, which,
taken together, will produce a similar conclusion.
There was a. house in Cambridge, in S. Andrew's
Street, where for many days and nights together
the bells rang almost incessantly, no cause being
assignable, and continued to do so even when the
ropes were cut. Of course, in an University this
was set down to some folly among the young
men ; but, though every possible endeavour was
made to find out the cause, it never could be dis-
covered. The disturbance finally ceased-if I
have been rightly informed-on the last day of
the year. Now, the facts of this story no one
can deny ; but that the instrumentality was
supernatural, I for a long time fairly disbelieved ;
partly on account of the superior ease with which
such a freak might be performed in Cambridge,
as compared with any other town ; partly on
account of the uselessness of the visitation. At
present I could not speak so decidedly ; for,
OF THE CREDIBILITY OF APPARITIONS. 145
though my first argument remains as strong as
ever, my second has been cut away from me by
the following story :-In a lone part of the country,
but not so very far from London, were two gentle-
men's houses at a short distance from each other;
besides these two, there were none very close.
The gentleman and lady who owned the better of
the two, were professedly, if not Atheists, any
how Deists. They had invited several friends to
dinner one evening, and the lady was sitting in
her drawing-room that afternoon, when she was
annoyed by the constant ringing of a bell in the
kitchen. She rang, and inquired what was the
matter. The servant replied that they did not
know who was ringing ; but first one bell, and
then another, and then two or three together
were pulled. The mistress, of course, grew angry
at what she thought an impertinent answer; but,
as the noise continued, she was obliged to ex-
amine into the matter for herself, and she found
the servant's answer perfectly correct. The bells
were ringing, and no one could tell why or how.
A trick was suspected, and the bell-wires were cut :
still the bells went on. The lady became alarmed,
and her husband thought the circumstance
curious ; and as the guests were now beginning
to arrive, it was mentioned to them. And,
indeed, it was almost necessarily talked of, for
the disturbance continued all dinner-time, and all
the evening; and when her friends were going
away, the lady had worked herself into such a
L
146 NIGHT VII.
state of agitation, as to request one or two of
them to stay. They consented ; still the bel1s
rang on, nor did they cease till about midnight ;
after which they were quiet. Nothing remark-
able happened in that house, but in the neigh-
bouring one there was a robbery, and murder was
committed. Now was not this interference, if
supernatural, useless 1
THEO. Why, if that be all the story, it would
certainly seem so ; at all events it was useless
where it occurred.
SoPHRON. Well, that was all the story for some
time. At length, the robbers who had broken
into the other house were taken up, tried, and
condemned. They then confessed that it had
been their intention to have broken into that of
which I have been telling you, where the plate
was much more valuable; but that there was
such an unaccountable ringing of bells, and (as
they heard) so many visitors, that they preferred
making an attempt on the other. Whatever others
may think, the lady and gentleman in question
were so thoroughly convinced that they had been
the subjects of a miraculous interference of Provi-
dence, as to renounce Deism, and thenceforward
to live like good Christians.
EusEBIA. Well, that is the happiest termination
we have yet heard. But you do not mean to say
that there are many tales of apparition, of which
you could not, by any possibility, discover or
imagine the use 1
OF THE CREDIBILITY OF APPARITIONS. 147
SoPHRON. Certainly not: nay, I rather draw
an argument the other way from the fact. If the
visitations of all spirits were attended with an
appa.rent use, it would be natural to conclude, in
many of them, that the use suggested the device
of the ghost. Again, on the other hand, if no
such apparitions had any use, I confess it might
be brought forward as an argument against the
theory, from seeming to show the want of any
connexion of an overruling Providence with such
appearances.
EusEBIA. But is it not considered one fair test
of a miracle, whether it is of any utility or not ?
SoPHRON. It has been so considered: but by
whom 1 By men who, like Douglas, rested their
defence of Scripture miracles well nigh on the
destruction of all others. Not that even then
they could secure their point. Look at the
miracle of Elisha, when he caused the iron to
swim. Was not that (to use the almost profane
language of such writers) an useless miracle 1
Granting that the man who lost the axe-head
were poor, as the fact of his having borrowed it
has been supposed-I know not with what
justice-to prove, is it to be imagined that none
of the sons of the prophets possessed money
enough to purchase another axe, or charity suf-
ficient to help a brother in distress 1 Again,
when our Lo&D was required to pay His share of
the temple tribute, we know that the Apostles
had a common bag, and cannot but believe that
L 2
148 NIGHT VII.
so small a. sum might have been paid from that.
But it pleased Him rather to work a miracle, and
cause a fish to bring the piece in his mouth.
P1sTus. I fear we must end this discussion for
to-night, for I hear a somewhat untimely visitor.
SoPHRON. Not so: it is my friend Scepticus, a
most determined disbeliever in such relations as
those we have been dwelling on. I told him the
subject of our discussion, and invited him to join
us in it.
EusEBIA. We shall then hear somewhat on the
other side of the question, I presume.
SoPHRON. Welcome, good Scepticus ! We are
still, you see, on the same subject. Sit down,
now, and give us the advantage of your remarks.
ScEPTICUS. Well, I have no objection. Pray, on
what branch are you dwelling to-night 1
P1sTus. On the question whether any argument
can be drawn against the credibility of such tales
from the uselessness and apparent impossibility of
some. We are on the point of agreeing that an
apparition, the use of which is not to be dis-
covered, is not in itself one whit more impro-
bable than such as have an extreme and manifest
utility.
ScEPT. If such exist. If you are deter-
mined to believe every thing for which you have
a certain amount of testimony, I can give it you
for some tales which I am sure you, or any other
man possessed of common sense, would reject as
absurd.
OF THE CREDIBILITY OF APPARITIONS. 149
P1sTus. To what tales do you refer1
ScEPT. Why, for example, that one of tl1e
butler, in Ireland, who had been like to be carried
a.way by fiends. He was sent, so Glanville says,
by his master to buy cards ; he fell in with a
company sitting at a banquet in a field through
which he passed ; they invited him to sit down
with them ; one among them warned him, " Do
nothing which these people ask you;" he refused
any refreshments; and the whole scene vanished.
That night, continues the narrator, the friendly
individual among the company came to the bed-
side of the butler, and warned him not to stir out
of doors, for that if he did, he would inevitably
be carried away. He kept within till evening,
but then, having stepped into the garden, while
several persons were standing by him, a rope was
thrown round his waist, he was pulled off witl1
incredible speed, and only stopped by accidentally
meeting with a man on horseback, who laid hold
of one end of the rope, and had a smart blow
given him for his pains. Here you begin to get
the testimony of three or four persons, besides
that of the original actor. But this is not all.
The Earl of Orrery hearing of this, sent for the
man to his house ; he slept there, and told that
nobleman on the following morning that the
spectre had again been with him, and had assured
him that on that day he would infallibly be
carried away, and that no efforts could save him.
On this, two bishops were sent for ; and several
150 NIGHT VII.
strong men commissioned to keep with the butler
all day. Nothing happened till towards evening,
and then the unfortunate butler was observed to
rise up in the air, as if about to be bodily carried
away. On this, one or two of the stoutest fellows
in the company endeavoured to press him down
with their own weight, but to no purpose ; he wa.s
whirled about at the top of the room, in which
attitude you may see him represented in the
frontispiece to Glanville's book. After some time,
he was let down, and so escaped. Heard ever
man so monstrous a tale 1 And yet your worthy
ghost believers of the seventeenth century be~
lieved this as firmly as any other ; and besides a
good number of inferior witnesses, the Earl of
Orrery is quoted as having seen this person
carried up by invisible ha.nds into the air.
SoPHRON. You have forgotten one material pas-
sage in this story ; namely, that the party chiefly
concerned in it was subject to fits. This effectu-
ally quashes all his evidence ; nor do I find any
great degree of proof for the rest of the tale.
If the Earl of Orrery, or any other person of
unble~ished reputation, had assured me that he
had seen a man supernaturally lifted off his feet
and carried to the roof, I could not venture to
disbelieve him, unless I knew him to be a man of
weak intellect. So, if Glanville had told me, or
left it in writing (which comes pretty much to
the same thing), that he had been assured by
Lord Orrery of his having seen it, I could hardly
rngitizedbvGoogle
OF THE CREDIBILITY OF APPARITIONS. 151
have failed to credit him, making all due allow-
ances for the intermediate link. But you will
notice that, confessedly, the tale comes at third
or fourth hand ; which is one serious objection,
because, by a comparatively trifling exaggeration,
a most miraculous story may be resolved into an
every·day occurrence. So there is one objection.
But a stronger one, to my mind, is, that this ac-
count seems really opposed to all idea of a super-
intending Providence. If evil spirits carry off,
at their will, those that have offended them, and
are to be resisted in the same way of physical
force as a human enemy, GoD's superintending
government seems quite put out of the question.
There does not appear, according to the tale, to
have been any other idea of opposing the ghostly
enemies of this man, than by mustering a large
body of friends : prayer and other spiritual wea-
pons are left out of the question. The whole
thing corporealizes our notions of spirit, and
weakens our belief in Providence.
ScEPT. Now you are doing the very thing that
believers in such tales will not allow to be done
-finding an apriori reason for disbelieving tes-
timony.
SoPBRoN. I did not say that any apriori reason
would not justify you in rejecting such stories as
those on which we have been dwelling. Any
thing, for example, which directly impugns any
article of faith is at once to be rejected ; and the
more nearly it approaches to this, or seems tQ
152 NIGHT VII.
approach to it, with the more caution is it to be
received. This tale appears, to say the least, to
be in opposition to what we know concerning
Gon's Providence. Still, it may be very possible
that it only appears to do so ; therefore, if it have
a sufficient degree of testimony, I am not unwilling
to receive it. But I do not find such degree in
the account as given ; I do find some suspicious
circumstances connected with it ; and therefore,
while I am not justified in saying that it could
not have been, I am justified in concluding that I
do not believe that it was.
ScEPT. Do you mean, then, to say, that the
same weight of evidence which would induce you
to believe the commonest and most every-day
occurrence, would warrant your crediting any tale
of an apparition 1
SoPHRON. Undoubtedly not. The more at va-
riance with the usual course of Gon's Providence
be the tale, surely the more testimony it needs to
render it credible. It is but the carrying out an
every-day principle. I have a servant, on whose
word I know little dependence is to be placed.
He calls me in the morning, and I inquire what
kind of day it is. He answers, "Fine," and I im-
plicitly believe him. The weakest kind of testi-
mony is sufficient for so very trivial and likely a
fact. But if the same servant were to assure me
that he had that morning seen a mock sun, I
should have very great doubts of his veracity,
though the thing asserted were in itself unim-
rngitizedbvGoogle
OF THE CREDIBILITY OF APPARITIONS. 153
portant. And if he were to assure me that he
had been visited by a spirit on the preceding
night, which spirit had given him a message for
me, I should not dream of acting on that message,
unless I could find some concurrent testimony to
its credibility. But if two honest, unimaginative
men came to me, and professed to be entrusted
by a ghost with a message on which I was to act,
I do not see on what principle I could disbelieve
them, unless the nature of the message were such
that I .had some reasonable grounds to suspect
collusion ; as, if I were desired to do something
for the benefit of my informants. But further, if
these men gave me a token, such as they could
not of their own unassisted knowledge have be-
come acquainted with, in proof of their words,
should I not be guilty of folly in disbelieving
them 1 And further, if, as in the case of the death
of the Duke of Buckingham, the event verified
the prediction, should I not be mad to deny that
that prediction came from a supernatural source 1
Are you prepared to say that apparitions are
impossible 1 Because, if you can prove that, of
course all argument from testimony is at an end.
ScEPT. All things are, of course, possible to
Omnipotence ; but I hold the thing to partake
very much of the nature of an impossibility.
SoPHRON. Almost impossible and quite impos-
sible are as far apart as light and darkness ; but,
not to urge that, whereon do you ground your
154 NIGHT VII.
abstract idea of the very excessive improbability
of such appearances 1
ScEPT. I think the writers on the other side
have shown their appreciation of it. Dr. Henry
More, in his Enchiridion, where he is writing
on the true nature and essence of spirit, with a
view to prove the possibility of apparitions, is
compelled to argue that spirits are material.
His whole philosophy on this matter was staked
on that point ; and, in his annotations on various
relations of apparitions, he takes care to dwell on
" the easy percribration of spirits through porous
bodies," and the like topics.
SoPHRON. I might answer you in your own way,
that your friends, his opponents, were guilty of
glaring absurdities in their opposing arguments.
What say you to the Nullibists, who, even affirm-
ing that there were such things as spirits, never-
theless, following Des Carles, asserted that they
could not, being immaterial, be said to exist any
where 1-,-that spirits, in short, exist no where 1
What say you to the H olenmerians, who affirm
that spirits are not only, as a whole, in the whole
place occupied by them, as all matter is, but, as a
whole, in every part and point of the whole 1 nay,
and who make it their very definition of spirit,
that the whole must be in the whole, and the
whole in each part of the whole also 1 No; all
that these discussions prove is, our ignorance of
the subject: they will never convince any one
rngitizedbvGoogle
OF THE CREDIBILITY OF APPARITIONS. 155
either for or against the possibility of appari-
tions.
ScEPT. It seems to me that-though that is
not the strongest argument-it is very doubtful
whether physical senses, like ours, could see a
spirit.
PisTus. What say you, then, to all the instances
in Holy Scripture to the contrary 1 more cspe·
cially to that where the young man, at the prayer
of Elisha, had his eyes opened to behold the
chariots of fire and horses of fire that surrounded
the city1
ScBPT. I say that, in those instances, the eyes
of individuals were miraculously opened to behold
those supernatural appearances. That is a very
different thing from such tales as are now in
vogue. In them a spirit is usually represented
as appearing when it pleases, where it pleases,
and to whom it pleases ; as if the mere fact of
presenting itself to a man made it also visible to
him.
PIBTUB. On the contrary, were such the case, I
should agree with you on the point. In all those
instances in which ghosts have appeared, Gon
must be considered as having supernaturally
enabled the objects of their visitation to behold
them. The miracle is rather in the person seeing
than in the thing seen.
ScEPT. But then again, those appearances in
Scripture are confined to the visits of angels.
These, we know, are ministering spirits, and
156 NIGHT VII.
might be supposed to appear on messages whether
of love or rebuke ; but of the spirits of departed
men we are not told as much, nor have we any
instance of a similar thing.
SoPHRON. That, with your favour, is a great
deal more than can be asserted. How can you
tell that the spirits of the departed just may not
be sometimes meant under the title of angels in
the Old Testament 1 But whether there may be
or not, we have the one instance of Samuel raised
by the witch of Endor, which is a host in itself.
SCEPT. No one can reasonably assert that that
apparition was in reality the soul of Samuel : it
was simply the illusion of an evil spirit.
SoPHRON. On the contrary, the whole tenor of
the story most manifestly shows that it was
Samuel The enchantress plainly was astonished
at what she saw. She expected, probably, to
behold some spirit in the shape of Samuel ; but
when " the old man covered with a mantle came
up," she perceived that it was something more
than she had looked for. She stood in need of
Saul's comfort : a marvellous thing, if she were
only pursuing her usual craft ! This completely
destroys the objection, that enchantments can
have no power over the souls of the just. Of
course they cannot ; nor need any one say that
they had here.
ScEPT. You will allow thus much-that Samuel,
if it were really he, could not appear without the
command of GoD.
OF THE CREDIBILITY OF APPARITIONS. 157
SoPHRON. Or His permission.
ScEPT. Well ; His command or His permission.
And would that command or that permission
have been given in answer to a wicked endea-
vour on the part of Saul ? See what this would
come to : Saul sought, in the usual and appointed
ways, for the direction of Gon ; no answer was
returned ; he then employed a method expressly
and absolutely forbidden, and in itself a capital
crime, and at once obtained a repJy.
SoPHRON. And in that reply his own punish-
ment. But what more astonishing in the fact
that an answer was returned when impiously
sought, which had been denied when endeavoured
after in the appointed manner, than there is in
the fact that, when Ahaziah sent to consult Baal-
zebub, Gon returned him an answer by the mouth
of His prophet ? And the case was the same
with Balaam. When he was endeavouring to
discover some means of cursing Israel effectually,
Gon met him, and put a word in his mouth.
ScEPT. But the tenor of what this apparition
said makes against you. " Why hast thou dis-
quieted me," it asked, " to bring me up r' There-
fore, here is an express proof that it was not the
spirit of him whom it personated ; because we
are all agreed that witchcraft, which undoubtedly
existed in the Mosaic dispensation, could not have
any effect over the happiness of the Blessed.
SoPHRON. Nor is there reason to look on these
words as any thing more than figurative-as a.
158 NIGHT VII.
representation to human faculties of what is above
them. " Why hast thou given me the trouble of
coming up f' You might just as well build an
argument on the words "coming up ;" which
would be manifestly absurd.
ScBPT. He says again, " To-morrow shalt thou
and thy sons be with me." Now, in the first
place, the battle of Gilboa did not take place on
the morrow ; and, in the second, Saul, at its con-
clusion, was certainly not with Samuel, but in
"his own place.»
SoPHRON. As to the word "to-morrow," that must
be taken with the same latitude which we allow
to the expressions " for ever," &c., in Holy Scrip-
ture ; and as to being "with me," what meaning
so na.tural as-thou shalt be in the state of the
dead in another world 1
SoBPT. Still, whatever may be decided about
this relation, it is not of very much importance
to the present inquiry, because it occurred in the
Jewish theocracy, and there is no arguing from
.that, in a matter of this kind, to the Christian
dispensation. In the New Testament we find
hardly a hint of the possibility of departed souls
re-appearing ; though many, I willingly grant
you, of the appearances of angels.
SoPHRON. When our LORD appeared to the disci-
ples as they were on the sea, they were terrified in
the thought that they had seen a spirit. He
never rebuked them for this thought ; He simply
assured them that they were mistaken in the fact,
OF THE CREDIBILITY OF APPARITIONS. 159
not that they imagined an impossibility. "It is
I : be not afraid." And still more remarkably in
another instance. Mter His resurrection, "they
were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that
they had seen a spirit." How did He answer?
" Handle me and see ; for a spirit hath not flesh
and bones, as ye see me have ;" which seems
quite to show the possibility of their seeing a
spirit. And I can understand nothing else by the
persuasion of the Church of Jerusalem, when S.
Peter was loosed out of prison,-" then said they,
It is his angel,"-than their belief that it was his
ghost. No ; I think the New Testament is more
express even than the Old, on the possibility of
such apparitions. In the former we have one
solitary instance, and that instance not unattended
with objections and difficulties ; in the latter, we
have two virtual admissions of our LoRD Himself,
that the appearance of spirits is a possible thing.
ScEPT. You are fond of building on one argu-
ment, which, considered quietly, has no weight
at all. People call the seeing a ghost the effect
of imagination. Not so, say the advocates on
your side the question, because if one person may
fancy such an apparition, two at the same time,
and in the same place, certainly would not. On
the contrary, my own belief is, that if one person
took such a fancy into his head, it would be con-
tagious. You know that in the great Plague, a
whole crowd asseverated that they beheld a ghost,
which one fanatic pointed out.
160 NIGHT VII.
SoPHRON. True. But it was pointed out to
them first. They did not simultaneously fancy it.
That is what I assert, in a case of mere fancy, to
be impossible. In the greater part of those in-
stances, where a spirit has appeared to two per-
sons at the same time, both have become sensible
ofits presence in the same identical moment; not
one pointed it out to the other. Though, were an
instance of this last to be produced, it would
determine nothing definite against that apparition,
because such was the case with Saul and the
witch of Endor. The enchantress, it is manifest
from the story, perceived it before the monarch.
But this argument of yours about fancy, never
possessing any great weight, is most unphiloso-
phical of all, where you have to imagine a curious
coincidence of the fancy and the thing fancied ;
as when, at the moment of his death, the dying
man appears to a friend at a distance.
ScEPT. But the difficulty of verifying such
stories! The impossibility of verifying them at
first hand!
SoPHRON. Ofcourse, if a man does not endeavour
to verify them, we cannot expect to find them
verified. It is no difficult thing to do, with respect
to modem stories ; and as regards ancient accounts,
several of them are regarded with a degree of
testimony that would be amply sufficient to esta-
blish the most important piece of history. Such
is that relation of the Banshee seen by Lady
Fanshawe ; of the appearance of the ghost of Sir
OF THE CREDIBILITY OP APPARITIONS. 161
George Villiers to Parker ; such, also, in recent
times, the tale we yet have to relate of the Fate
of Booty.
ScEPT. Consider the moral consequences of such
a belief: what cowards it tends to make men ;
how superstitious-how unfit for the ordinary con-
cerns of life.
SoPHBON. Nay; confess yourself, which would
be more terrified of the two at a real apparition ;
the man who had always believed such a.n event
possible, though unlikely ; or he that bad re-
garded it as absolutely impossible 1 It would be
all the difference between an army that came pre-
pared on an expected enemy, and one which fell
into an unlooked for ambush. And one thing I
take to be worthy of relation ; I never yet heard
of a spectre that was said to have appeared,
when he by whom it was seen had been talking or
thinking of such matters ; that is, when he was in
the state of mind, which, according to you, would
be most likely to produce such imaginations. I
say never: for I do not think an obscure story of
an apparition, which was said to have presented
itselfon board the Victory to the t>fficers,when they
had been discussing such matters, to have been
more than (what was so very likely on board any
ship, and still more on board a ship not in active
service) a trick.
ScEPT. Well, seeing is believing. When I see
a ghost, I shall believe that others may have
done so.
162 NIGHT VII.
SoPHBON. Why, to be consistent, you ought not
to believe it a whit the more then. If others ha.d
fancied such things, so may you ; and therefore
such fancy would be no ground for any change in
your views. But seriously, the state of mind that
will not believe except on sight, is a most un- 1
happy one. f
SoEPT. On this subject, I fear it will never alter. I
Nevertheless, I shall be glad, if you will allow me
to attend a. renewal of this discussion to-morrow
evening.
SoPHRON. Most willingly.
NIGHT VIII.
OF APPARITIONS AT THE :MOMENT OP DEA.TH.
SoPHBON. We said, some nights ago, that the well-
authentieated instances ofthe apparition of spirits,
at the moment of their departure from the body,
were far more numerous than those of any other
· kind. There is so much sameness in these rela-
tions, that we shall probably not be desirous of
hearing very many: five or six examples; on in-
controvertible authority, will prove as much as
fifty.
8cEPT. I enter a protest against all cases in
which the visitation of these apparitions has not
been mentioned till after the death of the person
was kno~n. One can never tell how far the sheer
desire of having a wonderful occurrence to relate,
will lead a man.
SoPHBON. You will not genera.lly find that
people have kept such kind of visitations secret;
therefore, that argument will be cut away
from under you. These visitations are genera.lly
)[ 2
164 NIGHT VIII.
useless, using the word as we have all along used
it ; though there may be an instance or two
to the contrary.
PISTUS. One such I will tell you. '.fhe father of
a dignitary of our Church, very well known in
London, was a colonel on service in Canada. His
regiment was quartered in some place in that
country, and two of his officers were stationed in an
outpost at some distance from head-quarters. They
slept in the same room, and on the following
morning, one said to the other-" Pray, did you see
any thing remarkable last night ?" " Yes," said
the other, "I did ; did you ?" "Assuredly," was
the reply, " I saw the apparition of Colonel B."
"Did he say anythingto you1" "Yes." "So he did
to me : we will not tell each other what it was ;
but we will make a deposition of it, and see if our
two accounts agree." They accordingly did so ;
the two depositions agreed exactly, and to the
following effect :-That Colonel B. had appeared to
each of them ; that he had requested them, when
they returned to England, to take care of his
son, then a young child, thither ; on reaching
London, to go to such a room, in such a. house, in
such a street, naming each ; and when there, to
look in such a drawer of such an escritoire, which
he described exactly ; that in that drawer they
would find a paper, which he also particularized ;
that they should present this paper, together with
his son, to Queen Charlotte ; that if they did this,
it would be the ma.king of the boy's fortune, and
OF APPARITIONS AT THE MOMENT OF DEATII. ] 65
that they themselves would be gainers. On finding
that their two stories so completely tallied, they
rode together to head-quarters, and there learnt
that Colonel B. was dead. Shortly afterwards, the
regiment was ordered to England ; they took
charge of young B., went to the house described
on arriving in London, and found the paper with-
out any trouble. They presented it and the
child, as directed, to the queen ; the boy was
thenceforth taken under royal patronage, and
obtained as many pieces of preferment as he could
hold ; and the officers themselves were shortly
afterwards promoted. This story comes from the
relation of the party principally concerned, namely,
Colonel B.'s son himself.
ScEPT. Not, then, from that of the officers.
P1srus. No.
SCEPT. Then you have no witness at all to the
fact of the apparition; merely to events which took
place in consequence of that event, real or sup-
posed.
P1srus. Why, you would hardly accuse two
officers of the grossest deceit, practised, too, for
no imaginable end. If they were not informed of
the paper and the escritoire supernaturally, they
must have heard the storyfrom Colonel B.in his life-
time ; and why be at the trouble of denying this
fact, and getting up another, which, till the event
proved it true, must have exposed them to great
ridicule 1
. Sc:sPT. But why should not Colonel B. have told
166 NIGHT VIll.
them the secret in his lifetime, as well as after his
death 1
P1sTUB. Oh, you may imagine many reasons for
that. He might naturally have been unwilling,
when in health, to trust it to any one ; when he
lay on his death-bed, as I said, his two friends
were absent, and he might have been unable to
write. But, after all, there is a simpler and
easier solution, which is by no means improbable,
namely, that Colonel B. might not have become
acquainted with the importance that that paper
would exercise on his son's fortunes, till he entered
the invisible world.
SoPHRON. Very true. I think, Scepticus, we
may tum Dr. Johnson's dictum against you:
" He who relates nothing beyond the limits of
probability, has a right to demand that they shall
believe him, who cannot contradict him."
ScEPT. So you call such an appearance as this,
" nothing beyond the limits of probability."
SoPHRON. In itself, certainly not : you say there
is an antecedent improbability, which we do not
see.
P1sTus. I need not remind you, also, that the
thing was sworn to, and could therefore, I pre-
sume, be legally verified in Canada.
SoPHRON. I will now give you an instance which
occurred in Malta. Major Ga.infoot-I use a
name cpw11ii11Tu av11EToiat11-was at the mess-table
with his brother officers, when his servant stepped
in, and announced his brother, Colonel Gainfoot, as
OF APPARITIONS AT THE MOMENT OF DEATH. 167
just arrived from England. "Bring him in, bring
him in, Gainfoot," cried several of the officers, by
whom he was well known. The major stepped
out with that design, and presently returned by
himself. "He seemed in rather a singular state,"
said he ; " he pleaded business, and said that he
was obliged to decline your invitation." " But
how is he f' said some one. "Why, truly, he said
very little about himself or any thing else ; but I
suppose I shall see him by and by." However,
that day and the next passed, and no Colonel
Gainfoot appeared ; and by the next mail from
England, came news of his death at the precise
moment that his arrival was announced to the
officers.
SoEPT. I can hardly imagine one brother con-
versing with another, and not finding out that he
was talking to an apparition, if the case really
were so. How many questions of "When, and
how, and why did you come f' and such like,
must naturally be asked, which would not be
answered!
SoPHRON. One should expect so ; and so, in-
deed, it actually might have been in this case.
luiy how, Major Gainfoot thought that his bro-
ther's behaviour was strange and unaccountable.
But I will read you, from Lord Byron's Life, a
more remarkable instance of the same thing.
" Lord Byron," says Moore, " used sometimes to
mention a strange story, which the commander of
the packet, Captain Kidd, related to them on the
168 NIGHT VIlL
passage. This officer stated that, being asleep
one night in his berth, he was awakened by the
pressure of something heavy on his limbs; and,
there being a faint light in the room, could see,
as he thought, distinctly the figure of his brother,
who was at that time in the same service in the
East·Indies, dressed in his uniform, and stretched
across the bed. Concluding it to be an illusion
of the senses, he shut his eyes, and made an effort
to sleep ; but still the same pressure continued ;
and still, as often as he ventured to take another
look, he saw the figure lying across him in the
same position. To add to the wonder, on putting
his hand forth to touch this form, he found the
uniform, in which it appeared to be dressed, drip-
ping wet. On the entrance of one of his brother
officers, to whom he cried out in alarm, the appa-
rition vanished ; but, in a few months after, he
received the startling intelligence that, on that
night, his brother had been drowned in the Indian
seas. Of the supernatural character of this ap-
pearance, Captain Kidd himself did not appear
to have the slightest doubt."
P1sTus. I said, some time ago, that I could give
you an instance of the apparition of one child to
another. A Mr. B., of considerable practice as a
surgeon, and who lived in Golden-square, was
attending the infant of his brother-in-law, who
was ill of scarlet fever. Desirous of preserving
the other children from infection, he offered them
a temporary home in his own house. The offer
OF APPARITIONS AT THE MOMENT OF DEATH. 169
was accepted, and the children accordingly re-
moved. One of them, a little girl of about five
years of age, was playing in a. dressing-room
which opened out of a bed-room then used as a
nursery, her aunt, Mrs. B., being .in this nursery.
All on a sudden she called out, " Oh, aunt ! come
and see the baby, the poor baby ! There he is-
there !" pointing to a comer of the room, and
half way between the :floor a.nd the ceiling. Mrs.
B. came in, and nothing was to be seen ; but the
child persisted in her story. This was a.bout five
o'clock in the evening ; and shortly afterwards
Mr. B. returned home, and said that the infant
had actually died at that time. Now, will you
say that this was a singular coincidence, or con-
fess that it was supernatural 1
ScEPT. If the tale were told by the child before
the news of her brother's death were received-
P1srus. As it most undoubtedly was.
ScEPT. Then, I think, that is a very strong
case on your side.
PISTUS. And so deep was the impression made
on the child's mind, that she afterwards used to
request permission to go into the dressing-
room, under the idea that she should see her
brother there. There certainly was no deceit in
the case ; there could be no room for fancy ; nor
does it reach you by any circuitous course. Mr.
B. told it to a lady, from whom I have it.
EUSEBIA. I have heard a somewhat similar story,
though I cannot a.vouch its truth so positively. A
170 NIGHT VIII.
gentleman, whose mother was in a declining state
of health, was keeping house in the absence of
his wife. One of his children, who was little
more than an infant, slept in a closet opening out
o_f his bed-room. He awoke in the middle of the
night, under the impression that some one was
kissing his cheek ; and, to his horror, he saw the
figure of his mother standing by him. "Do not
be sorry for me," it said; "I am happy;" and
forthwith vanished in the direction of the closet.
At the time of its disappearance, the child who
slept in that closet shrieked out as if much
alarmed. The gentleman of course imagined that
his mother was dead ; he resolved, however, to
wait for the post. A letter came, not sealed with
black ; he opened it, and found that she was
better. But, on re-perusing it, he observed that
it was dated a day earlier than it ought to have
been ; and on looking at the outside, found the
stamp, " too late." He now waited with great
anxiety for the next post ; and that brought him
an account of the death of his mother, at the
-very time that he ·had seen her figure by his
bed-side.
ScBPT. So those stories always terminate ; but
the exact time, I should think, was often difficult
to ascertain.
PisTUB. Why so 1 The time of death is always
noticed ; and if you saw such an apparition as
we have been discussing, would not almost your
first impulse be, to consult your watch 1
rngitizedbvGoogle
OF APPARITIONS AT THE MOMENT OF DEATH. 171
SoPHRON. Glanville has one instance ofthe same
kind ; but it is not a very striking one. Dr. Rush,
afterwards bishop of Dromore, a name not ignoble
among our divines, vouched for its truth. A
London tradesman, named Watkinson, who lived
in Smithfield, had a daughter married to one
Francis Topham, resident at York. The match
had ta.ken place against the parents' consent ; but
the offence had been forgiven, and Mrs. Topham
sometimes visited her father. "When she was
la.st with him," proceeds the story, "upon their
parting, she expressed a fear that she should never
see him more. He answered her, if he should die,
if ever Gon did permit the dead to see the living,
he would see her again. Now, after he had been
buried half a year, on a night when she was in
bed, but could not sleep, she heard music, and the
chamber grew lighter and lighter ; and she, being
broad awake, saw her father stand at her bed-
side, who said, ' Mall, did I not tell thee that I
would see thee once again 1' She called him
father, and talked of many things ; and he bid
her be patient, and dutiful to her mother. And
when she told him that she had a child since he
did die, he said that would not trouble her long.
He bade her speak what she would now to him,
for he must go, and that he should never see her
more till they met in the kingdom of heaven. So
the chamber grew darker and darker, and he was
gone, with music. And she said she did never
dream of him, nor ever see any apparition of him
172 NIGHT VIII.
after. He was a very honest, godly man, as far
as I can tell."
EusBBIA. A singular instance of an apparition
unattended with terror on the part of the person
visited by it.
PisTus. There is a captain in the West India
packet service, now living, who affirms-and he is
known for a man of honour-that the spirit of
his deceased wife appears to him at stated inter-
vals, and that he looks forward to her visits (I
think they occur once a month) as the greatest
happiness of his life.
SoPHRON. But the most complicated story, so to
speak, of an apparition, is one which occurred on
board a Brazil packet. A lady was lying on the
sofa in the ladies' saloon, when, to her surprise, a
gentleman entered it from the grand saloon, and
passing through it, went out by the door that led
towards the hold. She was much astonished, both
that any one should enter the room at all, at least
without knocking, and at not recognizing the
gentleman who did so, as she had associated
with the passengers for some days. She men-
tioned the matter to her husband, who said that
he must have been confined to his berth till then,
but that it would pethaps appear, when the pas-
sengers sat down to dinner, who he was. At
dinner-time, the lady carefully examined her com-
panions, and was positive that no such person was
among them. She asked the captain if there
were any passenger not then at table. He an-
0.1!' APPARITIONS AT 1'HB MOMENT OP DBATH. 173
swered her, that there was not. She never forgot
the circumstance, though her husband treated it
as a mere fancy, and thought no more of it.
Some time afterwards, she was walking with him
in London, when she pointed out a gentleman .in
the street, and said, with some agitation, "There !
there! that is the person whom I saw on board
the packet. Do go and speak to him ; pray do
go, and ask him if he were not there." "Impos..
sible, my dear," replied her husband ; "he would
think that I meant to insult him." However, his
wife's importunity and agitation prevailed. Step-
ping up to the gentleman she had pointed out,
and apologizing for the liberty he was about to
take, " Pray, sir," said he, " may I ask whether
you were on board the -- Brazil packet at such
a time f' "No, sir," replied the person addressed,
" I certainly was not ; but may I inquire why you
thought that I was 1" The interrogator related
the circumstance. " What day was it 1" asked
the other. That having been settled, "Well, sir,"
said the stranger, " it is a very remarkable cir-
cumstance that I had a twin brother, so like my-
self that no one could tell us apart. He died,
poor fellow, in America on that very day."
P1sTus. The most remarkable point in that
story is its localism, so to speak. A man dies in
America ; and his spirit is seen, on that very
day, on board a ship between America and
England, as if crossing from one country to the
other.
174 NIGHT VIII.
ScBPT. Well, if that be not materialism, I can•
not imagine any thing that is.
P1sTus. I only said what it seemed like ; I do
not presume to say what the real explanation may
be. But I can see no more materialism in ima-
gining a spirit to move looa.Ily, than to rest locally,
as in the case of haunted houses.
SoPHRON. I will read you a story connected with
a remarkable trial in the Court of King's Bench,
London, as extracted from those for the years
1687, 1688, by Cockburn in his travels.
"An action in the Court of King's Bench was
brought by a Mrs. Booty against Captain Ba.r-
naby, to recover lOOOl. as damages for the scandal
of his assertion that he had seen her deceased
husband, Mr. Booty, a receiver, driven into hell
"The journal books of three different ships
were produced in court, and the following pas-
sages recorded in each, submitted to the court by
the defendant's counsel
"'Thursday, May 14, 1687. Saw the island of
Lipari, and came to an anchor off the same island,
and then we were at W.S.W.
" 'Friday, May 15. Captain Barnaby, Captain
Bristow, Captain Brown, I, and a Mr. Ball, mer-
chant, went on shore to shoot rabbits, on Strom-
boli ; and when we had done, we called all our
men together to us, and about three quarters past
three o'clock we all saw two men running towards
us with such swiftness that no living man could
nm half so fast; when all of us heard Captain
OF AP1'ARITIONS AT THE MOMENT OF DEATH. J75
Barnaby say, 'Lord, bless us ; the foremost is old
Booty, my next door neighbour ;' but he said he
did not know the other, who ran behind. He was
in black clothes, and the foremost was in grey.
Then Captain Barnaby desired all of us to take
an account of the time, and pen it down in our
pocket-books : and when we got on board we
wrote it in our journals, for we saw them run into
the flames of fire, and there was a great noise,
which greatly affrighted us all, for we none of us
ever saw or heard the like before. Captain Bar-
na.by said, 'He was certain it was old Booty
which he saw running over Stromboli, and into
the :flames of hell.'
" Then coming home to England, and lying
at Gravesend, Captain Barnabys wife came on
board the 6th day of October, 1687, at which
time Captain Barnaby and Captain Brown
sent for Captain Bristow and Mr. Ball, mer-
chant, to congratulate with them ; and after some
discourse, Captain Barnaby's wife started up,
and said, ' My dear, old Booty is dead ;' and
he directly made answer, 'We all saw him run
into hell' Afterwards Captain Barna.bys wife
told a gentleman of his acquaintance in London
what her husband had said, and he went and
acquainted Mrs. Booty of the whole affair : upon
that Mrs. Booty arrested Captain Barnaby in a
I OOOl. action for what he had said of her husband.
Captain Barnaby gave bail for it, and it came to
a trial in the Court of King's Bench, and they
176 NIGHT VIII.
had Mr. Booty's wearing apparel brought into
court, and the sexton of the parish, and the people
that were with him when he died ; and we swore
to our journals, and it ca.me to the same time
within two minutes. Ten of our men swore to
the buttons on his coat, and that they were
covered with the same sort of cloth his coat was
made of, and so it proved.
"The jury asked Mr. Spinks (whose hand-
writing in the journal that happened to be read
appeared) if he knew Mr. Booty : he answered,
'I never saw him till he ran by me on the burn-
ing mountains.'
"The judge said, 'Lord, have mercy on me, and
grant I may never see what you have seen. One,
two, or three may be mistaken, but thirty never
can be mistaken.'
" So the widow lost her cause. The defence
set up was, that the defendant had spoken no
more than had been seen by a number of per-
sons as well as himself1.''
P1srus. I will tell you another of these popular
stories, which may or may not be true. It runs
thus. At some one of the great theatres a diabo-
lical dance was introduced, which was performed
by twelve fiends. The first night it was exhibited
the dancers perceived to their horror that a thir-
teenth fiend had introduced himself among them.
J A Voyage up the Mediterranean, &c., in 1810 and 1811, by
Lieut.-Gen. Cockburn. VuL ii. p. 335, &c.
OF APPARITIONS AT THE MOMENT OF DEATH. 177
They were so terrified that they retired from the
stage, and the thing was never exhibited again.
It was said at the time that there was no pos-
sibility of a. trick; and certainly, if the appear-
ance of a real fiend might ever be expected, it
would be on such an occasion.
SoPHRON. Before we conclude, I have one or two
more tales which will not be out of place here,
though perhaps they had been more appropriate
in some preceding nights. The first of these is
related in the late Mr. Barham's journal, from
which I will read it to you.
'~Nov. 1832.-At the death of her father, Miss
R- inherited, among other possessions, the
home-farm called Compton Marsh, which re-
mained in her own occupation, under the manage-
ment of a bailiff. This man, named John--,
was engaged to be married to a good-looking girl,
to whom he had long been attached, and who
superintended the dairy. One morning, Miss
R-, who had adopted masculine habits, was
going out with her greyhounds, accompanied by
a female friend, and called at the farm. Both
the ladies were struck by the paleness and agita.-.
tion evinced by the dairy-maid. Thinking some
lovers' quarrel might have taken place, the visitors
questioned her strictly respecting the cause of her
evident distress ; and at length, with great diffi-
culty, prevailed upon her to disclose it. She said
that, on the night preceding, she had gone to bed
at her usual hour, and had fallen asleep, when she
N
178 NIGHT VIII.
was awakened by a noise in her room. Rousing
herself, she sat upright and listened. The noise
was not repeated, but between herself and the
window, in the clear moonlight, she saw John
standing within a foot of the bed, and so near to
her, that by stretching out her hand she could
have touched him. She called out immediately,
and ordered him peremptorily to leave the room.
He remained motionless, looking at her with a
sad countenance, and in a low, but distinct tone
of voice, bade her not be alarmed, as the only
purpose of his visit was to inform her that he
should not survive that day six weeks, naming,
at the same time, two o'clock as the hour of his
decease. As he ceased speaking, she perceived
the figure gradually fading, and growing fainter
in the moonlight, till, without appearing to move
away, it grew indistinct in its outline, and finally
was lost to sight. Much alarmed, she rose and
dressed herself, but found every thing still quiet
in the house, and the door locked in the inside as
usual. She did not return to bed, but had pru-
dence enough to say nothing of what she had
seen, either to John or to any one else. Miss
R- commended her silence, advising her to
adhere to it, on the ground that these kind of
prophecies sometimes bring their own completion
along with them.
" The time slipped away, and notwithstanding
her unaffected incredulity, Miss R-- could not
forbear, on the morning of the day specified, riding
OF APPARITIONS AT THE MOMENT OF DEATH. 179
down to the farm, where she found the girl
uncommonly cheerful, having had no return of
her vision, and her lover remained still in full
health. He was gone, she told the ladies, to
Wantage market, with a load of cheese which he
had to dispose of, and was expected back in a
couple of hours. Miss R--- went on and pur-
sued her favourite amusement of coursing ; she
had killed a hare, and was returning to the house
with her companion, when they saw a female,
whom they at once recognized as the dairy-maid,
running with great swiftness up to the avenue
which led to the mansion. Tll.ey both immediately
put their horses to their speed, Miss ~ ex-
claiming, ' Good God ! something has gone wrong
at the farm !' The presentiment was verified.
John had returned, looking pale and complaining
of fatigue, and soon after went to his own room,
saying he should lie down for half an hour, while
the men were at dinner. He did so, but not re-
turning at the time mentioned, the girl went to
call him, and found him lying dead on his own
bed. He had been seized with an aneurism of
the heart."
PisTus. I have heard an even more incompre-
hensible story of this kind. The mistress of a
family was slightly indisposed, and had told her
servant that she should breakfast in bed. This
servant was engaged in the hall, when, to her
surprise, the lady came down stairs in her dress-
N 2
180 NIGHT VIII.
ing-gown, and, though the morning was very cold,
hurried out of doors in an agitated manner. The
servant went up into the lady's bed-room, and
found her asleep. On coming down to her family,
this lady said, that she had that morning had a
troublesome dream; she had imagined that a robber
entered the room, and that she had hastened
down stairs in her dressing-gown, and had left
the house.
EusEBIA. I will give you another curious
instance of corpse lights. A minister of the
Scotch establishment, on his way home, one
evening, leant on t4e wall of the churchyard to
admire the beauty of the twilight lake that
stretched at his feet. On a sudden, two small
lights rose from a particular spot in the church-
yard, crossed the lake, entered a hamlet on the
other side, stayed there some short time, and then
returned in company with a much larger light,
and sank into the ground at the place whence
they had risen. The worthy minister went into
the churchyard, threw some stones on the spot to
mark it, and next morning inquired of the clerk
if he remembered having interred any one there.
The man answered, that, many years before, he
had buried two little children, whose father, a
blacksmith, was still alive, though an old man,
and resided in the hamlet beyond the lake.
Scarcely had the minister received this informa,.
tion when he was summoned to attend the death,.
OF APPARITIONS AT THE MOMENT OF DEATH. 181
bed of this same blacksmith, who had been seized
with paralysis ; and who was shortly afterwards
buried in the same grave with his children.
P1sTus. With respect to the ambulones, of
whom we were speaking, let me read you the
following extract from Lord Lindsay's travels.
"Milton, as has been well remarked by Warton,
probably borrowed this idea from the popular
narrative of Marco Polo, and speaking of the
'hungry desert,' as it is called, of the Mongols,
he says, it is asserted as a well-known fact, that
this desert is the abode of many evil spirits,
which amuse travellers to their destruction with
most extraordinary illusions. If, during the day
time, any persons remain behind in the road
until the caravan has passed a hill, and is no
longer in sight, they unexpectedly hear them·
selves called to by their names, and in a tone of
voice to which they are accustomed. Supposing
the call to proceed from their companions, they
are led away by it from the direct road, and not
knowing in what direction to advance, are left to
perish. In the night time they are persuaded
they hear the march of a large cavalcade on one
side or other of the road, and concluding the
noise to be that of the footsteps of their party,
they direct theirs to the quarter from whence it
seems to proceed; but upon the breaking of day,
find they have been misled, and drawn into a
situation of danger. Sometimes, likewise, during
the day, these spirits assume the appearance of
182 NIGHT VIII.
their travelling companions, who address them by
name, and endeavour to conduct them out of the
proper road. It is said, also, that some persons,
in their course across the desert, have seen what
appeared to them to be a body of armed men
advancing towards them, and apprehensive of
being attacked and plundered, have taken to
flight. Losing by this means the right path, and
ignorant of the direction they should take to
regain it, they have perished miserably of hunger.
Marvellous, indeed, and almost passing belief, are
the stories related of these spirits of the desert,
which are said at times to fill the air with the
sounds of all kinds of musical instruments, and
also of drums, and the clash of arms ; obliging
the travellers to close their line of march, and to
proceed in more compact order.1"
It will be seen from the following passage of
Vincent le Blanc, that a similar belief prevails in
the Arabian desert ; the Bedouins are always
uneasy if the traveller loiters at a distance from
his caravan.
"From thence" (the Dead S~a) "we took our
way through the open desert, marching in rank
and file. Upon our march we were from hand to
hand advertised that some one of our company
was missing, that strayed from the rest ; it was
the companion of an Arabian merchant, very sad
for the loss of his friend : part of the caravan
I Book i. c. 36, p. 169, Mareden'e edition.
OP APPARITIONS AT THE X-OMENT OP DEATH. 183
made a halt, and four Moors were sent in quest of
him, and a reward of a hundred ducats was in
hand paid them, but they brought back no tidings
of him ; and it is uncertain whether he was swal-
lowed up in the sands, or whether he met his
death by any other misfortune, as it often happens,
by the relation of a merchant then in our com-
pany, who told us that two years before, travers-
ing the same journey, a comrade of his, going a
little aside from the company, saw three men,
who called him by his name, and one of them,
to his thinking, favoured very much his com-
panion, and as he was about to follow them, his
real companion calling him to come back to his
company, he found himself deceived by the others,
and thus was saved. And all travellers in these
parts hold that in the deserts there are many
such phantasms and goblins seen, that strive to
seduce the travellers, and cause them to perish
with hunger and despair 1."
For one who, like the writer of this note, has
once felt, though but for a few moments, what it
is to lose his way, and feel himself alone in the
desert, it is not difficult to realize the feelings of
the unfortunate merchant alluded to. Many of
these superstitions have probably a.risen from
those optical phenomena. common in the desert ;
others, doubtless, from the excited, and, as it
were, spiritualized tone, the imagination naturally
1 World Surveyed, p.11.
184' NIGHT VIII.
assumes in scenes presenting so little sympathy
with the ordinary feelings of humanity : as an
instance of this power of fancy, I may mention
that when crossing Wady Araba, in momentary
expectation of encountering the Jellaheens, Mr.
Ramsay, a man of remarkably strong sight, and
by no means disposed to superstitious credulity,
distinctly saw a party of horsemen moving among
the sand-hills ; and though we met none, and
afterwards learnt that the enemy had already
passed up the valley, I do not believe he was ever
able to divest himself of the impression."
SoPHRON. One more story of a haunted house.
A family residing in Kennington, in a large old-
fashioned ma.nor-house, were some few years ago
much alarmed by the following circumstances :-
Every night at about twelve o'clock there was
heard in the room where they might be sitting, a
strange rustling all down the walls, as if some
person were sweeping them with a. hair-broom.
This continued till it had gone all round the
room, when, if in summer time, it ceased at the
door, and it seemed as though some person went
out thereat : if it was winter, it stopped at the
fire-place, and the fire, however good previously,
instantly became extinguished, quite dead, not
gradually, but instantaneously. After this had
happened for some time, every effort was made to
keep the fire burning, but all to no purpose ; the
sweeping noise graduallywent round the chamber,
and when it reached the hearth, its effect upon
OF APPARITIONS AT THE MOMENT OF DEATH. 185
the fire was always the same,-it put it out im-
mediately.
Nor was this all; more than once a figure ap-
peared to various members of the family. Its
appearance was as of an aged man with a sorrow-
ful countenance, and habited in the dress of a
shopkeeper of the last century. He always stood
by the fire or by the door, and vanished when the
rustling ceased at either place. On one occasion
he appeared to one of the ladies of the family at
her bed-side ; this being unusual, terrified her
much, and she adjured him in the name of the
TRINITY to tell her wl1at was the cause of his
visit : he beckoned her to follow him down stairs,
which she did, when he disappeared on the
ground-floor, but without speaking. Search was
made where he disappeared, but nothing was ever
found.
The tradition in the neighbourhood was, that
the house had formerly been inhabited by a
miserly retired tradesman, who had died suddenly
after having buried his wealth in some part of
the house, and that, previous to his death, he had
never revealed where it was hid.
After some years this family left the house, and
though many others subsequently endeavoured to
live there, they found it impossible, by reason of
the strange noises and apparitions. The place
was then pulled down.
Persons are now living (some of the above-
mentioned family) who related this account to
186 NIGHT VllL
me, and who always, with strong asseverations,
vouched for the entire truth of it.
P1srus. I will tell you a similar occurrence
which came under my own knowledge. 'fwo years
ago, two brothers were together in Cornwall They
were both men of education, and not addicted to
what is generally called superstition. The elder
was a barrister of some standing ; the younger
was in holy orders, and had just been licensed to
the curacy of the parish where they were living.
Both were members of the English universities ;
the elder of Cambridge, the other of Oxford. The
former was what was generally called a str<Yfl1}-
min<led man, and a notorious ridiculer of ghost
stories ; the younger, though not weak, was cer-
tainly more credulous than his brother.
The house in which they lived stood by itself,
and was large and straggling. There was one
room in it which had not been opened for many
years : the person who let the house to the bro-
thers asserted, that in that room a former occu-
pant and owner of the house had died, and, as it
was supposed, with something fearful on his con-
science, for his end was very dreadful Since his
death this room had never been opened, and the
place, as said the people, was haunted. This
relation was, however, laughed at by the brothers,
especially by the elder one.
One night the younger brother came to his
companion's bed-room, and, knocking in great
terror, aroused him, telling him that he heard
OF APPARITIONS AT THE MOMENT OF DEATH. 187
most awful noises in the house, and more especi-
ally on the stairs, and in the shut-up room. He
was bid not to be so silly, and to go off to bed
again. He did so, but the noise still continued ;
and more strange still, a large mastiff dog, which
slept in his room, and which was generally very
watchful and :fierce, flying out at the slightest
noise, crept under the bed, and manifested signs
of the extremest fear ; nor could either persuasion,
or threats, or blows bring him from his hiding-
pla.ce. Again was the elder brother's room re-
sorted to, and these singular circumstances de-
tailed to him, and he was implored to assist in
their investigation. Upon this he arose, and,
taking a light, went to the stairs, where the noise
was the loudest. It was now his tum to be terri-
fied too. As he stood on the steps, the most
extraordinary sounds passed and repassed him :
he could not, he said, be mistaken ; "Tramp,
tramp, tramp," as if some heavy person were
going up and down stairs, and so near, that he
seemed to himself as if he must be in the way:
every portion of the house was searched, except
the locked-up room (and that was bolted and
barred so strongly that it could not possibly be
opened), but nothing was found to throw any
light on this wonder: " Tramp, tramp, tramp,"
up and down it went for hours together. When
this was told the persons who had had the care of
the house, and had let it, they said there was
nothing unusual in it ; that others had ob-
188 NIGHT VIII.
served the same before, and that it was the ghost
of old.
The younger brother soon after was appointed
to another curacy, and left this house ; nor was
he sorry to do so ; though I know not if he
was ever disturbed again. This story was related
by a brother of these two, who vouched for the
truth of it, as it was told him by the elder
brother.
SoPHRON. Here, I think, we will close this part
of our subject. Our remaining night is, you know,
to be devoted to the consideration of modem pro-
phecies and witchcraft.
ScEPT. Let it be so by all means ; and allow me
to join your party.
SOPHRON. With pleasure.
NIGHT IX.
OF INTERCOURSE WITH GOOD AND EVIL SPIRITS.
PisTus. It is a singular, but certain fact, that of
the many recorded stories of apparitions which
have occurred in later times, almost all are those
of spirits that once tenanted a human body ;
hardly one of angels, whether good or bad.
SoPHRON. And the reverse is what you might
expect. For one account in Holy Scripture of the
re-appearance of a human spirit (unless, indeed,
that magnificent description of Eliphaz the Te-
manite, be referred to this head), we have thirty
or forty visitation"s of angels, both to the good,
and also to the bad.
THEO. It is that last consideration which
renders the matter more difficult to explain ; else
it might be said that the weakness of present
faith, and the abundance of present iniquity, were
amply sufficient to account for the fact.
EusBBIA. It cannot, however, be said, that the
visible ministrations of angels have entirely ceased.
190 NIGHT IX.
We have that Derbyshire relation, in which a
child was taken out of the stream, into which she
had accidentally fallen, by (what she declared to
be) a beautiful lady, clad in white. AB no such
person was discoverable, far or near, the pa.rents
not unnaturally concluded that an angel had
been commissioned to save their little one from
death.
THEO. I, too, have heard a story of a simi-
lar nature. A widower, with his two children,
was on a visit at the house of a friend. The
children were playing about (for it was an old-
fashioned place) in its rambling passages, their
father being ignorant that one of them opened on
a deep and uncovered well, when, according to
their own account, they were met by the figure of
their deceased· mother, who made them return.
If the apparition were indeed she whom it per-
sona.ted, it is a beautiful instance of the endurance
of earthly love beyond the grave : if it were their
guardian angel, permitted to assume that shape,
it is hardly a less striking lesson of the heed we
should take not to despise one of these little ones.
I never heard, however, any other tale of the
appearance of angels, and am sure that many
such do not exist.
PisTus. And just as rare is it to find instances
in which evil spirits, known and confessed as
such, have appeared. I pass by the instances of
witchcraft, as better spoken of another time : but
putting these, be they universally false, or with a
OF INTERCOURSE WITH GOOD AND EVIL SPIRITS. 191
mixture of truth, aside, there is hardly a case on
record where any man professes to have seen or
spoken with an evil spirit.
SoPHRON. The case most in point, perhaps, is
that famous one at Hammel, in Saxony, where,
on the 20th of June, 1484, a piper entered the
town, playing a tune which seemed to exercise an
iITesistible fascination on all the children that
heard it. One hundred and thirty, in spite of all
efforts used to prevent them, followed the man,
and were never afterwards heard 0£
Pmus. Of indefinite apparitions of evil spirits
there a.re traditions enough : and the old writers
on demonology invented, as we have seen, a
particular class of fiends, whom they called am-
lndones, whose business it was to mislead tra-
vellers on wide heaths and solitary places.
SoPHRON. It is curious to observe how, in the
common fictions with respect to intercourse be-
tween man and his great enemy, the devil is con-
stantly represented as one whom it is most easy
to interest and to dupe. He rarely gets the best
of a bargain : it is the man who oveITeaches the
evil one. Some flaw is discovered in the engage-
ment ; some cunning method of eluding the most
express and binding compacts ; and the man ex-
ults in having outwitted Satan. Now I know not
whether this arises from a. good or a bad cause.
It may arise from either. At first sight it seems
a. device of the evil one himself, content to be
192 NIGHT IX.
despised in this life, if thereby he may the more
easily secure his prey in the next. And certain
it is, that the light and trifling way of naming
the devil in all European languages, and the fami-
liar and absurd names which are bestowed on
him, have done incalculable harm. This seems
to lead to the conclusion that the source of this
contempt is bad. But then again when I con-
sider that this feeling prevails most strongly in
the most Catholic country under the sun, namely,
Brittany, I see another possible origin for it. For
in like manner as many heathens hated and ab-
horred the evil spirits whom they worshipped,
and yet worshipped them, because they so greatly
dreaded them, so the feeling of the Church with
respect to her ghostly enemies would be precisely
the contrary. She too would hate and abhor
them, but it would be a hatred without the small-
est particle of respect, or fear, or doubt of final
victory: she would feel that she was conquering
them every day, and would go on conquering to
the end : and that feeling involves also the most
bitter scorn and contempt. If only for that rea-
son, no medireval poet could have written Para-
dise Lost. And in the same way medireval pa.in-
ters generally represent fiends as rather absurd
and grotesque than frightful ; something which
would occasion laughter, were it not for the strong
mixture of disgust.
PISTUS. Perhaps there may be somewhat of
OF INTERCOURSE WITH GOOD AND EVIL SPIRITS. 193
truth in, both statements, namely, that the feeling
was at first and in itself good, but perverted by
the evil one to evil.
SoPHRON. This naturally leads us to one of the
most curious and difficult of speculations-the
whole subject of witchcraft. And it is one, I
suppose, on which more may be said for both
sides of the question, than almost any other. I
dare say ScElpticus will tell us what arguments he
should employ, were he arguing against a believer
in the thing.
. ScEPT. I should endeavour to show him that
the beJief in witchcraft is a kind of moral epi-
demic, prevailing only at certain times and in
certain places. This argument cuts off all advan-
tage from mu~tiplied testimony. Just as in the
great Plague at Milan, when public opinion ran
that the public walls and the sides of houses were
smeared with a poisonous ointment that produced
the infection ; no sensible man would permit a
hundred or a hundred thous&nd instances of
people who were supposed to be taken in the fact
of thus anointing the walls, to have any more
weight with him than one such alleged example ;
because the thing is clearly impossible. In like
manner, if you believe in a moral epidemic, such
as the wholesale butchery of witches involves, you
are freed from any necessity of answering or
explaining individual cases in which witchcraft
has been supposed to be exercised.
SoPHRON. It is an easy way of solving the diffi-
o
rngitizedbvGoogle
194 NIGHT IX.
culty ; and doubtless such epidemics have raged.
Of the same kind was the Tarantula dance in
Italy; the mania for the discovery of plots in the
time of King Charles II. ; the Mississippi scheme
in France, and the nearly contemporaneous South
Sea bubble in England ; the Tulip mania in
Holland; and the speculation mania of 1825.
You give us an advantage, however, by this view
of the matter; because, there is no reason why
there should not have been a mania of seeing
ghosts, as well as for discovering witches, were
both equally false. But we have never beard of
any thing at all similar to this.
PrsTus. I allow that the belief in witchcraft
has been most curiously circumscribed both in
time and place ; yet that does n9t deprive the
believers in them (of whom I do not wish to
profess myself one-I had rather that adh.uc sub
judice lis sit,) of their great argument : that,
undoubtedly, such a power as witchcraft has here-
tofore been exercised, and therefore might be so
again. The antecedent improbability that any
such power should exist is very great,-! will-
ingly allow it ; at the same time, unless we deny
inspiration, this antecedent improbability van-
ishes ; and the question is reduced to this :-has
witchcraft ever been practised in a Christian
country?
ScEPT. I am willing to allow what you say with
regard to the Levitical Law, that it certainly does
recognize the existence of witches as such, and
OF INTERCOURSE WITH GOOD AND EVIL SPIRITS. 195
is not to be understood of mere jugglers, con-
jurors, mountebanks, and the like, which is the
evasion of some. This, I own, I do not consider
honest. But still there is very little resemblance
between that ancient and our modem sorcery.
PISTUS. Why, there are some very singular
resemblances. The most striking is the employ-
ment of the art by women, rather than by men,
in both cases. And then the "familiar spirit " of
old times is quite in accordance with the modem
idea of witchcraft.
ScsPT. Do you mean, then, to say, that the
localism of the belief is, in your eyes, no argument
against it 7
P1sTUB. I do not : I think it is ; but no suffi-
cient argument. There is a localism, also, about
many crimes: revenge and its attendant wicked- .
nesses are chiefly confined to southern countries ;
drunkenness to nations of the Teutonic race, and
so forth. You will find, too, that the asserted
prevalence of witchcraft occurs almost entirely in
countries which are not Catholic. Scotland, Ger-
many, and the colonies in North America, and
Sweden, have furnished its most singular displays,
and it chiefly prevailed in England during the
Great Rebellion, and the years which succeeded it.
SoPHRON. True: whereas in other European
nations, you will not find its belief in any degree
so prevalent as in these. But, Scepticus, I think,
has a fair answer.
ScEPT. In this way: that the nations you 11ave
o2
196 NIGHT IX.
mentioned, Scotch, Germans, Swedes, and English
colonies, are just those which are bound together
by a peculiar kindred of blood and language.
They embraced .the Reformation with more or
less avidity ; whereas ·the other European people
sooner or later rejected it. There is, no doubt, a
nationalism of mind ; and that may well have led
to the belief, among one set of nations, and the
disbelief among another, of the power ascribed to
witchcraft. Perhaps, there may be a certain
quantum of superstition essential to all people:
those of the south took it out, so to speak, in a
readiness of belief in miracles which their north-
ern brethren never displayed ; those of the north
in the gloomier credit they·attached to tales of
witchcraft.
PrsTus. You have set the case:in 'the light in
which, I suppose, many persons wotila view it. I
do not object entirely to the statement, though I
would rather put it thus :-If men will not believe
in GoD's miracles, the necessity of believing
something leads them to give credit to the devil's.
SoPHRON. And of course, where the Church has
less power, the great enemy of the Church will
have more. But all this cannot ever do away di&-
belief in· the great mass of tales relating to
sorcery. There is something so utterly revolting
to common sense in the foolishness of the compact
made between the evil one and his victims; some-
thing so entirely consonant with the low and
grovelling ideas which vulgar minds would form
°' ''"•dbvGoogle
r. -
OF INTERCOURSE WITH GOOD AND EVIL SPIRITS. 197
of such a compact ; nothing grave, nothing
solemn ; the power wantonly given, and foolishly
employed; above all (what we had occasion to
notice before), a system of things without refer-
ence to Divine Providence. And there, I think,
the great difference lies between the sorcerers of
old and of our own days. They do not seem to
have exercised their power for hurting others,
but only for the discovery of secrets, or a revela-
tion of the future. They neither "did good nor
did evil ;" they simply told, or discovered both.
But in our modem tales, one neighbour takes a.
dislike to another, enters into a compact with the
evil one to be revenged on his enemy, and, after
all, takes the most miserable and silly revenge
that it is possible to conceive.
ScEPT. The confession of such poor wretches is
easy enough to explain. Often in their dotage ;
often wearied out with interrogatories, and some-
times with torture ; kept on purpose without
sleep ; it is not wonderful that they would do
anything, or confess anything, to be left at ease.
Doubtless there were many poor creatures in the
same state as the old beldame mentioned by Sir
Walter Scott, who, on being led to the stake, said,
"Eh, sirs! but this warm fire, and sae mony gude
neighbours, and a' sae cheerfu', is the brawest
sight I have seen this mony a lang day."
P1sTus. It is marvellous how such a. sensation
could be excited by the discovery of a witches'
Sabbath, in Sweden, in 1670. The thing itself,
rngitizedbvGoogle
198 NIGHT IX.
to any one that will read it, is perfectly incredi-
ble ; but it is almost equally hard to believe that
three or four hundred people, of whom the greater
part were children, should profess to have been
concerned in such an enterprise,-that twenty-
three should have been executed without one
protesting their innocence, on simply being asked
to plead guilty or not guilty,-and that the
accounts of Blockula., the place to which they
affirmed that they used to resort, should ta.Uy so
exactly. I think there must have been diabolical
possession one way or the other ; not physically,
but morally.
SoPHRON. And the possibility of that, in many
instances, I should be the last to deny. But in
many more, an accusation of witchcraft was the
easiest means of annoying, and sometimes of
getting rid of an enemy. If it failed of being
proved, the accused person had at all events been
made an object of suspicion, and the accuser was
looked on in the light of a public benefactor. . If
it succeeded, the prison or the gallows were most
effectual means of putting an obnoxious person
out of the way.
Pisrus. You will observe, that, in all Catholic
traditions of the part )Vhich the evil one has taken
in human affairs, there is, in connexion with that
deep contempt which the Church encourages her
sons to feel. for him, a solemnity of conception
not ill-befitting the occasion. The Church, too,
believed, that spiritual malice might be defeated
OF INTERCOURSE WITH GOOD AND EVIL SPIRITS. 199
by physical agency. The sign of the cross, from
the very earliest times, has been regarded as a
sufficient protection against the powers of dark-
ness. Holy oil, again, and holy water, and above
all, bells, were believed to possess the same
virtues. Almost the whole question of super-
natural agency resolves itself into this, whether
spiritual beings are capable of producing and
suffering physical interference. Take the sign of
the Cross. Many people, in these days, will allow
its utility ; but ask them what they mean, and
you will find that they speak only of a moral use.
The very act of making the sign will, they say,
be the means of inducing holy thoughts ; and
these holy thoughts, so induced, will of course
have the effect of enabling him, whose mind they
fill, to resist temptation. This, no doubt, so far
as it goes, is perfectly true. But it is utterly
false to imagine that in this light only did the
laity in the meclireval Church view that sign.
They looked on it as possessing per se virtue ;
made with whatever carelessness, made, indeed,
any how, except in mockery.
THEODORA. And even sometimes without that
exception they believed in the virtue of a holy
sign. Think of that remarkable story of the two
players, one of whom baptized the other in
mockery ; and the person baptized instantly pro-
fessed himself a Christian, and suffered for that
belief.
200 NIGHT IX.
SoPHRON. That is also a. curious relation of S.
Gregory the Wonderworker, when, compelled by
stress of weather, he had passed the night in a
heathen temple. The priest, when the saint had
gone on his way, could obtain no response from
the oracle. He guessed at the reason, or was
informed by the demon that haunted that unholy
shrine. On this, he pursued S. Gregory ; and,
on overtaking him, demanded with threats that
the oracular power, the source of his lucre, should
be restored to the temple. "To show you," said
Gregory, "how great is His power, the meanest
of Whose servants is thus able to command your
deities, I will do as you request ; bring me, there-
fore, ink and a pen." Sitting down, he wrote on
a small piece of paper, and desired the priest to
lay it on the altar, and to await the result. The
priest returned, and had the curiosity to look at
the words which were to produce such an effect.
They were simply these:-" Gregory to Satan:
enter.'' He did as he was desired, and the oracle
resumed its functions ; but did not resume them
for long ; for the priest was so convinced of the
weakness of the gods whom he served, that, says
the legend, he thenceforth renounced them, a.nd
clave to the faith of CHRIST.
ScEPT. You, I see, are not disposed to regard
oracles as mere impostures. For my part, I can
see no reason to look at them in any other light.
SoPHRON. Nor do I deny that there was a great
OF INTERCOURSE WITH GOOD AND EVIL SPIRITS. 201
deal of imposture in them. All such answers as
are capable of double meanings, doubtless were so.
Such was the famous one,
" Aio te, &cida, Romanos vin~ere posse :"
Ruch also that to Crresus,
" Crresus, when he hath passed the Halys, shall
destroy a mighty kingdom." But there are so
many instances in which the event was remark-
ably prophesied, that I do not think we can set the
fulfilment down to a mere coincidence. Such was
the oracle given to Hannibal ; such was that which
foretold the actions of a Philip before the birth of
Philip of Macedon ; such was that given to
Scipio, of the destruction of Carthage. And you
are to remember, that in no instance is an egre-
gious failure on the part of an oracle recorded.
Neither can we be justified, I think, in rejecting
all the accounts of Apollonius of Tyana. No
story seems to have been more generally credited
than the famous tale of his telling the hour of
Domitian's death. Lecturing on Philosophy at
Ephesus, he suddenly broke off, and exclaimed-
" Courage ! strike the tyrant ! strike him !" And
then, after a pause-" The tyrant is dead !" One
need not believe all the tales that Philostratus
tells of his hero ; but they could scarcely ever
have been related, had there not been some foun-
dation for them.
202 NillHT IX.
EusEBIUS. Do you not think that we might
naturally conclude, that in opposition to the stu-
pendous miracles of the early Church, Satan would
enable his own worshippers to perform some super-
natural signs 1 The case of the Egyptian magi-
cians seems a case in point.
SoPHRON. One has a right to think so ; and
there are instances in which evil spirits seem to
have been forced reluctantly to bear witness
against themselves. Plutarch relates, as a well-
known fact, the following story :-A grammarian
named Epitherses, wishing to leave Greece for
Italy, went on board a ship bound to the latter
country, and sailed with a prosperous wind. When
the vessel, however, was opposite the Echinades,
it fell a dead calm, and it was with great diffi-
culty that they were able to reach Paxos. Here
they rode at anchor, and, late at night, the crew
were either asleep, or engaged in the necessary
business of the vessel. Among the latter was
Tamois, the Egyptian pilot. On a sudden, a voice
was heard from the island, " Tamois ! Tamois !"
The pilot, either taken by surprise orterrified, made
no answer. Again the voice was heard-" Tamois !
Tamois !" "What have you to do with me 1" he
replied. The voice answered, "When you arrive
at Phalacrum, announce as loud as you can speak,
that great Pan is dead." And again all was
silence. The pilot and the crew were alike terri-
fied, and consulted what was to be done under the
circumstances. At last, Tamois resolved that,
o'"'"'""byGoogle
204 NIGHT IX.
ful an arrangement of things does such a belief
presuppose ! Certainly, the services of angels and
men are ordained·and constituted in a wonderful
order, if the hypothesis be true.
SoPHRON. Whether the voice which gave the
message proceeded from a good or bad spirit, may
be a. question of doubt ; but there can be no doubt
as to the nature of those .beings by whom it was
received with lamentation. But how wonderful a
thing it is that spiritual beings should be in want
of, or, at least, should be desirous of employing,
human agency in this way!
P1STus. Unless one should sa.y that it was done
by the direction of Providence, as a testimony to
the nature of the event then occurring ; and yet it
is difficult to imagine that, because, after all, the
occurrence only stands on a guess, and requires
testimony itself.
ScEPT. The story is all the more worthy of
credit, I allow, from being related by a heathen ;
for we know the vast number of prophecies of the
SAVI~UR, which Christian ingenuity forged under
the name of Sibylline verses.
P1sTus. All such predictions, in heathen coun-
tries, of our Lo&D, a.re not to be so sweepingly
condemned. Every one knows that it was the
expectation of the world, at the time of His birth,
that a mighty Prince was about to arise out
of the East. And I can never read the Pollio of
Virgil, without believing, either that the poet
meant more than a reference to Marcellus, or
\\
COll~•Biv1Tll (IOOD AND EVIL Sl'IRI'IS. 205
OF JNTBll ""
el
se the ingenuity of commentators
whoine1er . d .
J:. ered or illlllgine to have been born in
bas lll"cof •
th t ,.,. er el"' thal he ""' aet..Uy, u> an
;,.;, ,.;,., ~· to spea.k ~t of which he
did not ,nd.,.wndthefull ~..,ung' on~that of
h"m it ,Ught be""'· •• •t was of c,,.ph..-
"'.v,d th• opakehe not ofhimself." 11 Caiaphas
,Ught be inopUed. as!!\'redly Virgil migh~ And
surely we "'" hard!Y believe othenvise, when one
reads of the Virgin returning, of the ·golden age
,.mmencing, of the traces of formlr crime dis&P-
peanng from tl>e earth, of the serpent perishing,
of earth, and sea., and heaven rejoicing; hyper-
boles too immense to have been tolerated in an
emperoi• son. while th• father of the aubject of
that EciogUe, whoever he might be, had cerlainlY
not then attained to the imperial dignity.
SoPHRON. And in the same way, as we had
occasion some nights ago to remark, there is no
doubt that the symbol of th• cross was venerated
long before the coming of our LoRD.
ScEPT· You will at least grant, that all the
various kinds of divination so much in use among
t~e ancients, by bird•, by entrails, by rods, by
s1eves, by cocks, by water, by the hand, and in a
thousand other ways, were sheer pieces of jug-
glery.
8oPH."RON. Yes: though I believe that, now and
tb.en, the demon• who prompted th• worship of
tb.e ancients were permitted to encourage it, by
speaking the troth even t,brongb these trivial s.nd
Oigiizedb G
y oogfe
,/
206 NIGHT IX.
superstitious inquiries. Of these, the Sortes Ho-
mericre or Vigilianre, where, by opening Homer or
Virgil at random, the line which first met the eye
was taken as the answer, afforded some of the
most remarkable instances. Not to mention the
line of .the Iliad, presented to Socrates-
"I should arrive
On the third day in Phtbia'e gleby land ;"
from which h: foretold that his execution would
take place on the third day : the Emperor Ha-
drian, about to adopt L. Varus, and anxious to
know his fate, opened on the line of Virgil,
" Ostendent terriB bunc tantum Cata, nee ultra
E118esinunt,"
which was exactly fulfilled. So our Charles I.
consulted the Virgilian lots in the Bodleian, in
company with Lord Falkland. The former opened
on,
"Jacet ingens litore tl'llncns,
Avuleumque bnmeria caput, et sine nomiue corpn&"
The latter on,
"Hen miserande puer I ai qua fata aspera rumpas,
Tu Marcellus eris."
Boissarde assures us that he knew a gentleman
who was persecuted in every possible way by a
nobleman, at the instig11.tion of his wife. Unable
or,,,...,,,,.,..""°u<» .vu. ,.-~ 207
. h&tsecret enetnYhe had, he coDi'ulted
todiscoverw d d
the Virgiliall Jots, an rea ,
"Gaus& Jll&li tanli conjuX ~bospita·"
A.od,;,. ,..iay, th• a\>OV• n&med nob\eroa.n a.nd
bi< .;leJ,.d b"" .,ropelled at that time, tbrough
th .;vil•"' ;0 ,,,,..,., to \eave th•" own ....te,
"~toret;re to B,.Je. The early ()hristian> con·
::.ued the •" of the '""'e lot, only suMituting
tbe Bible for Jlomer and VirgiL But it w"'
s1renuoullly opl"""1 by the Fa.thero. who called it
an undoubted tempting of Gon. However, the
p,.cliee eontinued to be ,.metim" employed tiU
• much i.ter reri.od; .. is .,.;dent from tbe e<-
ample of s. y,.ncis, who ronned hi• institute
on tbree .,..te• from the New Testamen~ It -
•very favourite pra.ctice among tbe )'uritans, and
much in vogue among tbeir preachers. I reroem-
ber to have read of one, who was desirous of prog-
nosticating success in some undertaking he con-
templated, and opened on the verse," Go, and tbe
Loa» be ,.\th tbee." Ile went, in reliance on tbe
text, and lost his life.
P1STUS. Th• observa.tion of day~ natural e.nd
common enough among tbe heatben. deocended
with equal {orce to most Christian countries. The
~uperstitionwhich makes Friday an unlucky day
18
• 1. suppose, common to every nation. By none
is it more strongly beld tban by sailors ; and •
curious and fruitless effort was made, soroe tiroe
ago, to break them of it. A .hip, called Friday,
Oigi iZed by Googfe
208 NIGHT IX.
had her keel la.id on a Friday, was launched on a
Friday, was commanded by a Captain Friday,
and sailed on a Friday ; and, :finally, was never
more heard of.
SoPHRON. In the same way, in our eastern
counties, Childermas day-that is, that day of the
week on which the Holy Innocents fell the pre-
ceding year-was, and in some degree is, held
unlucky.
PisTus. And there were many sayings as to the
various festivals of the Church, some of which
were, no doubt, true. Some had a great appear-
ance of likelihood ; and some, perhaps, a little
savoured of superstition. There was a rhyme as
to S. Paul's day:
" Clara dies Pauli bona tempora denotat anni ;
Si fuerint venti, designant pl'Ollia genti ;
Si fuerint nebulae, pereunt animali& queeque ;
Si nix, si pluvia est, preedicunt tempora ca.ra."
And another for the Purification :
" Si Sol splendescat, Mari& purifie&11te,
Major erit glaciee post festum, quam fuit ante."
And this intense cold was held to last for forty
days. On S. Vincent's day (Jan. 22), in vine dis-
tricts, it was believed that a fine forenoon heralded
an abundant vintage ; and the monks of houses
under the invocation of that saint were accord-
ingly well treated on that day. A rainy Easter
was held to predict an abundant com harvest.
QF INTERCOURSE WITH GOO!> AND EVIL SPIRITS. 209
'.!'he concurrence of Lady-day with Good Friday
was considered unlucky: an old rhyme says,
" When our Lady falls in our Loan's lap,
Then let England look for mishap.''
S. Medardus's day, in May, and S. Urban's, the
24th of that month, were regarded, the first by
vinedressers, the second by husbandmen, as pre-
saging, by their fairness or foulness, a plentiful
or scarce year. Thunders in March were he1d
extremely unlucky. An old French proverb tells
us, that,
" Jamaie le villageoie n'a matiere de dire, Hl!las !
S'il ne voit ea maieon arse, ou s'il n'oit tonner en Mlll'I!."
And other presages from the sky are well known ;
such as that,
" Blessed is the bride that the sun shines on ;
Blessed ie the corpse that the rain rains on."
SoPHRON. Of prophecies in modem times, there
are not many that are very curious. The most
remarkable is that well-known one,
"Octogesimua octavus mirabilie annua."
That we know, from Lord Bacon, to have been in
vogue before 1588, and therefore could not have
been made for the Armada ; and is yet more
strikingly applicable to 1688. A similar pro-
phecy-though I know not the exact words-
connects the year '45 with misfortune ; and 1645
and 1745 seemed to verify it. Another prophecy,
p
I
I
I
210 NIGHT IX.
"When hempe ill spun,
England's done,"
was ingeniously interpreted ; but one can hardly
look on it as more than a. coincidence. Henry,
Edward, Mary, Philip, Elizabeth-whose initials
made the word hempe-ha.ving reigned, the name
England was merged in Great Britain. Other
prophecies seem to have been thrown out on the
world, in the hope that some one would invent
interpretations for them. Such is that (mentioned,
as the two former, by Lord Bacon),
"There shall be seen on a day,
Between the Baugh and the May,
The Black Fleet of Norway.
Then England shall have houses of stone;
For after wars you shall have none."
That has also been expounded of the Armada, but
with little plausibility. It is difficult to imagine
that the Egyptian sorcerers of modem times are
impostors. Lane, in his Modem Egyptians, seems
to have put the matter out of doubt.
P1srus. Boissa.rde tells, on his own authority,
a story of an event which occurred to some
friend, whose name, from prudential reasons, he
suppresses. He had married a. young and beau-
tiful bride, not without meeting with great difli-
culty from an obnoxious rival Shortly after the
wedding, the unsuccessful loverwas slain in a duel
by the husband ; and for this crime he was obliged
to leave the country. Extremely anxious to know
how his wife employed her solitude, he heard, in
OF INTERCOURSE WITH GOOD AND EVIL SPIRITS. 211
the place of his exile, of a celebrated magician,
and, half out of joke, applied to him. The philo-
sopher assured him that he could fulfil his wish.
A day wa.s appointed ; and the young nobleman
brought several of his friends to be spectators of
the event. A young girl was brought in by the
magician (just in the same way as is the case with
the Egyptian sorcerers), and desired to look in a
glass. She described accurately, first the room in
which the lady ordinarily sat, then the lady's per-
son ; and wound up the whole by adding that a
young man was at her side, and apparently en·
joying no small part of her affection. The un-
fortunate husband mounted his horse, and hardly
stopped till he approached the city whence he had
been banished. Not daring to enter it, he sent a
message to his wife, desiring her to meet him at
such a. spot in a neighbouring forest ; proposing
first to upbraid her with her infidelity, and then to
kill her. She came full ofjoy ; and her husband's
heart was softened by her agitation and tears of
gladness. Taking her, however, by surprise, he
demanded the name of the stranger who, at such
an hour of such a. day, was with her. She replied,
without hesitation, that it was her brother-in-law.
Fortunately the matter was susceptible of proof;
and the nobleman, thoroughly satisfied, returned to
his place of exile, cursing from his very heart the
jugglery and delusion of fiends.
SoPHRON. And what are we to say or to deem
of the wonderful pretensions of astrology 1 Are
P2
212 NIGHT IX.
we to believe that, from the age of the Chaldea.ns
downwards, it has been one science of imposition
and guess work, never right, except by cha.nee ; or
that it is based on rules, and that those rules have
a certain aim, and are worthy of trust 1
P1sTus. There can be no doubt that the majo-
rity of professors of astrology have believed in
their own science; and it seems recognized as one,
though as a forbidden one, in the Levitical law.
It has been made the means, it is clear, of innu-
merable impostures ; but all this does not prove
that, if it were given to men to fathom it, there is
not a real law of the future, from the position
and influences of the stars. It is hardly possible
that so general a belief in sidereal virtue, should
have prevailed amongst all nations, if there were
no foundation for such credence. Nay, do we not
read in Holy Scripture itself, that "the stars in
their courses fought against Sisera?" which clearly
to me seems to mean either nothing, or that the
influence of the planets was against him.
THEODORA. It is hardly credible that there
should be such a science, and yet that it should be
a forbidden one. '
P1sTus. Why so 1 Surely not more incredible
than that the tree of the knowledge of good and
evil should have stood in the midst of Paradise,
and should yet have been forbidden to our first
parents.
SoPHRON. There are rules for the science, which
any how a.re learnt, and are observed. The rules
OF INTERCOURSE WITH GOOD AND BVIL SPIRITS. 218
may themselves be impostures or absurd, but yet
may be followed out in good faith.
PtsTus. I remember a. professor ofastrology visit-
ing one of our universities, and being consulted by
many persons who would have been most sorry to
appear in the business. In particular, I recollect
one instance, either of a curious verification of his
rules, or of a most fortunate guess, for the infor-
mation could have been acquired in no other
way. A man took him the nativity of a deceased
friend, and desired him to calculate it. On going
again to the astrologer, "It is a very curious
thing," said the latter, " that the person whose
nativity you gave me, must, according to all the
rules of science, be dead." His visitor, by way of
trying him, persisted that it was not so. " I must
then have made some mistake," replied the other,
" and will work my calculations over again." He
did so ; and on receiving a second visit from the
man of whom I speak, "It is a most remarkable
circumstance," he said ; " if your friend be not
dead, I frankly confess that the laws of our science
have for once failed." "At what time ought he,
according to your computations, to have died 1"
inquired the visitor. The astrologer named a day.
" He did die at that very time," rejoined the other;
"and you have given me the best possible proofof
the reality of your art."
SoPHRON. I have heard that the modem pro-
fessors of the science do not, in reply to questions
as to the extent. of the inquirer's life, mark out
214 NIGHT IX.
any certain time fer his death, but content them~·
selves with telling him that at such & time he will
be in imminent danger ; ifhe escapes that, at such
another time he will be so again ; and so forward,
till they pass the period to which, in the natural
course of things, he can hope to live.
PtsTus. We began wi:th speaking of the beauty
of the stars ; and where we commenced, there, it
seems, we conclude. It is a. wonderful inquiry in
which we have been engaged ; and one which, in
this world, we can never hope to understand.
But one ca.nnot wonder, when pursuing such trains
of thought, at the impatience of Cleombrotus to
possess the world of immortality which Pla.to had
opened to him.
THRODORA. Nor is it less striking to remember
the friends with whom we may have discussed
such questions, but who a.re now in that place
where they understand them fully. One often
fancies how much they must desire to impart some
of this knowledge to us whom they have left
behind.
SoPHRON. The writers of the sixteenth century
on apparitions, endeavoured to show that the
spirits of the departed faithful have just as much
liberty of motion, and of appearing to whom they
please, that we in the flesh possess. I do not think
it. I do not believe that, if they retain their
earthly affection that animated them here, they
could refrain from visiting those whom they have
loved, and from whom they are now separated.
OF INTERCOURSE WITH GOOD AND EVIL SPIRITS. 215
It would rather seem tha.t some strict law of the
unknown state forbids such .apparitions, unless
especially permitted. Doubtless, well for us it
is so.
Pi:srus. How it would alter the whole course of
human existence, if such apparitions constantly
took place ! Whether they lost, or whether they
still retained their terror, it would hardly be com-
patible with worldly business that they should be
permitted.
THEODORA. In all such stories, a superintend-
ing Providence seems most clearly manifest. These
strange visitants tell just what they were com-
missioned to tell, and nothing more; they have a
message to deliver, and they deliver it: of their , 1
own state, of the manner in which they were
judged, of tl1eir employments, of their associates,
they say nothing.
SoPHRON. To that conclusion of a superintend-
ing, and a most minutely superintending Provi-
dence, our whole discussion, I trust, has been
calculated to lead us. The intercommunion of the
world of spirits with our own must needs be a
most elevating, and ought to be a most consoling,
belief. To have those whom we have best loved
locally near us, to believe that we are assisted by
them in dangers, to remember that they are wit-
nesses of our temptations, and rejoicers in our vic-
tory, is one of the most encouraging and inspiriting
thoughts that a Christian man can possess. All
the ideas, then, that have been raised in our minds,
216 HIGHT IX.
of holy thoughts suggested, unseen evils warded
off, space or time annihilated for the safety of one ·
in peril, courage renovated, ways directed by the
ministrations of spiritual beings ; all these things
ought to fill our hearts with gratitude, when we
express our belief in the Communion of Saints.
( I I ~.
,. '
• '' ,.
' ( -
0 '
I'-.
I ~ ,
' . ..
t ~ f I
(.l ' ·'f
t j ,·,, I i l
~;. ?:'t - '!-,. (' ' ' , -
·
\'\ '":J ,~/: r{ .
/.,. ,
« t' ,, : ·..... I,, ,_
THB DD.
,; ...'.. ,.(
• .
C' ~ ..) ••: •
·:·; :·; ..; '" 1" ~ .. I r" t
I , - f
..,.C '. ~ r 1 , r ; I '" I 1" ' .. ··
. , - (
I ' J .;
I I I \ ~ ,,. \"' ~·
.~ [ ft \ ( . ~ '
I '
.L ' ~ L ~ ; •
.'
GtLBF.RT & R1v1HOTOH, Printers, St. John's Square, London. l
fl
~c
hi
!18
49
.)~ .
~ -;_:
}fl
71
I";~ I
I -
7~
~:~'(;
.0 I~
/.0
'7~··
.-
l:
I• , r
I ?.,·
I• . ··
f ...
I•
I ;, ~
,•,' 1
.: ;. ·- !. i . \" ' .. t...
t /
; '/ i(. cl,. ·'
;.- 11' l ·i'
I '
i. ' (f, .. !.
.J
i! i
..J
i '
/ l;,. \ ::
I
r I
{ · l :: · ) fl ~ t :
•. t'
(l
J..rccl ,1 · .i_r· · t;! ;\. .: - ~ -l' ' i."~
/ '
·L
" ..:
,./\ .• !" .'
-I
-t ~ ~- 1.
't ..!
r '·
.,
· "<
• -: . : 1 1 .... t ' • !v
(J\.f: i (:
(... '
t i. n. .... ~ . •. ' ' •'
; I
.t·
, .
'.'
.,
.: " - r ,.';·.t !"Vt..A-"5 ,.\.·, :~ 1',. · l. ~ >..t
·"
"
//_, r. C[f,f. {~t-l<·•(''-\A't' 11> t { (-, - ,/ <; <
' J •'. f.:
J s
-.c' l1-iv-..- f tr\'.....; 11...- ~;,•\. t ,,_.,: ( , __.
°' ''""dbvGoogle
(l. I\"
