{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1847__moseley__astro-theology.pdf","mytitle":"UNKNOWN","mylang":"de"}
ASTRO-THEOLOGY.
hi
Tim IUa. IlENRY^ MOSELKY.yM.A., F.R.S.
mi ok mu lujun’a iHmaCTonii ur •ohools. latb Fiomaon ok
If All UAL PHUOKOPin ANQ PO^OHY, KINO’l. COIABOB, LONDON.
“ For the invisible things of Him, from the creation oftlie world,
are dearly seen, being understood by the things that are made,
even his eternal power and Godhead.'*—Romans i. 20.
LONDON:
ARTHUR VARNHAM, 61, STRAND.
MDCCCXLV1I.
ADVERTISEMENT.
It is the object of the following papers to treat
of some of the more obvious phenomena of the
visible universe in a devotional spirit. I have
republished them in a cheap form, from the
* Church of England Magazine/ in which they
were first printed, in the year 1,$38, with the
hope that they may promote the cause of popu¬
lar instruction, and with an especial reference
to the education of elementary schoolmasters,
with which 1 am officially connected.
O Lord God, whose name only is excellent, and thy
name above heaven and earth ; we adore and bless thj
mercy and thy power for creating us after thine own
image. Thou spakest the word and we were made ;
thou commandedst and we were created. And as thou
hast established thy creation with a law for ever, that
all should minister to thy praises in their several pro¬
portions; so give us grace that the laws of sanctity, of
faith and obedience, which thou hast given to us, may
never be broken ; that we, serving thee, not only in the
order of thy creatures, but m the capacity of thy chil¬
dren, may sing thy praises amongst the angels and the
numerous host of saints reigning m thy kingdom, for
ever and ever. Amen.
Bishop Jeremy Taylor.
ASTRO-TH EOLOCJ
TIIE ISOLATION OF THE EARTH IN SPACE.
*• 11<- stretched oul the north over the empty space, and
hangeth the earth upon nothing.”—Job, xxvi 7.
It is not easy to conceive the entire isolation of the
earth in space. That it does not spread out its di-*
mensions into the abysses of the universe, until at
length it attains some immovable basis upon which it
may repose—that it rests on no pedestal, hangs upon
nothing—floats in space, not being buoyed up—and not
being supported does not fall,—are ideas which lie at
the foundation of all our knowledge of the wisdom
and power of God in the universe ; but to realize which
it is necessary that we approach them if not by the
stef>8 of a rigid demonstration, at least by those of a
gradual progression. They are indeed but elementary
deductions of science ; but not to be arrived at, until
many false perceptions have been purged away from the
eye of the mind, and the evidence of much experience
presented to the understanding.
When we look forth upon the earth, it appears to us
a surface brokeu into hill and dale but e-#rywhere
u
2 THE ISOLATION OF THE
terminated by the margin of that vast concavity of the
heavens which is stretched out above us ; and when
we are at sea, we seem to be upon a circular plain of
water, whose limit is no where far distant from us.*
That error which assigns to the earth and to the hea¬
vens the boundary of the visible horizon, corrects itself
indeed immediately that we travel from place to place ;
but how are we to free ourselves from the other error t
Go where we will, we seem to be moving on a fiat if
not an even surface—we appear no where to be descend¬
ing the sides of the earth, or climbing on its acclivity;
and an impression of our senses irresistibly grows upon
us that it is an extended plain. Astronomy tells us
of a huge sphere self-supported in the space of the
heavens, and of that space stretching forth interminably
and immeasurably. How shall we realise this idea,
and reconcile it with what we see 1
Let us suppose a traveller, impressed with the belief
that the earth is a plain, to set out and travel continu¬
ally in the same direction in search of its boundaries.
Travelling on until he meets the sea ; let him embark
upon it and traverse it until he again encounters the
land ; thus continuing his forward course unimpeded
by any of the natural obstacles on the earth's surface.
Never will he find any termination to it. Go where
he will, still sea or land will lie open before him.
There is no limit, no boundary, no interruption of its
continuity; no chasm ill it, no elevation extending
itself into infinite and unknown regions of space—no
* If the eye he placed at a height of about ten feet from the
surface of the water, the horizon is distant from it, in every direc¬
tion, beti&en four and five miles.
EA11TH IS SPACE. 3
greater obstacle than a mountain—no more impassable
space than a valley, a lake, a river, or a sea.
His first conclusion would be, that he was travelling
on a surface of infinite extent. After a time, however,
this conclusion would correct itself, and he wohld per¬
ceive, to his amazement, that, although he had tra¬
velled on, continually away, as it seemed to him, from
the region where his journey began, this onward
journey had nevertheless brought him back to that
region again. Has he then unconsciously turned
round and retraced his steps 1 On this point he may
assure himself, and he will find that, without ever
turning backwards, or deviating from his course other¬
wise than perhaps to the right or the left of it, he has
yet returned to the place whence he set out.
But a very slight exercise of his judgment will be
sufficient to shew him, from this fact alone, that the
earth’s surface is not one extending infinitely, at least
in the direction in which he has travelled, nor bounded
by any edge or limit; but, like the surface which en¬
closes a solid body, continuous, and returning into
itself.* If this were not the case, the farther he tra¬
velled in the same direction, or towards the same
direction, the farther he would of necessity have receded
from the point at which he set out; and he could never,
travelling as he did, have reached that point. Thus,
if l see a fly making a journey across my table with his
head always in the same direction, or deviating only to
* Not, for instance, a surface like that of the page on which
this is printed, lying flat, and terminated by an edge ; but like
that which it would have if it wore rolled up so llmt its opposite
edges met and were perfectly joined.
4 THE ISOLATION OF THE
the right or left of that direction, it is manifest to me
that he continually recedes from his starting-place, at
least as long as he remains upon the upper surface of
the table. To reach it again, thus continually advan¬
cing, he must crawl over the opposite edge of thetable
and along its under surface.*
Since, then, our traveller, journeying continually in
the same direction over the earth’s surface, or deviating
from that direction only to the right or left, has re¬
turned to the same regions of the earth again, he must
have gone round it; and it must be a surface returning
into itself, at least in the direction in which lie tra¬
velled. And if from his starting-place he has travelled
in every possible direction, and always thus arrived
at the same place again, then must it, not in one or
two directions only, but in every direction, be a sur¬
face returning into itself—such a surface as would not
only partly hut completely contain a solid. Moreover,
if in the course of these numerous journeys he met
with no obstacle which he could not overpass, then
would he be assured that there was no solid mass on
which it rested, no pedestal by which it was supported,
nothing from which it was suspended.
But it will he asserted that these journeys are all
hypothetical, and that no traveller has thiis, setting
out from one place, made journeys in all directions
round the earth. True ; hut if all the journeys and
voyages which have been made were collated and com¬
pared, it would be found that these supposed journeys
* This illustration will be complete, if we compare the case of
a fly crawling over the surface of an orange with that of the fly
crawling on the table.
EARTH IN 8PACE. 5
have been made, if not by one, at any rate by a
number of different persona ; and we have the results
of their experience, which is to us as certain evidence,
and indeed more certain than that of a single traveller
would have been.*
There is indeed scarcely a week in which this
great fact is not put to the lest of experiment. Never
perhaps does a week pass in which there does not
arrive, in some port of Europe or America, some
vessel which, having sailed from that port continually
on the same course, or deviating only to the right and
left of that course, has, nevertheless, returned to that
port again; which it could never have done if the
earth’s surface were other than that of a continuous
solid; if it were a fiat, or infinitely extended, or a ter¬
minated surface, not returning into itself; + or a small
portion of the surface of an infinitely extended plane ;
or an island, floating in the abysses of space; or the
* It is not strictly to all the points of the earth that our expe¬
rience extends, for there are some which no human being has
perhaps ever crossed, and many which have never been visited
by any one whose authority we have for the fact asserted in the
text; yet so few are these cases, when compared to those of which
we have experience, that, although they leave the matter under
theform of a probability, it Is one which is practically a certainty.
■f A year or two ago it was announced that vessels set out
every six weeks from the port of Liverpool, to make the voyage
round the world. Their course is south-west until they reach
Cape Horn ; then still westerly until they make New Holland;
then perhaps north-west, to some port of India; again south¬
west, to the Cape of Good Hope; and then north-west, home.
Thus sailing continually to the west, they have returned to their
port Had the world not been round, they must continually
have receded from it.
G ISOLATION OF THE EARTH IN SPACE,
summit of a mountain, whose base reposes in some
fathomless region unknown to us. This earth of ours
is a huge mass, self-poised, supported upon nothing,
hung upon nothing—enveloped by the air which we
breathe, and surrounded by the space of the heavens.
How many thoughts does the mind embrace in
this idea! The surface of the earth being that of
a solid mass, there must be some point on the oppo¬
site side of it now immediately beneath my feet.
Yet have I reason to believe, indeed 1 know, that every
thing goes on there as it does here; all heavy bodies
tend to fall to the surface of the earth there as they do
here, and yet falling there and here they must fall in
opposite directions. Men move about there as freely
as they do here; although their position is inverted in
respect to mine, they have no tendency to fall olf; on
the contrary, they are pressed by their weight to the
earth's surface there as I am here ; so that, in fact, we
are pressed by our weight in the direction of our feet
towards one another ; and were we to fall, each would
fall towards the other. Since, then, weight is some¬
thing which on opposite sides of the earth presses
bodies towards its surface, it. is evidently a power in
the earth itself, of which I see the analogy in the
attraction of a magnet, which all round, and on its
opposite sides, in opposite directions, fixes small pai-
ticles of iron upon its surface.
( 7 )
THE FORM AND DIMENSIONS OF T1IE EARTH.
“ And in his hand
Ho took the golden compasses, prepar’d
In tiod's eternal store, to circumscribe
This universe, and $11 created things;
One foot he center’d and the other turned
hound through the vast profundity obscure,
And said, ‘ Thus far extend, thus far thy bounds,
This be tiiy just circumference, 0 world.' ”
Paradise Lust, vii. 225.
But what is the form of the earth, and what are its
dimensions'? As yet we know only that it is a solid
mass; but not being able to comprehend any consider¬
able portion of it at once in our sight, we know not
but that its form may be irregular, with many angles,
or a cone, or a cylinder. Astronomy assigns to it the
form of a sphere. How is this determined ? It affixes
to it certain enormous dimensions. How are these
measured?
Since the earth is not a transparent mass, it is evi¬
dent that, however great might be our power of vision
we could not see the whole of its surface at once—a por¬
tion of it must of necessity be hidden from us by the
intervention of the earth itself; moreover, that by the
same intervention of the earth itself, a large portion of
the space of (lie heavens must be hidden from our view.
In fact, if in any direction I suppose a line to be drawn
from my eye to a point where it meets, but only just
8 THE FORM AND DIMENSIONS
1ouches, the earth’s surface, it is evident that I cannot
possibly see any part of the earth’s surface in that
direction beyond that point, or any portion of the hea¬
vens in that direction beneath that line ; and if I sup¬
pose lines thus to be drawn in every possible direction
from my eye, touching as many points in the earth's
surface, then, though I used the most powerful glass
yet could 1 see nothing of the earth’s surface not lying
within the boundary of those pointB, nothing of the
heavens not above those lines. It is evident that the
distance at which this boundary of points will be
situated from my eye depends upon its height; the
higher my eye is raised from the earth, the more distant
will he the points where the lines drawn from it will
touch the earth’s surface. And it is for this reason
that from an elevated spot we see farther than when
we stand on a level plain. The line of points which
bounds our vision extends itself as we ascend—lines
drawn from the eye touching the earth at more and
more remote points as it is more and more elevated.
Now, go where we wrill over the sea, this line of
points, which includes within it all of the surface that
we can see at once, is, when the water is calm, a perfect
circle ; and this fact is in itself sufficient to prove that
the surface of the ocean is part of the surface of a sphere,
for it proves that a circle would every where fit accu¬
rately on the surface of the ocean. If, for instance, a
huge circle were constructed, which should coincide
with the circular margin ofthe horizon, and were pushed
about from place to place on the surface of the calm
soa, it would every where accurately coincide with it,
no where rising above, and no where being depressed
OF TIIE EARTH. 9
beneath it.* Now that surface which has this property
that a circle of any size (less than a certain greatest
size) being any where applied to it will lie throughout
its whole length upon it, or accurately fit it, is the sur¬
face of a sphere. This is a fact well known and com¬
monly applied in the arts. Did we wish to work a
stone accurately into the form of a sphere, the stone¬
mason would get a circular ring of any size not greater
than the girth or great circle of the sphere, and apply-
hig it to different parts of its surface, he would observe
where the edge of the circle did or did not coincide
with it or fit it, and by this he would judge whether it
was or was not a true spherical surface ; and when he
had so worked it that the circle every where coincided
with the surface he would know that it was a true
sphere, f
Since, then, wherever we go upon the ocean, the
boundary of that which we can at once see of it, is a
circle, its surface is that of a sphere and since the
surface of the sea, which is seven-tenths of the whole
* This ring is supposed without weight.
-j- It is thus that the surfaces of the earthenware marbles used
hy hoys are made true spheres. The circle used by the potter is
the edge of a thimble ; tins he rubs upon the surface of a lump
of unbaked clay until he has made its surface every where to fit
it it is then a sphere
l It may, perhaps, be imagined that the boundary of the
horizon is circular because it is the boundary of our power of
direct vision which is in every direction the same; but this
is not th# case we could see, were the earth’s surface in reality
a plane, much farther than the horizon ; our power of direct
usion extends much more than four or five miles. This is
proved by fhc fact that v\e see a mountain thirty or forty miles
distant.
10 FORM AND DIMENSIONS OF THE EARTH.
surface of the earth, is that of a sphere, it is evident
that the general character of the surface of the land
must be spherical, for it no where greatly recedes from
the surface of the sea. This method, however, whilst
it indicates the general form of the earth’s surface to he
spherical, leaves it possible that there may be devia¬
tions from that form; for we cannot very accurately
determine that the margin of the horizon is a circle,
although it appear$ to be so; and a slight error on this
point is sufficient to introduce a considerable one in
our result.
To arrive at a more certain conclusion, we must
have recourse to observations upon the heavens.
( u )
THE DIMENSIONS OF THE EARTH.
u For the whole world before thee is as a little grain
of the balance, yea, as a drop of the morning dew that
falletH down upon the earth.”—Ec.cl. ii. 22.
That portion of the heavens which we can see has
been stated to be divided from that which we cannot
by lines drawn from the eye in e^pry direction, so as
just to touch the earth, and supposed to be produced
or lengthened until they reach the heavens. That
portion of the space in which the earth is situated
which lies beneath these lines, we could only see if we
could look through the earth; which we cannot. Now
so small, comparatively, is our height, that when we
stand upright the portion of the heavens * we can see
is, without any sensible error, the same as it would be
if our eye were where our feet are, or actually in the
earth's surface. If this were the case, the lines spoken
of above as drawn from the eye, and dividing the
visible from the invisible portion of the heavens, would
all lie in one plane touching the earth’s surface. If,
then, we imagine such a plane actually touching the
earth’s surface under our feet, and stretching out infi¬
nitely ipitil it reaches the heavens, it will form the
actual division of them which we experience. All
* The portions of the earth we could see would be very dif¬
ferent.
12 THE DIMENSIONS OE THE EAltTII.
above this plane is visible to us, all beneath it invisible;
and objects appear to us higher ov lower upon the
vault of the sky, as they are more or less distant from
it.
Now, as we move about from place to place, this
plane will evidently alter its position, in the same way
as' though it rolled upon the earth’s surface under our
feet; and thus rolling so as to be inclined in one place
to what its position is in another, it will roll nearer
to the stars in one direction, and farther from them in
another; and thus the stars will appear nearer to the
horizon in one place than another.
Being unconscidfei of the true cause of this phenom¬
enon in an alteration of the position of the plane of the
horizon we attribute it to a motion of the stars them¬
selves; and, as we move southward, the northern stars
seem to sink continually upon the sky behind us, and
the southern stars to rise ; it being in reality the divid¬
ing plane of the visible and invisible heavens, or our
horizon, which has rolled nearer to the northern stars,
and farther from the southern, the angle through which
it has revolved being exactly equal to the angle through
which the star has, by our motion, been made appar¬
ently to rise or sink.
Now it may be shewn certainly by geometry, that if
to revolve through the same angle, this plane of the
horizon must be made to revolve over the same dis¬
tance every where on the earth’s surface ; or, in other
words, that if to make a star by my motion apparently
to ascend or descend by the same angle upon the sky,
I must, wherever I am on the earth, alter my position
by the same number of miles,—then certainly the
TIIE DIMENSIONS OF TIIE EARTIE 1 o
earth’s surface must, every where be accurately the
surface of a sphere. This will be sufficiently under¬
stood, if wc imagine a flat card to be applied to the
surface of an egg and made to roll upon it—it is plain
that at the thick end of the egg, to alter its inclination
by a certain quantity it will have to roll over a greater
distance than it will have to roll over to alter its incli¬
nation by the same quantity at the thinner end; but if
the same card be applied to a sphere, and made to
roll upon it, it will every where have rolled through
the same angle when it has rolled over the same dis¬
tance.
Now, observations like these have been made with
extraordinary care at different places on the earth's
surface ; and the result of them has been this, that to
cause a star by the motion of the observer to appear
to ascend or descend by the same angle on the heavens,
he must every where move over very nearly the same
space. The earth is therefore very nearly a sphere. Very
nearly, for it is not accurately thus ; towards the poles
of the earth the space moved over must, it is found, be
somewhat greater than towards the equator. The
earth is therefore flatter towards the poles than towards
the equator; as on the egg, where, to revolve through
the same angle, the card had to roll the greater dis¬
tance, the surface was flatter than where it had to roll
over the less distance.
It is evident, that completely to turn round upon
itself, or to cause that side of it which was before
towards one direction now to be towards the opposite
direction, a plane thus rolling upon a solid must roll
completely round it. Thus, a card which I make to
14 THE DIMENSIONS QY THE EARTH.
roll on a sphere will not have turned completely round
upon itself, or turned that side which was before
towards me now from me, until it has rolled completely
round the sphere: and since, as it turns upon itself
through the same angle, it always rolls on the sphere
through the same distance, it is also clear that when it
has turned upon itself through half a revolution, it will
have rolled upon the sphere through half its complete
girth or circumference; that when it has rolled through
a quarter of a revolution upon itself, it will have rolled
on the sphere through a quarter of its circumference ;
and generally, that whatever part it has made of a
complete revolution upon itself, the same part of a
complete circumference will it have rolled over the
sphere.
The complete revolution of a body's position is
usually supposed to be divided into JfiQ equal parts of
a revolution, called degrees; for each degree, or 3d0fh
part of a complete revolution, through which trie card
revolves upon itself, it will roll over the 360th part of
the circumference of the sphere. Now for the sphere
substitute the earth, and for the card the rolling plane
of the horizon. The angle through which this plane
revolves upon itself is measured by the ppparent
ascent or descent of a star; the space, then, through
which an observer must move to make by his mo¬
tion a star appear to ascend or descend one degree,
is the 360th part of the circumference of the earth.
Now there are instruments by which observations like
these can be made, and they have been mad$ with
great care and with every possible precaution and
* This is called measuring a degree.
THE DIMENSIONS OP THE EARTH. 15
the result has been this, that the distance through
which the observer must move to cause the apparent
ascent or descent of a star through one degree, is
every where very nearly 69-^ wiles. The whole cir¬
cumference of the earth is therefore 300 times this
number of miles, or it is 24869 miles; and knowing its
circumference, we find by certain rules of geometry
that its radius, or the distance from its surface to its
centre, must be 3958 miles. These are nearly its
dimensions, but not exactly; for it has been Btated
that, to cause the ascent or descent of a star through
one degree, we must move through a greater distance
when we are near the poles than when near the
equator; thus in Lapland this distance has been as¬
certained t<* be OOjjjjy miles, whilst in Peru it is found
to be only 68^f0 miles. Thus, if the earth were a
sphere, every where of the same curvature of surface
as in Lapland, it would have a circumference of
24933^ miles; and if it were every where of the same
curvature as in Peru, of 24739f0 miles.
In reality, it is not a sphere, but of that geometrical
form to which has been given the name of a spheroid,
or somewhat of the flattened form of an orange, its
polar diameter being less by about 26$ miles than its
diameter at the equator. This difference, however,
which is scarcely 1-300th part of the greater diameter,
is in the great bulk of the earth, scarcely an appre¬
ciable thing ; so that were an exact model made of the
earth flattened exactly in the same proportion in which
it is, ♦ foot in diameter, no sight or touch would be
able to discover it not to be a sphere. Knowing the cir¬
cumference of the earth, we easily find its surface to
16 THE DIMENSIONS OF THE EARTH,
be 196,862,256 square miles, and Us solidity to equal
259,726,936,416 cubical miles; its weight, if it could
be weighed, would be about five times that of as much
water. But3-I0thsof its whole surface, or 59,058,676*8
square miles, is land, the remaining 7-10ths being
water. Of this land, if that in the northern hemi¬
sphere be divided into 16 equal parts, that m the
southern will be found only to equal 5 of those parts.
The highest mountain upon its surface* is about
miles in height; and if we suppose that mountain to he
a cone, the diameter of whose base is the same at its
height, it would contain about 38 cubical miles ; its mass
would therefore bear scarcely a conceivable proportion
to that of the whole earth. The height, of the highest
mountain, added to the depth of the deepest sea, would
not probably exceed 10 miles, or be more than 1-800th
part ofthe earth's diameter; so that ifa globe were made
one foot in diameter, on which all the inequalities of
the earth’s surface were represented in the same pro¬
portion to the size of the sphere which they actually
bear to the earth, they would with difficulty be \isible
on it, the greatest depression not exceeding the thick¬
ness of this paper. It is but as the inequalities of the
rust on a ball of iron. And to upheave the bottom of
a sea, or to bury a continent in the waters, supposes
but a change in the form of the earth’s surface such as
the mere daily variation of temperature might produce
in that sphere of metal.
For the most part, the level of the surface of the land
is above that of the surface of the sea. This is nt§, how¬
ever, every where the case. There is in Asia a region
* Dwalagin, one of the Himalaya range.
17
THE DIMENSIONS OF THE EARTH.
*
occupied partly by the Caspian Sea, extending over
162,000 square miles, and containing many large cities
and an abundant population, which is every where
between 300 and 400 feet beneath the level of the
Black Sea and the ocean.* However, it is certain that
the relative levels of land and water have not always
been the same as they are now. There is probably no
place on the earth's surface, where, if they were sought
for, there would not be found traces that the sea had
once been there’; and could we examine the bottom of
the ocean, we might find equally certain evidence that
it had once every where been dry land.
These, changes, which appear to us at first sight
bo vast that they overpower the imagination, shrink
within the limits of our conception when we have once
realised the idpa of the isolation of the earth in space,
and its magnitude, and of the comparative insignificance
of the greatest elevations or depressions of its surface,
included but as it were within the thickness of a film, or
but as the finest dust scattered upon it, or as the most
imperceptible abrasion of it. The wonder is, not that
changes such as these have taken place, and do continu¬
ally take place, hut that, considering the infinite variety
of heterogeneous materials out of which, for the great
purposes of God in creation, the earth's mass is
* Halley conceived the wild idea, that this depression was pro¬
duced by the impact of a comet. All the knowledge, however,
which we can acquire of comets brings us to the conclusion that
they are ofa substance so aerial, that this indentation of the Cas¬
pian is an effect greater than could he produced were one of them
to impinge upon us. The explanation of Halley is, therefore,
universally rejected.
18 THE DIMENSIONS OF THE EAKTif.
wrought,—those remain from day to day without lush¬
ing into that state of chemical combination to which
each element tends, and which supposes the entire
annihilation of every existing form of organised being,
a melting of the elements with fervent heat, and the
burning up of the earth also, and the works that are
therein (2 Peter, iii. JO). Philosophy, after all, can
but resolve itself into the continued providence of God,
and re-echo here too, as throughout all its boundaries,
that declaration of universal nature, u The Lord God
omnipotent reiynelh” (Iiev. xix. 6).
To Him, in whose sight the huge bulk of this earth is
as entirely comprehended as in ours is the far-distant
planet which we look at through a glass, and by whom
it is bo mjputcly seen that no individual of the thou¬
sands of forms of living things ever escapes his watch
ful care; “ who hath measured the waters m the hollow
of his hand, and meted out the heaven with a span,
and comprehended the dust of the earth in a measure,
and weighed the mountains m scales and the hills in a
balance” (1b. xl. 10),—those tliinrwhich we call
mighty catastrophes, cataclysms, and dire phenomena
of nature, are hut as to us the changes on that
modelled sphere of metal that has been spoken of,
God holds in an equal view, and m the circle of an
equal power embraces, these, and the most ordinary
interpositions of his providence.
( 10 )
THE HEAVENS.
" When I consider the heavens, the work of tliy flngeis,
llie moon and the j»tars, which thou hast ordained ; what
is man, that thou art mindful of him ? and the son of
man, that thuu viaitest him?”—Ps. viii. 3,
It js "w'»tli the heavens that men have ever associated
their ideas of the power and majesty of the Most High.
The countless host that peoples them ; their depths
unfathomable to the sight; their majestic silence; their
slow progression through an endless cycle of change,
unshaken by the tumult of these lower elements—
unchecked b) the f.ir-spiead contest of human passion,
the wide vicissitude of human affairs ; their benignant
and mysterious Quiver—night, bringing with her an
insensibility as of death; day, a new creation of life ;
the seasons, year after year returning; the sun waking,
with his breath, the bud and the blossom from their
slumber, calling forth the beauty of the tree and the
dower, covering the earth with greenness, and making
it “ plenteous with all manner of store the rains, that
fall as marrow and fatness; the winds, which are
loosed through heaven ; the lightnings by which it is
cleft asunder; the thunder, which is its voice :—these
are all manifestations of the power of God, which the
mind so associates with its conception of him, that they
become to it as symbols.
To tin* eje of Faith, the heavens are, moreover.
20 THE HEAVENS.
sanctified by the actual presence of God; for u God
dwelleth in the heavens from the beginning/1 Joining
hand in hand with knowledge, she wings her way re¬
joicing through the measureless paths of the universe j
and in worlds innumerable—stars and systems countless
—finds a field of investigation but equal to the fruition
of the disembodied spirit, and the “ strength and beauty
of a sanctuary*' (Ps. ix, 6) not more than sufficient for
an infinite God; in the silent adoration of the un¬
numbered hosts of heaven she beholds a worship but
worthy of an omnipotent God ; and in the gratitude
of myriads of myriads of intelligent creatures but the
tribute due to a redeeming God.
When we look above and around us, whether in the
daylight or at night, we see a vast hemisphere, the
centre of which appears to be precisely in the place
where we stand. In the day-time its surface is of a
pure unsullied blue, except that sometimes huge masses
of cloud float over it, which, although they do not par¬
take in its pure azure colour, yet agree in its general
form, and, however varied their outline, appear to
mould their surfaces into its spherical shape.
Journeying in a zone across this fair canopy, and
“ rejoicing like a giant tc run his course/* appears
the Sun—a circle of brightness—occupying but a very
small portion* of the sky, but sending forth a flood
of light by which the whole space beneath him is per¬
vaded, which is returned in an infinite variety of tints
by the clouds, and of which the colour and brightness
of all the things around us are but so many varied
modifications; for in the evening, when he disap-
* About the hundred and fourteen thousandth part.
THE HEAVENS. 21
pears, sinking under the western margin of the
horizon, and the stream of his light is diverted to
a region beneath our feet, night succeeds, and dark¬
ness. The moon now comes forth, and pursues with
a tranquil but ever-varying aspect her silent course
through the sky; or the heavens are black as sack¬
cloth of hair," except that innumerable stars, so minute
as to be visible only by their excess of brightness, are
scattered upon it like gems.
Without acquired knowledge and instruction, the
first belief of every man would be, that he is really in
the centre of the hemisphere of the heavens, as he
seems to be; and that the sky above him is in reality
a vast dome, within whose cavity he might conceive
himself to be imprisoned—to the surface of which he
might ascend, could he lift himself up in the air—up
to the crown of which he might, with the requisite
labour, build a column or a tower—or to the margin
of which he might, by persevering in a straightfor¬
ward course, eventually travel
To destroy this* false notion, but little observation,
however, would he required : so that the folly, as well
as the presumption, of the descendants of Noah, who
would have built in the plain of Shinar a tower
41 whose top might reach to heaven" (Gen. xi. 4); and
the simplicity of the youth who sought to overtake
the rainbow,—have passed into proverbs.
Whoever set to work to travel to the margin of the
horizon, would find that journey as far as he might,
he would never even get nearer to it. He was in the
centre of the dome of the heavens at first; and where-
ever may have been his journey, he will find himself
22 THE HEAVENS.
in its centre still; nay, even when he has reached one
of the very points of the earth’s surface on which, when
he first set out, its margin seemed to rest.
Again; when he considers, that every body else, all
over the world, when he looks above him seems to be
in the centre of a similar dome, and that if the one on
which he himself looks be really one somewhere exist¬
ing, because it seems to be so, then, for a like reason,
that on which every other person looks must be one ;
and that there must thus be as many skies as there
are people to look at them, so that, in point of fact,
out of these millions of different skies he must—stand
where he will—be actually standing upon the margin
of one of them, without perceiving it;—these things
will convince him that in believing in the actual ex¬
istence of a dome of the sky any where, except indeed,
at an infinite distance, he has been labouring under a
deception of the senses.
There is no such hemisphere of the heavens. What
he sees above him is a mighty unfathomable space,
being part of that in which the huge mass of the earth
exists ; the other portion of which space he would see,
if he were on the side of the earth opposite to that on
which he stands. This space appears to him limited
and bounded, simply because his sight enables him to
judge of the distances of objects only within a certain
limit; and it appears to him every where at the same
distance from him, because this limit is, in all direc¬
tions in which he looks, the same. Thus the stars,
the sun, the moon, the planets, which appear all alike
on the surface of the dome of the sky, and cquallj
near to him, may be scattered at distances immea-
THE HEAVENS. 23
surably different, and through regions of space in¬
finitely remote—as the clouds arc some very much
nearer to him than others, although they appear to
him in the day-time to be all at the same distance as
the sun, and at night on the same concave surface
with the moon and stars.
( 21 )
PARALLAX,
Let us now assign to this observer a mind more
than ordinarily sagacious and inquiring, and let us
suppose him to have been struck by the fact, that the
different stars thus scattered through space do not
'appear, as he moves about, to occupy different, posi¬
tions in respect to one another; or to be at different
angular distances from one another when he is in
different positions. This fact, when he has well con¬
sidered it, will greatly astonish him. All the objects
around him on the earth appear thus to alter their
relative positions as he moves about among them.
Distant trees as he looks at them nearly in the same
line or in front, appear to be separated by a less or a
greater interval; the hills Beem farther and farther
apart as he travels past them ;* nay, even sitting in
his room, if he look through his window on any two
objects without—two chimneys or two trees, for in¬
stance—he will find that by moving about in the room
the apparent distance of these from one another, es¬
timated by the distance of lines drawn from the eye
to them, or, as it is called, the angle between these
* It has been observed by Sir John Herschel, that this fact
is particularly remarkable m Alpine regions.
PAJRAMjAX, 0^
mi l/
lines, will be' continually changed. This effect will be
the more remarkable the nearer they are to him. If,
indeed, their distance be very considerable, he will
scarcely be able to perceive it at all, however large
the space may be over which he moves ; whilst if one
of them be very near to him, even the slight motion
which he can give to his head, without moving from
his chair, will be sufficient to produce it.*
13ut to take an illustration applying itself more
directly to the case in question ; let us suppose him
to be sailing at no great distance from the sea-coast
at night, and to observe two lights upon projections
at the shore. At one instant, when he is situated not
far out of the prolongation of a line joining the lights,
they will appear to him to coincide, blending momen¬
tarily into one light; as he sails on parallel to the
shore they will seem gradually to separate from one
another, appearing to be divided by a wider and a
wider space, until they have acquired a greatest or
maximum separation; after which, as, still advancing
on the same course, he leaves them behind him, they
will approach one another again, going through all
the same circumstances now of approximation as
before cf separation. AIL these changes of the ap¬
parent distance of the lights from one another will be
* This appearance will most strike him, if he compare the
relative positions of one of the upright portions of the frame of
his window and some external object—a tree, for instance, at
the distance of 100 yards. Were he, however, to use an instru¬
ment, such as are every day constructed for measuring angles,
there are scarcely any two objects within the reach of his vision
which would not appear under different angles when viewed from
different parts of his room.
D
20 PARALLAX.
less as the distance of the ship is greater. If it
be very great, they will scarcely be perceptible, and
only to be traced by the assistance of accurate instru¬
ments. If it be not very great, they will be plainly
visible, and evident to the naked eye. Moreover, all
these changes in the apparent distance of the lights
from one another will be referred to, and apparently
take place upon, the circular margin of the horizon ;
or, if the lights be raised high enough above the
shore, they will seem to take place on the face of the
sky. The appearance will be that of beads of light,
moving towards one another on the circle of the
horizon, or on the surface of the heavens j coinciding,
then receding, and again approaching to one another.
These apparent motions of distant objects in resect
to one another, which result from a change in the
position, not of the objects themselves, but of the eye
of the observer, are called parallactic.
( ‘27 )
TIIE REGION OF THE FIXED STARS.
** lie made the stars also.”—(fen. i. 16.
are there not changes of apparent relative posi¬
tion—parallactic changes—among the stars ?
This is a question which might suggest itself among
the first and simplest to an intelligent inquirer. Go
where he will on the earth’s surface, even to the
farthest point from that on which he now stands, he
will still find no difference in the apparent distances
of the stars from one another. Measure them with
ever so delicate an instrument and the result will
still be the same ; no trace of this parallactic change
will he perceptible. Why is this * Why do not these
stars go through the same series of changes in their rela¬
tive distances as do the oltjects within our reach ?—
Simply because they are not within our reach,—be¬
cause they are immensely removed from us, as com¬
pared with any distance through which we can move
on the earth’s surface. We know by experience, and
we can prove demonstratively from the rules of geo¬
metry, that any change in the apparent distances of
two objects produced by a change in the place from
which they are seen, is necessarily less as their dis¬
tance from that place is greater; and that, when that
distance is infinitely great in the comparison, and then
only, is this apparent change of position insensible.
28 THE REGION OE
What, then, is the conclusion 1 Evidently this : that
since, when we pass from one such point on the earth’s
surface to that which is even most remote from it, wc
can perceive (even by the aid of the most delicate in¬
struments) no such apparent changes of relative posi¬
tion among the stars, these stars are immensely distant
from us, even when compared, not with any ordinary
unit of measurement—a mile, for instance, or a
league, or a degree—but with the diameter of the
earth itself.
Some notion may he formed of the magnitude of
this disproportion from the following illustration :—
Let a circle be measured, twenty or thirty yards in
diameter, and let an observer walk round it, mea¬
suring, with an instrument contrived for that pur¬
pose, the angular distances of two distant objects—
two trees, for instance. He will obtain in every
different position a different admeasurement ; and
instruments have been made, of such delicacy, that
different positions on such a circle would cause
perceptible differences in the angles observed, even
when the objects were distant, as much as 100,000
times the diameter of the circle.’1' Now, instru¬
ments of this kind, and of the most perfect work¬
manship, have been employed to observe the an¬
gular distances of the stars from points differently
situated on an imaginary circle girding the earth,—and
no variation in them, no parnllax, has ever been traced.
It follows, therefore, demonstratively, that the distance
of the region of the fixed stars is more than 100,000
times the diameter of the earth. Now, the earth's
* See IlcrsclielS Astronomy, p. 51
TT1E FIXED STARS, 29
greatest diameter is 7925 miles: let, then, these 7925
miles be imagined to be taken 100,000 times, and a
great sphere to be described having this distance for
the length of its radius, and the earth for its centre.
The region of thefixedstars lies without that sphere: this
much is certain. But the measurement is yet far short
of its limit . This sphere, 792 millions of miles in ra¬
dius, is lost in the space which really intervenes be¬
tween us and the region of the fixed stars. Our earth
travels every year round the sun (as will be shewn in
a subsequent paper), in a mighty circle of 190 millions
of miles in diameter. The stars may therefore be ob¬
served, with instruments such as those spoken of
above from different points of that huge circle at
different seasons ; and if they were not distant
from us more than 100,000 times its diameter, paral¬
lax would be observable among them. Such observa¬
tions have been continually repeated, and no parallax
has ever been traced. It is therefore certain that the
region of the fixed stars is distant from ua more than
19 millions of millions of miles.* Although the fixed
stars arc thus observed to have no parallactic motions,
* ThL. is a rude calculation, used only as an illustration.
There are instruments which, in the hands of good observers,
cannot, we arc assured, err more than two seconds. That they
shew, by repeated observations, no annual parallax, is therefore a
proof that the annual parallax of no fixed star is greater than this
number of seconds.
It may here be mentioned, that some disputed observations of
MM. Arago and Matthieu, made in 1812, assign to the sixty-
first star of the constellation of the Swan a parallax of 1"’ 2; and
that some observations by Dr, Brinkley, at Dublin, appear in like
manner to shew an almost inappreciable parallax.
30 THE ItECilON OF TIIE FIXED STAIiS
}et the sun and moon, and those other wandering sraiw
called planets, have.
These, then, we conclude, with equal certainty, to
be within that sphere which does not contain the fixed
stars. They are even within the first and infinitely
smaller sphere spoken of; for they shew a parallax
even when seen from different points of that compara¬
tively ‘small circle which girds the earth. Thus, then,
the sun, moon, and planets, lie all within a sphere no
part of which is distant more than 792 millions of
miles,* whilst the region of the fixed stars is without
the limitB of a sphere having a radius of 19 millions of
millions of miles.
* Saturn and Uranus must be omitted from this computation.
( 31 )
THE SINGLENESS OF THE SCHEME OF CREATION.
“ The Lord our God is one Lord."—Dent. vi. 4.
Not only, however, has science applied her scale,
and measured her way thus far through the abysses
of space—her et/e, too, has pierced the intervalshe
lias seen something of the economy of the region se¬
parated from us by that interminable void, and she
has found in it but another manifestation of the power
and wisdom of God ;—she has linked the state of pas¬
sive being there with the conditions under which it
exists here by a common law, and by that law bound
creation, through its remotest limits, to the throne
of one great Intelligence. 77icre, us heret all matter
tends to approximate by a mutual attraction of its
elements ; and there that attraction is governed by the
same physical laws as here. There are stars called
multiple stars, more than 3000 in number, which,
appearing to the naked eye single, are seen, when
looked at through powerful telescopes, to be double,
triple, or even quadruple. The stars of each group
arc commonly of very different, intensities of bright¬
ness, and of different colours, and they are not inde¬
pendent of one another, deriving their apparent ap¬
proximation from an accident of their position, but
32 THE SINGLENESS OF TIIF
dependent systems having motions of revolution about
one another, as have the bodies of our solar system.
This marvellous fact is the discovery of Sir John
HerscheL But this is not all. There are certain
remarkable laws, which were discovered, by the ob¬
servations of Kepler, to govern the actual motions of
the planets of our system and their satellites; and
proved by Newton to establish the attraction of all
these planets to the sun, and of its satellites to each
planet, according to a certain remarkable law, and by
a force the same with that by which bodies are at¬
tracted to the earth, and which we call gravity. Now,
it is ascertained, by the observations of Sir John
Herschel, that these laws of Kepler obtain in respect
to the revolutions of each binary system of stars.* The
* The revolution of one of these round the other in its oval
orbit vanes continually, being at one period more rapid than at
another; but this variation is subjected to this remarkable law,
that the area swept over by an imaginary line drawn from one
star to the other is in the same period, say a month, always the
same; the revolving star when more remote moving slower, and
when nearer moving faster, so as just to make up Ibis equality.
From this single fact n follows that the stars must attract me
another. This is the fundamental proposition of the Pnncipia of
Newton. Again the oval orbit which one star describes about
the other is found to be accurately an ellipse, in the focus of
which is that of the two, which is fixed. From this fact, again,
it follows that the attraction of the stars upon one another must
be according to that remarkable law, called the law of “the in¬
verse square of the distance,” which governs the mutual attrac¬
tions of the planets and sun. The following are the periods of
the revolutions of those double stars whose orbits have been de¬
termined •
„ in the constellation of the Crow n . 43 years.
{ in the constellation of the greater Bear 5H
SCHEME OF C1USITION. S3
reasonings of Newton in respect to our system of the
universe apply, then, to these, Kach star of a system
of double stars gravitates to that about which it re¬
volves,—as do the planets of our solar system to the
sun, as docs the moon to the earth, and by the same
law that a stone falls to the ground. Such is the
singleness of the scheme of creation! such is the unity
of the system of the universe! The one purpose of the
one eternal God operating on worlds innumerable, and
to the very verge of space. “ The Lord our God is
one Lord” (Deut. vi. 4). These multiple stars are
commonly of different colours, the most common being
combinations of red and greenish blue, and yellow
and blue, and sometimes white and blue. It is ascer¬
tained that in many cases these are not accidentai
colours, or mere optical phenomena, but the coloured
light with which each star really shines.
Shining with their own light, these and all others of
the stars called fixed are $uus; and, reasoning by every
analogy of nature, we must believe that each group of
suns is surrounded by a system of worlds. How shall
the imagination conceive the glory of that region in
whose sky different suns arc thus variously and infi¬
nitely combined, and which is flooded by the ever-
ehauging hues of a many-colourcd light!
Now let us pause, and look back upon the progress
we have made.
70 in the constellation of Ophiuchus 88
The Htax Castor 9. . 253
tr in the constellation of the Crown . 287
01 in the constellation of the Swan . 452
v m the constellation of Virgo . 629
? in the constellation of Leo . 1200
( 3‘I i
RETROSPECT.
“ These we thy glorious works, Parent of good.
Almighty, thine this universal frame.
Thus womProus fair; thyself how wond’rons, then 1
Unspeakable, who sitt’st above these Heav’ns,
To uh invisible, or dimlv seen
In these tliy lowest works; yet these declare
Thy goodness beyond thought, and pow’r divine,"
Tiic earth is a solid mass, of great but finite dimen¬
sions, resting upon nothing, joined to nothing, “ hang¬
ing upon nothing*’ (Job xxvi. 7), but self-poised, float¬
ing, self-supported in the infinity of space. Of this
infinite space we know only this,—that within a por¬
tion of it, no part of which is distant, from us more
than 1800 millions of miles,* are found the sun, moon,
and planets; that beyond this region there intervenes
an immeasurable space, which, as far as we know or
have reason to believe, is void; that this void being
traversed for more than 19 millions of millions of
miles, but how much more we know not, a region would
at length be reached peopled by stars, which are stms,
and whose number is countless as the sand on the sea¬
shore.f
* In this computation the orbits of Saturn and Uranus are in¬
cluded.
•f There are bright spots in the heavens called nebula?, which
are, it is >)elieved, clusters of stars, by reason of their number
and closeness not to be distinguished from one another. There
RETROSPECT 35
** Another Heaven
Prom Heaven-gate not far, hounded in view
On the clear hyaline, the glassy sea;
Of amplitude almost immense, with stars
Numerous and every star perhaps a world
Of destin'd habitation.”—Paradise Lost, vii. filT.
Throughout the whole of the vast surface of our own
planet—more than 196 millions of square miles—
where it is land, far into the bosom of the soil—where
it is sea, to its very unfathomable depths—and to
the unseen heights of the liquid air,—it is thronged
with living beings. Life, under an infinite variety of
forms, adapted to a variety as infinite in the qualities
of the material things which surround it, permeates this
mighty region. The naturalist who would count its
individual forms, from the “ cedar of Libanus to the
minutest of the algaf1 from the great leviathan of the
waters to that unseen living thing, whose shadow only
the most perfect appliance of artificial vision has yet
reached,*—is as lost as the astronomer, who, taking
for his scale the greatest distance which the mind can
grasp, applies it to measure out the universe.
And if this be the universal association of life with
every form of matter here, how shall we not, reasoning
are more than 2500 of these ncbulee, and they contain together
many hundred millions of stars. Of the stars which form the
milky way, Heischel saw 258,000 pass before the field of his tele¬
scope in forty minutes. Every improvement in the telescope
shews more of them; and there appears to be no other limit to
their number than the extent of the universe.
* The recent discoveries of Ehrenberg extend toccrtain shadows
of animalcules, whose distinct parts he has never yet been able
to see.
36 RETROSPECT.
from every analogy, assign it, under some form or
another, to matter wherever else it exists 1
These things are, however, perhaps beyond the le¬
gitimate sphere of our speculations. " Great is the
Lord; his understanding is infinite; his greatness iB
unsearchable” (Ps. cxlv. 3, and exlvii. 5), In consi¬
dering them, our most powerful impulse is one the
tendency of which is to humble us to the confession,
that man is in very deed as nothing among the created
things of God. 41 When I consider thy heavens, O
God, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars
which thou hast ordained, what is man, that thou art
mindful of him ? and the son of man, that thou visitest
himT* But let it be remembered, that of all the crea¬
tures of God, it was man alone who was created in his
own image; and although he be morally fallen from
the high estate in which he was first wrought, so that,
on the beauty of that form of holiness under which he
dwelt in paradise, and wherein was glassed the image
of God himself, there has passed the ruin of sin, yet
does the soul of man still, as to its intellectual linea¬
ments, respond in some degree to the dignity of its
origin, and vindicate the immortality to which it is
reserved; “ for there is a spirit in man, and the inspi¬
ration of the Almighty giveth him undorstanding,,
(Job, xxxii. 8J. And thus the Psalmist says, in con¬
tinuation of the passage last quoted : “ For thou hast
made him a little lower than the angels, and crownest
him with glory and honour. Thou madest him to
have dominion over the works of thy hands/’ &c.
The soul of man yet remains the greatest of the works of
God in this lower world. The philosopher who, firet
HKTKOSPECT. 37
tracing the finger of God in the things around him,
and marking their relations, both as to the component
elements of each, and as to the system of created being
which includes the whole,—then extends his thoughts
to the dimensions of the earth on which he stands, and
conceives the repetition, throughout these dimensions,
of that which his own more immediate vision em¬
braces ; whose view then passes the limits of this single
planet, to rest upon those others which with it form
our system of the universe; and thence to wing its
flight, through unmeasured paths of space, to that
region of countless suns and worlds through which the
eye of science alone expatiates
** To God's eternal house ....
A broad and ample road, whose dust is gold
And pavement stars.”—Paradise Lost, vii. 576.
will within these wide precincts of creation have
beheld nothing in dignity comparable to the human soul
nothing in which the creative power and wisdom of
God are so manifested as in that gift of understanding
with which it has pleased him to endow it. That spirit
of man—which linked here, but asfor a moment, to the
few members and organs of a frail and decajung body—
an atom, whose range is through an evanescent space in
creation—proceeds*thence to mete out the paths of the
planets, to poise the forces which hold them in their
courses, to trace the operations of God's hand among
the stars of heaven, and to follow out the purposes of
his wisdom in the mechanism of the universe;—that
understanding of man, to feel the utter insignificancy,
ignorance, and folly of which, in comparison with the
wisdom of God, “ wonderful in counsel and excellent
38 RETROSPECT.
in working/* and its infinite dignity, value, and im¬
portance, in comparison with any other created thing,
whilst it humbles us under the hand of G-od, will tend
to establish our faith in the high destiny to which the
soul is reserved, and the mighty price with which it has
been bought.
( 39 )
THE ECONOMY OF CREATIVE POWER.
“ The Lord ofhosts, wonderful in counsel, and excellent
in working.7'—Is. 28, 29.
It is n thing observable through every province of
nature—a principle to which every science lends its
authority, that the power of God, infinite in its devcl-
opement is infinitely economized in its operation—a prin¬
ciple to be traced in every manifestation of force in
inanimate matter, and under every form of independent
motion. All that we call design in natural things has
in some way a direction to it. The very weed under
our feet shews it in the form of its stalk; and the tree
of the forest shapes out its trunk, moulds its branches,
and tapers the very stems and fibres of its leaves, in
obedience to it. That economy of creative power which
thus manifests itself in the works of God, infinitelyper¬
fect in its degree, has its remote but visible type in the
imperfect husbandry of our efforts, which impels us to
use the simplest possible means of effecting that which
we have to do, and which is implied in what we call
the best means of doing it. In us this economy has
for its object the preservation of our living powers; and
for its immediate origin, a sense oflassitude and fatigue,
for that end specially implanted in every living thing.
In Him by whom this sense was laid upon us as a law,
40 THE ECONOMY OF
but whose own arm is “ not straitened/’ and who
“ fainteth not, neither is weary'’ (Pa. xi. 28), that
which in us he has made a necessity of nature, is but
a principle of wisdom in operation.
Let us now seek if there be any evidence by which it
is given us to perceive the operation of this principle
in the architecture of the heavens. Let us listen if, in
the stillness of the universe, there be not a voice re¬
echoed from worlds which, “ without speech or
language/’ traverse its unfathomable regions, anti stars
which silently repose in its depths—the voice of re¬
velation : “ by His wisdom hath he made the heavens,
and stretched them out by his understanding.**
It is a high privilege thus to be able to commune
with God in his works—to feel (as it were with a sense
of the understanding) his wisdom guiding the hand of
his power. It is to enjoy here a knowledge of which,
little though it be, that of heaven, as far as it includes
the mysteries ofcreation, cannot but be a continuation—
to hold here a few links of a chain which proceeds from
the throne of God. And although now it is to the
silent monuments of nature that the researches of
science are limited, and in respect to these although
now we see but as (i through a glass darkly,” yet is
there a spirit of devotion which, regarding these things
as beginnings^ with a faith almost invigorated into
knowledge, anticipates, walking in this twilight,—
the daylight of heaven—when we shall see “ face to
face,” and know even as we are known /'—a time
when to the soul, now released from the corruptible
body, in some degree (however slightly) schooled by
the instruction of faith and knowledge, and no longer
CBEATIVE FOWEft. 41
straitened by the imperfections of sense, the works of
Grace, the works of Providence, and the works of
Nature, shall present, under one vast but simple and
united scheme, the equal evidence of God's mercy, his
wisdom and his power.
( 42 )
THE APPARENT PATH OF THE SUN IN THE
HEAVENS.
(C In them hath he set up a tabernacle for the sun,
which ia as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, and
rejoiceth as a strong man to run his race.”—Ps. xix. f>.
Of the changes of the heavens, those which first fix
our attention arc the daily revolutions of the sun and
stars. Every day the sun takes his course in a zone ob¬
liquely across the sky; and between sunsetand sunrise
the stars, each in a path like that of the sun, revolve
from the eastern to the western margin of the horizon,
there to disappear, btit on the following night to pre¬
sent themselves again nearly in the same quarter of
the heavens, having in the intervening period of light
journeyed through some region unknown to us, hut
apparently beneath our feet.
In this motion of the stars the most remarkable fact
is, that they preserve their relative positions, each star
moving so that its distance from the adjacent stars, and
its position in respect to them, remains always the same-
It is as though the whole dome of the sky, carrying
with it the host of heaven, swept with an equable
motion round a mighty axis placed obliquely across the
space beneath it. The point wherg this imaginary axis
intersects the dome ofthe sky is, in ourlatitude, situated
somewhat above half-way up its northern side, and is
called its pole. The paths of the stars are circles, or,
APPARENT PATH OP SUN IN THE HEAVENS, 43
us it wore, bands of the sky round this point. In their
revolutions they preserve always the same distance from
it, and seem to respect it. Being Bituated on the side,
ns it were, of the sky, some of them have not space to
complete their circles beneath this point without sink¬
ing under the horizon; whilst the paths of others, did
they leave a trace behind them, would be entire circles,
completed on the face of the visible heavens. The first.,
when they sink beneath the horizons^, and rise when
they come above it; the others, called circumpolar
stars, neither rise nor set, never disappearing from the
sky but in the daylight.
Of the stars which rise and set, the circular paths
of some pass but little under the horizon, and the in¬
terval between their rising and setting is short; others,
at greater distances, have larger segments of their paths
cut oft’ by the horizon, and are a longer time beneath it.
A star whose distance is equal to the quarter of a
circle (or ninety degrees), measured from the pole over
the crown or zenith of the sky, has half its path be¬
neath the horizon, and half above it; and the interval
between Uprising and setting, and its setting and
rising, are the same. If it were traced out upon the
heavens, the path of this star would be a circle, called
the equinoctial. All the stars beyond it, towards
the southern margin of the horizon, have the greater
portions of their paths beneath it, until.at length hut
little of each path emerges, and the stars scarcely rise.
Imagining the sphere of the heavens, of which wo
see only one-half, to be completed, these appearances
indicate to U9 an invisible point beneath the southern
horizon, about which the stars revolve as about the
44 APPARENT PATH OF SUN IN THE HEAVENS.
visibly pole, and which is situated at the opposite ex¬
tremity of the great axis of the sky. About this in¬
visible southern pole there revolve stars which never
rise to us, as about the northern there revolve those
which never set.
Were it not for the excess of brightness, the hea¬
vens would in the day time, when the sun shines, be
seen covered with stars as at night. Amongst these
stars the sun would not appear to keep his place, as
they do in respect to one another; but, partaking at
the same time in their daily motion, to travel amongst
them, and, as it were, from star to star, with an annual
motion, uniformly and in a circle.*
On a sphere an infinite number of circles can be
described, but none greater than those which are said
to gird the sphere. By geometricians those circles
which gird a sphere are called great circles of it.
Now, the path of the sun is not (like that of a circum¬
polar star, for instance) a small circle of the sphere
of the heavens, but a great circle. Moreover it is
not a circle parallel to the diurnal paths of the stars,
but oblique to them, so as to intersect wj^h those that
.lie near it. This circle is called the ecliptic, or gun's
path. It intersects with the equinoctial, at points
called the equinoctial points,
r
* There is an exact parallel to this motion of the son amongst
the stars in that of the moon, which, however, completing its
course in the much shorter period of a month, may almost he seen
to move amongst them.
( 45 )
THE PLANETS.
u The worlds were framed by the word of God.”—Hrb. 1, ?.
The 6tars have been said all to retain, in their diur¬
nal motions, the same places in respect to one an¬
other, and the same distances. This is not true in
respect to six of them; these wander about among
the rest, and are for that reason called (from a Greek
word) planets. The paths of these planets on the
heavens are not, like the path of the sun, circles; and
their motion in them is not, like his, uniform, or
always at the same rate. Their motions are exceed¬
ingly devious. Sometimes they are seen moving
obliquely across the heavens, tending towards the
north, but westward, or in the direction in which the
revolution of the whole sky appears to take place;
then the direction of their motion changes, and they
travel among the stars southward and eastward. Thus
irregular in the direction of their motion, they are yet
more irregular in its velocity. At one time they
move rapidly through the heaTOis; at another they
are stationary. Their brightness, too, changes per¬
petually. Sometimes one of them will be seen fixed
apparently from night to night, but rapidly augment¬
ing its blightness, as though, from some distant region
46 THE PLANETS,
of space, it were approaching us in a direct line; or,
in like manner, it may at other times be seen motion-
, less, but shining night after night with a diminished
lustre, as though in a direct line it were leaving us.
The planet Venus varies, for instance, so greatly in
brightness, as at one time scarcely to be distinguishable
from a star of the second magnitude and at another
to cast a shadow like the moon. It was by reason of
their irregular motions, and their continually* varying
brightness, that, in the early ages of the world, these
planets were believed to move, not by any established
and uniform law of nature, but each with an indepen¬
dent will; and that when, in God*s anger, “men weue
given over to worship the host of heaven** (Acts, vii.
42), the imagination saw them surrounded as with the
power and majeBty of gods. The slowest, the dimmest,
and the most distant, they called the god of time.
He was represented as an old man, and appears to
have been worshipped, with different attributes, under
the different names of Saturn, Remphan, PhaBnon.f
To another of them, in which, from its great size, its
steady lustre, its wide range, and its less devious mo¬
tion, it was easy for the imagination to see an ascend¬
ency, they gave the throne of the gods, and seem to
* The early period at which the planetary motions were made
the subject of observation, and their intimate connexion with the
most ancient mythology's shewn in the division of the week,
and the enumeration of iffseven days according to the names and
supposed distances of the sun, and moon, and live planets. This
enumeration was common to the Egyptians and to all the nations
of the East. It is of immemorial usage, and is called by La Place
the most ancient monument of astronomical knowledge,
f “ Ye took the star of your god Remphan" (Acts, vii. 43).
THE PLANETS. 47
have called him, under different forms of worship,
Jupiter, Osiris, Baal.*
A third is of the colour of blood. They made him,
therefore, the god of battle, and named him Mars,
Moloch, &c.f
That planet which, in its season, shed the fairest
lustre, and gave the brightest light, but whose motion
was most uncertain, and its path most devious, and
which sooner than any other waxed faint, and was ex¬
tinguished, they held to he the goddess of beauty, and,
under what appeur to have been but different forms,
worshipped her as Venus, Astarte, Ashtaroth.J
Lastly, there was the planet whose course was the
most rapid, and which ever most closely attended upon
the sun; this they took for the symbol of speed. As
Saturn personified the slowness, so did this planet the
quickness, of time, and they made him the messenger
of the gods, under the .names of Mercury, Stiibo, Nebo,
(Is, xlvi. 1).
* They worshipped the host of heaven, and served Baal
(2 Kings, xvii. 16). Them also that burned incense to llaal, to
the sun, and to the moon, and to the planets, and to all the host
of heaven (2 Kings, xxiii. ft),
f See Amos, v. 26, where the star of Moloch is spoken of.
j 1 Kings, ii 33.
( 48 )
THE THEORY OF EPICYCLES.
“ With centric anil concentric scribbled o’er
Cycle and epicycle, orb in orb.”
Paradise Lost, viii. SO-
For centuries after the disappearance of the heathen
mythology this belief in planetary influences remained,
under the form of judicial astrology.* It had now,
however, come to be known (hat the motions of the
planets, uncertain and irregular as they seemed to be,
were yet the subject of a certain law; a law of remark¬
able simplicity, if we consider the extreme complica¬
tion of the phenomena embraced under it. As far
back as the lime of Aristotle, it had been suspected
that there were certain geometrical curves, called
epicycles, in which if the planets moved, their places
in the heavens would be nearly those which they were
observed to be. These curves they would describe
if, each revolving round the sun as a central point,
l
* Even so late os tile sixteenth century we And it maintained,
by reasoning little different from that in which it probably had
Its origin, by Gerolamo Francostore, a distinguished writer, in
his work called ‘ Homocentrica.' “ The planets,” says he, “ are
observed to move one while forwards, then backwards ; now to
the right, now to the left ; quicker and slower by turns; which
variety is consistent with a compound structure, such as that of
an ANiMAt, which possesses in itself various springs and prin¬
ciples of action."
THE THEORY OK EriCYCftES. 49
that central point were itself carried on in a circle
round the earth.1" The epicycle of each would have
the appearance of a scroll passing round the circum¬
ference of that great circle which is the sun’s path, and
having a series of loops within it. And in describing
each loop, to an eye too remote to estimate the change
of distance, the planet would appear at one time to
be stationary, and at another to move in a retrograde
direction, varying its brightness, especially at its sta*
* As another illustration of the form of this curve—to the
extremity of the hand ^ a clock let a watch be supposed to be
fastened, carrying at the extremity of its hand a pencil so fixed
as to trace a line on the face of the clock. The curve traced
out by this pencil, as the hands of the clock and watch revolve,
is an epicycle; and by setting the clock and watch to different
times, its form may be varied in any way we think fit- To re¬
present the true epicycles of the planets, or those in which, as
it was afterwards discovered, they might, consistently with their
appearances in the heavens, be considered actually to move, we
must imagine the watch to have five hands, of lengths which
bear the same proportions to the length of the hand of the clock
that the distances of the planets from the sun do to the distance
of the es-rth. These must, moreover, revolve in times which
bear the same proportion to the time of the revolution of the hand
of the clock that the periodic times of the planets do to the length
of the year. The centre of the clock then representing the
earth, and the centre of the watch the^sun, the curves described
by the different hands of the watch will truly represent paths in
which if the different planets moved, their apparent motions in
the heavens would be precisely what we see them to be. The
ancient Egyptians are asserted, on the authority of Macrobius
(Comment, in Somn. Scip., i. c. 19), to have given to Mercury
and Venus orbits of this kind about the sun, as they accompaniad
him in his revolution about the earth. The same theory is
obscurely hinted at by Cicero (Somn. Scip.), and distinctly by
VitruviuB (lib. ix. c. 4).
F
50 Tilt TIIE(VRY OF EPICYCLES.
tionary points, where its motion would he directly from
the earth, or to it.
As in the progress of years, recorded observations
increased in number, this theory of epicycles was
gradually perfected ;* and it was found that the places
of all the planets, and their motions, might be with
great accuracy predicted, by supposing them all to
revolve in circular orbits round the sun in the same
direction, but at different distances, and with different
velocities—the sun himself being swept with all this
train of attendant planets, in a circle round the earth.
The distance of each planet froriPthe sun, and its ve¬
locity, and the distance of the sun from the earth, were
elements necessary to any calculation founded on this
theory. These being at length, however, sufficiently
well made out, the basis of an extensive knowledge of
practical astronomy was laid upon them,
It is evident that this theory of epicycles supposes a
continual change in the distances of the several planets
from the earth. Since the discovery of the telescope
by Galileo, it has become possible to measure the
apparent diameters of the planets; and there have been
found changes in them which accurately coincide with
* It is to the astrologer%of the middle ages that this perfecting
of the theory of epicycles is wholly due; they applied their
knowledge of it to the purposes of their art. Fallacious as it
was, science yet owes to it large obligations. It is not. too much
to assert, that without that knowledge ofthe law of the planetary
motions which the theory of epicycles supposes, the system of
Copernicus would have remained until now a bare speculation,
as did that of Pythagoras for more than two thousand years.
Whilst astronomy was thus being nurtured by astrology, chemistry
was cradled by the sister delusion of alchemy.
THE THEORY OF EPICYCLES. 51
those changes of distance which each would undergo
moving in its epicycle. Similar observations on the
sun shew that his diameter is nearly constant, as it
would be moving in a circle. So that, on the whole,
we may consider it to be a thing established by the
most certain evidence of observation, that the positions
of the planets are the same as they would be if, re¬
volving all in different concentric orbits round the
sun, and in different times, he swept them with himself
every year in an orbit round the earth.
( 02 )
DO THE STARS REVOLVE ROUND THE EARTH i
" Whether the sun predominant in heaven
Wise on the earth, or earth rise on the sun,
lie from the east his flaming road begin.
Or she from west her silent course advance.”
Paradise Jjost, viii. 1G0.
Now, let us review the complicated and improbable
conclusions to which the appearances of the heavens
have hitherto led us. The first is, that the whole host
of heaven, including the sun, planets, and stars, revolve
round us with a common revolution every twenty-four
hours. We have seen that the region of the fixed stars
is distant from us by a space not less than 100,000
times the diameter of the earth’s orbit, or by 19,200,000
millions of miles. Being thus distant, the magnitudes
of the fixed stars must be enormous, or they could not
be visible to us, however bright they might be.*
Moreover, being thus distant, if they revolve round us
every twenty-four hours, they must fly through space
with inconceivable rapidity. A daily revolution of
$ie heavens amounts, then, to this; that millions of
huge spheres of matter, endued with the same principle
* Sir J. Herschei has calculated that the light emanated by the
Star Sirius cannot be less than twice that of the sun. It is pro¬
bably far more.
DO THE STARS REVOLVE ROUND THE EARTH? 53
of force, subject to the same laws, urged with the same
primeval impulse, as that matter which composes our
earth, each pouring forth a Hood of native light
through the abysses of space ; that these stars innu¬
merable, so thick in visible space that the eye cannot
in some parts of it discover any interval or separation
between star and star; so many, that whenever we
succeed in fathoming more deeply the space in which
they dwell, by powerful telescopes, we invariably find
more of them ;—that these stars innumerable each in
its own mighty orbit of more than 19,200 billions of
miles, revolve in the same direction, and in parallel
circles, with a velocity greater than that of light round
this earth of ours, which is but as an atom in com¬
parison with the least of them :* moreover, that all
the planets, describing each its particular orbit round
the central sun, and the sun its orbit round the
earth, besides their respective and proper motions, have
one common daily motion of infinitely greater rapidity
and extent around this earth* which is almost the least
of them.
The fabric of nature more immediately around us
manifests a simplicity in its design, a proportion and
harmony in its parts, and an economy of creative
power, with which every thing in this scheme of the
universe is at variance. Now every element of dis¬
proportion vanishes from it; it changes into a system
* If anything could add to the force of this improbability, it
would be the consideration that the stars are by no means dis¬
posed in space with anv visible reference to the position of the
earth ; there is no uniformity, no correspondence of situation
between them and it.
v 2
oi DO THE STARS REVOLVE ROUND THE EARTH ?
of marvellous simplicity and beauty, reconciling itself
entirely to ihe analogy of nature, and worthy of Him
who hath “ established the world by his wisdom, and
stretched forth the heavens by his understandingif,
for the daily rotation of the heavens, the millions of
stars, the suu and planets, round this little earth, we*
substitute a daily rotation of the earth about its axis ;
and for the annual revolution of the sun about the
earth, accompanied by his train of attendant worlds,
we substitute a revolution of the earth in common
with the other planets round the sun at rest—thus
giving to it two motions, one of rotation, and the other
of translation, which two motious we shall shortly see
to involve in themselves a probability,
A daily rotation of the earth upon its axis is suffi¬
cient to account for the apparent daily revolution of
the heavens, annual revolution of the earth about
the sun similar to that of the other planets, and in the
same direction, is sufficient to account for the apparent
annual revolution of the Bun about the earth in a circle,
and for the apparent motions of the planets in epicy¬
cles, according to the theory of the astrologers. These
facts tot presented themselves to the mind of Nicolas
Copernicus, a canon of the cathedral church of Warmia,
and were published in 1543, after his death, in hiB
work, * De Revolutionisms Orbium Ccelestium.’ They
establish the system of the universe known by his
name, and constitute the graitest discovery of the
visible works of God ever yet wichsafed to the human
mind.
f 65 )
THE MOTION OP THE EARTH.
u Wifh inoffensive pace, that spinning sleeps
On her soft axle, while she paces even,
And bears thee soft with the smooth air along.*
Paradise Lost, viii. 165.
It has been explained, in a preceding paper, that the
horizon of any observer on the earth’s surface may be
supposed to be a plane touching it under his feet, and
hiding from his view that half of the heavens which is
beneath it. Moreover, that as he moves about, this
plane, rolling on the earth’s spherical surface, and thus
altering its position in space, varies continually the
hemisphere of the heavens which he sees above him,
approaching, as it were, and passing the stars in the
quarter of the heavens from which, and receding from*
those towards which, he moves. This fact, unconscious
of the motion of his horizon, he attributes to a motion
of the stars themselves ; and thus it is that those who
sail from hence into southern regions of the world see,
to their astonishment, the northern stars apparently
sinking behind them into the sea, whilst before them
stars unknown to our sky rise out of the south. Now,
let us for an instant suppose the apparent daily motion
of the heavens to cease, and let one of the persons just
spoken of, instead of travelling southward, travel due
cast; his horizon wiUMhen, for the same reason as be¬
fore, so alter its posiflHi as to cause the stars to appear
to rise before him out of the east, and to set behind him
in the west. Instead of the slow motion of a ship,
suppose him to be carried round the earth with avelo-
5(5 THE MOTION OF THE EARTH.
city great enough to complete the circuit in twpnty-
four hours j the rising and the setting of the stars will
then evidently be to him precisely as we see it: the
only difference of the cases is, that he is conscious of his
motion, and we arc not. Make them, then, alike.
Suppose that he floats upon a current, which circulates
round the earth and of whose flow he is unconscious ;
the deception will then be complete. Now, let the
earth itself turn beneath this current with the same
velocity with which the current circulates, and in the
same direction ; the whole, current and earth, will now
turn round together and in one mass, and the phe¬
nomena of the daily motion of the heavens will present
themselves precisely as we see thcfri; the point of the
heavens about which all the stars will appear to turn
being that where the axis of the earth's revolution,
being produced, meets them, and the position of the
horizon in respect to that axis determining the apparent
position of that point in the sky.
Thus is the apparent diurnal revolution of the
heavens explained by an actual diurnal revolution of
the earth.
Give to the earth, at the same time that it thus
rotates continually round an axis within itself, au
annual revolution round the sun, such as the other
planets have, and in the same direction ; the epicyclical
orbits of these will then pass into circles described
round the sun at rest and earth will take her
place amongst them—one of^ system of Worlds of
which each has its particular orbit, and its own time
of revolution; different elements,which are never¬
theless related to one another by numerous analogies,
THE MOTION OF THE EARTH. 57
and by various common laws of dependence upon the
central sun.
What is required to prove this f It has been stated
that all the apparent distances of the planets from the
earth, and all their apparent positions in respect to the
sun, have been found by observation to agree with the
hypothesis of epicycles.
It is now, then, required to shew that these circum¬
stances will all be the same on the hypothesis of the
earth’s revolution in common with the planets round
the sun, as upon the opposite epicyclical hypothesis of
the earth’s quiescence, and the sun’s revolution about
it, carrying the planets with him.
The proof of this fact is very easy. It depends
upon the general principle of relative motion, ** that
if any number of bodies be moving in any way in
respect to one another, and you communicate to them
all, other motions equal to one another, and in parallel
directions, and towards the same parts, then whatever
are the amounts of those motions, provided they are
thus equal, and whatever are their directions, pro¬
vided they are thus parallel and towards the same
parts, the motions of the bodies in respect to one
another, and their positions at all times in respect to
one another, will remain unaltered”—that is, these
bodies will all be in the same position in respect to
one another, and at the same distances from one
another, at any given lime, as they would have been
before.
To illustrate this principle, let the reader conceive
to himself a number of people moving about with any
regular motion on the deck of a ship at anchor—the
58 THE MOTION OF TIIE EARTH.
sailors working the capstan, for instance; and to
communicate to them equal motions in parallel direc¬
tions, let the men be supposed to continue to work the
capstan after the anchor is weighed and the ship under
sail. The motion of these men in space will now
be entirely different from what it was before ; so that
if each man as he moved could leave his footsteps
marked on the surface of the sea, the trace would be a
curve of a far more complicated nature than that cir¬
cular path of which he would have left the trace, ifthe
ship had remained at anchor ; yet will the motion of
every man, although in reality thus tortuous, be, in
respect to the rest, and to the different parts of the ship,
precisely what it was before.
Had, indeed, a portion of the ship admitted of sepa¬
ration from the rest, and had a different motion been
communicated to that portion, it is manifest that the
positions of the men in respect to one another on the
two portions would have been changed—it is the fact
of the whole receiving parallel and equal motions that
constitutes the identity of their relative positions in the
two cases.
To connect this illustration more immediately with
the problem of the heavens, let us suppose that there
are two ships, one ofwhich is at anchor, and that the
other sails round it in a circle. ^Ltt us further sup¬
pose that round the capstan of this last there are five
men working, and not all moving round it in the same
time as men usually do who ttfork a capstan, but in
different times, bearing the same proportion to one
another, and to the time of the revolution of the one
ship round the other, that the periodic times of the
THE MOTION OF THE EAETH. 59
planets do to one another, and to the time of the ap¬
parent revolution of the sun. Let them, moreover,
work at different distances from the capstan, having
the same relation to one another, and to that of one
ship from the other, that the distances of the planets
and earth from the sun have ;* these men will then
evidently come into precisely the same position in
respect to the fixed ship, that the planets appear by
observation to come into in respect to the earth.
Now, let us suppose the anchor of the fixed ship to
be weighed, and forces to he applied to the two ships
such as would be sufficient, if they were both at rest,
to communicate to both of them motions precisely
equal to that of the movable ship, but in an opposite
direction; the force thus applied to the movable ship
acting against the force which moves it, and being
equal to that force, will bring it to rest; whilst that
communicated to the fixed ship will give it a motion
precisely equal to that which the movable ship had
before, and therefore cause it to revolve round it in a
circle concentric (if its capstan be in its centre) with
those in which the men are working*
We have now, then, the case of the one ship, and
the men on the deck of the other, all working round
the same centre and in the same direction. More¬
over, the relative positions into which they are thus
brought are precisely the same as they were before;
for by communicating to the two ships equal and
* To preserve this proportion of distances, the deck of the
movable ship must be extended by an imaginary plane, on which
three of the men must be supposed to work in circles, including
the fixed ship.
60 THE MOTION OF THE EARTH,
parallel motions, we have, in fact, communicated to
the one ship, and to all the men on the other, equal
motions in parallel directions, by communicating which
we can in no way have altered their relative motions#
Thus, then, the relative motions of the men and the
second ship are the same, whether e suppose that
ship to be at rest, and the first to carry the men work¬
ing the capstan round it, or whether we suppose the first
to be at rest, and the second to sail round it m the
same direction in which the men are working round
its capstan. Let the first ship represent the sun, the
men working round its capstan the planets, and the
Becond ship the earth, and the analogy to our system
of the universe will be complete. The same con¬
clusion, then, applies to it. The relative positions of
the planets, and sun, and the earth, will he the same,
whether we suppose them each to revolve in its proper
orbit round the sun, and the sun to carry them all round
the earth; or whether we suppo^ them to revolve
round the sun at rest and th 'arth also fo revolve
round him in the same direction as they revolve, and
in a similar orbit.
It only remains now to shew t> * he apparent
motion of the sun amongst the stars in a circle • >und
the earth would be produced by a revolutio of the
earth in space round the sun. For this purpose let
an illustration again be borrowed from the motion of
a ship. Let us suppose that it is night, and that a
ship is sailing in a circle at a considerable distance
(say a mile) round an isolated light-house. Let there
be, moreover, another light visible at a much greater
distance (say twenty mileB; both these lights will be
THE MOTION OF TIIE EARTH. Gl
seen from the ship upon the circle of the horizon; and
if the nearer one be a much dimmer light than the
other, the difference of their distances will not be dis¬
tinguishable, That round which the ship is sailing
will, however, appear in succession at all the different
points of the compass, whilst the other remains fixed
at the same point. And if on board thiq ship there
be an observer who is unconscious of its motion, he will
believe that the one light actually revolves round him
in the horizon, whilst the other remains fixed upon it.
Now, instead of there being but one distant light, let
there be supposed to be a number scattered all round
the offing : these will all appear fixed} and the nearer
light round which the ship sails will, to the observer
who believes himself at rest, appear to move amongst
them in a circle completely round him. Thus, the
appearance is the same when the ship is carried round
the light at rest, as it would be if the light were carried
round the ship. If the central and nearer light be
taken for the sun, the distant lights for the stars, which
have been ■mcwu io be immensely distant as compared
with the sun, the snip for the earth, and the surface
of the sea for the plane of the earth’s orbit, this case
will present an accurate illustration, and a complete
analogy to the apparent motion of the sun among the
stars. The same reasoning may be applied to both,
and it follows that this motion would equally appear to
take place whether the sun revolved round the earth,
or the earth round the sun.
On the whole, then, we have, on the one hand, this
complicated hypothesis, that the earth is at rest, and
that the millions of stars and worlds which people
02 THE MOTION OF THE EARTH.
that space, in the immensity of which the earth is but
&b an inconsiderable speck, revolve daily with a com¬
mon motion round it; that, besides this daily motion,
in which the sun and planets partake with the rest of
the heavens, the planets revolve, each at a different
distance, and in a different time, round the sun ; and
that the sun, of dimensions incomparably greater than
the earth, and with this train of satellites, is himself a
satellite of the earth, revolving round it once a-year;
—on the other hand, we have this hypothesis, possess¬
ing, as we shall shortly shew, an independent proba¬
bility, that the earth rotating about an axis within
itself, at the same time revolves round the sun at rest
in an orbit similar to that of the other planets of our
system, and in the same direction.
“ When I behold this goodly frame, this world,
Of heaven and earth consisting, and compute
Their magnitudes; this earth a spot, a grain,
Ah atom, with the firmament compared
And all her numbered stars, that seem to roll
Spaces incomprehensible (for such
Their distance argues and their swift return
Diurnal), merely to officiate light
Hound this opaceous earth, this pnricUul spot,
One day and night 5 in all their vast survey
Useless besides; reasoning I oft' admire
How Nature, wise and frugal, could commit
Such disproportions.”—Paradise Lost, vili. 15,
An opposition to the established analogy of nature
is that which in natural things constitutes an improba¬
bility ; and there is somewhere a limit where that
which is improbable merges in impossibility—that limit
is passed when the first of these hypotheses, in itself
THE MOTION OF THE EARTH. 63
greatly improbable, is placed by the side of the other.*
But it may be asked, improbable as it may be that the
sun and stars should have the motions which they appear
to have, has not the opposite hypothesis, too, its im¬
probability! Is it probable that a huge mass like the
earth, 8,000 miles in diameter, should be in motion, and
with the twofold motion which this hypothesis assigns
to it. There is a conclusive answer to this objection.
It is more probable that the earth is in motion than
that it is at rest; and being in motion, it is more pro¬
bable that it should rotate than not The fact that it
exists a mass isolated in space, resting upon no other,
havingno friction against any other, resisted bynothing,
constitutes in itself an independent probability that it is
in motion; and, being in motion, that its motion is
twofold—that it spins round an axis within itself, and
at the same time advances forward in space.
It is a law of motion, founded upon observation,
that when once communicated to a body, it can never
cease to exist in that body in the same quantity and
direction a« it existed at first, provided there be not,
or have not been, some resistance or other force tend*
ing to destroy or divert it.
It is another principle of motion, that if it be com¬
municated, by impact or otherwise, to a mass in any
* The discoveries of Newton have not here been alluded to. It
may, however, lie mentioned, that when the theory of gravitation
is thrown into the argument, a revolution of the sun about the
earth becomes a mechanical impossibility. There are, moreover,
proofs drawn from other phenomena, which do not come within
the scope of a popular discussion, which are equally unanswer¬
able evidence of the earth’s motion. The aberration of light is
one.
G4 THE MOTION OF THE EARTH.
other direction than through its centre of gravity, this
mass when left to itself will have two motions—one a
motion of translation, in which all its parts, including
its centre of gravity, will partake equally; the other
a motion of rotation, which will ultimately become
steady about a certain axis passing through its centre
of gravity, and in which its different parts will partake
differently as they are at different distances from that
axis. And it is a remarkable fact, that these two
motions of rotation and translation will be quite hide-
■*
pendent of one another; so that the motion of trans¬
lation will be the same as though there had been no
rotation, and the motion of rotation the same as
though there had been no translation.
To illustrate this, let the reader tax his imagination
to conceive gravity to have become extinct, and the
atmosphere to be removed from the earth’s surface—
as, indeed, it would then remove itself; and let him
suppose that under these circumstances I were to take
a ball into my hand, and, holding it up, that I were to
place it in the void before me, releasing my grasp
from it. It would be impossible that in so releasing my
grasp I should not communicate to it some motion—
With that motion (by the first of the two principles
just stated) it would move onfor ever.
Moreover, it is in the highest degree improbable
that this motion shall have been communicated to the
ball by my hand precisely through its centre of gravity;
and this not being the case, ike sphere would (by the
second principle) begin instantly to spin round some
axis passing through that point—that is, through its
centre—and would thus move continually forward in
THE MOTION OF THE EARTH. 65
a straight line, spinning at the same time on an axis
within itself, until it was lost in immensity.* It has
been stated that it would be impossible to release the
ball from the hand without communicating some motion
to it; and this is perfectly true, as any body may con¬
vince himself who will try to place a ball of wood in
the water without making it turn round or move to
the right or left of the place where he puts it; but it is
equally true, that with care he may so release his hold
as to cause this motion to be very small,* and, it may
be urged, that if that care were perfect, the ball might
be released and yet left perfectly at rest. This, again,
is very true ; but, then, it must be remembered, that
the care spoken of, with a certain exercise of judg¬
ment, supposes the development of a certain force ;
for the act of placing the ball in space' supposes the
communication of a certain motion to it which has a
tendency to continue, and which must be checked by
the hand before it can leave it at rest: so that even
were we to suppose it to be placed in the void by that
hand which acts under the direction of Infinite Wis¬
dom, yet still, supposing it to operate subject to
laws of matter and motion before established by it,
there would be required a second and further opera¬
tion of that hand that the ball should rest. It is
scarcely necessary to apply this illustration. That
the hand by which the materials of our globe were
brought together, and then placed in the void space,
might have been withdrawn, and yet the mass left
* An illustration will suggest itself to the mind of the reader
in the motion of a stone. It is impossible so to throw it into the
air that it shall not spin round as it moves forward.
o 2
66 THE MOTION OF THE EARTH.
quiescent in space, who will venture to deny t That
it should thus rest supposes, nevertheless, a secM
operation of that hand. It is a simpler thing that the
earth should be in motion, than that it should be at
rest; and, being a simpler thing, it is according to the
analogy of nature, a more probable thing.
The quiescence of the earth has been shewn, from
other considerations, to involve an improbability of an
infinite order; and the supposed improbability of its
motion has been converted into a probability now to
be thrown into the scale of evidence, and to com¬
plete it.
We have thus seen the first rude speculations of
science connecting the irregular motions of the planets
with an independent will and a supernatural agency ;
following the progress of events, we have next found
recognised the indications of a law in the planetary
motions**^ Jaw which, at firBt confused, broken, and
unconnected, was at length perfected into the theory of
epicycles. Lastly; the mystery of the universe pre¬
sented itself to us resolved, and the wisdom and sim¬
plicity of God's laws in creation vindicated, in the
system of Copernicus.
In reviewing this painful and tedious progress of
the human mind through one page of the book of
nature, it is impossible not to anticipate with joy a
time when the whole shall be revealed, and, under the
same mighty scheme, our knowledge fhall comprehend
with the mysteries of nature the dispensations of Pro¬
vidence.
There are providential manifestations of God’s hand
plain as are the stars in heaven, but out of the ordi-
THE MOTION OF THE EARTH. 67
nary course, opposed to the usual order of its operation
—perplexed, irreconcilable, inexplicable. And there
are times when—like those who, observing the uncer¬
tain and tortuous motions of the planets, believed them
to move subject to no law, but capriciously and by
a wild ungovernable will—we are tempted to ask,
“ How doth God know 1 and is there knowledge in
the Most High ?” (Ps. hxiii. 11.) Or when, with an
impatience scarcely less presumptuous, we venture to
prescribe schemes and systems for the Almighty un¬
worthy of his perfections; as by the astrologers of old
the heavens were
“ With centric &nd concentric scribbled o’er, ,
Cycle and epicycle, orb in orb."—Paradise Lott, viii. 80.
Let us remember that there is a knowledge too won¬
derful and excellent for us—we cannot attain unto it;
and that while the revelation of nature has no other
limit than the inadequacy of human reason, that of
God's word is limited to the necessities of our condi¬
tion as sinners. For all the practical purposes of life
this is enough ; as—to carry on the analogy—for all
those practical uses, by reason of which men consult
the heavens, the theory of the old astronomers was
sufficient
“ Heaven
Is ss the book of God before thee set.
Wherein to read his wond’rous works, and learn
His seasons, hours, onlays, or months, or years.
Tills to attain, whether heaven move or earth
Imports not, if thou reckon right."
Paradise Lost, viii. 66.
Let us not, then, seek to know more than is revealed—
to be wise beyond that which is written.
68 THE MOTION OF THE EARTH.
“ And for the Ileav’ns’ wide circuit let it speak
The Maker’s high magnificence, who built
So spacious, and his line stretch'd out so far;
That man may know he dwells not m his own;
An edifice too large for him to fill,
Lodg'd in a small partition, and the rest
Ordained for uses to his Lord best know n.”
Paradise t oft, viti. 100.
Ere long light will be thrown on the mystery that
surrounds us ; its anomalies will then pass away, and
its perplexities vanish.
( 69 )
CURTAIN MODES OF HUMAN EXISTENCE ASCRIBED
IN SCRIPTURE TO THE ALMIGHTY.
^Revelation docs not clear up the mystery which
Nature has thrown around that act—filled with the
immediate glories of the presence of God—in which
she had her origin, when the foundations of the earth
were laid, and when the morning stars sang together,
and all the sons of God shouted for joy (Job, xxxviii.
7). It concerns truths of infinitely greater import¬
ance to us.
In numerous passages of Scripture, there is, however,
ascribed to the Almighty, in the great work of creation,
the exercise of faculties and powers analogous to those
which we are accustomed to associate with the opeiation
of our bodily organs*
We read that in the beginning, when the earth was
without*form and void, and darkness was upon the
face of the deep, the voice of God was heard in the
stillness of the universe, and there was light; and it
was divided from the darkness. Every subsequent
act of creation was accompanied by a command, and
their names declared by the voice of God, were re¬
echoed from the firmament of heaven, and from the
dry land, and from the gathering together of the waters
(Gen. i. 8,10).
We are ourselves said to have been the work of
God’s hand, by which wc were fashioned as clay by
70 MODES OF HUMAN EXISTENCE
the hand of the potter (Is. lxiv. 8), and clothed with
skin and flesh, and fenced with bones and sinews
(Job, x. 11),
He is represented to have measured the waters in
the hollow of his hand, and to have builded up the
world as an architect. u Every house is builded,'
saith the apostle, “ by some man; but he that built
all things is God’* (Heb. iii. 4). (
His eyb is said to look to the ends of the earth,
and see under the whole heaven (Job, xxviii. 24) ;
and to have seen our substance yet being imperfect
(Ps. cxxxix. 16).
His ear is described as open to the cry of the
righteous (Ps* xxxiv. 15); and when he planted the
ear, he is said to have heard.
Nevertheless, God is a Spirit (John, iv. 24). He
is invisible; whom no man hath seen at any time, nor
can see at any time ; neither hath any man heard his
voice at any time, or seen his shape (Heb. xi. 27 ;
1 Tim. vi. 16; 1 John, xviii. 37).
Having no corporeal parts, or bodily nature, it
is impossible to associate his actions with the opera*
tion of any bodily organs.
It may he, that terms expressive of these actions are
used in Scripture only in a figurative sense—from &
necessity of our ignorance, and, as it were, in com¬
passion to it—actions of a like kind with those we
ourselves perform being the only ones of which we
can as yet conceive: or, it is possible, that the actions
ascribed to* him are strictly Buch as we are accustomed
to associate with the words used, only separated from
those bodily organs through which we perform them.
ASCRIBED TO THE ALMIGHTY. 71
May we not venture to speculate so far as to
assume that the second of these suppositions derives
an independent probability from that image and re¬
semblance in which man was originallycreated to God,
and which is to be traced in a corresponding re¬
semblance between God's works in creation and the
works of man—between nature and art ?—a relation
* of qualities alike in kind, although infinitely removed
iu degree; the resemblance of that which is infinitely
weak and imperfect to that which is infinitely powerful
and perfect.
If thus it be, how wonderfully is art elevated by the
reflection that it is but nature on a diminished scale,
and operating with a less perfect skill; a thing done
by a creature of God—a creature made in his own
image, and operating upon matter governed by the
same laws which he in the beginning infixed in it, and
to which he subjected the first operations of his" own
hands—a creature in whom is implanted reason, but
as the feeblest ray in comparison with the whole light
of the sun, but still of a like nature with that by which
the heavens were Btretched forth; living power as that
of a worm, and as a vapour that passeth away, but an
emanation of Omnipotence; a perception of beauty and
adaption infinitely removed, but akin to that whence
flowed the magnificence of the universe; and to
control all these a volition, whose freedom has, with
an inconceivable separation, its analogy, and, afar off,
its source, in that of the first self-existent Cause.
How full of dignity is the thought, that in every exer¬
cise ofhuma%skill, in each ingenious adaptation, in each
complicated contrivance and combination of art* there
72 MODES OF HUMAN EXISTENCE ASCRIBED, ETC.
•
is included the exercise of faculties which, though so-
parated by an infinite interval, arc yet allied to those in
the operation of which creation had its birth ! And
how full of humility is the comparison, which, placing
the most ingenious and the most perfect of the efforts
of human skill by the side of one of the simplest of
nature's yrorks, shews us but one or two rude steps of
approach to it! How full, too, is it of profit and in¬
struction to see God thus in every thing around us, in
evftry object of art, as well as in nature—to find him
working with ns in the daily operations of our hands,
wherein, under different and infinitely inferior forms,
we do but reproduce his own delegated wisdom and
creative power!
A man may thus sanctify the daily exercise of his
mechanical skill, hold converse with God as intcl-'
ligibly in art as in nature, and live under as open a
manifestation of his presence in his workshop as when
hegoes forth, among the green fields and upon the hills.
And when he thus reflects on the manifest but in¬
finitely remote analogy of his physical and intellectual
nature to that of Him in whose image he w&b made,
can the contrast of his moral nature escape him f Can
he but reflect that, with all this dignity of the intel¬
lectual and physical being, there muBt once have cor¬
responded an equal standard of the moral being!
that, with ail theseJhcuUiesfor the recognition and wor¬
ship of God, theremust once have uniteda corresponding
elevation gfthe religious being ?
( 73 )
TUG GREAT ARTIFICES
M The h averts declare the glory of God; And the firinament
sheWoth Ati handy work.”—Pb. xix. 1.
Tub reference made in the commencement of this
paper to those passages of Scripture <Jn which the
operation of God m creation is associated with actions
which we can only undeistand to beperforined by the
agency of corporeal mgaus, has led \is,nto speculations
about which there may possibly be diligences of
opinion. There can, howewn, be none as to the pro-
pi icty of using, under the sanction of those passages,
similar terms in speaking of the agency of God in
natural things, and leading the mind to a conception,
lllwever imperfect, of his wisdom and goodness, as
manifested in that distribution of temperature on the
earth’s surface of whicji we are about to sjwak, by the
antilogous supposition of an AR$iJ?iCjsH modelling in
succession different parts of the surface of a globe*
Let, then, an artificer be imagined to be occupied
in sculpturing on the surface of a globe, a work of ex¬
quisite delicacy and beauty*- a landscape into which
there enter as parts mountains and valleys, rhers and
lakes—a tissue of foliage, trees, herbage, fiowess* fruits,
and figures* Tor its perfection, Jet it be necessary that
e\eiy part of it should be subjected tov pertain varieties
of temperature, and that certain intensities of light
74 THE GREAT ARTIEKTIt.
should fall upon it; and especially at those places on
the globe where he is at anytime more particulaily
working, let there be required a powerful be.it and a
strong light. Let this heat and light be radiated* from
a furnace, before which, but at some distance from it,
the globe is placed.
One-halfof the globe will, at any instant, be receiv¬
ing the light and heat of this furnace; and the oppo¬
site half will, at that instant, be receiving no beat, and
be in darkness.
Of the enlightened and heated side, there will he
one particular spot upon which the direct light and
heat will fall; it will easily be distinguished irorn the
rest by its greater brightness.
On all other points the rays of light and heat will
fall obliquely and the more obliquely as they me the
more distant from this point,—enlightening and heat ng
the surface, by reason of their increasing obliquity,
less and less; until, beyond the boundary of the two
hemispheres, the light and heatare wholly intercept
by the mass of the globe.
There are two methods by wtjiich the artificer may
obtain light and heat on the unenlightened and un¬
heated portion of this globe. lie may alter the posi-
• The verb to radiate will readily be understood to apply to
the emission of rays. There are such rays both of light and heat,
and bodies in a state of combustion emit and radiate both.
There are, however, other bodies tfldah emit or radiate onl\ r;u a
of heat. of this class are all heated bodies when not heated to rod-
new. This separate rad iation of heat, or emitting of rays of heat,
a property possessed in a greater or less degree by all heated
bodies will often bo referred to in the following paper; it is here
explained once for all.
TIIE CHEAT ARTIFICER. 75
tion of hi* furnace to the other side of the globe, or he
may turn his globe round, so that the other Bide of it
ma\ face the furnace. In either of these cases the
*
spot on the globe where the direct light and heat fall,
and which is the most enlightened and heated, will he
altered ; and, by continually turning the globe, or by
continually varying the position of the furnace, this
spot may be made to traverse the whole surface of the
globe, so that every point upon it shall receive, in its
turn, the direct light and heat.
But the artificer seeks to economize his labour ; he is
impelled to that economy by a law of his nature. To
move about his heavy and cumbrous furnace will
therefore nor enter into his thoughts, and he will at
uni e decide to effect his object of obtaining a powerful
light and beat on the points of his globe, on which in
succession be is about to woik, by rotating it.
He will peibaps suspend it by a stiing from the
ceiling of bis room, or bo will place it upon an axis
by passing an iron rod through its centre, and sup¬
porting this lod at its extremities in such a way that
it may turn on the points of support. But he will
soon find that by this simple contrivance he cannot
receive the direct light and heat on every point of his
globe. Whatever is the position of the axis on which
he has supported it, when ho turns it round upon that
axiR, he will sec the bright and heated spot to traverse,
not the whole globe, but only one narrow circle or
zone of it. That it may fall on other points than those
included in this zone, the position of the axis must be
changed.
Let us now imagine this change to take place in the
THE CHEAT ARTIFICER.
position of the axis. From an upright position lot it
slowly and uniformly incline, round its middle point,
until one extremity is turned directly towards the
furnace ; let it then revolve back again with the same
uniform motion past its first position, and until the
other extiemitv is directed towards the furnace. Whilst
tr
the axis is thus vibrating backwards and forwards,
turning alternately its two extremities towatds the
direction from which the light and heat come, let the
sphere be continually and rapidly rotating upon it.
And to fix in the mind an idea of the relation of these
two motions, It t it be supposed to rotate about its
axis 365 times, whilst the axis itself is slowly making
one of its complete vibrations.
It is evident that as the globe thus rapidly revolves,
and turns the two extremities of its axis (called its
poles) alternately towards the fire, the point of direct
heat and light will traverse, in order, evpry point of
it; and that it will have traversed every point twice
when the axis has completed a vibration.
The artificer is now enabled to work on every point
of his globe in succession under the direct light and
beat of the furnace. But has every part of his work
thus been equally heated f
This is another question, and an exceedingly com¬
plicated one.
In the first place, let it be observed, that as the one
pole (say the upper one) inclines towards the fire,
the region immediately round it does not at each ro¬
tation pass at all from the heated ’and lighted side of
the globe to the cold and dark side, bo that it receives
the heat continually^—that the region about the equator
I liE GilEAT ARTIFICER. 77
(which is mid-way between the two poles), and for
some distance, more or less, from it, does pass at each
rotation out of the heated hemisphere, and receives the
heat only at intervals,—and that the region about the
other (or lower) pole does not pass by its rotation at
all out of the cold and dark, to the heated side of the
globe, and does not, theiefore receive any heat at all.
Thus, then, by this arrangement, the regions about
that pole whi( h is in the act of inclining towards t,he
fire will be recei\ ing oblique heat, without intermission,
until at length, in their turn, they receive also direct
heat ; whilst the equatorial regions receive their heat
with a continual intermission; and the regions about
the opposite pole receive no heat at all.
Moreover, let it be observed that, describing less
circles at each rotation, the polar regions rotate under
the heat moie slowly than the equatorial regions do,
and therefore imbibe more of its influence.
On the whole, then, it is evident, that by this
arrangement the regions immediately about the pole
which is inclining towards the fire will receive an im¬
mense accession of heat, and become intensely heated
as compared with the equatorial regions; whilst the
opposite polar regions will he receiving no accession
of heat at all, and become intensely cold
Those remarks which apply strictly only to those
points which are in the immediate vicinity of the poles
and the equator, may be extended, with the requisite
modifications, to the distribution of the temperature
through all the intermediate regions.
Thus, instead of the artificer obtaining by this varia-
tion of the position of his globe, tlie same heat at each
ii 2
78 THE GKEAT ARTIFICER.
spat of its surface where in succession he seeks to \\ ork,
and at the same time so ordeiing it that the other
parts shall be protected from that extreme vicissitude
of cold which might be injurious to the work which he
has sculptured upon them,—he will, in fact, work at
some points under a heat intensely greater thau at
others ; and precisely those parts which are thus subject
to the greatest heat will be those afterwards to be
subjected to the greatest cold. The distribution of
temperature thus brought about will then be charac¬
terized by the greatest varieties of heat ami extreme
vicissitudes of cold ; a distribution the most unfavour¬
able to the purposes of the artificer.
How shall he equalize it ? The polar regions accu¬
mulated more than their share of heat: fir&ty because
they receive the oblique heat continually; never,
during the inclination of the axis in one direction,
passing out of the heated hemisphere, as the equatorial
regions did ; and, secondly, because, in addition to this
continual oblique heat, they, in their turn, also re¬
ceived the direct heat of the fire, and rotated under it
more slowly than the equatorial regions did. Both
thesecauses tended to accumulate heat at the pole. Let,
then, one of them be removed, and made to operate
elsewhere ; let the pole never receive the direct heat
at all: and to effect this, let the axis never incline from
its vertical into a horizontal position, but, inclining a
certain distance towards the fire, lqt it return and in¬
cline an equal distance in the opposite direction, vibra¬
ting about its centre as before, not only from the hori¬
zontal into the horizontal position again, but from a
certain inclined position into the same inclined position
TIIE CHEAT AUTIFICElt. 79
again. The direct heat will thus never be made to fall
upon the pole, or upon a region for somduiistancj round
il, as it does apon the equatorial region; but the ab¬
sence of this directheat there, will be fully compensated
by the fact, that this region never, for a long period,
passes from under the influence of the oblique heat, as
the equatorial region does at each rotation.
The degree of this equalization will manifestly de¬
pend upon the extreme inclination of the axis; and
such an inclination might be fixed upon as should make
the equalization perfect; that is. as the sphere rotates,
the axis might be made to incline, until there had
been communicated to every point in succession, from
the equator to the pole, precisely the same extreme of
temperature. Such an arrangement would probably
be that best suited to the purposes of the artificer.
Hut whilst he had so arranged it that the parts on
which he is to work should all, in their successim, ac¬
quire the elevated temperature at which he might wish
to work upon them, he could not by that arrangement
have so ordered it that the opposite extremes of cold
to which all would afterwards in their turn be subjected
should be similarly equalized. When the axis takes
its opposite inclination, thd polar regions, which were
before continually in the light and heat, wilt con¬
tinually be in the cold and darkness, whilst the equa¬
torial regions will continue to pass at each rotation
into the heat. Thus the latter will be subjected to the
influence of the heat at each rotation, and the former
will not. Whilst the polar regions had thpn acquired,
during the first inclination of the axis, the same maxi¬
mum degree of heat as the equatorial regions, they will
80 iuK GllEAT ARTIFICER.
now bo subjected to a much greater maximum of cold.
Thus, then, it appears that the arrangement by wlncli
the same maximum of heat is brought about in suc¬
cession upon the different points of the globe, is neces¬
sarily one accompanied by unequal extremes of cold,
and therefore great and unequal vicissitudes of tempe¬
rature.
Let us now suppose that our artificer finds these
vicissitudes of temperature destructive of his sculp¬
ture, and that, retaining the equalization of maximum
heat, he is desirous of diminishing them. He will at
once perceive that they result from the inclination of
the axis, and that they would be less if lie could make
the extreme inclination less. But that inclination was
chosen as necessary to bring about the required equal¬
ization of maximum heat; how, then, retaining this
equalization shall he diminish the inclination 1 Thus :
the axis was before supposed to incline uniformly. Let it
now incline itself more slowly as it approaches the ex¬
treme of its inclination; the same effect will then he
produced as though, inclining uniformly, it had inclined
farther; for although the point of direct heat will not
now so nearly approach the pole as before, yet, when
it has approached the nearest to it, it will remain longer
there.
It is true that, in order to preserve accurately the
equalization of the maximum temperature, under these
circumstances, a very accurate adjustment of the motion
of the axis will be necessary. But let us suppose that
our artificer, by persevering observation and experi¬
ment, has arrived at a knowledge of the true law of
this motion, so that without sacrificing the equalization
THE CHEAT AHTirJCETl. 61
of the maximum temperature he may, to the greatest
possible degree, diminish the vicissitudes of tcmperatuie
inseparable from that equalization. Already we ha\e,
it is true, supposed a case of admirable knowledge,
discernment, and skill ; more, perhaps, than it lies
within the compass of the human understanding to
realize. Let the imagination, however, pass on.
This well-measured and adjusted motion of the axis
of the globe is to be given to it. By what complicated
appliance of machinery shall it vibrate, with a motion
varying from instant to instant, according to so per¬
plexed a law, and, at the same lime, rotate incessantly
and uniformly f After an infinity of fruitless attempts
to construct it, let our artificer at length perceive that
the vibration of the axis may be wholly dispensed with,
and yet that it maj be brought precisely into the same
positions with regard to the boundary of light and dark¬
ness, and heat and cold ; and that the direct heat may
thus be made to fall upon the globe precisely in the
same way, if, its axis remaining always at its extreme
inclination, and always parallel to itself, the position of
tlic globe be continually altered, and it be made to
move in a circle round the fire.* An idea which will
probably have been suggested to him by the conside¬
ration, that the parallelism of the axis being thus pre¬
served, the superior pole will, in one position of the
sphere in its circle, be made to point—with the sup¬
posed extreme inclination-~directly from the ffre, and
in the opposite position iri the circle directly towards
* The fire is here supposed to throw out its heat equally in all
directions.
82 THE CHEAT ARTIFICER.
it, and that the opposite relation will obtain with lespect
to tlie other pole.
Proceeding from this idea, and carefully examining
the particulars of the two rases through all the inter¬
mediate positions, he will perceive that by this arrange¬
ment he brings about precisely the required positions
of the axis in respect to the boundary of light and
darkness, ami precisely that motion of the point of direct
heat on the globe which has been shewn to he requisite
for the proposed distribution of temperature; being
a slower motion of that point, continually, as it
approaches the pole; and slower according to the
required law.
This revolution of his globe in a circle about the fire,
accompanied by a continued parallelism of its axis, and
an uniform rotation of it about that axis, he will dis¬
cover a very simple mechanical contrivance to effect ;*
and his globe will thus have communicated to each
part of its surface in succession precisely that degree
of heat at which it suits him to sculpture it there, the
- other portions of it being at the same time subjected
to the least vicissitude of temperature consistent with
this arrangement.
The contrivance is now one of admirable simplicity:
the artificer works at his ease ; the required heat pre¬
sents itself at every point of his globe precisely when
he requires it there, and the whole of his finished work
is preserved as far as it is possibly from the ojjposite
extremes of cold. Mechanical skill would seem to
* This contrivance is that which gives its motion to the earth in
an orrery : it is at once one of the simplest and most beautiful in
mechanics.
THE GREAT ARTIFICER. 83
have exhausted itself in the perfection of this arrange¬
ment— let it, then, remain ; but conceive the motion¬
less sculpture of the globe to convert itself into living
mechanism; let each modelled tree, and sculptured
flower, and blade of grass, have its growth,putting
forth of its leaf, of its bud and blossom ; for the per¬
fecting of which process of mechanical vegetation let
a certain maximum temperature be every where ne¬
cessary. Imagination is, however, here deserting her
legitimate sphere—the boundaries of art are already
passed, and the domain of nature has been entered
upon; for if its dimensions be increased to a diameter
of K000 miles, what is that modelled sphere but the
mighty globe of the earth on which we live, poised in
space, and on which was destined to be wrought, the
visible creation 1 And what is that Artificer but
He who founded theeailh and hung it upon nothing
(Prov. iii. 19 ; Job, xxvi. 7); who gave the sun for a
light by day, the ordinances of the moon and stars for
a light by night (Jer. xxxi. 3o); who made summer
and winter, the north and the south (Ps. Ixxiv. 17;
lxxxix. 12); and who created it not in vain, but formed
it to be inhabited (Is. xlv. 18).
** Great Artist! thou whose finger set aright
This exquisite machine, with all its wheels,
Though intervolved, exact; and pointing out
Life’s rapid and irrevocable flight,
Open mme eye, dread Deity! to read
The tacit doctrine of tliy works ; to see
Things as they are, unaltered, through the glass
Of worldly wishes. Time, eternity 1 ”
Night Thoughts, jx.
( 64 )
THE ASTRONOMICAL DISTRIBUTION OF TEMPERATURE
ON THE EARTH’S SURFACE.
** Full ample the dominions of the sun 1
Full glorious to behold, how far, how wide
The m»tch-eiM monarch from his throne,
Lavish of lustre, throws his beams about him 1 '*
Night iThrughu, uu
From the poles to the equator, from the torrid to the
frigid aone, were destined to be wrought upon the
earth's surface the infinite forms of vegetation and
of animated being ; “ beast and cattle, and creeping
thing of the earth ; every winged fowl, and moving
©feature which the Waters bring forth; and every
plant pf the field before it was in the earth; and every
herb of the field before it grew*’ ((ten. i. 1, - -1, *J5;
il 5). The portion of life was reserved to this fair
creation, and beauty was to surround it (Ecc. iii. 11),
and happiness, OF these, the ministers were to be
light and beat. Far off, therefore, in the trackless
realms of space, God ** set* up his tabernacle for the
mm, whose going forth is from the end of heaven j
neither is there*any thing hid fitarn the light thereof”
(Ps. xix. 4, 6). This vast sun, with Its train ofplanets,
might, by other laws of force and motion, and other
and more complicated machinery than that which
exists, present the* same appearances as those of the
heavens,’ poitr forth the same heat and light upon the
TLMPLim'UlE ON TIIE EARTH’S SURFACE. 85
earth’s surface* and distribute them in the same order
through every season,—as, by a more complicated
contrivance, the artificer spoken of iu the last paper
might haie obtained the same distribution of tunpera-
Hire upon his modelled globe. But there is an economy
of creative energy which appeal's to us as a law of its
operation. And in obedience to this law of economy*
it is, that the earth revolves every year round the
central sun, rotating continually upon its axis, and
preserving the position of its axis always parallel to
itself.
“ With inoffensive pare that spinning sleeps
On her floft axle, while she paces even
* And be&ft time soft with the sweet air nl mg,”
jParudite Lost, viii. 16h
*
To bring about the change of the seasons* this
axis, thus piesening its parallelism, preserves it in a
position not peipcndicular, but inclined to the plane
ol the 01 bit m which the earth revolves, as the position
of the axis of the artificer's globe was inclined to the
floot of his workshop. The angle of this iueiiuatiou
is (IS'J 3L‘ It)'. 13) reason of this constant inclination
to the plane of its orbit, and this parallelism, it comes
to pus*, as explained in the case of the artificial globe,
that the earth’s j&xis is made in the course of each
revolution to place itself in a great nuqcber of different
positions in respect to the sun^-brmginjy it into pre¬
cisely the same positions iu respect to the boundary of
light and darkness as though, keeping always at one
*
* Thin has bees shown in a preceding paper.
I
SO TEMPEIIATMIE ON THE 1'AUTH’b MTSIACT.
point of its orbit,it had vibrated its axis through an
angle of23J 'llf 41" towards and from tho sun. ulna-
ting it more slowly, however, ns it approached the limit
of each vibration. Bj reason, again, of this varying
position of the earth's axis in respect to the boundary
of light and daikness, it happens, that tlie point of
direct heat and sunlight is made alternately to approach
the two poles of the earth* approaching nearest to the
north pole when the northern extremity of the earth's
axis is most inclined towards the sun, which is on the
22nd of June; and approaching most nearly to tho
southern pole when the northern extremity of the axis
is most inclinedfrom the sun, which is on the 22nd of
December. It is at theformer period, when the point
of direct heat and sunlight most nearly approaches us,
that in our hemisphere we have summer; and at the
latter period, when it is most remote from us, that we
have win* r
( 87 )
THE POINT OF DIRECT HEAT LINGERS AT THE
SOLSTICES.
“ Wlu'ii now no more th’ alternate Twins arc fired
And Ganger reddens with the solar blaze,
Short ia the doubtful empire of the night;
And soon, observant of approaching day.
The medk-ey’d morn appears, mother of dews.”
Seasons—Summer, v. 43.
As the point of direct heat and sunlight gains its ex¬
treme limit of approach to either pole, it lingers, as
though it were to minister a longer influence to the
regions north and south, which—travelling in an ap¬
pointed path—it cannot reach. If the ecliptic* as
shown on a terrestrial globe, be examined, it will be
seen that towauls its northern and southern limits for
a consideiable distance it neither approaches nor re¬
cedes horn the equator or the pole, but lias a direction
due east and west. This ecliptic is, in point of fact,
the path of the point of direct heat and sunlight oTer
the earth's surface- Thus, then, it appears, that when
this point has reached its nearest approach to either
pole, it does not immediately turn back towards the
other pole hut remains at that nearest distance for a
considerable time, or, as it were, lingers there. It has
been calculated that if the space between the tropics
be imagined to be divided into three equal bands of
88 THE POINT OF DIRECT HEAT
the earth, the point of direct sunlight would he found
to linger in each of the two outer hands 3J| times as
long as in the middle band.
This lingering of the point of direct heat and sun¬
light at its nearest approach to the poles, is a necessary
result of that simple and admirable provision by which
the earth is made to revolve round flic sun, rotating at
the same time round an axis which has an inclined
position, and which preserves its parallelism. The
object of it is obviously to minister to the polar re¬
gions, in their due proportion, light and heat; as I
have more fully explained where I liase spoken of
the artificial globe. What, indeed, was that aitificial
globe and central fire but a fiction, by the aid of which
it might be seen hotv admirably God has provided
that the sun’s heat should distribute itself over the
earth’s surface, so as best to minister to those great
purposes of his wisdom and goodness in creation which
were to be wrought out upon it? By her rotation
he made the day and the night, and bade the light
to be divided from the darkness, “ The morning is
spread upon the mountains” (Joel, ii, 2), and u man
goetli forth to his work and to his labour until the
evening” (Ps. civ. 23); and night follows, with a
measured interval, in the footsteps of day across the
earth, surrounded with darkness and with the merciful
influence of sleep.
During the silent hours of the night, the burning
regions of the tropics cool themselves from the heat of
the noonday sun; and the parched vegetation is re*
freshed with dew. And thus Mday unto day uttereth
speech, and night unto night showeth knowledge.
UNGERS AT THE SOLSTICES. 89
Thoro is no speech nor language where their voice is
not heard” (Ps. xix. 2, 3).
As in the artificial globe, so on the earth, the point
whore the direct heat falls is made to approach alter¬
nately towards either pole, and to carry \\ ith it summer,
and to leave behind it winter; and to linger there until
its mission is completed and its work done. And thus
it is that “ God maketh the outgoings of the morning
and evening to rejoice” (Pa. lxv. 8); that he visiteth the
earth, and blessetli the springing thereof; that he re-
neweth the face of the eaith, and erowneth the year
with his goodness ; so that the pastures are clothed
with flocks, and the vallejs arc covered with corn” (Ps,
lxv. 9, 10; cxiv. 30; lxv. 11, 13),
( 90. )
Till! FlltST IMPLT.SK.
*' Now heaven in all her glory shone anti roll’d
Her motions, as the great llr*t Mover'* hand
First wheel’d their course."
Paradin' PoU, vii 300.
Let it be repented, that there is an economy of creative
energy in that particular provision by which the dis¬
tribution of the sun’s heat upon the earth is thus
brought about. According to the pre-established laws
of motion, one single impulse, having a ceitain detoi-
minate amount and direction iri space, was sufficient
to have produced it; and no other state of things
could thus have resulted from a single impulse.*
A single impulse could not have given to the earth
a rotation about its axis in a Jixed position in space,
* It will be borne in mind, that for the aim to have revolved
round the earth, being so greatly larger a mass Ilian it is, would
have been, according to the pre-established laws of motion and
force a mechanical impossibility. Moreover, that it should be
of these vastly greater dimensions, and thus far distant from
us, whs necessary to that degree of uniformity in the diffusion
of its heat over so great a globe which we experience; but
especially these things were necessary to that like ministry of
light and heat to the other planets of our system which was
assigned to it.
THE FIRST IMPULSE. 91
anti an infinitely complicatel mechanism of nature;
impelled by an infinitely complicated development of
power, would have been required to give to its axis
that vibratory motion which I have shewn, by the
case of the artificial globe, to be necessary, under
tiies,’ circumstances, to the equable distribution of
heat upon it.
To constitute the most perfect manifestation of
creative wisdom, and to result from the most perfect
economy of creative power, the earth must have re-
\ ulvcd, as it does, round the central sun, and rotated
upon an axis within itself — ail axis always retaining
its parallelism, but inclined to the plane of the earth's
oi bit, as the axis of the artificer's globe was inclined to
the Hour of his workshop in a circle on which he made
his globe to revolve.
This may appear incredible; and it may be askedj
Arc not the existence of the earth in space, its rotation
upon its axis, and its revolution in its orbit, distinct
and separate phenomena 1 Docs not each suppose an
additional development of the creative power of God,
and their co-existence a complication of means to an
end? No. Such were the laws in the beginning as¬
signed to force and motion, that the force of motion
which accompanied the act of placing the earth in space
must in that act, by a second effort, have been checked,
or the eadh could not have existed there motionless ;
two developments of the power that placed it there
would, in like manner, have been necessary that it
should retain the same position in space rotating; but
one was required that, rotating, it should move onwards
through the fields of space, and that gravitating towards
92 THE FIRST 1MPUI.SK.
the central sun, it should take its path in an eternal
gjration round him.*
But, will it he asked, Is not some new provision,
some additional manifestation of Clod’s power, re¬
quired to account for the continued parallelism of the
earth’s axis at that particular inclination to its orbit
which it has receivedt The answer is this; Thus
rotating and revolving, that it should not present1 the
parallelism of its axis of revolution is, under the
existing form of the earth, and subject, to the existing
and pre-established laws of motion, an impossibility.
The fiat which gave to matter its existence, and to
force and to motion their laws, was dictated bj “ the
wisdom of Him who possessed it from the beginning
of his ways, before his works of o^d, while he had not
as yet made the earth, nor the holds, nor the highest
part of the dust of the earth” (Prov, uii. 22). In
the scope of that wisdom were included all the infinite
manifestations of goodness and of power in creation
to which these laws should be made subservient;
and to these they were adapted, with a perfect adap¬
tation. And thus it was that the presence of the earth
in that region of space where it exists—its rotation
upon its axis, wherein is involved the vicissitude of
day and night—and its revolution, with a parallel axis
in an orbit round the sun, whence result, the seasons,—
were things vast though they be in the s§ale of na¬
ture, which were developed by ft single impulse.
But that origiual impulse to which the double mo¬
tion of the earth was due must have had a direction.
* riiR discussion of this subject will be resumed when I
come to speak pf gravitation.
TIIK F1UST IMPULSE. 93
and a definite amount of force ; and upon that direc¬
tion, and that amount of the force then exerted, hare
depended ever since, and will depend to the end of
time, the great features of the distribution of the
earth's temperature—especially as on the direction of
that impulse has ever since depended the inclination
of the earth’s axis to the plane of her orbit. An
inclination more or less than that which actually
exists, would have produced a distribution of tem¬
perature widely different. Why, then, was the existing
inclination of66J 32' 19'' chosen out of an infinity of
others! What was the distribution of temperature
that it was intended to bring about t Can we see in
this, as in so many other things, the wisdom and good¬
ness of God. ^
What are the facts of the case! By what is the
actual distribution of temperature characterized 1 Is
there any such marked and characteristic feature of
this distribution, that we may be authorized to con¬
sider the inclination of the earth’s axis to have been
fixed with a reference to it.
There is such a feature. It i8 the remarkable uni¬
formity of extreme summer heat.
( 94 )
THE UNIFORMITY OF EXTREME SUMMER HEAT.
“ Th’ unwearied sun, from day to day,
Docs lm Creator’s p.nm display,
And publishes to every land
The work of an Almighty hand.”
Over eight-ninths of the habitable surface of the globe,
and to 30° of the pole, the thermometer attains m sum¬
mer within a few degree*) of the same height.* It i isos
every year at St. Petersburg above 90°; and on the
coast of Guinea, and on the Senegal, it is rarely ob-
seivod to exceed 95°.
There is no greater error thanr(o suppose that cold
summers are everywhere associated with cold winters.
4i
Moscow lms the summer heat of Nantes, Tobolsk that
of Cherbourg, and Astraelmn that of Bordeaux; and
even in Norway, in lat, 7ti° or within 20 1 of the pole,
the thermometer not unfrequently rises to MP.f
* Tins remark is intended to apply to that portion of the sur¬
face of the globe only which is land, and to extend through the
northern hemisphere to within ;id° of the pole. It. will he re¬
membered, that it* th« northern hemisphere is collected more
than three-fourths of the land, and that it reaches to tlio imme¬
diate vicinity of the-pole ; whilst nolle of the continents of the
southern hemisphere approach the pole by more than 50°.
f Captain ScorOSby speaks of an influence of the sun's rays
at Melville Island, lat. 74° 30', under which the pitch on the side
of his vessel was melted ; and a thermometer placed against it
indicated 80° or!9 -°. And in his last voyage to Greenland, in
lat. 80° 19', he gpeaks of the paint-work of the side of his vessel
UNiroLlAUTY OF EXTREME SUMMER 11KAT. Of)
Thulcr the influence of this genial summer’s beat
vegetation spreads itself, as tbe sun advances north¬
ward from the equator to within a narrow circle sur¬
rounding the pole.* On Mehille Island, within 15°
of the pole, where winter reigns during nine or ten
months of the year, the heat of the remaining two or
three months of summer is sufficient to bring into
active vegetation mosses, lichens, grasses, saxifrage,
poppies, the dwarf-willow, and sorrel; and in a shel¬
tered spot, Captain Parry observed a Ranunculus in
full flower in the second week in June.
As on the artificial globe the artificer required the
titme, temperature at the different points where he
wuiked, at the time when he was woiking there, so on
tins vast globe of the earth the chieat Aktitucer in
those regions where successively he perfects the pro¬
cess of vegetation, perfects it under nearly the same
solar heat; and for this purpose it is that the same
e.rtmne of heat is made to travel the earth’s surface
fiom the equator to the poles.
Lot it, however, be understood, that the law accord¬
ing to which fructification appears to be thus controlled
eu'ry where by nearly the same temperature, is only
approximate, and subject, within certain limits, to in-
Ix'nig heated to 90° or 100*, ami the pitch about the bends becom¬
ing thrnl. The summer comes upon llie.se northern regions with
marvellous power ; in three or four (lays the snow is dissolved, and
the flowers almost immediately begin to blow.
* The rapidity and vigour with which vegetation bursts upon
these regions is described as most remarkable. Three or four
days after the snow is melted are sufficient to bring the flowers
into blossom, **
96 VN1F0EM1TY OF EXTREME SI MMER HEAT.
numerable modiMentions.* Moreover, that the law of
the equal distribution of extreme summer temperature
is subject to numerous and great modifications; that
a variety of local circumstances of aspect and elevation,
and that continual interchange of the heat of different
tracts of the earth’s surface which is made by means
of currents of the air and ocean, affect it.f
Important as is the discussion of these disturbing
causes, when we would compare the variations of tem¬
perature at places otherwise similarly situated, and its
lesser anomalies,—the great controlling cause is still
however, the position of the earth*8 axis. What, in
fact, are the varieties of elevation of the earth’s sur¬
face but as the elevations of scattered particles of dust
on the artificer’s sphere T MThat arc its varieties of
aspect but as the sunny and shady sides of those par¬
ticles of dustl And what is the atmosphere which
envelopes the earth but as the thickness of the coat
of varnish with which the artificer has overspread ill
and its currents but as the movements which the parts
of that covering of varnish might, under the influence
of its different temperatures, have had when it was
fluid 1
* One of these, having reference to the case of the birch and
pine, will be stated In a subsequent part of this paper.
f The influence of these various causes will form the subject of
a subsequent paper.
( 97 )
A VARIATION IN THE DIRECTIONS OF INCIDENCE OF
THE SON’S RAYS COMPENSATES FOR THE DIFFER¬
ENT LENGTHS OF SUMMER DAYS AND NIGHTS.
“ The vegetable world is also thine,
Parent of Seasons 1 who the pomp precede
That waits thy throne, as through the vast domain.
Annual along the bright ecliptic road.
In world-rejoicing state, it moves sublime.”
Seasons—Summer, iii.
Subject to all these variations, the position of the
earth's axis may be Bafely stated to 'be so taken as
that the varying obliquities with which the sun’s rays
fall on different places from the equator to within 3(1°
of the pole—that is, through eight-#inths of the earth’s
surface—compensate with a remarkable accuracy for
the different relative lengths of the summer days and
nights at those places. Who will believe that it was
not so selected with a view to that compensation, and
the resulting uniform diffusion of the same extreme
summer heat iu succession to every place, at which
heat vegetation was destined to fructify—vegetation,
the basis of the whole superstructure of life t u The
Lord possessed wisdom in the beginning of his ways,
before his works of old. By his wisdom hath he found¬
ed the earth j by understanding hath he established the
heavens.*'
K
08 Till; LENGTHS OF SUMMER DAYS ANI) NIGHTS.
It is not by :iny marked variation in the extremes
of hrttf, but in their continuanctami in the extremes
of cold, that the different climates of the earth arc
characterized.*
Tlius although the extremes of heat may be the
same at two places, the whole amounts of heat which
they receive in the course of a year may be very dif¬
ferent.
If a place be imagined to receive the same quan¬
tity of licat every day that it radiates so that the tem¬
perature of that place may remain throughout the year
the same ; and if the heat which in this imaginary and
impossible case would be received by that place
amounted in the whole year to that which it actually
does receive,— then would that place have what is
called its menu temperature.
Now, it is to the whole amount of heat received in
the course of the year, or, perhaps, the season, and
therefore to the amount of the mean temperature of
each place, that the forms of vegetation appear to have
a special adaptation. So that, whilst to the fructifica¬
tion of all the forms of vegetable life nearly the same
extreme heatf would seem to he requisite, there are
* Thus, between the tropics the extreme heat of about 1)0° ap¬
pears to remain neaily the whole year Ions—the seasons being
there characterized rather as wet and dr) than as hot. and cold.
Frost does not make its appearance in Europe beyond the 4<rJ of
latitude ; and the cold felt from lat. JSo0 to lat. (50° is that which
distinguishes it from the ton id, as the temperate zone. It is here
only that four seasons prevail; within tile tropics there are none ;
and within the frigid zone but two.
f Let it be repeated that this must he taken only as an ap¬
proximate law. Whilst the great characteristics of vegetation
THE LENGTHS OF SUMMER DATS AND NIGIITS. 90
different clashes wliieh affect different limits of mean
temperature.
Jf a traveller bo supposed to set out eastward, ami
to visit m succession .ill those places which have the
same mean temperature, he will trace out on (In*
earth’s surface what is called ail isothermal line; and
ho will every where encounter analogous features of
vegetation.*
uridoubtedlv depend upon the inrnn temperature, there are others
in which differences ot extreme. temperature are concerned. The
birth and pine are example-.. The fructification of the birch re¬
quires a higher t,empeiatnro than t tint of the pine; but the pine
requuoa a greater continuance of heat, that is, a higher mean
temperature. The lurch fur this reason finds its way much far¬
ther north than the pine; for it receives the extreme, summer
heat netevvuy to its fructification m latitudes, where the pine
would not obi am that continuance of heat, or that mean tempora¬
tine, which it requites. Thus, “at linonteUie*, in Lapland,
where the mean temperature is only—‘2,T.V*‘, magnificent forests of
bb h are seen ; wlulst at the island of Megruoe, where it is above
zero, only a few scanty shrubs will grow.” The reason is that in
the former place the summer heat reaches 15° ; whilst in the lath r
it only rises to 7° oi 8o.
* Vegetable forms are .said “ to present, under the same iso¬
thermal lines, such constant relations, that when upon any point
of the earth, we Know’ the number of species belonging to any
one of tile great families, both the whole number of phicnogumnns
plants, and the number of species composing the other vegetable
families, may be estimated with considerable accuracy.”
( 100 )
THE FIRST IMPULSE DIRECTED BY TIIE OMNISCIENCE
OF GOI>.
** What hand behind the scene.
What arm Almighty, put these wheeling globes
In motion, and wound up the vast machine ?
Who rounded m his palm these spacious orbs?
Who bow’d them, flaming, through the dark profound ?”
. Night Thoughts, ix.
Let the imagination now fall back upon that single
impulse, upon the direction of which has depended
from the beginning of lime the position of the earth’s
axis, and by reason of which it shall come to pass that
while the earth reraaineth, seed time and harvest, and
cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and
night, shall not cease (Gen. viii. 21, *22); let it be
seen poised in reference to that distribution of tem¬
perature which it was thus to determine to the end of
time, and to the forms of vegetation whose varieties
that temperature was destined to control, from the
gigantic palm, the mimosa,* and the baobab of the
tropics, to the cedars, chestnuts, beeches, oaks, pines,
and birches, of the temperate zone, and the lichens of
arctic regions.
* Humboldt speaks of a mimosa near the village Turmeio,
south-west of the city of Caraccas, whose hemispherical head
is 600 feet in circumference. The trunk of the baobab (an
African tree) has been known to attain a diameter of 34 feet,
and a circumference, therefore, of more than 100 feet.
HIE FIRS’]' IMPULSE, ETC. 101
Let each bud, fiom the evanescent gerrn ami unseen
vegetation of mildew, to the huge bulb whence expands
the giant llajfletia Arnoldt;* each blossom from that
of the minutest of the Alyief to the magnificent flower
but recently discovered floating on the surface of a
stream in the solitude of the forests of Guiana;J—let
each have some given temperature at which it is bid¬
den to expand its leaves, to open its cup, and thrust
forth its petals; and every fruit a warmth which is
destined to ripen it and a heat fatal to it. ExI end
this influence of temperature to all the various forms
of vegetable life which clothe the green earth—fami¬
lies and species, whose numbers are counted b) hun¬
dreds of thousands. Multiply them then by the
countless myriads of individuals which compose every
species. Join to these the myriads of forms of animal
life whose existence connects itself with vegetation :
the insects whose countless species crowd each to iis
appointed repast, in the leafy forest, or upon the
herbage; the reptiles, who feast upon the roots of trees;
the birds who Ihe among their branches, and upon
their fruits; and the cattle upon a thousand hills—
the antelope, the ox, the hoi sc, the camel, and the
elephant: to these, again, add those thousands of
* This flower, discovered in 1818 in Sumatra by Dr. Arnold,
is one yard in diameter; and its neetariuin would hold twelve
pints. Th.it minute vegetation which we call mildew, and the
plant winch produces tins flower, both belong to the class pf
Fungi.
f The crimson snow, which so long astonished the voyagers
to arctic regions, is now ascertained to be a minute form of
vegetation of the order Algae.
i The Victoria Regina.
K 2
102 THIS FIRST IMPULSE DIRECTED
orders of carnivorous animals that prey upon them.
Carry this prospect through the predacious insect-
tribes; and from that owl, whose solitary wing it is
that cleaves the frozen air of the pole, to the ravenous
birds in innumerable tribes that crowd to I heir bauquct
of flesh in the tepid seas, and amidst the prurient vega-
tation of the tropics—the condor and the albatross,
and the eagle; include, too, the quadrupeds of prey—
the arctic fox, and wolf, and bear; the lion of Africa,
the tiger of Asia, and the jaguar of Southern America.
That nothing may he wanting to the picture, embrace
in it the inhabitants of the deep, to whose dwelling is
reserved seven-eighths of the whole surface of the globe;
those that pasture quieth in its unfathomable depths,
and those that traverse the wide expanse of its sur¬
face in cearch of prey : join to these the slimy and un¬
sightly tribe, whose habitation is partly on the land,
and partly in the water—the turtle, the lizaul, the croco¬
dile, and the hippopotamus— *• leviathan and behe¬
moth" (Job, xl. xli.). Let the imagination summon
before it all these in countless myriads--4* every living
creature, beast and cattle, and creeping thing of the
earth; every winged fowl, and moving creature which
the waters bring forth; and every plant of the field
which God made before it was in the earth; and every
herb of the field before it grew*' (Gen L, ii.): animal
life in all its forms depending ultimately on the dis¬
tribution of vegetable life ; this, again, upon tempera-
tme; and temperature for all its great modifications
upon the direction of that one primeval impulse. Let
all these things be seen comprehended in it, and in¬
cluded in the scope of that vision which directed it;
BY TI1E OMNISCIENCE OF GOD. 103
lei the mind have elevated itself to the conception
of these things in all their visible forms and modi¬
fications, jet will it but have approached the threshold
of the wisdom and knowledge of the mighty Artificer
As yet the soul but worships in the vestibule of the
temple of the universe. u Verily, O God, as jet thou
hidest thyself; dwelling in the light no man can ap*
proach unto'' (Is. jJv. 15; 1 Tim. vi. 16). For of the
forms of organized being which people this earth of
ours, but a portion are jet known to us; tins eaith is
moreover but one of an unknown number which cir¬
culate round the same sun and belong to the same
system, and of such suns and systems the number
cannot be counted, or the space conceived through
which they urge their flight.
Why lifts the mighty builder thrown aside
All measure ol‘ his work ; stretch'd out Ins line
So fkr, and spread amazement o’er the whole ?
Then (as he took delight in wide extremes)
Deep in the bosom of the universe,
Dropt down the reasoning mite, the insect man,
To crawl and gaze, and wonder at the scene.”
Night Thoughts, ix.
( 104 )
CAUSES DISTURBING THE ASTRONOMICAL DISTRI¬
BUTION OF TEMPERATURE.
'* Those, as they change, Almighty Father, these,
Are but the varied God. The rolling \rar
Is full of thee.” Hymn to the Seasons.
The Lord possessed wisdom in the beginning, before
his woiks of old. While as yet he had not made the
earth (Prov. viii. 22, 26) he infixed in the great elements
of matter those laws tinder the contiol of which they
were to congregate, and the mighty mass take its
existing form and substance; and by reason of which
the earth, spinning upon her axle, with a changeless
motion, and m an appointed path, should, to the end
of time,
“ roll
Her motions, as the first "real Mover’s hand
First wheel'd their course." Pni. vii. 500.
Moreover, from the beginninghis goodness took part
in the counsels of his wisdom. He so poised, there
fore, that primeval impulse, that there should he
given to the earth's axle a position, in respect to the
plane of her orbit, by which should be brought about
the vicissitude of our seasons—having first so moulded
her shape, that this position of her axle should remain
unchanged for ever.*
* The earth is not strictly a sphere, but an oblate apheioid,
being a geometrical solid, which^nmy bo imagined to be gene-
DISTRIBUTION OF TEMPERATURE. 105
Thus it has come to pass that “ cold and heat,
summer and winter, seed-time and harvest, cease not,
and shall not cease, while the earth remainetli ” (Gen.
viii. 21).
In very deed the earth is 44 full of the goodness of
the Lord H (Ps. xxxiii. 5), and it endureth continually
(Jam. i, 17); he “ blesseth the springing of it, and
reneweth the face of it, and enricheth it with the
river of God ” (Us. lxv. 9, 11). Vegetation is spread
upon it as a garment, and life throng* it—
“ Air, water, earth,
By fowl, flih, beast, is flown, is swum, is walk'd."
Par. Lost, viii. 703.
God “openeth his hand liberally, and fllleth all
things living with plenteousness.” He eauseih
grass to grow for the cattle, and herb for the service
of man;1' “so that the pastures are clothed with
Ho, ks, the valleys also are covered over with corn M
(Fs. lxv. 13).
That position of the earth's axle on which this dis¬
tribution of temperature upon its surface depends is
so chosen as to make nearly* the same extreme summer
TRtf*d by the revolution of an ellipse about its shorter diameter.
Had her form been that of a perfect sphere, or of ft prolate spheroid
—a figure generated by the revolution of an ellipse about its
longer diameler—the position of her axis would have been pe»*
petually changing and the climate of every place continually
varying. Her existing form of an oblate spheroid would have been
given to the earth had she first been made to revolve when in a
Jluid state.
* The reader may here be reminded of the fact stated in a
preceding paper, that at St. Petersburg the thermometer rises
almost every year to above 90°; and tliat on the coast of Guinea
100 CAUSES DISTURBING TIIE ASTRONOMICAL
heat to traverse almost eight-ninths of it, probably
that it may minister every where in succession, and
with a like influence, to the great perpetuating effort
of vegetable life—fructification.
In this equality of extreme summer heat the ex¬
treme winter cold does not, however, partake. Within
the tropics the seasons are scaicely distinguishable by
any difference of temperature; whilst there are places
within the temperate region* where the mean tem¬
perature of the hottest month rises to 84J° and that
of the coldest month sinks to 24-tu.
Wert* the distribution of temperature limited, how¬
ever, to these astronomical causes, its isothermal lines
would all lie parallel to the equator, and its effects would
manifest themselves, in zones extending uniformly to
the poies. Each region having its own temperature
would have its own uniform vegetation; and that
variety which enters, it would seem, as a constituent
element into ihe exercise of creative powci, would he
straitened in its development.! And, despoiled of its
it rarely exceeds 93°. Ia this country almost every summer
brings a few days of tropical heat. There are, of course, many
exceptions to the rule stated m the text—thev are cases of mnark-
able heat, and serve but to confirm it.
* At IVkin, the extreme heat was observed by the embassy, in
1816, to vary in September from 90° to H)8°
f- When we contemplate a collection of plants, or of insects,
or view an assemblage of animals belonging to various orders
of creation and from different regions—having made large allow¬
ance for those varieties of colour, size, and especially of forms
which connect themselves with the particular wants and econo¬
my of the life of each,—it is impossible not to be struck with
the fact, that a variety remains not assignable to any of these
DISTRIBUTION OF T15MFEBATCRE. 107
boundless variety, the existing econonjy of nature
would be shorn of half its beauty. But it is not thus :
causes other than the original impulse, and the incli¬
nation ot the earth’s axis, and the lengths of the day
and year, dependent upon that impulse, operate in
the production of climate; and these with so exten¬
sive an effect, that the climate proper to every zone,
accompanied by its vegetation, is not (infrequently
brought about within a few miles of the same spot.*
“ Many, O Lord, are thy wondrous works which thou
hast done; they cannot be reckoned up in order unto
thee: if we would declare and speak of them, they
are more than can be numbered. W hen thy word
goeth forth, it cloth not return unto thee void, but
accomplished^ that which pleaseth thee. As thou
hast thought, so doth it come to pass; and as thou
hast purposed, so doth it stand/'
The better to understand how, in the order of
Providence, creative power is developed under an
infinitely disseminated varietyf of form and circum¬
stance ; and in what way the distribution of tempera¬
ture adapts itstlf to this variety and ministers to it; let
us return to the supposition of the artificer, and let us
causes; a variety to the operating principle of winch no other
analogy presents itself than the exercise of the faculty of
imagination in man.
* On the Peak of TonerifTe five zones of temperature may be
traced at su'vesdve elevations by corresponding zones of vege¬
tation. Vines form tho first; nc\t are laurels; then pines;
afterwards the alpine broom; and lastly the arctic grasses.
+ This principle of infinite variety in nature we axe all per¬
fectly familiar with. It. is e\en implied in the meaning we
usually attach to the word natural as distinguished from artificial.
108 DISTRIBUTION OF TEMPERATURE.
imagine that, wishing to distribute his work, not with
a measured and artificial uniformity, but by a natural
variation and intermingling of its forms, he finds him¬
self straitened by that accurate distribution of tem¬
perature upon his globe in parallel zones, which re¬
sults from its uniform return to similar positions in
respect to the central fire. He requires to be able to
introduce, at will, variations in the great features of
this distribution. How shall he command them ?
( 109 )
ASPECT.
** Thou crowiwwt tlie year with thy goodness; and tliy
paths drop fatness.
“ 'fliev drop upon the pastures of the wilderness atid
the little hills rejoice on every side.”—Psalm lxv. 1], 12.
Tur. existing variations of temperature depend, JirsC,
upon tins, that the rays of light do not fall upon dif¬
ferent points of the surface of his globe with the same
inclination or obliquity. Secondly. Upon the differ¬
ence of the times during which different portions re¬
volve in the heat and in the cold, causing them to
boat and cool differently.
Both these causes are uniform, and independent of
llie artificer. 11 ow shall he control their operation,
and vary them ?
He may diminish the obliquity with which any por¬
tion of the surface receives the rays of heat, and
indued cause it to receive them as directly as though
it were within the tropics, and under the point of
direct heat itself, simply by elevating it from the
general surface of the sphere, and inclining it towards
the incident rays. In the like manner, he may cause
it to receive the rays less obliquely by inclining it
from them. This is a variety of temperature which
our artificer will, in point of fact, of necessity have
introduced in every portion of the Bphere which he
L
110 ASPECT.
has modelled. Every such raised and modelled part
will have an aspect in reference to the light and heat,
dependent upon its form and independent of its posi¬
tion ; and thus that character of the distribution which
depended upon the spherical form of the surface will
of necessity be infinitely modified.
It is precisely thus with the earth’s surface; for
this reason, no doubt, amongst others, it is ploughed
into deep fissures in some parts; sunk through large
tracts into hollows* in others; here, elevated into
table-lands, whose sides slope gradually towards the
north and the south towards the rising and the setting
sun; every where broken into hill and dale, mountain
and valley. Thus, under a vertical sun, the sides of
the Andes receive the sun’s rays as obliquely as they
fall in our latitudes upon the earth’s level surface—
nay, as obliquely,perhaps, as they fall in summer upon
the level surface of the snows of Spitzbcrgen; whilst
the Alps encounter on parts of their southern slopes
as direct a heat as that which burns up the desert of
Sahara ; and on their northern they are as much hidden
from the sun’s influence as are the level snows of
Lapland. In the Alps of the Yallais, on the one bide
you may see the vine in luxuriant growth when the
other is thick ribbed with ice. Thus, too, the terraces
and sloping planes which descend from the vast table¬
land of central Asia, where inclining from its northern
limit, they pass into the steppes of Siberia, present,
under the latitude of Edinburgh, a cold intense enough
* As in the country surrounding the Caspian, many hundreds
of square miles of which are from one to two hundred feet beneath
the level of the sea.
ASPECT. Ill
to freeze mercury; whilst, upon the southern terraces
of the opposite Himalaya slope, flourish at different
elevations the pine-apple, the mango, the gigantic
cotton-tree, and the sauL This tropical vegetation
ascends them to an altitude of four or live thousand
feet,* mingling itself, and by degrees giving way to
the plants of a temperate region—elms, willows, roses,
and violets, destined in their turn, at a jet higher
region, to yield to alpine forms of vegetable life.
Kvery possible variety, so far as the greater or less
obliquity of the sun’s rays is concerned, is thus actually
introduced by varieties of aspect. Were this cause of
obliquity, indeed, the only one affecting the tempera¬
ture, the same region would frequently be found to
present, by its northern and southern aspects, the cli¬
mates of the equator and the poles. The southern
side of a mountain-chain in a high latitude, presenting
itself under as direct an incidence of the sun’s rays as
though it were a level surface under the equator,f
anil remaining in the summer during a longer time
every day under its influence, would soon he burned
up with at least an equal bent, were it not that there is
a cold proper and peculiar to mountain regions—a
cold arising out of a distinct cause hereafter to be
explained—mercifully spread upon them by Him
who “ possessed wisdom in the beginning,” “ before
the mountains were brought forth, or ever he had
formed the earth and the world}i (Prov. viii. 22-26),—
* According to Dr. Hoyle, Illustrations of the Botany of the
Himalayan Mountains.
f That it may do this, no more is required, than that the in¬
clination of its slope to the horizon should equal its latitude.
112 ASPECT.
to temper the heat of those direct rays, to cover them
from time to time with vapours, to mahe the rains
descend upon them, to “water the hills from above ’'
(Ps. civ. 13), and give birth to the streams. So far
as the greater or less obliquity of the sun’s rays is
concerned, every possible variety of temperature is
thus introduced by varieties of aspect,
( 113 )
RADIATION.
“ Olreat source of day! best image here below
Of thy Creator, ever pouring wide,
From world to world, the vital ocean round,
On Nature write with every beam IIw praise ! ”
Hymn to the Seasons, G6-
Anottieu great cause of variation from an uniform
distribution of temperature is to be sought in. the
great variety of the substances which compose the
earth’s surface, and their different capabilities for the
receiving and radiating of heat. All the varieties of
p*>il,—light and open vegetable moulds, gravelly and
rocky tracts, stiff wet clays, and sandy plains, have,
it cannot be questioned, their different powers of radia¬
tion and absorption ; and whether a district be clay
or sand, bare or covered with vegetation, for a like
cause, greatly affects its temperature. It appears from
experiment that the alightest difference in the sensible
qualities of the surfaces of bodies are sufficient to
give them different properties in respect to the radia¬
tion and absorption of heat; differences, for instance,
of polish, of roughness or smoothness—of colour,
whether they be white or black—of material, whether
they be metallic, or vitreous, or vegetable substances—
moist or drj. It cannot, therefore, be doubted, that
the difference of surface so observable in different
l 2
114 RADHTION.
kinds of foliage—their darker or lighter colours, their
more or less glossy leaves, the filamentous downy*
substance which sometimes covers them—are all things
affecting the radiation of their heat with an in Unite
variation. It is as though the artificer, to introduce
variety into his work, had brought about the various
temperatures which for this purpose he required by
forming its surface of materials of different shades of
colours, different degrees of roughness or smoothness,
different degrees of moisture, different physical struc¬
tures. Thus the same night which greatly depresses
the temperature of a track whose surface is a humid
clay, or a dark vegetable loam—substances which may
be imagined to radiate heat freely—would have a
much i*8s influence on a district of sand ; and thus—
to take an example on a smaller scale—the same
morning which found the tempera tuie of the surface
of a grass field greatly reduced below that of the pre¬
ceding day, would exhibit a le^s reduction of the sur¬
face of an adjacent ploughed field, ;.nd a yet less of
the hartl covering of a neighbouring high road.f
* Downy filamentous substance* axe peculiarly favourable to
the radiation of heat. Dr. Wells found black wool among the
best radiators,
f Dr. Wells found the temperature of a gravel-walk to he
greatly less reduced than that of the adjacent grass-lawn by the
radiation of the same night. The different depressions of tem¬
perature of different substances by the radiation of the same
night is strikingly illustrated by the deposition of hoar front.
When no traces of it can be seen on a winter's morning on the
general surface of the road, it will be observed deposited in
abundance on the straggling tufts of grass which border it, or
are scattered here and there upon it, and it will cover the sur¬
face of the neighbouring gross fields. Alter a severe frost it
( 115 )
SHELTER.
" I cannot go
Where Universal Love not smiles around;
From seeming Evil still educing Good,
And better thence again, and bettor still,
In inilnite progression/'—Hymn to the Seasons, iii.
A second cause of variation of temperature, as it
affects vegetation, is to be sought in the varieties of
shelter under which its various forms and its different
individuals exist. We are sufficiently aware that shel¬
ter is a protection to ourselves against heat and cold :
in the first case, it acts by receiving the sun's rays,
absorbing and radiating back certain of them, which
for that reason never reach us ; in the last, by receiving
the rays of heat which we ourselves radiate, and radiat¬
ing them back to us. It is thus precisely that vegeta¬
tion is protected by shelter. To effect this protection
in a degree, it is by no means necessary that the space
which affords the shelter should be closed. The
may, indeed, he seen sometimes upon the frozen edges of the
carriage-tracts, or upon small frozen lumps of earth—a circum¬
stance which is easily explained by the greater radiating surface
which these present as compared with their bulk than the
general material of the road does. Thus it is, too, that whilst
the glass of the windows of a house—glass radiating heat freely—
have their temperature so reduced as to receive a deposition of
ice from the moisture of the atmosphere, none is to be seen on its
walls.
116 SHELTER.
intervention of any object between a radiating body
and the clear sky is sufficient to produce a continual
return to it of its radiated heat. A thin awning of
muslin has been found sufficient to protect a delicate
plant from the cold of a frosty night—nay, the very
interposition of a fleecy cloud is enough to cherish all
night with warmth the track which it screens from the
open sky.*
Of the shelter which vegetation supplies to itself
from the cold of night, some idea may from these facts
be readily formed. The shelter of every leaf, no
doubt, cherishes the heat of some other; every blade
of grass reciprocates warmth with others that grow
around it; and of the heat which day has given to the
trees of the forest no inconsiderable portion remains
during the night entangled among their foliage. IVere
it not indeed for this mutual shelter, the large radiat¬
ing surfaces which vegetable forms present in com¬
parison with their bulk would subject them to much
* When the sky of a clear night suddenly became clouded,
Dr. Wells always found the temperature of the grass instantly to
rise • on one occasion, lie observed it, under these circumstances,
to have elevated itself from 8*2° at nine o’clock to 31T at twenty
minutes past nine ; and in twenty minutes more, the sky having
cleared, to have sunk again to its first temperature. On another
occasion, the night clouded over, and it rose 15° in forty-five
minutes. It is to the exceeding clearness of the sky that the
coldness of the nights of certain hot countries is to be attri¬
buted. In Palestine, when the night is sheltered by no cloud
the cold is intense. Allusion is made to this circumstance in
fJen. xxxi, 40, where Jacob, expostulating with Laban, declares
that b\ “ day tire drought had consumed him, and the frost
night. ’
SHELTER. 117
greater depressions of temperature in comparison
with the surface of the soil than those which they
actually experience, and destroy them. No less useful
is this mutual shelter to protect them in certain
regions from the heat of day than from the cold of
night. The same property which gives them a great
power of radiating heat gives them a corresponding
facility for absorbing it. Were all their parts equally
exposed to the sun's rays, the heat thus absorbed
would probably exceed the measure assigned to the
economy of vegetable life. The external foliage then
only receives it; and from the external leaves it is
partly radiated back, and partly absorbed and radiated
inwards to those which they shelter.
The effect of shelter in ministering to the purposes
of vegetation a subdued heat under the burning day of
the tropics, and a moderated cold during the frosty
nights, may be conceived from the fact stated by
Lieut. Wellsted,* that in the Tehama of Arabia—
perhaps the hottest region of the globe—the fierce
rays of the sun descending upon the topmost foliage
of one of the islands of verdure in that vast ocean of
sand, called Oases, raised the temperature of a ther¬
mometer placed six inches from the ground only
to 45\
Under the varied temperature of this shade, scarcely
covering an area 300 yards in diameter, and fed by
that clammy state of the atmosphere which in these
regions always accompanies cold, flourish an incon¬
ceivable variety of vegetable forms. There is to tie
* Travels In Arabia.
118 SHELTER.
seen the shady and towering date-palm ;* ami be¬
neath it grow almond-trecs, fig-trees, and walnut-
trees, of enormous size, and orange and lime-tree**,
whose fruit clusters so thickly, that scarcely a tenth
part of it, says the traveller, can be gathered. This
teeming vegetation claims for itself every spot where
there arc springs arid running waters; and thus it
w*as because it was “a bind of brooks of water, of
fountains and depths, that spring out of valleys and
hills/' that Moses described Canaan to the Israelites
as “ a land of wheat and barley, and vines and fig-
trees, and pomegranates; a land of oil, olhe, and
honey.”
* It is only from the descriptions of those who have visited
Eastern countries that we can realize that idea of the mag¬
nificence of vegetation on which many of the most beautiful
allusions of Scripture are founded. How intelligible, for in¬
stance, does that sublime metaphor in which the righteous is said
to “ flourish like the palm-tree" become when wo have conceived
a vegetative power lifting the vast umbra?>'ou-* head and plume-
like foliage of the majestic date-palm from one hundred to two
hundred feet upon the clear sky I
( 119 )
CURRENTS.
“O Lord, how manifold are tliy works 1 in wisdom hast
thou made them all ■ the* earth is full of thy riches; so is the
great and wide Sea.'1—P*alm civ. 24.
If the whole surface of the earth were divided into
ton equal parts, seven of them would be found to be
occupied by the ocean, the land covering but the
remaining three. Of all those various properties for
the radiation, propvigution, and absorption of heat,
which belong to the different substances that com¬
pose it, and which affect the distribution of its tem¬
perature, the most important therefore—controlling
all the rest—are the properties of water.
The ocean has properties for giving out and propa¬
gating heat essentially different from those of the land.
Immediately that the heat of the stratum which forms
its surface is thrown off by radiation, having become
specifically heavier than the water beneath it, the sur¬
face sinks, and is replaced by another surface, in its
turn to be in like manner renewed. On the land
change like this can take place ; and radiation from
strata beneath its surface is continually obstructed by
the interposition of the surface-stratum.
Water has thus a remarkable facility for throwing
off its heat; and thus every night the surface of the
ocean gives out a much greater proportion of the heat
120 CURRENTS.
it has received in the day than the land does. On
the other hand, it derives from its fluid properties no ad¬
ditional facility for absorbing heat; for its surface water,
when heated, becomes thereby buoyant, and is made
by its buoyancy to retain its position on the surface.
So that beat can no otherwise reach the strata beneath
its surface than it reaches the parts beneath the sur¬
face of a solid, viz., by propagation.
What is the difference of the amount of heat absorbed
by the ocean in the da$ of summer and that radiated
in the summer nights—that is to say, what is the
heating effect of the warm season upon it,—appears
never to have been made the subject of experiment or
observation. That it must be much less than the cor¬
responding effect upon the land, and that the tempera¬
ture of the sea must therefore be greatly more uni¬
form throughout the year than that of the land, is
evident.
This is not, however, the only way in which the sea
tends to equalize the earth's temperature. The dif¬
ferent portions of that mighty expanse communicate—
its waters extend in an interrupted, but an undivided
sheet from the equator to either pole. Thus are dif¬
ferent parts of the same vast mast of the ocean sub¬
jected to all those varieties of temperature which
properly belong to different climates of the earth.*
^ow, when the different, parts of the surface of a
fluid are differently heated, they cannot remain rela¬
tively at rest as those of a solid do. The heated por¬
tions, becoming more buoyant, are immediately floated
* The temperatures of the ocean at the equator. In lat. 25°, and
in iat. 50°, may be represented by the numbers, HO, TO, 60.
CURRENTS. 121
up above its general surface, and are replaced by the
surrounding colder and heavier fluid which flows in
beueath them. Thus raised above the general surface,
the heated parts cannot, by the known laws of equili¬
brium, rest—their weight puts them in motion, and
they spread themselves with a tendency to restore the
general level of the surface. In the mean time, those
portions of the fluid which displaced them, being in
their turn subjected to the same heating influences,
are, in a like manner, floated up, and moved off, to
give place to others. Thds swr/ace-currcnts are esta¬
blished in the ocean from the equator towards the
poles, and stt6-marinc return currents from the poles
towards the equator. And such currents are principal
elements in the equalization of the earth's tempera¬
ture, bearing with them the burning temperature of
one country to the cold shores of another—the heat
of the tropics perpetually towards the poles, and the
cold of the poles towards the tropics.*
Now, let the reader ife again reminded that the sur¬
face of the sea occupies seven-tenths of the surface
of the whole globe. He will then see that in the
peculiar properties of water for the absorption and
radiation of heat, in the laws of its equilibrium, and
in the fact of its being stretched in an undivided sheet
between the two extremities of the earth’s axis, there
is an admirable provision for equalizing the earth's
* There is a vast current of the Atlantic, called the Golf
Stream, stretching between Cape Hatteras, in North America
(lat. 35° N.), and the Azores, and forming in the midst of the
Atlantic a lake of warm water, heated from 3° to 10° above the
surrounding sea, and not less in dimension*, according tojftennel,
than the Mediterranean.
M
122 CUli1!ENTS.
temperature from season to season, and from to
place.* So that in his wisdom God “covered the
earth with the deep as with a garment" (Fs. civ. (i),
“gathered together the waters,and “compressed them
with bounds" (Jobxxvi. 10).
But it may be urged, that, whilst the properties of
water for the radiation of heat, and its laws of equi¬
librium, have a manifest tendency to temper the cli¬
mate of our summers by abundantly throwing off at
night the heat received during the day, and to soflcn
the cold of our winters by transferring to us some of
the heat of the tropics, surely iu higher latitudes, to
which little heat can be carried by currents, and
which endure during six months of the year almost
a continual night, these propel ties of water, whkli
are to us so bencticia.1, must be productive of an
uuendurable cold. For six months of the year the
sea must there be perpetually radiating ifs heat, and
perpetually changing its surface of radiation, until the
warmth is abstracted from its deepest abysses, and
the lowest degree of cold reigns through its rnass.
The regions about either pole must, in point of fact,
in the alternate halves of the year, become, as it were,
• It is by reason of the equalizing effect of the sea that islands
and maritime countries in general, and especially their coasts,
have proverbially temperate climates; their summers are colder
by reason of the more abundant radiation from the sea at night,
and their winters are in. our latitudes milder by reason of the
transfer northwards of the heated waters of the equator. The
climate of countries bordering the Mediterranean is peculiarly
mild. It is, indeed, now ascertained that the temperature oftfyit
sea is 4o or Bo above that of the Atlantic, The polar utula-cur-
rent has difficult access to it by the Straits of Gibraltar.
CURRENTS. 123
vast outlets, whence heat from all parts of the earth
escapes with every facility, and uselessly, into space.
Nature has provided against this result. In that
region the properties which here give to the sea a
marvellous facility for throwing oif its heat cease to
opemte. "When reduced to a certain temperature,
'water, instead of contracting hy a further radiation of
heat, begins to expand, This limit of temperature
being then past, instead of the colder strata sinking,
and taking their places in succession beneath the
warrnei. they, have a tendency to rise, and take their
places above them. The surface-water thus becomes
the coldest, and below it the temperature increased
until the limit is attained where water ceases to
expand, and beneath which no subjacent temperature
can sink. In the mean time, the surface-water has
become ice, which, spreading over it in a continuous
sheet, intercepts the farther radiation of its heat.
Here, then, in this property of water, we have a
most wise and gracious provision of God. The outlet
of rhe heat of the sui* at either pole is dosed. A seal
of ice is put upon iflAas, iii the snow, a warm mantle
is cast down upon the land.
Such are a few among the many manifestations of
that wisdom which has been made to vary in an end¬
less change the mighty family of God’s creatures, and
that gooduess which carries a genial and sufficient tem¬
perature to all, and cherishes each individual thing
with a warmth suitable to the particular economy of
the existence which has been assigned to it. “ O
Lord, how manifold are thy works! in wisdom hast
thou made them all: the earth is full of thy riches;
so is the great and wide sea.” (Fs. civ. 24).
( 124 )
TIIE EQUALIZATION OF TEMPERATURE BY TIIE
ATMOSPHERE.
“ Air, ami ye Elements, the eldest birth
Of Nature's womb, that in quaternion run
Perpetual circle, multiform, and mix,
And nourish all things ; lot your ceaseless change
Vary to our great Maker still new praise."
Paradise last, v. ISO.
Tiik equalizing power, upon the earth’s temperature, of
the muss of waters which covers seven-tenths of ils
surface has been described. This, however, did no
other cause co-operate with it, would only be felt on
the shores of the ocean ; and thither—driven from the
inland regions by fierce vicissitudes of heat and cold-
all the forms of organized beinjpvould congregate.
What power, then, equalizing the distribution of
temperature, shall travel deep into the bosom of the
vast continents of the earth, over tracks whose radiat¬
ing power, their natural heat, and the heat they receive
from the sun, are infinitely varied 1 What shall barter
heat and cold, with a mutual advantage, between the
sultry regions of the equator and the ice-bound pole,
and moisture between the ocean and the desert—be¬
tween the tepid marshes of the tropics and the arid
steppes which stretch thejr vast expanse around the
frigid zone !
TIIE EQUALIZATION OF TEMFEBATURE. 12,5
Thai the scheme of the infinite wisdom of Him in
whose “ hand arc all the corners of the earth ** (Fs. xcv.
4>) may complete itself before the mind, it asks, how
shall this equalizing1 power of heat, and cold, and
moisture, climb the high mountains of the earth, pe¬
netrate its deep vallejs, enter the hidden recesses of
the forest, minister to every shooting burl and leaf
a subdued influence, and temper itself to the feeble
life of every tender plant and gentle flower ? The
answer meets us at once—In the atmosphere. His
bnngpth forth the winds out of his treasures 11 (Jer.
x. 1,1)
As the hills and valleys of the bottom of the ocean
are covered bv its waters, so is the whole surface of
the earth-land and ocean, mountain and valley-
covered by the fluid air.
“ TheJirmamvnU expanse oHiqnid, pure,
Transparent, elemental air, diffus'd
In eircuit to the uttermost convex
Of this great round."—Par. Lost, book vii, 263.
We exist at the bottom of that vast continuous sea *,
we are born in it; and* when we cease to drink of it
at every inspiration, wo cease to Iwe.
This ocean of the air possesses properties, in respect
to the equalization of heat, which include all those of
the ocean of uniters, but are of greater activity. Its
elasticity renders it far more expansive from any in¬
crease of temperature than water is, and therefore far
more buoyant.
For this reason, when heated, it becomes more
readily displaced by the surrounding colder and hca-
126 THE EQUALIZATION OF TEMPERATURE
Tier air, and powerful currents are thus established
in the fluid atmosphere, by variations of temperature
which would scarcely cause them to be perceived in
the fluid ocean. It is incorporated with these currents
of the air that excessive heat is borne up and carried
away high above the earth’s surface with a prevailing
tendency towards the frigid zones, and cold made to
creep along in contact with it towards the region of
perpetual heat.
Thus are the great astronomical varieties of tem¬
perature intermingled and blended by the atmosphere,
nevertheless with an infinity of modifications, subject
to an infinite variety of local causes, and suited to
the boundless diversity of the scheme of God’s creative
providence.
To this blending and equalizing effect of the atmo¬
sphere, the equal temperature of the ocean largely con¬
tributes.
Seven-tenths of the atmosphere perpetually covers
the ocean and thus partakes in that uniformity of
temperature, in respect to the seasons, which peculiarly
belongs to the sea.
Besides a more ready formation of currents, the
elasticity of the air gives it yet another property,
tending eminently to the equalization of temperature,
and, in fact, necessary to the equalizing power of the
wind.
The earth’s surface may be considered as the bottom
of the ocean of the air. The higher, therefore, is any
portion of the atmosphere above the earth's surface,
the less is its depth beneath the surface of this ocean,
and the less, therefore, is the pressure upon it of the
BY TUE ATMOSPHERE. 12*7
air which is above it; and being elastic and less pressed,
the air is there less condensed, or more rare.
Thus, then, it appears that as we ascend higher, we
of necessity find the air rarer or lighter ; a fact which
is at once Tended if a barometer be carried to any
elevated spot.
Now this, whilst it is a necessary result of that
elasticity of the air which ministers to so many other
useful purposes, is also a most wise provision for this
end, that it keeps the great currents of the atmo¬
sphere down to the earth’s surface. It causes them to
flow at the bottom of the ocean of the air instead of at
the top, as do the currents of the ocean of waters.
Were it otherwise, these currents would range on the
ertrcmc limits of the atmosphere, instead of on the
surface of the earth.
Immediately that the air becomes heated by contact
with the heated earth, it would ascend in a vertical
column until it reached the extreme surface of the
atmosphere ; along that surface it would determine a
current, imperceptible on the earth’s surface as are
the surface-currents of the ocean in its depths. Thus
we should experience no motion of the sluggish air
from place to place, no “ winds from the four quar¬
ters of heaven but a stagnant and perpetual calm
unbroken except by coutmual exhalations and upward
currents; a dense curtain of vapour would overspread
us, beneath whose shade would reign fierce vicissitudes
of temperature, and the pestilence spread wide her
wingR. But “the goodness of God endureth con¬
tinually v (Fs. lii. 1).
M Near though remote! and though unfathora'd felt;
And, though invisible, for ever seen.”—Night Thoughts, ix.
128 TIIE EQUALIZATION OF TKMPEUATUI1E
“ Fire and hail, snow and vapours, and stormy winds
fulfil” therefore*, “his word” (Ps. cxlviii. 8); and are
“ turned round by Ins counsels, that they may do
whatsoever he commandcth them on the face of the
world in the earth ” (Job xxxvii. 12).
The heated air ascends, indeed, by reason of the
greater density of the cold ail* about it; but after a
short ascent, it attains a region where the surrounding
medium—although it may be colder—is but equally
dense. There, then, its ascent terminates. It is
there—instead of at the surface of the atmosphere—
that it begins to spread itself, and there it deter¬
mines its current. Along this region, comparatively
near to the earth’s surface, it distributes its beat,
radiating part, and propagating the rest by contact—
bearing »t in a current, at first inclined downwards,
to some point perhaps far removed from that where
it arose, amt disturbing the equilibrium of the sub¬
jacent air wherever it passes.
By the laws of hydrodynamics the motion of this
current above necessarily brings about a motion of the
air beneath it; a result which is favoured by its con¬
tinual tendency, as it cools, to descend.
Moreover, the original displacement of this mass of
air is brought about by a motion of the air around it,
and the motion of this air supposes that of some
other mass of air adjacent to it, that of a third, and
so on. Thus every variation in the temperature of
the lower air propagates a series of displacements of
its mass along the earth’s surface, and of currents in
a region more or less elevated abote it. These are
the winds. '
Higher than the region of the winds, the mass of the
BY THE ATMOSPHERE. 129
atmosphere is comparatively untroubled—they rage at
the bottom of that mighty ocean, and do not ruffle its
surface. Dy the marvellous wisdom of this disposition,
the heat which the winds bear with them is made not
to waste itself in the higher atmosphere, but to cherish
the earth.* They carry itfrom the torrid zone not only,
as do the waters of the ocean, to the shores of northern
and temperate regions, but over the broad surface of
the land—over hill and valley, through the deep forest
into the matted foliage of the trees, and amongst the
tangled grass ; and no stunted shrub, or hidden Bower,
or weed, is too humble to be beneath their ministry.
With us each particular scheme and contrivance of
our skill and judgment is directed to one particular
object, or at most embraces two or three objects in its
design. It is thus that finite wisdom of necessity
guides the operation of finite power. With God it is
otherwise. The same scheme of his creative wisdom
is directed to an infinity/ of objects, embraces an
infinity of results. One property of matter, for in¬
stance, works out the great purposes of nature in an
infinity of different ways.
* It has been calculated that a current of air flowing over a
warmer surface, whether of land or water, becomes in the space
of an hour penetrated with the same temperature as the surface
over which it travels, to the depth of eighty feet. Our easterly
winds present a remarkable example of the circumstances under
which the temperature of one region is borne to another. In the
spring and early summer their direction is from the east and
north-east, and, coming from the cold steppes of Siberia over the
northern limit of the great central plain of Europe, they reach us
chilled and frozen. In the autumn their direction is south-east,
and they traverse the sultry region of Arabia and Asia Minor :
they are then hot and thirsty.
130 THE EQUALIZATION OF TEMPERATURE,
Thus it is of the property of expansion by bent.
Who sliall number the phcuomeua which arc included
under that one property? The equalization of the
temperature of the air and water is but one of a count¬
less multitude. Take this other example. At every
expiration breath leaves the body of every living
creature, which a second time inhaled would be poison.
There is, theiefore, a provision that it may instantly he
lifted up and carried away. That provision is in the
expansibility of the air. Again; the breath has carried
with it a constituent part of the living organization, a
portion of the carbon of the blood. That this should
be lust in the great system of nature, would violate
that principle of economy which is its pervading law;
the winds therefore bear the carbonic acid of the
breath, eventually, not through the higher regions
of the atmosphere, but so as to sweep it along in
immediate contact with the earth’s surface,* until,
by an inscrutable process, it is taken up, and reincor¬
porated with some form of vegetation; to become, per¬
haps, an article of food a second time, and to return,
through the same cycle of changes—animal food, the
chyle, the absorbents, the blood, the arteries, the
veins, the respiration of some living animal, and the
winds—*again to assist in the process of vegetation.
“O Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth 1”
“ In thy hand is every living thing, and the breath of
all mankind” (Job xii, 10).
* Carbonic acid gas is remarkable for Its weight, and greatly
heavier than atmospheric air.
( 131 )
T11E PREVALENT WINDS.
“ lit' was ween upon the wings of the wind."—2 Sam, xxh. 1J.
The air rotating eastward, as it sweeps from the polar
regions, where it rotates with a less towards the equa¬
torial regions where it rotates with a greater velo¬
city, eontmuallj hangs hack upon the earth’s surface
rotating beneath it; thus producing the perception of
a wind partly from the poles, and partly westward, or
from the east; so that
“ to them who anil
Beyond the Cape of Mope, and now are past
Moxumhic,* off at «ea north-east winds blow'
Siibean odours from the spie\ shore
Of Arahy the blest’*—Paradise Imi, iv. ICO.
These winds from the north and the east in the northern
hemisphere, and from the south and the east in the
southern, are the tuade winds. They attain the earth s
surface at, and begin to bo felt about, 28° from the
equator; being, before they reach that latitude, cur¬
rents of the higher atmosphere. The counter currents
by which the air returns from the equator to the poles
being, on the other hand, as to their rotatory motion,
continually in adrancc of the earth s surface, over
which they are passing, produce, in the temperate
regions, where the) first come in contact with it, a
wind from the south-west in the northern hemisphere,
and from the north-west in the southern.
41 And have crossed the equator.
132 THE PREVALENT WINDS.
The prevalence of such winds is well known to
navigators ; they are accustomed to calculate upon
them in their voyages, and shape their course with
reference to them.
To the prevalence of winds coming in a westerly
direction from the tropics is to be attributed an ex¬
tensive influence upon the climate of the temperate
regions of the earth.
They gather heat the most readily and retain it the
longest (for reasons assigned in a preceding chapter)
when traversing the surface of the ocean. It is there¬
fore to countries having a western sea-board and a
wide expanse of ocean stretching westward and to¬
wards the equator, that they bring the greatest amount
of heat and the most genial influence.
Thus it is that the western coast of Europe is, in the
same latitude, greatly warmer than the eastern coast
of America* and that there are jet more remarkable
differences in the temperature of places having the same
latitude but situated on opposite sides of the latter con¬
tinent, or on the western and eastern sides of the great
continent of Europe and Asia. At New Archangel, on
the north-west coast of America (57? 3' N. Lat.), the
mean temperature of the year is 44° of Fahrenheit’s
thermometer* whilst at Nam, in Labrador, on the
same parallel (57° 10' N. Lat.) of the opposite eastern
coast,, it is only 27°. The mean temperature of the
year in Paris, near the western coast of Europe, is 38°,
whilst that of Pekin, situated nine degrees nearer to
the equator, but on the eastern coast of the continent
which comprises Europe and Asia, is only 26°.
( 133 )
TIIE COLD OF ELEVATED REGIONS ON THE ARTIFICIAL
GLOBE.
“ The strength of the hills is Ilis also.’*—Psalm xcv. 4.
Tho4e variations of temperature which arise from
the motion of the atmosphere, although they may have
a prevailing character, are nevertheless modified by
so many occasional and local causes, that we know
not their cycle, and are accustomed to consider them
among the most uncertain elements of climate.* And
although, no doubt, every wind that bloweth doeth
the bidding of Him “ who gathereth the wind in bis
fists” (Prov. xxx• 4), and "bringeth it out of his
treasuries ° (Ps. cxxxv. 7), and hath its especial mi¬
nistration in the economy of nature; yet is it an
agency which we find a difficulty in connecting with
any of its greater characteristics or more general laws.
There are other properties of the air in the
modification of climate, whose effects are still more
striking. The better to comprehend the operation of
these, let the imagination of the reader again sum-
• Tike effect of changes in the wind on the temperature is
sometimes very sudden and remarkable. Captain Scoreehy
mentions an instance in the Arctic Seas, when, by a sudden
veering of the wind, the thermometer was made to fall from
+32° to —2°. Within the tropics the thermometer is rarely
made to rise or fall more than 2° or 3° by a change in the wind.
N
131 THE COLI) OF ELEVATED LEGIONS
moil into its presence the artificer and his globe. Sup¬
pose him to he desirous of intioducif)g jet further
modifications of temperature, independent of any of
the causes before enumerated: and, with this view,
lc?t him have succeeded in mingling a substance such
that, being translucent, and capable of being spread
to a certain thickness over the whole globe, like a
coat of varnish, it shall possess these properties—
firstf that (except under certain circumstances, here¬
after to be explained) it shall give free passage to
rajs ofheat as well as light, not at ally or but very slightly
absorbing them during their transmission; secondly,
that it shall he capable, in common with all other
substances, of having* its temperature raised by contact
with any heated substance. Suppose, moreover, this
transparent coating to he of a thickness greatly mote
than the height of the highest eminence modelled on
the surface of the sphere ; and, that its resemblance
to the atmosphere may be complete, let it have been
laid on in a series of different coats one above another
*
each of a less density than the one put on before it.
The effect of the properties just described will be
to cause the inner portions of this coating—that is.
those more nearly in contact with the surface of the
sphere—to be of a higher temperature than the older
portions of it. For the rays of heat pass through the
transparent coating without heating t/, but are absorbed
by, and heat the actual surface of, the sphere; and
this heated surface of the sphere, in return, heats by
contact the lower strata of the coating, at the same
time radiating off some of its heat into space. These
lower strata, in like manner, radiate some of their
ON TIIE ARTIFICIAL CLODE. 1 oC>
heat, and communicate a portion of the remainder
by contact to the strata above them, which, in like
manner, radiate some, and communicate a portion of
the remainder to their incumbent strata. Mow, let it
be borne in mind, that few or none of the rajs of
heat arc supposed to be absorbed in the act of radiation
through the medium, and that the medium is sup¬
posed to be heated by propagation mil}, from the
surface of the sphere upwards, and from stratum to
stratum. It will then be apparent that each stratum
must of necessity be lcss'heated than that beneath it;
and that any portion of the moulded suiface of the
sphere which projects above its general surface, exist¬
ing in a colder stratum of the surrounding medium,
must itself be of a lower temperature than the general
surface.
( 136 )
THE DEPOSITION OF MOISTURE ON THE ARTIFICIAL
GLOBE.
“ Ye Mists and Exhalations, that now rise
From hill or steaming lake, dusky or gray,
’Till the sun paint your fleecy skirts with gold,
In honour of the world’s great Author rise,
Whether to deck with clouds th' uncolour’d sky,
Or wet the thirsty earth with falling showers,
Rising or falling, still advance his praise.”
Paradise last, v. 18&,
A new element is now to he introduced in our
hypothesis, Let it be required to the perfection of
the work, that humidity, in various forms and various
proportions, should be brought in actual contact with
its surface. Suppose this humidity, under the form
of a transparent* vapour, to enter as an element into
the constitution of the medium which covers it. Let
it, however, retain its properties as a vapour notwith¬
standing this union ; so that, being subjected, in com¬
mon with the medium itself, to a certain diminution of
temperature, by which both are made to contract their
bulk, beyond a certain limit, the vapour shall in that
* It is only when it is in the act of condensing that the vapour
of water presents that cloudy appearance which we associate
with our idea of it. As long as it is in the water, which is of the
same temperature as itself, we see by the bubbles which contain
it that it is perfectly transparent.
DEPOSITION OF MOISTURE ON THE GLOUE. 137
state of condensation separate itsc-lf from the medium,
lose its transparency, and deposit moisture; and that,
by an opposite process, when subjected to an increase
of temperature, this moisture shall again pass into
that form of transparent vapour from which it before
condensed, and betaken up by the medium. Here,
then, evidently our artificer will have contrived, by a
scheme of marvellous ingenuity, to minister to every
state of temperature of every part a corresponding
variety of moisture.
Let the coating of the sphere now be imagined to
pass from the state in which we have described it, of
a transparent but solid medium, having some resem¬
blance to a thick coat of varnish, into the form of an
elasticfluid medium—a gas, or an air, held to its surface
by some attraction which it exerts upon it,—an attrac¬
tion which does not, however, prevent it from mov¬
ing about freely upon the surface of the sphere,—in
short, let it pass into the state of a medium having all
the properties of the atmosphere, held by a like attrac¬
tion to the earth's surface. And, in order to try the
effect of his contrivance, suppose the artificer, looking
through this transparent atmosphere upon any part of
his work, to produce by some means artificial cold
there. When this cold has passed a certain limit, the
vapour which forms part of the atmosphere immedi¬
ately about that spot will condense, a cloud will appear
above it, and, stretched like a veil, will hide it from
his eye. The immediate effect of this cloud will be to
return a large portion of the heat which is in the
act of radiating from the spot which it covers, and
to check the farther depression of its temperature.
138 THE DEPOSITION OF MOISTURE
If the state of artificial cold be continued, the tem¬
perature of this cloud will be yet farther depressed by
its radiation into space, and it will begin to deposit
moisture in drops. This formation of cloud, and ulti¬
mate deposition of moisture, will be affected by the
least depression of temperature, and be most apparent
over those portions of the sphere which, representing
the pointed summits and ridges of mountains, are
worked into elevated points and angba ; these pre¬
senting a much larger surface of radiation in propor¬
tion to their mass than the general surface of the
sphere does; so that from a given mass a much
greater quantity of heat is there radiated away.*
Yet more remarkable will be the effect of those
portions of the covering which are intended to repre¬
sent vegetation in producing a deposition of moisture.
The leaves of a tree offer an immense surface of
radiation in proportion to its bulk. The modelled
resemblance of a forest would therefore have its
temperature and that of its surrounding atmosphere
far more reduced under the same circumstances of
cold than even the pointed summit of the broken
ridge of a mountain. Over these mountains and
• This effect of a broken surface in increasing the radiation in
proportion to the mass, and therefore depressing the temperature,
may be seen m the deposition of hoar frost upon a high road
after a cold night. Whilst little or none is seen on the general
surface of the road, the edges of the traces left by the carriage-
wheels, and the surfaces of loose lumps of earth, will be found
to be covered with it; and if tufts of grass are here and there
seen, these, presenting a yet larger surface of radiation in propor¬
tion to their bulk, will be covered with a yet more abundant
deposition.
ON TI1E ARTIFICIAL GLOBE. 139
forests of the globe clouds will first form themselves ;
and when by its rotation any portion of it has been
subjected to a long-continued radiation in passing
through its darkened side, moisture will on these
first be deposited. At certain elevations it will col¬
lect itself on the summits of the hills, congealed into
snow ; at others it will accumulate in drops, descend
in rain, and, trickling down their sides, collect into
streams, and irrigate the valleys and plains.
The refrigerating influence of elevated portions of
the surface of our mimic globe is not, however, the
only cause active in the formation of clouds ; nor is it
only on those portions of it which are turned from
the heat, that this process of formation is going on.
Under the immediate influence of the rays of heat
which fall upon it from the fire, the moisture is con¬
tinually passing from its surface into the lower strata
of its atmosphere, under the form of a transparent
vapour; whilst those lower strata, heated and rarefied
by contact with it, and loaded with its moisture, are
continually ascending into higher and colder regions,
where, in the act of condensing (if the condensation
exceed a certain limit, dependent upon the degree of
the previous saturation with moisture), their vapour
becomes enow, or assumes the form of a cloud hung
in mid air, and stretched, like a veil, over it—a veil
which the surface of the globe thus itself gives out,
tmd spreads wide, and which shelters it from the heat.
Under a different state of saturation of the air with
water, and a different rarefaction of it, its vapour may
ascend into such a region, and be so condensed by its
ascent, as to pass from the state of cloud to that of
140 DEPOSITION OP MOISTOllE ON THE GLOBE.
rain or hail Moreover, this greater saturation and
rarefaction will be especially likely to obtain under
the point of direct heat. The temperature being there
the highest, and the evaporation the greatest; we
may indeed expect a cloud to be continually stretched
over that point, and a perpetual rain to descend there.
( 141 )
the cold of elevated regions of the
EARTH’S SURFACE.
“ Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever
thou hadst formed the earth and the world, even from
everlasting to everlasting, thou art God.”—Psalm, xc. 2.
This artificial globe now presents a complete epi¬
tome of the Burfuce of the earth, its atmosphere, and
all the astronomical and meteorological varieties of its
climate. We have its zones of temperature ; its cold
and heat, dependent upon elevation and aspect; its
winds and storms ; its clouds and sunshine; the va¬
pours collecting around the summits of miniature
mountains snow-capped ; the rains descending on
forest tracks, and hilly districts, and thence irrigating
its plains and valleys, accompanying with a perpetual
deluge the point of direct sunlight through the tropics,
tempering the vertical heat, and ministering, there,
to the boundless energies of vegetation.
The atmosphere has this quality, that, when pure and
freefrom vapour it is wonderfully pervious to the rays
of light and heat.* Very little indeed of the heat is, in
a perfectly clear sky, absorbed in its transit through
* Bouguer has calculated that of 10,000 rays falling upon the
atmosphere perpendicularly, 8,123 reach the earth’s surface.
There is, however, reason to believe that this is much below the
true estimate.
142 THE COLD OF ELEVATED REGIONS
it. Thus readily allowing the radiation of rays to the
earth’s surface from the sun, the air lends itself with
equal facility to the radiation of heat in the opposite
direction from the earth's surface into space. That
heat which the air actually receives appears princi¬
pally to be derived from its contact with the earth, and
propagated by conduction from one part in it to the
other. If it be asked, Why does not this heated air
immediately desert the surface of the earth, and
ascend and heat its higher regions, and, continually
accumulating heat there, render them yet warmer than
the lower air, which is notoriously contrary to the
fact I—the answer at once meets us in the elasticity
of the atmosphere; and therefore in its decreasing
density at higher elevations, by which, as in the case
of the artificial globe, it is made to contain, as in a
vase, a stratum of warm air in close contact with the
earth’s surface, and to confine the heat around it.
The air of the higher regions, when freed from
clouds, absorbs little or none of the beat radiated
through it, either from the sun, or back from the
earth, or from the subjacent atmosphere. Moreover,
the air heated by contact with the earth, and ascend¬
ing to these higher regions, loses its heat rapidly as
it ascends by radiation and contact, and ascends but
to that limited height assigned to it by the diminish¬
ing density of the surrounding air. All that remains
to warm the higher regions of the air is the heat pro¬
pagated to it by the contact of partst as it is through
solid bodies ; and each stratum in succession, as it re¬
ceives this heat, radiates a portion of it off into space,
propagating only the remainder to the next stratum.
OF THE EARTH'S SURFACE. 143
Thus each successive stratum above us receives a
diminished amount of heat, and the air grows colder
and colder.* Here there is that marvellous provision
for the assembling of a variety of climates nearly
upon the same spot of the earth's surface, by which it
comes to pass, that within the compass of a few miles
may sometimes be seen congregated every character¬
istic form of vegetation, from the giant plants of the
tropics to the lichens of the Arctic zone. In the val¬
leys of the Andes, for instance, are growing palm*
trees, and the banana, and tine coffee-tree, and the
sugar-cane, and the cow-tree, whose trunk being
pierced yields a vegetable milk—the majestic forests,
the juicy fruits, the gorgeous flowers of the tropics.
You ascend them 4,000 or 5,000 feet, and you find
yourself in the temperate zone; fields of European
grain wave around you, and there are forests of oak
and pine. Climb those lofty mountains yet higher,
and beyond the limit of 11,000 feet you are in a region
where grow none but the Arctic lichens.
* Gay Lussac ascended in a balloon to a height of 7,634 yards
above the level of the sen, and found the temperature diminished
by 72^0 of Fahrenheit’s thermometer; or at the rate of about 105
yards for each degree. Tlie depression of temperature at the
same elevation is, however, different in different latitudes.
Thus the height at which a perpetual frost commences its reign,
and at which snow is found all the year round on the tops of
mountains, is different In different latitudes. Throughout a
atone of the earth, extending 2(P on either side of the equator, it
may be considered to vary from 16,000 to 17,000 feet, having the
less elevation immediately beneath the equator, and the greatest
at 20° from it. From this greatest elevation it appears to sink
almost uniformly as the latitude increases, until under a latitude
of 80° it touches the earth’s surface.
144 THE COLD OF ELEVATED REGIONS.
In like manner, on the sides of the Alps, the forms
of vegetation may be traced from the temperate zone
to the region of pepetual snow, in the succession of
forests of chestnuts, beeches* oaks, and pines, gra¬
dually becoming stunted and more scattered, until
they disappear on the borders of the line of perpetual
congelation.
By reason of the diminished temperature of moun¬
tain track, and the fertilizing influence of clouds, and
dew, and rain, which the atmosphere accumulates upon
them, they become, in sultry regions of the earth, the
refuge of vegetation. It is with this allusion, that God,
speaking by the mouth of Ezekiel, as the shepherd of
his people, says, in the language of prophecy, ** I will
feed them in a good pasture, and upon the high moun~
tains of Israel shall their fold be : there shall they lie
in a good fold, and in a fat pasture shall they feed
upon the mountains of Israel ” (Ezek. xxxiv. 14).
( 145 )
THE DEPOSITION OP DEW.
“ Hath the rain a fatln f or who hath begotten the drops of
dew ?”—Job xxxviii. 28.
The agency of the air in the work of vegetation is
not completed when it has brought about its various
modifications of the temperature of the earth.
Moisture is another element of active vegetation,
not less essential to it than heat. Whilst, therefore,
the air is made to receive, with an ever-varying influ¬
ence, those temperatures which minister to the different
forms of a vegetable nature, it is made also, by a yet
more marvellous provision, to water them.
To set before the reader in a clear light this beau¬
tiful provision of the wisdom and goodness of God, to
which such numerous references are made in the word
of God, he must be made to comprehend this property
of the air—that in every form, and under all circum¬
stances, it contains, mingled with it in greater or less
quantities, vapour, in that pure and transparent state
which it assumes when wholly uncondejised.* In this
* We Are accustomed to connect our idea of vapour with that of
steam, as we see it escaping into the air. In this state it Is lit the
act of condensing into moisture ; for this reason it is that itappears
opaque and cloudy. Could we see it before its escape, when in
the boiler or cylinder, for Instance, of a steam-engine, we should
perceive that it is a perfectly transparent fluids It is easy to con
o
116 THE DEPOSITION OF DEW-
form of an unseen vapour, it is at all times and every¬
where ministering to the exigencies of vegetable life.
The vapour thus contained in the air, when, together
with the air, its dimensions are contracted by cold be¬
yond a certain limit, becomes condensed into minute
particles of water, and assumes the appearance of a
cloud. The quantity of contraction necessary to this
condensation depends upon the quantity of water
before contained in the contracted gdr ; that is, upon
the density of the vapour in it. If there be much in
a certain quantity of air—that is, if the vapour in it be
dense—then but little contraction or diminution of
temperature will be necessary ; if there be little, then
a greater contraction and a greater depression of
temperature will be required. Thus, then, there is a
certain depression of the temperature of the air, which
will always cause its vapour to condense into moisture ;*
vince ourselves of this by experiment. Let water be boiled in a
glass vessel (over a spirit-lamp, or otherwise); the hubbies of
steam, as they ascend from the bottom of the walor to escape at
its surface, will be seen to be perfectly transparent.
• The circumstances under which the condensation of vapour
in the air takes place will perhaps be more clearly understood by
this illustration. Let a glass tube, closed at one end, be supposed
to contain air, and let it be prevented from escaping at the other
end by a small column of quicksilver poured in at that end, and
holding down the column of air beneath it in the tube. Now
apply artificial cold to this tube. The air in it immediately begins
to contract; for you will see the column of mercury, which
retains the air beneath it, sink in the tube to a certain point.
If the depression of temperature be continued, a certain point of
condensation will be attained, at which dew will begin to bo
deposited in the interior of the tube. The degree of temperature
at which this begins to take place is the drw-puint. It manifestly
THE DEPOSITION OE DEW. 147
and the amount of depression necessary to produce
tins condensation is dependent upon the amount of
vapour contained in the air.
Here, then, we have the explanation of the forma¬
tion and the deposition of dew.
By the radiation of the earth’s heat into space, after
the sun has gone down, and it is no longer renewed
continually from him, its surface is rapidly cooled.
The superincumbent air, cooled by contact with it
and by its own radiation, has, in the act of cooling the
volume of its contained vapour, contracted until it
condenses and becomes cloud. Being most cooled
immediately in contact with the earth’s surface, it
there exhibits its greatest condensation, and the vapour
there deposits itself under the form of dew, but in
different quantities according to the different radiating
depends upon the quantity of vapour there was contained in the
air condensed. If the weight of the small column of mercury in
the lube be supposed to represent the pressure of the barometric
column, this case is precisely that of the deposition of dew by the
atmosphere. Now the elasticity of the vapour, as it contracts its
dimensions and condenses, remains under these circumstances the
same; for it sustains throughout the sume column of mercury.
But we know, from independent experiments, what is the elas¬
ticity of any vapour of water, at the moment when ft is in the. act
ofcondensing into moisture at a given temperature. Thus, then,
we know the elasticity of the vapour in air, by observing the
point of temperature, at which it condenses into cloud, or its dew¬
point. And this is, moreover, the same as the elasticity of this
vapour in its natural state, and before its temperature was reduced.
Thus, by observing the dew-point of the uir at any time when
artificially cooled, we can tell the elasticity, and therefore the
density, of the vapour it contains in its natural state and this
is the principle of Mr. Daniel's ingenious hygrometer.
148 THE DEPOSITION OF DEW.
properties of the substances on which it is deposited,
and their greater or less consequent depression of
temperature.*
Thus on bright metallic surfaces, which radiate heat
with difficulty, but little dew is deposited.f Four or
five times as much might be expected to be found on
the surface of a paper blackened with Indian ink, and
exposed to the air of the same night; yet more, on
the surface of a piece of plate-glass ; more still upon
a surface covered with a film of water; and most of all
on a surface blackened with smoke4
Animal and vegetable substances are among those
which radiate heat with the greatest facility, and there¬
fore cause the deposition of dew in the greatest
* The following table will show how great are the differences
between the radiating powers of different surfaces. Representing
by 100 the radiating power of a surface blackened by the smoke
of a lamp, that of the same surface covered with
Water will be found to be . , . f 100
Writing-paper.08
Crown-glass.90
Indian ink.88
Ice .... . . . . • , 85
Mercury.. . 20
A bright surface of lead ..... 19
Ditto of iron ........ 15
Ditto of brass, silver, copper, gold . * 12
f A metallic plate whose brightness is tarnished attracts an
abundant deposition ofdew, whilst an exactly similar one with an
untarnished surface attracts none.
| That this comparison may be accurate, the bodies which
receive these artificial surfaces should be, as nearly as possible, of
the same size and material; and the surfaces should be very thin,
and made to adhere to them.
THE DEPOSITION OF DEW. 149
abundance.* No substance appears, by the experi¬
ments of Dr. W ells, to have a greater radiating power,
and therefore a greater attractive power upon dew,
than wool, especially when used attached to the skin.f
There is a beautiful illustration of this fact in the
miracle of the fleece of Gideon. He stretched it upon
the ground ; and the dew fell upon the fleece only, and
it was dry oil all the earth besides : and “he rose up
early on the morrow, and thrust the fleece together, and
wringed the dew out of the fleece, a bowl full of water."
And the next night he stretched the fleece again ; and
“ it was dry upon the fleece only, and there was dew
on all the ground” (Judges vi. 37-40). The dryness
of the fleece on the second night, as it lay upon the
ground, was in direct opposition to the existing
economy of nature.
Differences of colour in bodies, of roughness or
smoothness of coarseness or fineness of texture, as
well as differences of substances, are sufficient, how¬
ever, to produce essential differences between them
in this respect. If equal parcels of white and black
wool, and of swan’s down, for instance, were exposed,
under the same circumstances, to the air of the same
night, they would be found, by weighing them after
* Dr. Wells found, on a fine evening in August, at half-past
seven o’clock, that whilst the heat of the surrounding air was 59°,
that of the surface of a board raised four feet from the ground
was 5»H°i that of a small parcel of wool placed on it 51^°, that of
a similar piece of swan’s down 51°, and that of the grass of an
adjacent grass-plot 49i°.
-f Except , itseems, swan’s down, which is of a similar nature
hut of a finertexture.
o 2
150 THE DEPOSITION OP DEW.
the same time, to have received unequal depositions
of moisture ; and the deposition of dew on the sur¬
face of a piece of wood, or of glass, would be greatly
affected by taking away its polish.
Now the leaves of no two descriptions of plants
have surfaces precisely of the same colour, smooth¬
ness, and dryness ; no two therefore radiate heat pre¬
cisely alike, and no two attract equal depositions of
dew. Thus, not only is it ordered, by a wonderful
provision, that the atmosphere should temper the heat
to every plant, but that in the season of drought it
should water it at eventide, and in the morning; and
water each, as it were, with a different hand, and a
different abundance. Who shall doubt that this vary¬
ing abundance is proportioned to the thirst of each.
The great radiating power of vegetable surfaces
may be seen in the deposition of dew on a track
covered with vegetation as compared with that on
the unclothed surface of the soil. Thus on an even¬
ing of summer, whilst the white surface of the road
is still dry and dusty, if we pass into an adjoining
meadow we shall find it covered with dew. In the
winter the same field will be found covered with
hoar frost, whilst there is no appearance of it upon the
road.*
Frequent allusions are made in Scripture to this
abundant deposition of dew upon the herbage. God
thus comforts his people by the mouth of Isaiah:
* Glass radiates heat with remarkable facility. Thus is ex¬
plained the deposition of frozen moisture on panes of glass in a
window, whilst little or none is to be seen on its wooden frames,
or on the brick walls of the house.
THE DEPOSITION OF DEW. ] 51
“ Awake, and sing, ye that dwell in dust; for thy dew
shall be as the dew ofherbs ” (Isa. xxvi. 19); and Solo¬
mon compares the plentifulness of a king’s favour to
“dew upon the grass” (Prov. xix. 12).
Although the cold of the evening may not be suffi¬
cient, under the existing state of the atmosphere, to
cause the formation of dew, yet that degree of cold
may be attained as the night advances, and as more
and more of the heat of the surface is radiated. The
greatest cold appears to be attained about an hour
after sunrise.* The dew may not, therefore, be de¬
posited all night, and yet the temperature may at that
hour be low enough to*cause its deposition; and if
the deposition has commenced before, it will, in all pro¬
bability, continue until then. Thus is explained the
profuseness of the dew which is continued all night,
and the scantiness of that which begins only to be
deposited in the morning—the morning dew. With
this allusion it is that Job, declaring the glory and the
happiness of his lot before the hand of God’s chastise¬
ment was laid upon him, says, “ My root was spread
out by the waters, and the dew lag all night upon mg
branch ” (Job xxix. 19); and that God, by the mouth
of his prophet Hosea, expostulates with his people as
* Every portion of the earth's surface is radiating heat into
space continually day and night. During the middle of the day
it receives from the sun more than it radiates, and its tempera*
ture rises ; in the evening it receives less than it radiates, and its
temperature falls; at night it receives none, and its temperature
continues to fall Tapidly; in the morning it begins again to
receive heat, but for some time after daybreak it receives less than
it radiates—its temperature continue therefore to fall.
152 TIIE DEPOSITION OF DEW.
those 4t whose goodness is as a morning cloud, and as
the early dew goeth away ” (IIos. vi. 4).
The formation of dew depending upon the reduc¬
tion of the temperaturo of the earth's surface by
radiation depends upon the clearness of the sky ; for
if there he cloudB upon the shy, these intercept and
absorb the heat which the earth radiates towards
space, and then radiate it again in all directions, and
therefore, partly, back again to the earth, whence a
second time it is returned to the clouds. Thus a
portion of the heat which any region, thus covered by
a cloud, has received from the sun during the day, is
continually passing between it and the cloud; and it
does not cool so rapidly, or to the same degree, in the
course of the night as when the sky is clear. As early
as 1776, it was observed by Wilson, that a thermo¬
meter, exposed during a night in which great masses
of cloud were passing over a clear sky, always rose
when the sky was obscured, and sank when it became
open.* It would appear remarkable how very thin,
* If the sky became cloudy, says Dr. Weils, after having l>een
clear, though there might be no change in respect to calmness, a
considerable alteration in the temperature of the grass always
ensued; and this sometimes very suddenly. Upon one such
night, the grass, having been 12° colder than the air, became
only 2° colder than it, the temperature of the air being the same
at both observations. On a second night, the grass became 9°
warmer in the space of an hour and a half. On a third night, in
less than forty-five minutes the temperature of the grass rose
15°, while that of the neighbouring air increased 34°. During
a fourth nightrthe temperature of the grass at half-past nine
o’clock was 32°; in twenty minutes afterwards it was found to
be 39°, the sky having in the mean time become cloudy. At the
end of twenty minutes more, the sky being clear, the temperatuje
THE DEPOSITION OF DEW. 153
and almost imperceptible, a vapour is sufficient thus
to interfere with the radiation of heat, and affect the
thermometer, were it not that we know heat and light
to pass together, and a very thin cloud perceptibly to
interfere with the transmission of light.
Clouds are, in point of fact, a garment, a coverlet for
the earth. When spread over it at night they retain
in it a large portion of the warmth, which it has ab¬
sorbed during the day; as a covering for the body
retains the animal heat.*
Thus obstructing the radiation of heat from that¥
portion of the earth’s surface which they cover during
the night, the clouds obstruct the deposition of dew
upon it; and we have it thus explained by what pro¬
vision of infinite Wisdom it is, that in the temperate
and colder regions, over whose sky clouds are con-
of the grass was again 32°. In illustration of these observations,
Dr, Wells made the following experiment:—“ I bent,” says he,
“ a sheet of pasteboard into the shape of a house-roof, making
the angle of flexure 90°, and leaving both ends open. This was
placed one evening with its ridge uppermost upon the same
grass-plot in the direction of the wind, as well as this could be
ascertained. I thon laid ten grains of wool on the middle of that
part of the grass which was sheltered by the roof, and the same
quantity on another part of the grass-plot fully exposed to the
sky. In the morning the sheltered wool was found to have
increased in weight only two grains; but that which had been
exposed to the sky sixteen grains.
* It is precisely on this principle that afty other covering
operates in the retention of warmth. There is a perpetual radia¬
tion of it backwards and forwards between the covering and the
body covered. And in the some way it is explained why the
covering of a plant or tree in blossom with a slender gauze or
netting, or sheltering it with boughs, or causing a cloud of smoke
to pass over it, greatly protects it from the night cold*
154 THE DEPOSITION OF DEW.
tinually passing, and where there is abundance of rain,
the earth is not watered with dew except in the heat
of summer; and why in tropical countries, and espe¬
cially under the arid, cloudless, and transparent atmo¬
spheres of desert regions, the nights arc proverbially
cold,* and the dew is deposited with the abundance
of a shower.
The allusions of Scripture to this copious outpour¬
ing of deW upon the thirsty vegetation of Palestine,
and its blessed and fructifying influence, are many and
»beautiful. It is called the u dew from the Lord,”
(Micah v. 7). In his blessing upon his son Esau,
Isaac gave the first place to the u dew of heaven
“ God gave thee of the dew of heaven, and the fatness
* It is in reference to these extreme vicissitudes of the heat
hv (lay mid the cold by night in Palestine, that Jacob, speaking
of the hardships he endured whilst watching the sheep of
Laban, says, “ in the day the drought consumed me, and the
cold by night ” (Gen. xxxi. 40). In Bengal great numbers of
persons are employed in the collection and preservation of ire
formed by exposing thin surfaces of water to the night air; it
is an article of manufacture. The process as this :—A spare of
ground, of convenient dimensions, l>eing carefully levelled, is
divided into plots of four or five feet square, round which the
earth is raised three or four inches. Each of these compart¬
ments has its floor covered with a layer of straw, or dried sugar¬
cane, on which are placed open earthen vessels containing the
water to be fi ozen. When the air of the night is calm, and the sky
clear, ice forms itself in abundance. It is by the divert radiation
that this depression of the temperature of the water is brought
about. It is carried far lower than that of the surrounding air.
A full account of the circumstances connected with this forma¬
tion of ice will be found in a paper by Mr. Williams, in the Phil.
Tians,t vol. Ixxxiii. A manufactory of ice has recently been
formed on this principle in the neighbourhood of Paris.
THE DEPOSITION OF DEW. 1OO
of the earth, and plenty of corn and wine” (Gen.
xxxvii. 28). Jacob, too, in blessing his sons, gave to
his beloved son Joseph “ the blessings of heaven above ’*
(«en. xlix. 25); and in u the blessing wherewith
Moses the man of God blessed the children of Israel
before his death, he said of Joseph, Blessed of the
Lord be his land, for the precious things of heaven,
for the dewt and the deep that coucheth beneath ”
(Deut. xxxiii. 1, 13). The goodness of God is com¬
pared to the influence of the dew: “ I will be as dew
unto Israel,” saith he ; “ he shall grow as a lily, and
cast forth his roots as Lebanon” (Hos. xiv. 5). His
presence is likened to “ a dew in the heat of harvest ”
(Hos. xviii. 5); and his “speech* is said to “ distil as
the dew ” (Deut. xxxii. 2).
Unity in the Church is compared by the Psalmist to
the blessed influence of dew : “ Behold how good and
how pleasant it is,” says he,“ for brethren to dwell
together in unity!. It is as the dew of Hermon,
and as the dew that descends on the mountains of
Zion : for there the Lord commandeth the blessing,
even life for evermore ” (Ps. cxxxiii. 1-3).
These allusions of Scripture to the copious dews of
Palestine can scarcely be understood in all their ful¬
ness and significance until we have compared them
with testimonies, such as the following, of travellers in
those countries. “ We were instructed by experience,”
says Maundrell, travelling near Mount Hermon, “what
the Psalmist means by the dew of Hermont our tents
being as wet with it as if it had rained all night.”
And Dr. E. Clarke thus writes of a journey from
Aboukir to Rosetta: “We had a tent allotted to us for
156 TIIE DEPOSITION OF DEW.
the night; it was double lined ; yet so copious are the
dews of Egypt" (the climate of which country is said
to be similar to that of the Holy Land) “ after sunset,
that the water ran copiously down the tent-pole.*' *
With the idea we thus arrive at of the dews of these
regions, such passages as the following become intelli-
gibl^“ His body was wet with the dew " (Dan. iv. 33).
“My head is filled with dew and my locks with the
drops of the night " (Cant. v. 2).
* See Home’s Introduction, vol. iii. p, 32,
( 1*7 )
4k
THE CLOUDS.
u Sing unto the Lord with thanksgiving ; sing praise nport
the harp unto our God: who covereth the heavens with
clouds, whO prepareth rain for the earth, who makes
grass to grow upon the mountains.”—Psalm cxlvii, 7, 8.
The same cause which accounts for the deposition
of dew explains the formation of clouds. The lower
Etrata of air becoming heated and expanded by contact
with the earth’s surface, and more or le9S saturated
i
with its moisture, are buoyed up, and made to seek in
higher regions of the atmosphere a density like their
own. As they thus ascend, they find a continually
diminishing temperature, and, under its influence, they
diminish the velocity of their ascent, and contract their
dimensions. At length, perhaps, a region is attained
where the temperature of the ascending mass of air
sinks to the dew-point. Its vapour then condenses into
moisture, and a cloud is formed. Or, perhaps, its ascent
is arrested before the elevation corresponding to this
temperature is reached ; but in the mean time it has
entered one of those currents of the upper regions of
the air which have a prevailing tendency from the
tropics towards the poles, and, forming part of this
158 THE CLOUDS.
current, it is borne along over regions of the earth
successively colder than one another—descending as it
advances—until at length it traverses some region
where its temperature sinks to the dew-point, and it
becomes a cloud. An elevated region, if such occur,
will first present to it these conditions, and especially
a mountain range. The current climbs its sides, until
it attains, perhaps, a region elevated and cold enough
to produce the vaporous condensation of its moisture.*
The watery particles of the cloud thus formed, sus¬
pended in the air out of which they are condensed,
are then borne along in the wind, like mountainous
snow-flakes swept along in a flood of waters. Long
columns of them are, by an optical deception, made to
* It has already been explained that the depression of the
temperature of a mountain-peak or ridge by radiation during
the night is very great, exceeding that of the plain beneath.
Its surface must, then, become greatly colder than the surround¬
ing air during the night, as, according to the experiment of I)r.
Wells, the even surface of the ground does. This depression of
its temperature will probably be greatest about an hour after
sunrise, which explains the accumulation of clouds on the tops
of mountains about that period of the day; the cold will, how¬
ever, remain in a less degree until much later, and that especially
as one-half of a mountain is, in our latitudes, always in the
shadow. Hence arises the moisture of mountains in tropical
regions, and consequently their fertility, so often alluded to in
Scripture. We read in Isaiah, “ Their pastures shall be in all
high places. They shall not hunger nor thirst; neither shall the
sun or heat smite themfor he that hath mercy on them shall
lead them, even by the springs of water shall he guide them ”
(Is. xlix. 9,10). And thus the “ mountains and all hills ” are said
to “ praise the Lord” (Ps. cxlviii. 9). And on the mountains of
Gilboa the curse of God descended, that there should be " no
dew upon them” (2 Sam. i. 21). ,
THE CLOUDS. 159
mould themselves, as it were, into the cavity of the
sky; and, as they travel onwards in long lines, we
seem to see thousands of them winding round us in
segments of the great dome of the heavens.
It is somewhere about the 30th parallel of latitude
that the temperature of the region in which the great
permanent currents of the air prevail, appears to
attain the dew-point. Here, then, commences what
may be called emphatically the region ofclouds, and the
temperate zone. Here it is that God first “ bindeth
up the waters in his thick cloud ” (Job xxvi. 8), and
“ it poureth down rain according to vapour” (Job
xwvi. 27).
( 160 )
THK HAIN.
Nevertheless, he left not himself without a witness, in that
he did good, and gave us ram from heaven, and fruitful
seasons filling our hearts with food and gladness.”—Acts
xir. 17.
The condensation of vapour is attended by the ex¬
trication of heat. When, therefore, a mass of air passes
into another of a temperature lower than the dew¬
point, and makes its first deposition of cloud, it may,
in the very instant of deposition, elevate the temperature
of the medium immediately around it slightly above
the dew-point. In this tfase but a thin cloud will form.
If, however, the difference of the temperature of the
two media he great, or if the mass of heated air passes
on, so as continually to change the medium which sur¬
rounds it, there will result a continual abstraction of
heat, a continual depression below the dew-point, and
a continual accumulation of vapour and thickening of
the cloud. In the act of condensing, the moisture will
have a continual tendency to accumulate on the par¬
ticles already formed, until at length, becoming too
heavy to be longer suspended, they will fall, and add¬
ing to their mass the moisture that lies in their path
and that surrounds it, they will at length reach the
earth in large drops under the form of rain.
Here, then, is that second provision of God for
watering the earth yet more abundantly than by the
THIS RAIN. 161
dew. ** Thou, 0 God, didst send a plentiful rain upon
thine inheritance " (Ps. Ixviii. 9), “ the great rain of
thy strength.to satisfy the desolate and waste
grounds, and to cause the bud of the tender herb to
spring forth '* (Job xxxvii. 6, 27).
As elevated regions cause the formation of cloud, so
do they fa\our the descent of kain—a fact with which
every one who has lived in a mountainous district is
sufficiently conversant.* Obstructing the currents
of the lower air, mountain ranges cause them to climb
their sides, and, under the powerful contraction of the
cold that reigns at their summits (especially during the
night), compel them to give out their vapour, in clouds
an rain. Thus the irrigation ofthe earth is effected by
the mountains. It is in the rains upon the mountains
that all the great rivers of the world have their origin,
and hence that they are continually fed. Here, too,
replenish themselves those mighty tanks, which, em-
bowelled in mountain regions, by a thousand secret
channels disseminate their waters under the surface of
the soil, cherish the deep roots of trees, and feed the
thirsty herbage, or gush out in the green places of the
earth into springs, and fountains, and brooks.
"these
The mountain cisterns fill, those ample stores
Of water, scoop'd among the hollow rocks ;
Whence gush the streams, the ceaseless fountains play,
And their unfailing wealth the rivers draw."
Seasons—Autumn,
For this cause—as well as that He might infinitely
multiply over the same narrow region the forms of
* More than twice as much rain falls at Kendal, in West¬
moreland, as in London.
16*2 THE RAIN,
vegetable nature by accumulating there all the varieties
of climate—we may conceive the mountains to have
been established, and to have been ** weighed in scales,
and the hills in a balance ” (Is. xl. 12).
When we behold the ranges of the Himalaya and
Taurus stretching their mighty barrier almost, due east
and west,* just without the tropic of Cancer, five thou¬
sand miles across the southern breadth of Asia, it is
scarcely possible not to believe that they were there
placed to lift their heads into that current of the higher
air, which, bearing with it the evaporation of the torrid
zone, sets from the tropic of Cancer continually to the
north; to gather its waters, and return them, to the fer¬
tile plains of Hindostan, by the vast river-system of
the Ganges and the Indus, and to Persia and Syria, by
the Euphrates and the Tigris.
Let us follow this belt of mountains westward, and
we shall find it continued by a double system; one
branch of which, commencing at the Straits of Con¬
stantinople, and terminating at Cape la Roca in Por¬
tugal, skirts the Mediterranean, and forms the southern
boundary of Europe; and the other, commencing with
Lebanon, traverses Palestine on this side Jordan—
“ a land of biooks of water, of fountains and depths
that spring out of the valleys and hills " (Deut. viii. 7)
—and passes by Arabia Petrtea into that mountainous
district which, with the interval of a narrow fringe of
low and level land on the shores 6f the Mediterranean,
appears to form the northern boundary of Africa, and
terminate in the regions of Atlas.
* The true direction of the parallel ranges of the Himalaya
and Taurus is E.S.E. and W.N.W.
TIIE KAIN. 163
But the continent of Africa, stretching completely
across the tropics, and far into the southern hemi*
sphere, requires other sources of irrigation than are to
be found on its northern frontier. Further south,
across a central region, then, south of Sahara, and
between the coast of Guinea and the Red Sea, rises,
as we have reason to believe, a vast mountain-district,
in which are the sources of the Bahr el Abiud—the
parent of the Nile—on the east, and the mighty
Quorra (the Niger) on the west; and on the extreme
south we find the elevated table-lands of the Cape.
If, now, we pass to the new world, whose vast length
reaches from one pole almost to the other; for the
irrigation of that far-stretched region, a mountain-
range presents itself, which is made to run along its
entire length, from the Tierradel Fuego to the Frozen
Ocean.
Of this mountain-chain the southern division is the
Andes, “ the longest unbroken range of lofty sum¬
mits on the globe.” It is continued into the northern
continent by that mountain district which, rising in
the Isthmus of Panama, and spreading itself into the
table-lands of Mexico, merges in the Rocky Moun¬
tains of the United States, then becomes the Chippe-
wayan range of the north-weBt country, and terminates
west of Mackenzie's River in the Frozen Sea,—having
traversed a space of not less than 6,700 miles; skirted
(with a considerable interval towards the north) the
western shore of both continents and the Pacific ;
given birth, by its eastern slope, to the greatest rivers
on the globe—the Parana, the Maranon (the La Plata
and the River of the Amuzons), and the Mississippi;
164 THE RAIN.
culled into existence the widest known varieties of
climate ; fertilized a vast track, under an infinite
variety of forms ; and fostered every where a luxuriant
and a giant vegetation.
To the long and narrow continent of South America
an abundant irrigation is supplied by the range of the
Andes, with the tributary ranges of Venezuela, of
Guiana, and Brazil, which cross it in its widest part.
The wide expanse of the northern continent requires,
however, other fountains of water than those of the
Rocky Mountains and the Chippewa} an range on its
western skirts. To meet this exigency, eastward of
the valley of the Mississippi rises the system of the
Appalachians, and stretches to the banks of the St.
Lawrence.
Such are the mountain-ranges of the earth. These,
however are but a part in the great system of its high
places; these but give rise to the rivers, whose course
is afterwards controlled, and whose waters are reple¬
nished by more gradual variations in the level of the
land.
All the great continental masses would seem gra¬
dually, and to the eye imperceptibly, to lift tbeir
surfaces from their shores towards their central re¬
gions ; and it is upon these central elevated platforms
that the great characteristic mountain-sj stems are, for
the most part, builded up. Who will believe that
they were not thus placed, in order that the waters
which fall upon them, compelled from the clouds,
should not lie accumulated and stagnant around their
bases, but be directed by the gradual and various
descent of the land in a devious course, and with afar-
THE RAIN. 165
spreading influence to the sea? For this reason it
is that Asia rises from the level plains of Hindostan
and of Arabia, and from the steppes of Tartary and
Siberia, by a series of gradual slopes and terraces, to
those vast systems of table-land known as the plateaus
of Thibet and Iran, whose elevation varies from four
thousand to ten thousand feet; which comprises an
area of not less than nine millions of square miles,
or two-fifths of all Asia; and on the skirts of which
rise, like mountain-entrenchments, the ranges of Hi¬
malaya, of Taurus, and of Caucasus.
Thus Africa too, as far as we know it, appears to be
“ a land of terraces, rising from the coast into the
interior by successive steps, which are spread out into
widely extended plains,—in Borne places known by
observation to exist, as in the Cape colony, and on
the shores of the Mediterranean; in others indicated
by a regular series of falls in the beds of great rivers.”
And thus America elevates itself, in its northern
continent, from the shores of the Atlantic and the
Pacific, by a series of gradual elevations, to the plat¬
form which carries the Appalachians on the east, and
to that which supports the Kocky Mountains on the
west. And thus along its southern continent runs the
ridge of the Andes, like the mighty spine of a vast
living animal, towards whose base its surface elevates
itself from the Atlantic on one Bide, gradually, and
from the Pacific on the other, more abruptly. It is a
region than which no other in the world presents a
more striking contrast of far-stretched plains, rising
step by step into elevated table-lands, and crowned by
mountain masses; so that no other has the same con-
166 THE RAIN.
trasts of climate, or so abundant an irrigation, or
such interminable varieties of vegetation or forms of
animal life.
To this law of the gradual elevation of continental
masses towards their centres, Europe—comparatively
a small continent—appears to present an exception.
Her two great mountain systems are placed on her
northern and southern boundaries. That on her
southern limit includes the Pyrenees, the mountains
of southern Prance, the Alps, the Carpathians, and
the Balkan. The northern system is that of Scandi¬
navia. Within these mountain-systems central Europe
extends in one vast plain, occupying nearly two-thirds
of its surface, increasing its width towards its eastern
boundary, and reaching to the Frozen Sea, the Ural
Mountains, and the Caucasus.
Now, why does thiB distribution of the elevated
regions of the small continent of Europe differ so
essentially from that of the other great continentsi
Thist at any rate, we may see, that by reason of the
small extent of its surface, the sam.-* provision for the
divergence of ample streams from its central regions
towards its shores is not required ; and that its moun¬
tain-groups are so placed by Him, who 6t understandeth
the spreadings of the clouds, and can number them
in his wisdom ” (Job xxxvi. 29, xxxviii. 37), as to
water it every where abundantly; moreover that it
owes largely to the peculiar features of their distri¬
bution that mildness of climate which is its great cha¬
racteristic, and, in respect to its position on the earth's
surface, an anomaly. Were its mountain-districts
placed in its centre, like those of the greater conti-
THE RAIN. 1G7
ncnta, instead of under the mild influence of its shores ;*
or were its central regions lifted into table-lands, as
are those of the corresponding latitudes of Asia; a
temperature would reign there like that under which
vegetation perishes in equal latitudes of Tartary, or
the desert of Gobi, or on the more southern plateau
of Thibet, or of the Tartaric region of Himalaya.
Such are the high places and the mountain-regions
of the earth ; and such evidence have we that “ the
Lord possessed wisdom in the beginning, before the
mountains were brought forth, or ever lie had formed
the earth that in very deed “ he hath weighed them
in scales, and the hills in a balancethat “ in his
hand are all the corners of the earth, and the strength
of the hills is his also and that“ by his knowledge
the depths are broken up, and the clouds drop dew,”
and “the laud drinks water of the rain of heaven.”
* The great southern mountain-system of Europe receives
the warm southern currents of the upper air; and its base is
washed by the waters of the Mediterranean, whose temperature is
3° or \l° above that of the Atlantic.
( 168 )
THE TROPICAL RAINS.
“ Let us now fear the Lord our God that giveth Rain, both
the former and the latter, in his season ■ he reserveth unto
us the appointed weeks of the harvest.”—J>re;nw/i v. 24.
If, by any powerful rarefaction, a mass of air were
rapidly carried up from any point in the earth’s sur¬
face to a great elevation in the atmosphere immediately
above that point, that elevation, being accompanied
by the requisite degree of cold, would immediately
cause the condensation of vapour and the abundant
formation of clouds, and, possibly, the plentiful descent
of rain. This is precisely that which occurs con¬
tinually oyer that region which is at any instant the
region of direct sunlight—the region where the sun’s
rays are at any instant falling perpendicula.rly> and
which coincides with the bright spot on the artificer’s
globe. The earth, heated under that burning radia¬
tion, so elevates the temperature of the incumbent
air, that, replenished by the surrounding medium, it
rushes up in a perpetual stream towards colder regions
—deposits, as it ascends, cloudy vapour—spreading
a veil between the earth and the sun—and at length
attains a region so cold, that its moisture accumulates
in drops, and it descends under the form of a con¬
tinual rain.
That surely is a most beautiful provision of the
goodness of God, by which it is so ordered that over
THE TROPICAL RAINS. m
the spot where tffe direct rays of the sun would other¬
wise fall with an unendurable heat, there should always
be spread a covering of vapour, and that this spot
should always be drenched in rain.
A perpetual shower traverses the torrid zone,
deluging, in succession, every region of it; accom¬
panying the point of direct sunlight, and thus com¬
pleting its journey with the year.
Although the most abundant descent of the rain thus
takes place at that time of the year when the direct sun¬
light is actually traversing any spot, yet do the rains
begin to descend long before that time. The column
of descending rain is of considerable width, and spreads
over a large area; and although the flood of waters
descends most abundantly in its centre, yet are there
plentiful showers round its circumference, and upon
its skirts; and these descend upon regions far remote
from the spot where "the sun is vertical. Thus, when
the point of direct sunlight is traversing either tropic—
that is, when the sun is said to be in that tropic—the
column of descending rain covers an area extending
far beyond that tropic, and there too are felt the tro¬
pical rains*
Twice in the year the point of direct sunlight, and
its accompanying deluge of rain thus passes over
every point within the tropics; once when it is ap¬
proaching the nearest tropic, and once when it is
receding from it. Thus, every year there would be
every where within the tropics two rainy seasons, were
it not that by reason of the great dimensions of the
column it appears never wholly to desert a belt of
the earth extending four or five degress on either
Q
170 THE TBOPICAL RAINS.
side of the equator; throughout this region there are
said to be few days in the year without rain. Beyond
it from the lat- 5° to the nearest tropic, extends a
region which is every year wholly deserted by the
column of rain, as it passes to the mote distant
tropic; here then the wet and dry seasons are dis¬
tinctly marked. From the fifth to the tenth parallel
is a belt which the sun passes over with remarkable
rapidity, going and returning from the tropic, and
bringing with it two seasons of excessive rain. Be¬
yond this belt the sun lingers over the region imme¬
diately about the tropic, and the rain of the rainy
season is there continuous.
It is a great mistake, however, to suppose that these
rains continue at any place incessantly. The rotation
of the earth sweeps a belt of its surface underneath the
column of rain every twTenty-four hours > but it is only
during a certain portion of the twenty-four hours that
any place in that belt can actually be passing through
the column. This period is immediately about the
lime of noon at each place; that place then passing
nearest to the point of direct sunlight, and to the
centre of the column, “ A day in which the rains fall
without interruption from morning to evening, is of
much rarer occurrence between the tropics than with
us: the sun usually rises in,a cloudless sky; two hoqrs
before noon the clouds begin to appear; and at noon
the rains set in. They then frequently pour down in
torrents for four or five hours; but towards sunset
they cease, the clouds suddenly disappear, and not a
drop of rain descends during the night,/*
The point (or rather the ray) of direct sunlight has
THE TROPICAL RAINS. 171
been spoken of as the centre of the column of descend¬
ing rain. This is not, however, strictly the case.
The cause of the tropical rains has been explained
to be, in the first place, the extraordinary heating of
the earth’s surface under the direct rays of the sun j
and, secondly, the heating of the immediately incum¬
bent air by contact with it; which air, rising rapidly
to higher and colder regions of the atmosphere,
becomes condensed, and gives out its vapours. Now
this heat of any point of the earth’s surface is not
greatest at the instant when the direct ray is in the
act of passing over it, or at the time when it is re¬
ceiving its greatest heat. It continues to receive more
heat than it radiates, and therefore to accumulate heat
for some time after the direct ray has passed; so
that the greatest heat, as we know by experience, is
no where attained until noon has for some time passed.
The greatest heating of the earth's surface is thus not
immediately under the direct ray ; and the greatest
rarefaction of the air, and point of the most abundant
production of rain—that is, the centre of the column
of rain—are, for the same reason, not under the direct
ray, but some distance behind it. It is thus explained
why the rain of every day of the rainy season does
not commence until noon, or terminate until some hours
afterwards.
The following is the description given by Humboldt
of the phenomena which attend the approach of the
greater rainy season, as observed by him in South
America in latitude from 4° to 1CP:—
** Nothing can surpass the clearness of the atmo¬
sphere from the month of December to that of Janu-
172 THE TROPICAL RAINS.
ary (when the point of direct sunlight is at its
greatest distance). The sky is then constantly with¬
out clouds; and if one should appear, it is sufficient
to excite the whole attention of the inhabitants. The
breeze from the east and the east-north-east blows
with violence. The immense plains (called llanos),
which in the rainy season display a beautiful verdure,
gradually assume the aspect of a desert; the grass is
reduced to powder, and the earth cracks; and the
alligator and the large serpents remain buried in the
mud till the first showers of the year awaken them
from their lethargy. About the end of February, and
the beginning of March, the blue of the sky becomes
less intense; the hygrometer indicates greater humi¬
dity ; and the stars, veiled at times by a slight vapour,
lose th<? steady and planetary light which before dis¬
tinguished them.
“ The breeze at this period becomes less strong and
regular, and is often interrupted by dead calms. The
clouds accumulate towards the south-south-east, ap¬
pearing like distant mountains, with strongly marked
outlines; and from time to time they detach them¬
selves from the horizon, and traverse the vault of the
sky with a rapidity that little corresponds with the
feebleness of the winds below. At the end of March
the southern region of the atmosphere is illuminated
by gleams of lightning (the point of direct sunlight is
now rapidly approaching) ; and the breeze then passes
frequently, and for several hours together, to the west
and south-west. This is a certain sign of the ap¬
proach of the rainy season, which begins at Oroonoko
about the end of April: the sky becomes obscured,
THE TROPICAL RAINS. 173
the azure disappears, and a gray tint is spread uni¬
formly over it; at the same time the heat progressively
increases; and soon dense vapours cover the heavens
from one end to the other. The plaintive cry of the
howling monkey** begins to be heard before the rising
sun. The atmosphere is at length convulsed by fre¬
quent thunder-storms; the rains descend in toncuts ;
and the rivers, rising rapidly above their banks, over¬
spread the plains with extensive inundations.” *
The rainy season of these regions is their season of
greatest heat; and it is this union of heat and moisture
which is the secret of the marvellous luxuriance and
abundance of their vegetation.
When a small depression of the temperature of the
air causes it to deposit moisture (or brings it to the
dew-point), it is said to be nearly saturated with mois-,
ture, and is humid. When, on the contrary, it bears
a great depression of temperature without depositing
moisture, it is wanting in it, and has a tendency to
take it up wherever it is found—it is then parching
and dry, and, as it were, thirsty.
The observations of Humboldt show that the vapour
of the atmosphere between the tropics approaches
much more nearly to the point of saturation than that
in the temperature zone.f And we may thus under-
* This extract is made from the Treatise on Physical Geo¬
graphy, published by the Society for the Diffusion of Useful
Knowledge, p. 4i.
f As we ascend higher into the atmosphere there is a marked
diminution in the humidity. This is said to be the cause of
that beautiful deep blue colour of the sky which strikes us
when we look at it from high mountain-summits. It is thus,
too, explained why clouds rarely form round tho tops of very
Q 2
174 THE TKOPICAL BAINS.
stand why it is, that in this, our region of the earth,
which is emphatically the region of clouds, and where
the fall of rain is distributed much more continually
over the year, the annual quantity which falls is
greatly less than within the tropics. % In the island of
St. Domingo, there falls on an average a quantity of
rain which would, if all collected together, be sufficient
to cover the surface of the ground 120 inches thick;
in Calcutta. 70 inches ; in Home, 36 ; in London, 23;
at St. Petersburg, 16.
fagh mountains, but on their sides. Fleecy clouds are, neverthe¬
less, sometimes seen floating on the tops of the Andes, at an
elevation of 25,000 feet.
I 175 )
THE TEMPERATURE OF THE SOIL.
u 0 ye Fire and Heat bless ye the Lord : praise him and mag¬
nify him together.”—The Benedicitc.
It is not only by the properties in respect to heat of
the ocean, or by those in respect to heat and vapour of
the atmosphere, by marine currents, by the winds, by
rains, and by the dew, that the processes of vegetation
are influenced, and the geographical distribution of
plants modified; another vivifying element not less im¬
portant in its agency is the native temperature of the
soil.
There is a heat proper to the mass of the earth, in¬
creasing from a short distance beneath its surface down¬
wards at the rate of about one degree of Fahrenheit’s
thermometer for every fifteen yards. This central heat
becomes sensible in excavations reafching anywhere
beyond a certain depth, and in deep mines it is oppres¬
sive.
It is a constant heat. It does not by the slightest
appreciable quantity vary from year to year, or season
to season. Observations were made in 1671, by Cas¬
sini, on the temperature of the air in certain closed
cellays beneath the Observatory of Paris ; they were
repeated in 1730 by La Hire, and during the last forty-
five years thermometrical apparatus of great sensibility
have been fixed in these cellars and constantly ob-
170 THE TEMPERATURE OF THE SOIL.
served; the temperature thus observed through a period
of 175 years has never varied by more than one quarter
of a degree from 11® ’82 of the centigrade thermometer,
or 53°* 37 of the thermometer of Fahrenheit.
There is, however, a temperature proper to the sur¬
face soil which is influenced at once by this constant
subterranean heat and by the superficial absorption, and
the radiation of the solar heat. This is a variable tem¬
perature. It extends in different localities to different
depths, varying from 41) to 60 or 80 feet on the con¬
tinent of Europe, 1)ut being bound in tropical regions
at the depth of‘a single foot. If a surface be imagined
to pass through all those points, beneath the earth's
surface, to which the surface heat is propagated, and
to which, therefore, a variable temperature extends, it
will be that called “ the surface of invariable tempera-
tirre.‘*
Theory and experiment agree in indicating the
temperature of any point in this surface of invariable
temperature to be the mean temperature of that point
in the earth's surface which is immediately above it,*
It is not a regular or an even surface, but one
haring elevations and depressions dependent partly
upon corresponding elevations and depressions of
the earth s surface, aud partly upon irregularities in
the strata which constitute the earth’s crust. Whilst
beneath this surface there reigns an invariable tem¬
perature, a constant change is taking place above it,
and that of a very remarkable kind.
* Thus the mean temperature of Paris is 10° *6 of the centi¬
grade thermometer, which differs but one degree from the invari¬
able temperature of the cellars under the Observatory. (Sec ante.)
TIIE TEMPERATURE OF THE SOIL. 177
From experiments made at Edinburgh, Zurich, and
Strasburg, it appears that, during the winter months,
January, February, and March, the temperature in¬
creases uniformly as we descend from the earth’s
surface to the surface of invariable temperature
that in the months of April and May there comes,
with the spring, a sudden and remarkable elevation of
the temperature*, extending to a depth of about two
feet into the soil, but continually diminishing to that
depth ; whilst beneath it, the earth retains the tempera¬
ture of the two preceding months, continually increas¬
ing as we further descend, so that there is a depth
(and a surface) of minimum temperature, situated
between the surface of the earth and the surface of
invariable temperature.
As the year advances, this surface of minimum tem¬
perature sinks continually deeper and deeper, until, in
the month of August, it reaches the surface of invari¬
able temperature and indentifies itself with it. In
this month, however, the mean temperature at the
surface has begun to diminish, and beneath the surface
it is reduced, at different depths, more nearly to a state
of uniformity, which state it actually attains in Sep¬
tember, to the depth of 10 or 20 feet. It is in the
month of October and November that this uniformity
changes into an increasing temperature. And the
* In the experiments of Mr. Fergusson at Edinburgh, in 1817,
the temperature at a depth of one foot, whose mean in February,
was 3"°• 04, became in March 39°’4, and April fig°*96. No
variation of the temperature of the surface soil comparable to this,
ns to its amount, and the shortness of the time in which it is
brought about, occurs at any other season of the year.
1*78 THE TKMPEKATtHRE OF TIIE SOIL.
temperature, which in the preceding months had in¬
creased from the depth of 15 or 20 feet to the surface of
invariable temperature, now becomes throughout that
space uniform.
Although the temperatures of the atmosphere and
the soil are dependent for their variations on the
same causes, yet in their amounts they are essentially
different. During the day the temperature of the soil
is much higher than that of the air*. At nijjht it is
sometimes from 14° to 18° below it. The relations
by which these changes in the temperature of the soil
ttre connected with atmospheric causes and the solar
radiation, it is not easy to trace;—who can, however*
doubt that when, in the months of March and April,
the temperature of the soil so suddenly and so rapidly
ascends, it is to meet the first efforts of vegetation—
the bursting of the germ and the putting forth of the
bud and blossom!
The black colour of the earth, fa\ourable as it is to
the absorption of heat, is one of the causes which con¬
tribute to give to the soil a temperature higher than
that of the air above it; were some limit not indeed
placed to the operation of this cause, the moisture of
the soil might everywhere be transferred to the atmo¬
sphere. That limit is found in the fact, that, although
black be the colour most favourable to the absorption
of heat, it is also that most favourable to its radiation;
and since, during the whole day, whilst the earth is in
the act of receiving heat from the sun, it is also in the
* At rads, the temperature of the soil is not unfrequently
UiP F,; and, in the summer of 1S24, it attained 149° F.
THE TEMPERATURE OF TIIE SOIL. 179
act of radiating it, in some degree unknown to tis, into
space, and since this process of radiation is going on
also all night, it follows that the radiating properties
of a body may have a greater influence to keep down
its temperature than its absorbing properties have to
raise it; and thus we may understand why vegetable
mould which is commonly the darkest, is at the same
time the most humid; and why the gardener white¬
washes the wall against which his fruit-trees are nailed j
not that reflecting the heat, it may be cooled, but that,
radiating it ill, it may remain hot,—why regions of
sand are parched with heat, and why the Almighty, in
his wisdom and goodness, has given to the animals of
cold regions a white covering, and one of a darker
colour to those within the tropics; man himself being,
in this respect, a memorable example.
Thus, too, that is ob\iously no visionary analogy
which the covering of animals presents in arctic re¬
gions, to the covering of the earth’s surface; in winter
a white mantle of snow is thrown down upon it, and
bodies of animals are enveloped in thick white furs.
When summer comes; under the form of a single day,
of from five to six months’ duration, and the clothing
of animals is made thinner and lighter, its colour also
is changed, and the covering of snow is withdrawn
from the earth.
“ For are we not fill His, without whose care
Vouchsafed, no sparrow falleth to the ground ?
Who gives his Angels wings to speed through air.
And rolls the planets through the blue profound.'*
Jfovdsworth*
( 1H0 )
O eternal God, thy holiness and power, and excellent
greatness are far above the praises of men and angels,
and yet thou art pleased in the harmony and consent
of a thankful heart, and a thanksgiving tongue. Touch
our hearts with admirable apprehensions of thy divine
perfections, that our songs of thy honour may be devout,
and illuminate to the height of ecstasies, and the de¬
motions of a seraphim ; for nothing is proportionate to
thy glories, but what is infinitely beyond our infirmities.
Make u%to sing thee and thy name while we ha'te
breath; and when we are breathless, let our hearts fill
up the harmony, and think thy praises so cordially,
till our souls being separated from the harsh sound of
our bodily organs, we may praise thee when we are all
spirit, in the state of separation,- and in the re-union,
when our bodies shall he made spiritual; singing to
thee exalted praises for ever.
To thee, O blessed and glorious God, be praises and
honour and ascribed* now and to all eternity.
Amen, amen.
Bishop Jeremy Taylor.
A Vaxnham, 61, Strand.
