{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1847__werner___guardian_spirits.pdf","mytitle":"Guardian Spirits","mylang":"de"}
GUARDIAN SPIRITS,
A CASE OF VISION
/
1__
)>
Ip/ INTO 'ras
SPIRITUAl.NORLD,
TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN OF
H.WERNEL
WITH PARALLELS FROM EMANUEL SWEDENBORG,
BY A. E. FORD.
.i_...;;--l
EQ 'A9p¢¢ Ji; frcpmrnfniv, 546 T15 1-:iv dfwhrwv nraxoig :lvl 6| Uaflll, nl oidlv
lilo Off/l&V0l :Ivan H 05 lv divwvraz dfrpif 'rafv xspufv )a.3Ea0u1, 'lrpzifug 62 ui
'ynrfauf ral w E v 'ro li dp m ro v mix dxaizxépcvou, 1.5; lv Délfdf ptpu.
GEAI. Kal pin 66, cf: Euixparsg, mrknpous yt )iyu;'xal dvr¢1'61rov; dv6p6-
1rov;. EQ. Eivl -yup, 5 1rai',lg ¢. DIN: 6u"uo))ol xopxpéfcpos.
'
'
;IIfI=fN=_,.
""'°°""""'°
,,
/~
--»,v."§i/
§;>`~~
N E W -
Y 0 R K :
PUBLISHED BY JOHN
ALLE'N,
v
189 Nunn-moot. »
un' 'I
"I
£5
.I 5
7-f`
Entered, awarding to the Act of Congress, in the you 1847,
BY A. E. FORD,
Intho Clerk'| chico ofthe District Court of the Southern District of
New-York.
wu.|.w¢ onom, nnrrn,
'l'.lllUll IIIILUIIIGI.
PREFACE BY THE TRANSLATOR.
Tm; following is the title-page in full of the work here trans-
lated in part from the original German. "
Guardian Spirits, or
Remarkable Cases of Vision by two Seeresses into the Spiritual
World, as also the Wonderful Restoration by Animal Magnetism
of a Female ten years dumb, andaComparative View of all its
Phenomena hitherto observed. By Henry Womer, Doctor of
Philosophy, Stuttgart and Tiibingen. Printed and published by
J. G. Cotta, 1839."
Had it been the object of the translator to support the claims
of animal magnetism, he could not have done it more effectually
than by laying before the public a full translation of° this volume.
Summing up as it does, under various heads, the contributions
made from time to time to this important science, it would have
conveyed to many, very little aware of it, the fact, that able ob-
servers in diferent nations had written on the subject, and that
their reports of facts were marked by the greatest harmony. It
would also have afforded a proof that these facts are not only
surprising by their novelty, but that gthey furnish to thinking
minds, materials for constructing a deeper and more spiritual sys-
tem of psychology, than any hitherto generally recognized. The
Germans have proved themselves deeper thinkers on this subject
than ourselves, or any of their European neighbors. France
and England and America., have each its praise for the observaf-
tions they have made in this department of knowledge, and the
useful applications theyhave madeof it for the cure of disease;
but only Germany has produced a Stilling, an Eschenmayer, a
Gérres, and' a Werner. But the object of the translator was
A »
iv :ra.ursr.a'roa's rnanca.
not to add another argument in favor of animal magnetism, but
to make an authentic case of converse with the beings and scenes
of the spiritual world support the claims of Swanmmoae
as the divinely authorized revelator of the things of that world
for the use of the NEW Jaausunru. He avows his object thus
fully and openly, because he can conceive of no
undertaking
higher or nobler or more blessed, than to arouse the world, if it
may be done, to the great fact so contradictory to its feelings, its
maxima and its settledprejudices, that a divine messenger has
again appeared in the world, and proclaimed truth from Heaven.
The larger part of the work, consisting of the collected observa-
tions of others and speculations founded upon them, had no direct
bearing on this end, and has therefore been omitted. The
history of the remarkable case witnessed by Werner himself
alone is given. It is proper however to say, that this is given
without abridgment or alteration of any kind. So much of
the preface to the original work as bears upon the case, is also
prefixed.
It is hardly necessary to claim for this production the charac-
ter of being an honest and genuine record of facts. The author
religiously avers this to be the case, and he is entitled to belief, from
his literary standing and his sacred character. He has accom-
panied his narrative with dates and names of places, and though
he has suppressed all other names of persons but his own, they can
be a secret only to the more distant public. He proffers additional
information to those who seek it candidly, and guarantees that
it shall be satisfactory. These things are vouchers of honesty,
and the proof which his work affords of a mind at once acute
and comprehensive, sets him above the suspicion of having been
deceived by his subject. Indeed the internal character of the
work bespeaks its truthfulness. He would be more than a De
Foe in matters of clairvoyance, who could weave such a multi-
tude of details relating to natural and spiritual life into such a
likelihood of reality. It may then be taken as granted by all
fair and open minds, that the work in question is composed with
no guileful end, and is in the main a truthful record of actual
phenomena. There are those indeed, who, simply on the ground
that the alleged facts are not within the range of their own perso-
nal observation, and are in themselves incredible, would deny all
these fair presumptions. The translator has often had to do
rsu|sr.ama's runes. v
with such in private discussion, and learned their arguments to
he only a perpetual iteration of the words imagination, collusion,
deception, humbug, and knows well how unscrupulously they ap-
ply them to persons of the moat unstained reputation for veracity,
and the most acknowledged powers of observing and discrimi-
nating. The didiculty in these cases, he has come to the firm
conclusion, lies sometimes in intellectual straitness, but more
often in moral aversion to a subject which has high and spiritual
bearings, or may overturn a favorite scheme of religion. These
hopeless battles he is not disposed to iightover againon paper. Such
persons must even be lelt to force their theories of collusion and
deception where they tit neither with character nor
circumstances,
to stretch or truncate as suits them best, and enjoy their Procrus-
tean glory to themselves.
A strong argument in favor of Swedenborg, arises from com-
paring his account of the spiritual world with those fumished
from this source. The translator has endeavored in the present
work to set out this argument, by citing as brielly as possible
those passages in which Swedenborg exhibits such a coincidence.
The number of such passages must be deemed remarkable, and
yet this by no means adequately represents the harmony intended
to be brought out; for this lies as well in the general represen-
tation, as in particulars. Some have been purposely lelt out, not
to swell the volume, and others doubtless have been overlooked;
and it may be added, there is scarcely one point on which the
two even seem to clash. ~
With regard to this agreement, two remarks may be made.
The first is, that it extends to a vast variety of particulars. The
disclosures of the seeress relate to the nature of the soul and its
constitution in three parts, whereof the highest has a peculiar
relation to the Divine-to its connection with the body-to its
separation from it in a manner which is not death, and the inde-
pendent exercise of its powers in that state-to its abode for
some time after death, in an intermediate state-to its being re-
ceived by angels at death, and being subsequently instructed by
them-to the human race as
inhabiting not only this world,
but others-to the condition of things in the spiritual world of the
Moon, of the Sun and of the planet Venus-to the human race
as inhabiting all material worlds, and forming after death a
vi rxnsr.Amn's runes.
heaven in common-to angels, their ranks, their employments,
their speech, their writings, and their exemption from the laws
of space and time¢to the external scenery of heaven, as con'
taining every thing that enters into an earthly landscape-and to a
large number of miscellaneous particulars besides. The details
under these general heads are in many cases quite numerous.
Throughout this whole account of invisible things, there is an
agreement with wedenborg; and this agreement, therefore, is
striking for its extent. It is also-and this constitutes our second
remark-striking for its nice, incidental and obviously undesigned
character. The two reports from the land of secrets are by
independent observers, each with a. different mode of looking at
and describing what is subjected to the view-the one looking at
the surface and describing from it, the other diving deeper and
developing laws. And _they agree accordingly sometimes al-
most in expression; at others, in substance; and at others, im-
plying, the one in a mere hint, what the other dwells upon and
amplifies. This last species of coincidence has always been
held a proof of veracity which the utmost elforts of contrivance
cannot compass. Instances of it, it is almost needless to ob-
serve, abound in the following pages.
Now, before the reader is asked for his inference from all this,
let him be further informed, that Swedenborg knew nothing of
what is popularly called clairvoyance or animalmagnetism.
It was ten years after Swedenborg's death, and forty after he
began those writings in which he embodied his accounts of
unseen things, before the attention of the world was called to
the general subject by Mesmer. Clairvoyance was observed
for the Erst time subsequently to Mesmer's own period, and
spiritual vision still later. Swedenborg had no light then, such
as one might have in these times, for drafting his plan of the
spiritual world. If not drawn from a real intromission into its
wonders, it must of course have been the pure production of his
own brain, excogitated under the impulses of fraud or of enthu-
siasm. Such is the view which the world, contentlng itself with
hearing and not reading, have in enect quietly adopted. It is of
course a view highly disputable, on such grounds, as the great
and sound and sober mind of its author, his solemn adirmations
of his mission, and the consistency that reigns throughout the
rssxs1.smn's runes. vii
vast extent of a scheme that embraces, heaven, earth, hell, na-
ture, spirit, and the Word. But setting these aside, what is to
'be said of this view, when such a case as the present comes np 'I
Are not its maintainers called upon ts show how Swedsnborg
could have raved or invented, in such admirable harmony with
subsequent and independent disclosures through the medium of
clairvoyance 'I A traveller professes to have visited a distant land,
but brings back such statements about its climate, productions
and people, that he gains the character of retailing more fables
which he had put together without having quit his study. Some
half century after his death, one who scarcely ever heard his
name, makes a similar report of the same things. A check is
instantly given to the opinions taken up concerning the iirst tra-
veller; and he is re-instated in his good name, just in proportion,
as it is certain that the second traveller did not copy from him.
If this single point be ascertained, they then corroborate one
another; and granting that neither was credible, per se, they are
credible conjointly. Let Swedenborg have the benefit of this
just mode of reasoning. Call his splendidly consistent fabric, in
which the Bible, the truths of history, of science, and of human
nature are woven into beautiful order, if you have so little
perception of internal evidences, mere dream and vagary; call it
so, while it stands alone-but when witnesses arise in diet
times, who know him not, or hold him ss you do, and yet corrob.
orate him--then pause, and ask yourself, whether God may not
be vindicating, in the wonderful ways of his Providence, a servant
whom He sent with heavenly wisdom in his lips, after an insane
and blinded world for generations has called him mad.
But after all, this book is prepared and wished to operate, not
as s positive, still less as a conclusive argument for Sweden-
borg's divine mission. That has other, higher, and more appro-
priate grounds, as the final basis of conviction. It is offered only
as a presumptive argument, that he may possibly be true, and
that the matter ought to be looked into. It is addressed to that
desperate prejudice, having no bette| foundation than a saying
passed round from mouth to mouth, or copied one from another
into theological and biographical dictionaries, that Swedenborg
was a dreamer. It merely wishes to suggest that this judgment
was perhaps pronounced without trial bad, or at least by judges
Q5
viii 1-nu|sr.u:on's runes.
not morally competent, and to call, on the ground of new evi-
dence come to light, for a re-examination of the case.
The question then is not, for the present, whether the doctrines
ofthe New Jerusalem Church, shall be received, but whether they
shall be investigated. Shall its claims meet with an impartial
adjudication, or shall they be relegated unlocked at into the
class of such things as Mormonism 'I Shall the objections of re-
ligious newspapers-the last vehicles on earth of impartial state-
ment, when the system they uphold is in question-be taken as a
just setting forth of the whole scheme 'I It is trusted that this
work will not be without its weight in inducing some candid
minds to withhold the customary censure or pity, when Sweden-
borg and his doctrines are mentioned-until they can look whe»
ther they be not bestowed on divine truth itselh and the messen-
ger who brought it to the world.
This is a question more particularly for the clergy of the land.
While it is every man's eternally important concern, to seek and
to know the truth, it is theirs in a peculiar manner. Others sub-
serve the interests of society, in a variety of other ways; but
they have taken upon themselves to do good, by holding up reli-
gious verities before the general mind. They have their senses
exercised in discriminating the true from the false; they are to
be the first in detecting truth, while the unthinking world yet calls
it error-to take it by the hand while it is yet friendless among
men-to bring it out from neglect and reproach, that it may tell
on the lives and the happiness of some now, and of millions
hereaiter. It is a thrice noble calling, if it be rightfully fulfilled.
But is it so fulfilled, when the first suspicion that his present
creed is not altogether true and right, brings with it into the`mind
of the spiritual guide an intolerable pain, and is immediately
ejected 'I Or when the name of being strongly attached to the
peculiarities of his denomination is dear above all things to his
soul, and the idea of having it whispered among clerical breth-
ren and admiring lsics, that he is inclined to some heresyis a
thought ofdeath 'I In such a case, there is no real love of truth.
-for that controls and rises above all other considerations, and
makes what man is to say or do while truth is sought and pro-
fessed, of little account-and the pretended religious guide in-
stead of looking out for the best ways in which to lead those
,
1~aaxsr.n'oa's raxncr.. ix
who trust him, is only seeking those that are most accustomed,
most safe and easy to himself.
Yet it is a melancholy reflection, that if a man is willing to be
such a guide, he will have enough to influence. He makespre-
fession of having truth for his object, and he receives that same
credit for skill in his peculiar calling, which the physician and
the advocate receive. And indeed in a higher degree; for great
is the power of profession, when conveyed in the solemn phra-
ses and the earnest gestures of the pulpit. They attach a certain
sacredness to all that is uttered,and so it is no secret to any pastor
in the land, that he has many who pay an unquestioning defe°
rence to his words, and whose minds he can turn as it pleases
him upon disputuble points within his own denomination, or bias
favorably to any new opinions.
Now it is seriously and adiactionately aslred, that in conside-
ration of the character and oiiice in which they hold themselves
forth, and of their actual power over individual and general
opinion, the clergy of the diferent denominations of the land
will deal in honesty with the claims of the New Church. The ap-
peal is made, it may be feared, in vain to the great body ofthem;
they will still put themselves blindfold under such guidance as
they give to others, taking their impressions from the partisan
works of those who have acquired a literary reputation among
themselves, and reposing unlimited faith in the plausible mendaci-
ties of religious journals. But there is a smaller number, to whom
Swedenborg has perhaps already recommended himself, by some
of those deep things in his writings, which are sure to lay hold of
thinking and benevolent and open minds, or who, in various
ways, have had a vehement doubt suggested to them whether
he is the dreamer the world has set him down for, and his
followers the dupes and enthusiasts they are called. Of such
it is asked, and asked hopefully, that they will brace up what-
ever there is of independent truth in their natures, and give this
most important subject an investigation for themselves-let the
world say what it will, and follow it it' true-let every worldly
interest softer as it may. Let such recur to their own sermons.
If they have ever preached that all truth is of God, and inesti-d
mable in value, that it is cheaply purchased with the loss of
every. thing dear in an earthly point of view, and if followed in'
14
3 'rnmsr.aron's rnsucn.
holy living is eternal felicity, if they have ever
ileaded
with any
one for a fair examination or their own doctrin s and urged the
loss and danger of closing the ears to all which has not flowed
into them within the walls of one's own church, and the certain
sterility of aclose and bigoted and denominational castof mind ; let
them acknowledge that such noble maxims are not merelyfor deal-
ing forth with the momentary elevationof the pulpit; but fordown-
right and, if need be, painful practice, and so give to the solemn
question whether the New Jerusalem is descending from God out
of Heaven into our wretched world, the right of being heard by
itself instead of its enemies, and of being weighed with balances
into which name and interest shall not be thrown.
It is to the cultivated, who are at the same time good, espe-
cially to such among the clergy, that Swedenborg makes his ap-
peal-if that can be called an appeal, which is a statement im-
pressive by its very calmness, that the clergy will be the first to
admit the truths ofthe New Jerusalem, and that they will be fol-
lowed by the laity. Should not this have its weight? Is it not
primafacie proof that his doctrine is widely separate from the ig-
norant fanaticisms with which it suits some to confound it? For
let the enthusiast or fanatic be pointed out, who has not manifest-
ed an instinctive aversion to the settled clergy of the church, or,
alter a feeble etlbrt to proselyte them, sunk down into low decla-
mntion against them. Another use maybe made of such passa-
ges. They are predictions, which, to some extent, have already
been verified. In the leaven-like progress which the New
Church has hitherto had, the clergy of one and another denomi-
nation have been its first converts, the laity following them.
Such has been the case in England, where instances have been
oven more frequent of secession from the established church than
from among dissenters. There have been many cases of this
hind, in this country, within a short period prst. The laity will
doubtless follow in due proportion, but the clergy are as yet in
the lead. Now that the New Church, were it only a new fangled
superstition, would exercise its proselyting powers least and last
of all, on minds which have been trained in the use of the dis-
criminating and reflective faculties, and are commonly tinctured
with a strong repugnance to novelties, is manifest enough, and,
when minds of this stamp (to say nothing of the nobler qualities
of the heart, which some at least of these proselytes display) are
h
raaxsurots runes. 'xl
found accepting it, is there not a presumption, despite the world'|
cry to the contrary, that it has more than dream and vagary to
build upon? While some, a few it is granted in comparison of
the whole number, are found going forth from the position where
custom, education, settled persuasions, interest, and friendly re~
monstrances united to keep them-persons never before suspected
of an unbalanced mind, shall it convey to those who stay behind
no suspicion that they have seen cogent truth 'I Shall their sol-
emn averment that they can justify themselves on the most solid
grounds from the charge of enthusiasm, il' a day is appointed
them, pass for nothing? Surely not. Honest men will not set
these atiirmations aside, coming in'some instances, as they do,
from those they did not disdain to be taught by in former times-
in others, from their familiars and acquaintances--as things to be
expected of course from those who have fallen into delusions.
They will be regarded, in all fairness, as calls for a direct exami-
nation of the subject, and will be listened to.
'
Nothing in the shape of religious truth, that comes respectably
recommended, should be turned away without a hearing, much
less the solemn allegations made in the case under consideration»
The New Church is diverse from all the denominations of Chris-
tendom ; the very charge against it is, that it varies from them all
in matters of the first moment, which all had regarded as settled,
and introduces novelties of the gravest character. lf these are
errors, the world is right in calling them pemicious errors; but
if they are truths, they are truths of corresponding moment; and
just so far as there is a presumption that they may be such, will
be the desire of the truth-seeking to know how the case really
is. Look once at the momentous allegations that are in question.
The claim is put forth, that the most glorious prediction of the
Bible is fulilled in our
days; that another messenger has come
from Heaven, not indeed to add to the inspired word, but to show
that it is inspired in a sense worthy of the term; that he has, as
the highest point of his commission, developed in a manner not
arbitrary but on grounds that convince the understanding, a sp#
ritual sense in every part of the Scriptures, not excepting their sim-
plest narrative, or the dryest catalogue of names-that this sense
demonstrates how the three, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, which
are commonly named Parsons, are all in,'md constituent princi-
Xii 'rn.msr.aroa's rasracs.
ples o£ the Lord Jesus Christ,making Him the sole God of Heaven
and of earth; that he has built on this spiritual sense a system ot'
beautifully symmetrical doctrine, harmonizing with true science
in all its branches, and finally, disclosed from his own observation
the state of those two opposite worlds, in which the human race will
exist to eternity, having been admitted to survey them for this very
purpose. These allegations, to which many thinking and pious
men have set their seals, will not, by the class to whom these con-
siderations are addressed, be turned out of doors. Too much of
the welfare of society, too much of eternal consequence, hangs by
them, to allow of any rash and presumptuous determination.
If any one when solicited to this just and reasonable course is
disposed to tum away, he is not likely thereby to escape the matter.
If it be from God-a point he cannot intelligently negative previous
to examination-then it must prevail. But on other grounds, no
one runs a risk in foretelling that the whole subject is to come into
general discussion. The issue is made u p, its friends are confident
though calm; it has advocates able both with the pen and the
tongue; it is winning more respect and exciting more hostility
every day; that respect is deepening with some into attachment;
that hostility is becoming more and more a medium to it, first of
notice, then of acquaintance, and finally of iirm adhesion. So it
has been thus far, and it is lawful to read the future in the past.
It will one day invade the most sacred premises of those who now
regard it with contempt as a distant, unaggressive monstrosity.
How will it be met, then, in complete ignorance of its nature and
its claims 'I Doubtless with such modes of warfare, as unreason-
ing prejudice, and an ignorance that loves itself have always pur-
sued. It will be named dire, heretical, blasphemous. lt will be
calumniated, that it may be condemned. A counterfeit likeness
will be set up, that the "
sharp sword" which would shiver to frag-
ments against the true, may seem to hew it in pieces, and poisoned
arrows will be drawn from religious journals, as from so many ar-
mories of the false, and let Hy at it; but for all this, the truth will
live on indestructible. It will be found that this is no tree, which,
at the bare words,
"
be thou removed," will be plucked up and cast
into the sea; but rather-ifthe members of the New Church are not
mistaken in claiming for it that glorious promise-the stone cut out
without hands,growing intoa mountain and filling the whole earth.
AU'1'HOR'S PREFACE.
WHEN animal magnetism, some years ago, began to emerge
from unmerited oblivion and neglect in Germany, and found new
champions for its cause in my native country also, I, as well as
the rest, heard with astonishment the wonderful facts every where
related concerning female somnambulists.
Not imagining that there could be a second and hitherto un-
enlightened side of psychology, confined within the narrow limits
of the philosophy of the day, actuated also by the shame of being
the only believer among thousands, I seized, before any proper in-
vestigation on my part, with eagerness and a. preconceived con-
viction that the phenomena of magnetism were mere delusions,
chiefly upon publications against it. Of course I soon took my
stand among the ranks of the decided unbelievers. From this
time I took little notice more of the subject, wondering within
myself, that men of distinguished name in the realms of science,
should be the patrons of a thing which, in my opinion, was little
more than a. new prop and source forall kinds of superstition and
delusion.
These views received the first hard shock some fifteen years
ago, in the following manner. I was at that time pastor in
Bickelsberg at Sultz on the Rhine, and received quite unexpect-
edly from my father at Tiibingen, information that a somnambu-
list, a girl not yet fourteen years of age, whom I knew but had
not seen for several years, was under the care of Professor Es-
chenmayer there, and had declared that my presence with her
for a few days would contribute essentially to her restoration.
xiv rasraca.
More from curiosity than because I expected to be of the least
benefit to her health, I set of without delay for Tiibingen, without
announcing to any one there my pirrpose, or even the day on
which I might be looked for. It was winter, and I arrived after
seven o'clock in the morning. I was unable, by reason of some
hindrances to be mentioned presently, to reach the house in which
the girl resided, before eight. Scarcely had she seen me, as I
opened the door of her chamber,before she fell into violent cramps
and convulsions, which so affected me, that I stood in the middle
of the apartment as if rooted to the spot. In a few minutes, she
spoke to me, her eyes being shut, "Leave me, I beg of you, a
short time; your presence just now is too trying to me; return
again in half an hour, I shall then be more quiet. Do you be so
also; your soul is in such agitation, that I suffer from it." Itook
my departure, and, as I was informed, immediately thereupon,
she awoke soon after my leaving the chamber. In the course of
half an hour I entered her chamber a. second time. I was more
composed, and she also welcomed me in a calm and friendly man-
ner, and bade me sit by the bed-side. In a minute or two, she
closed her eyes, took my hand, and said: "
You are sick; but I
know a remedy that will relieve you." On my desiring her to
name it, she broke out into lamentations and tears, and said after
some time, laying her hand upon the pit of my stomach :
"
You
are subject to cramps here fbut I may not tell you the remedy
for it. Just as I am on the point of pronouncing it, I am stopped
I know not how. It is as if a voice called to me: he is not to be
healed in this way ! Alas, what grief this gives me l You
affect me so beneficially, and I am not permitted to show my gra-
titude to you for it as I desire. How gladly would I help you!"
Gentle and delicate as was this refusal, it was plainly not calcu-
lated to strengthen my belief, that she knew the remedy which
would relieve me. She might have known beforehand that I had
been suffering for some time, especially in the abdomen, with
cramps; and so far, I saw nothing in this scene but an earnest
sympathy and a
highly excited imagination. But I was quickly
shown my mistake, when, after sleeping quietly for a quarter of
an hour, she said all at once to my great astonishment: "
You
were deceived this morning in your expectations." What do you
mean? "
You came as far as Balingen in a sleigh; there (smi-
PREFACE. XY
ling) the sleighing lasted no longer, and you were compelled to
take a stage." This was really the case, and I had as yet spoken
to no one in Tiibingen of the circumstance. After a while she
proceeded: "In Heckingen you fell in with a relation who was
on his way to visit you in B. You saw one mother at the post-
house without a recognition." The fact was indeed so. I had
not seen my cousin in years; the glance which I threw upon
him in passing, however, showed me something familiar in his
face, and I asked the post-woman, who attended him to his car-
riage, when she returned, whether she knew the gentleman who
had just driven off. Yes, she replied, he is a merchant of Hanan,
by the name of Z. Ha! I exclaimed, where is he going 'I See-
ing me so much interested, the woman looked at me more closely
and asked,
"
Are you not the pastor of B. 7" On my replying in
the allirmative, she said to me: "He is going expressly to visit
you." When Ireturned home, my wife told me that my cousin
Z., who was on a journey to Switzerland, called to see me, and
regretted much that he had not found me at home.
What the somnambulist said on the following day no less
passed my comprehension.
"
Yesterday evening you had al-
most met with an accident in the suburbs; your grey horse
made a spring and came very near throwing yon into the water."
'I'his was true to the letter. Not far £rom the so-called Wald-
hornle, a hotel standing by itself close to the road-side, about
half a league from Tlibingen, there were some newly quarried
large white mill-stones with holes in the middle, lying on the
right beyond a turn in the road. The moon was shining and
made the white of the stones more conspicuous. My horse,
whose color was really a grey, was trotting, and coming sudden-
ly in sight of the stones, as he made the turn, he started, sprang
suddenly to the left, and almost precipitated the vehicle into the
small stream called the Steinlach, which at that time ran close
to the road. She also added: "
I saw you yesterday pass the
Neckar-Gate after seven, but you did not reach the house before
eight, because a drunken postillion detained you." The, matter
stood thus 5 I was driving quietly along between the Wald-
hiirnle and the city, towards Tiibingen, along the high-way
where three vehicles could easily, if need were, avoid a collision.
All at once I heard a. cursing and shouting behind, and directly
the blows of a whip began to fall upon my covered vehicle. I
Xvi rasraca.
I
was soon satisfied that I was set upon by a drunken post-man
who drove a two horse mail-wagon, and who had taken it into his
head that I was bound to get out of his way, as being the king's
messenger, although in my covered carriage Icould not see him,
nor, for the noise of the wheels, hear him either. I settled the
matter with the coarse fellow as well as I could at the mo-
ment, followed him, stopped at the post-house where he did,lodg-
ed a
complaint against him there for his insolence, and in conse-
quence was detained for some time. Of this occurrence also I
had not spoken a word to any one in the house; the girl of
course could by no possibility have gained a knowledge of it in
the usual way. These declarations, and similar ones which I do
not adduce because not heard from herself but from other
(though highly credible) ear witnesses, while they brought my
understanding to a state of suspension, had of necessity the ef-
fect of shaking my unbelief to its very foundations. Unaccount-
able as were the phenomena, they had yet actually taken place
before my senses, and I concluded finally, what I should have
done long before, to hear the other side and then to come to a con-
clusion. I would have given much to have had it in my power to
be longer with the invalid and observe her; but my affairs called
me, after two days, home again. Before setting out, (my faith be-
ing somewhat advanced by seliish regards,) I requested Professor
Eschenmayer, who had the girl under his care, and to whom I
had communicated my case in detail, to ask her in the next crisis
about the remedy adapted to it. He kindly consented. Iaccom-
panied him -to the patient, who knew nothing of this promise,
and when, on being put in relation with him she fell asleep, he
mentioned to her my wish in reference to my malady; where-
upon she replied immediately, with some dissatisfaction: "
lt
seems I am to prescribe for the Reverend Pastor; but I have
already told.him that I am not at liberty to help him." Accord-
ingly I set off without having the remedy communicated, (a happy
circumstance for me,) but cured at least of my obstinate unbelief,
and firmly resolved to enter the domain of animal magnetism
with a more impartial mind, and to inform myself in it to the
best of my abilities. I did so from that time as well as I was
able, though for many years the wish that I might have it in my
power to observe and treat a somnambulist myself, remained un-
satisfied. But this wish was at length gratified, and the result
mms.
`
mi
of my observations made on that occasion, as also of my ex~
periences and convictions from other quarters regarding animal
magnetism, composes the following pages. And now some fur-
ther remarks, necessary by way of preparation, relating to the
personal history and the treatment of the somnambuliat who
plays a part in the following pages, as also tothe theoretical out-
lines annexed to the narrative.
R. D., a girl eighteen years of age, concerning whose personal
and family aflhirs I am ready to give the most satisfactory infor-
mation to any one who desires it and has any just occasion for
knowing them, was born in A., a small village of Upper Suabia,
and brought up in a. simple manner until her fourteenth year,
before which she had passed happily through the usual diseases
of children. She was quite weakly, particularly as regarded
her nervous system. So early as her seventh year the physi-
cians were apprehensive of an enlargement of the mesenteric
glands. In her eighth and ninth, she had chlorosis and whooping-
cough, and in her eleventh a violent attack of the erysipelas in
the face. From that time to her fourteenth year she was
healthy. The catamenia then made their appearance, and with
them an eruption of the skin over her whole body. Probably
this was not well understood, as to its nature, and the importance
which it had in that crisis of the system, and sp, from want of
proper treatment, was suddenly checked, causing a swelling of
the lower limbs. This affection lasted about a year. The feet
were covered with deep sores, which discharged copiously, heal-
ed slowly and left behind deep scars. Withal the catamenia had
never been regular from their first appearance. In her sixteenth
year, they had quite disappeared and only returned at the end of
six months, and then with- many inconveniences, :particularly
with oppressions of the chest. They never afterwards returned
at the usual period, but often in three or four up to seven and
eight weeks. These alternations went on till her eighteenth
year, at which time a deep mental sorrow was added to these
physical suferings, and one the more oppressive, as she looked
upon the cause of it as destroying forever her whole earthly
happiness, and she had given up all hope of a _favorable change
in her destiny. It is easily to be seen how such a state of mind
must re-act upon the bodily health, and that it may have con-
tributed not a little, if not to bring about, yet to hasten on and
xviii raxracn.
aggravate the condition described in the following pages.
(Compare the crisis of the 18th June.) As regards her spiritual
character, a
highly simple education in the country had laid for
it a very favorable foundation. Possessed of many happy men-
tal endowments, she raised and enobled her faculties by reading
and refined conversation ever more and more from her fourteenth
year, when her family removed into a larger provincial city;
her quick comprehension, her accurate judgment, her natural
aptness for the better, and especially her religious convictions
contributing materially to her advancement. She cultivated to
a high degree, her taste for music and especially for singing.
Music was among her favorite amusements. Her soft melodious
voice gave a peculiar charm to her songs, characterized as they
were by an easy style, by purity and feeling.
As regards the morbid state, which prepared the way for the
magnetic one, the following must here be added: ..
R. had suhered since October, 1833, with periodical cramps in
the breast, which by degrees became more violent and, after va-
rious remedies had been tried in vain, reached such a height
that turns of sulfocation came on, lasting indeed but a short time,
but calculated to create much apprehension. From October,
1833, till the end of February, 1834, the cramps had returned
only at intervals of from eight to ten days; during the month of
March, they came on every three or four days, and left behind
great prostration and fatigue. Her strength failed visibly-her
complexion was yellow and pale, except occasionally when a
transitory heat of the head kindled her face to a burning red.
The appetite was irregular, the pulse for the most part was hard
and small, even out of the attack, and her feelings peevish and ex-
citable. The catamenia were always attended with such severe
cramps and pains in the abdomen, that the patient was compelled,
each time, to remain aday or two in bed, and the cause and its con-
sequences did not generally disappear entirely before the seventh
day. In general the cramps did not retum for several days after
this, whereas before, they followed in quick succession and with
increasing violence. That her mood should change easily-that
cheerful at one moment, she should often, without external oc-
casion, become sad, frequently even melancholy and petulant, will
appear a matter of course in such a state of bodily and mental
runes. xix
sutliariug. A certain excitability and quickness of temper, which,
with her best eiibrts she could not control, seems to have been
a consequence of her weakliness from an early age, and of the
oppression of her soul towards the last.
As her friends were convinced that internal remedies not only
failed to relieve her bodily suBerings but rather aggravated them,
she resolved at last to give up medicines entirely, hoping that
the powers of nature would find the means of recovery when
thus left to operate unhindered and alone. She was not disap-
pointed, although the particular turn which nature took was not
in the least anticipated, either by herself or those who felt an in-
terest in her.
It may also be observed, that the girl, before she became mag-
netic hereself, had so little idea of the possibility of such a
state, that when no further doubt could remain as to the nature
of her attacks, she listened with great astonishment in the
waking state to such phenomena-asked to have them explained
to her, and at first, declared even that she felt s. kind of horror at
herself when she thought of all she heard about her attacks be-
ing real.
'
This is a true sketch of the girl whose case is related in the
following pages. I have not withheld it from the public, mr the
reason that it contains much, which although it is not new, may
further the cause of science. Well ascertained facts con-
tribute greatly to a' sure knowledge of animal magnetism; and
again, the phenomena are those of spontaneous somnambulism,
a state which, as
being the most natural form of magnetism,
and at the same time the most uncommon, is deserving of special
notice. The less sought and expected it was, on the part both
of the patient and myself, so much the more surprising wasit
to find ourselves all at once in magnetic relation. The circum-
stance was tirst cleared up to me in some measure, by a subse-
quent declaration of the somnambulist, that my nervous system
had been long predisposed, by continued cramps of the stomach,
to complete sympathy with any somnambulist. That the occur-
rence of the magnetic phenomena in the present instance was
nnsought, and that they were never, as they might have been,
exalted and made more interesting by artilicial operating, allows
me to hope that my readers will believe me when I assure them,
II llllllll.
that the narrative as here given has been kept free from all
foreign and impure admixturea, and that the words of the sub-
ject are those which were faithfully taken down from her lips,
with the exception only of such matters as were not suited to the
public eye.
To give the names of the witnesses present at the attacks met
with some objections on their part, though they are all ready, in
case of any reasonable demand, to give satisfactory information
respecting all that took place in their presence and which they
saw and heard.
As for experiments with the patient, strong as was the temp-
tation from motives of humane or scientific curiosity, they were
few, and in every instance only such as were required by herself;
or such as I knew before-hand would not be of the least prejndice
to her health.
The conversations about departed spirits and the state after
death, although she sometimes found herself aifected by them,
she for the most part desired herself, or else broke them off when
they began to hurt her. I should have been glad very often to
have questioned her still farther, and in general to have con-
versed with her on many very important subjects relating to the
state inf souls alter death, especially as she once declared, that
with little trouble on my part she could he raised to an equal
degree of clairvoyance with the Seeress of Prevorst. But my ob-
ject, which was the restoration of her health in the shortest pos-
sible period, always repelled these wishes at once; and alter she
had happily recovered, I rejoiced that I had no occasion to re-
proach myself on this score.
HISTORY OF THE CASE.
Apfiz 9,1834.
.--__.._...i_.._i_.
Tan cramps in the breast, mentioned in the introduction,
which of late had not only appeared almost daily, but had lasted
longer than formerly, came on to-day at nine in the morning,
with unusual violence. Hitherto the symptoms had been confined
to a diiliculty of breathing greater or less, to cramp in the muscles
of the neck, and sharp pains through the breast ; 'but now, to the
great tenor of the by-standers, the breathing, after the usual at-
tack, had continued for a few minutes but with unusual violence,
ceased entirely, the face became pale, the arms moved convul-
sively, the whole body jerked, and the feet, after quivering
strongly, became rigid. Great as was the tenor which seized
those present, (my brother, my wife and sister,) at this surprising
occurrence, their astonishment was yet greater, when the pa-
tient, who had been conveyed to the sofa, all at once began to
speak with her eyes shut. "
Thanks be to God !" she exclaimed,
slowly and solemnly, and with uplifted arms. Her features
meanwhile had changed in a striking manner, and greatly to her
advantage. As was the case in all the subsequent crises, they
had far more spirituality and expression than in the waking
state. Her cheeks had also gradually regained their color. In
a short time, she folded her hands upon her breast, and repeated:
"Thanks be to God ! In what a
glorious, resplendent and beau-
tiful state do I find myself!" _
22 HISTGBY OF TEE CASE.
She did not reply to the question of my sister, M.,* how she
felt, but broke out, after she had spoken, into the most lively ex-
pressions of joy, and into the words: "Ah! you-you also are
with me 7" And now she turned her eyes, which in the mean
time she had half opened, with a quick and friendly smile to
my sister, looked at her tixedly, and said to her: "
You are
good-oh, so good! I love you dearly I" My wife also and my
brother C., whom she had not hitherto observed, she saw atter
some time, and said of them: "C. and R. (my wife) are all
bright and shining like you, M." (After a pause): "Ah! you
too, I am allowed to see, H 'If and you are bright, also-but-
but-(slowly, as if she could not find words for what she wished
to express)-H. is -; it is singular-it is as though I saw
him through gauze. It is not eo with yon; I see you quite
clear." (After a longer pause) :
"
If I could only see my father
too, how it would rejoice me! You could fetch him, surely, M.,
and will do it?" Upon my sister's replying that her father was
many leagues distant, and that her wish could not possibly be
gratified, she became sad and said: "
Ah ! I would it were pos-
sible for me to see him ; I love him so much ; he had so much to
suffer." Suddenly she said :
"
Ah, now I see him,1 and my sister
C. with him; how glad I am !" ,At last, she saw my sister L.
in R., and said of her: "
She too is good; she looks fair and
friendly." Between the expressions thus made by R. in this iirst
imperfect crisis, there occurred several intervals, in which she
was apparently in a state of full wakefulness, and inswhich she
frequently said in a complaining tone and with a mournful
look,
"
Ah, here it is all so gloomy 2" This natural state
however would last only a few minutes, and thereupon
*
The name of my sister as well as ofthe subject, be ins with R To
agoid mistaxkesffrom thg sdmnambulists being indicatetf by this lelter,I
e oss anot er or my sister.
1' H.
(Hemp
is the name of myself the author During this first crisis
I was in anot er place, two leagues distant from the patient.
I "If any one (in the spiritual world) think of another from sflection,
3? %sge513
see him and speak with him, he forthwith stands
ore m. -
. . .
This and several other
passages
are cited from Swedenborg, and cou~
sidered
axpepositwqu tht;grodiis mga somnamcrglist was,
inbsome m?-
surem con itionoa m
'
spi.ritsn° eoursesujecttote
laaigdtvtghffth gglvem
the spiritual world. Se; her own statement to this
e c , .-- .
HIBTDBY OF Tll Gill. 23
she would return to her higher state. Aher she had lain`
in this way for an hour and a half quiet and motionless, with the
exception of the above expressions, her breathing scarcely per-
ceptible, and her eyes all the time half closed, her hands and
then her arms and legs began all at once to tremble. Soon
there came on more violent jerkings and agitations of the whole
body, lasting some minutes, with short interruptions. At length
she fetched s. deep breath, as if sighing, and wsked up. She
looked around in surprise, asked what had happened to her, and
smiled incredulously when the facts, of which she had not the
slightest recollection, were told her. For the rest, she felt well
and stronger.
`
The,ffm ff Apu.
The two days following the first attack passed with tolerable
comfort. Pains or visible cramps did not come on, but on the
other hand, the feelings of the patientwere deeply alfected. She
wept much without being able to assign any particular reason
for it, spokeof being weary of life, and could in no way be cheered
up. .
On the fifth of April, in the aftemoon, she was attacked with
oppression of the chest and neck; her breathing soon became
short, didicult and rattling, her face dark and swollen, and when
some turns of suifocation were past, during which she had been
laid upon the sofa, the convulsive agitations described in the first
attacks came again on with increased violence, and after lasting
ahouteight minutes, were succeeded by a universal rigidity. The
breath and the pulse were scarcely perceptible, the face became
pale as death, and the features those of one dying. In this state
I took her hand, and had scarcely done so when her whole body
moved convulsively, her face cleared up, her color retumed, and
she said, with aquick manner while holding my hand :
"
Ah, you
are here 'l this is kind, very kind. Give me your hand, I pray,
Albert!" Do you see me then with your eyes shut 7-" Just
now I only see your hand shining clearly; but I shall see you
soon all over." How do you see me 'I "
With my hand ; but in
what way I cannot tell
you. You are with me and I feel it."
Who am I then? Did you not pronounce just now the name of
1 »
24 matron! or TH! casa.,
Albert? (She smiles.) "That is a singular question. You
are Albert, and that is your name." You mistake; Iam not
Albert, nor am I so called ; my name is Henry, as you well know.
"
Yet you told me yourself, but s. moment since, that your name
was Albert." I did not say so, you are certainly mistaken. Who
is the Albert you speak of? (She thinks awhile.)
"
Ah, you
are right, I was mistaken. Iam stillhalf in your world, and a
moment ago could not rightly see how the matter really stood.
Yes, you are a diB`erent being from Albert. I did not see you,
because your life and Albert's life are united. I cannot explain
this to you now, I will do so hereafter; at present I am still too
short-sighted." Do you not recognize me then by my voice,
which is so familiar to you?
"
I hear your words indeed, but
not in the usual way, through the air by means of the ear.*
The reason of this I cannot now see very clearly." You spoke
alittle before, of our world-are you then in a diferent one from
this? "Yes-as you understand it; we are all indeed,in the
same great world, but my soul lives now another life than the
rest of you, and that is to me another world; which, however, is
still yours.1' It is indeed true, that you cannot look into it at
present, because your souls are bound." Where then is your
soul? "
In a glorious region far above the sad earth."1 Without
the limits of its atmosphere?
"
Yes, far, far." Is this more
than twelve leagues high 'I "
Yes, it extends farther than that."
Are you in the neighborhood of the moon 'I "
No, that is there."
(Pointing downward to the south-west.) Can you not name the
place where you believe yourself to be 'I "
I know with certain-
ty that my soul is not on the earth; but I cannot describe the
* "
The
spteech
of an
angel
or a spirit with man is heard as sonorously
as the spesc of a man wit man; yet it is not heard by others who stand
near, but by himself alone; the reason is because the speech of an angel
or spirit tlows first into the man's thought, and by an internal way into hi
organ of hearing, and thus moves that from within; but the speech of
man with man dowsjrst into the air and
lg
an arte:-nal way into his organ
of hearin , and moves it from withnut."- .
nyli 248.
1* To mga above it is properto add that every man, even while he lives
in the body is as to his spirit, in society with spirits although he does not
know it; a good man is b them in an angelic society, and an evil man in
an infernal society.-H g li 438.
t Thus also I have been conducted by the Lord into l|16_h6l¥3lll and
likewise to the eartbs in the universe, and this as to the spirit, while the
body remained in the same place.-IL 4' IL 192.
msl-on or 'rn casa. 25
place; I know not why it is so, my eye appears as yet to be too
dull."
(As I endeavored to remove my hand which she had hitherto
held fast, she said with some dissatisfaction.) "That must not
be, you must not leave me." Ido not mean to leave you; I will
stay with you.
'~'
Well, but I must have your hand too, which
does me great good." Are you in the magnetic state ? "
Yes,
so people call it." How do you know that? "I see it now, but
in the waking state I do not understand it." You fell sponta-
neously into this state; this is not common. Usually it requires
an artificial operation on the part of another person to bring it
about. (Smiling :) "
It did not happen quite so spontaneously;
you and your sisters have magnetized me without knowing it;
neither had I, While awake, any idea of it. Now, I see well how
it happened. My nerves imbihed from you in the waking state;
your nervous system especially operated beneficially upon me."
Why mine in particular 'I' "I cannot tell at present, but will do
so hereafter. (After a pause.) Now I have a mind to rest
without speaking more ; it is best. Only let me keep your hand;
sit down at my side." ln this way she slept quite _composedly
for three quarters of an hour, alter which she became restless, as
was shown by light twitchings of the arms and face. I asked,
What makes you so uneasy? "Some one touched me." My
sister M. had touched her. (My brother C. now made the same
experiment, with the like result. She trembled yct more, and
said :)
"
That hurts me." (When she was again composed, I
asked her :) Do you see my wife and my sisters also? "No, I
see only you, entirely, and Albert; others I do not see." Yet C.
is standing right by you; you ought to see him. "I feel indeed
a foreign influence, but see no one." (I touched C. with my left
hand; all at once she cried out, jerking with her leli: arm :) "I
see him now, but not distinctly. But he has a different name in
my world."* What is it? "I cannot yet pronounce it, it is too
dillicult for me." Have you also another name, where you are 'I
"
Yes, in the waking state they call me R., but in the upper
world I am called Felicitas." (A pause, during which she lets
°
ln the
Eritml
world all are named according to the quality of their
life. Ap. . 676.
2
A n
26 rnsron¥ or Tm: casa.
my hand go, folds her own hands, and prays solemnly. In about
Eve minutes :)
"
Ah! I am permitted to see you also? You are
there, my sister? Yes, it _is you, you look like my father."*
Whom do you see? "My sister, who died a child, and whom
I never knew upon earth." (She prays again in silence, her lips
only moving. After a quarter of an hour z)
"
Alas! Now I must
go back to the dismal earth. My Albert leaves me; that makes
me sad."
(Suddenly she is seized with spasms, and she returned to the
natural state, with the same symptoms, as long continued, as
those which ushered in the magnetic one. She awoke after
having lain in it about two hours, and was greatly astonished to
find herself lying on the sofa, with all of us about her. All the
rest of the day she was uncommonly cheerful and boasted that her
feelings had not been so comfortable for a long time.
' `
April :rw Mgmt.
(From 9 to 12 in the morning.)
So early as eight o'clock in the moming, R. complained of
oppression and sickness at the stomach. In the course of half
an hour there came on a difficulty of breathing. These two in-
conveniences alternated till nine. About this time she is attack-
ed, at first with light, and afterwards, with harder spasms of the
arms and feet, and the breathing takes place only at increasing in-
tervals, in violent expirations and rattling inspirations. After a
struggle lasting for about three minutes, there follows a
strong
cramp-like agitation of every part of the body, continuing perhaps
eight seconds. 'To this there succeeds a general calm, the face
becomes serene, the features assume a heavenly expression, and
the eyes are turned upwards and half closed. A friendly, quiet
smile precedes the first question of the patient.
"
You have
kept your promise then, my Albert? That pleases me greatly.
Are you here-really here 'I How happy you make me! (After
a pause.) And you have not come alone? You have brought
l- _
*
There are two hereditary principles in man; one derived from the fa-
ther, the_othsr from the mother; that Gem the mother is somewhat corpo-
real, which is
dispersed during regeneration; but what man derives from
the father remains to eternity. A. C. 1414.
msros! or 'nm csss. 27
a friend with you 7 This is kind in yon. But you are far more
glorious than your friend. (A pause.) You have made a jour-
ney," my Albert? For you, indeed, there is no such as
distance.* Ah, you were in Bern 'I You are administering to
a sick one there also 7" (A pause, after which I said :) Tell
me, I pray, who this Albertis of whom you are speaking? "He
is my attendant, invisible to me in the waking state, my guar-
dian spirit# Oh, you should see him ! I would you could do
so. Hereatter I shall have it in my power to say more about him.
Atpresent, ask no more questions about him." Who is with A1-
bert ? "It is one of his friends; it is singular, I know him and
and yet cannot tell who he is. He is called here Amandns."
You know him? Is he yet living on the earth? "
No, he is
dead; you will learn more of him also hereafter. (A pause of
half an hour, during which her lips are moving, her features ex-
press, now seriousness, now attention and reiiection, now satis-
faction and friendliness. _After this she says aloud :) "I have
spoken with Albert;{ he tells me that I am in the magnetic
state, and that by sleeping in it I shall be restored. O thanks,
deep thanks to you, my guardian angel ! You will aid me, and
help also the dear friend, who stands at my side and will lay his
hand upon me, to a complete recovery of his health." You are
to be treated magnetically then 'I "
Yes." And who is to do
that 'I "
You, only yon. Your influence upon me is beneficial.
Albert has found no one in my condition, through whom he could
*
All progressions in the spiritual world are made
by changes of
th?
state of the interiors, so that progressions are nothing e se than change
of state. Thus all the
sngpls move; hence to them there are_no distances,
neither are there spaces, ut instead of them states and their changes.-
H QR 192.
'I' As soon ss infants are baptized, angels are appointed over them, by
whom they are kept in u state of receiving faith in the Lord ; and as they
grow up and come to the exercise of their own right and their own reason,
the angels leave them, and
they
associate to themselves such
spints as make one with their life and fait .-T. C. R. 677.
l was instructed that with every man there are two
angelic spirits at
h'headb h h Lod t tem lo oiiiceit t od t
ts , yw omte r proec enwise mom erse
and control the evil spirits who approach him, besides various other things
pertaining tu a man's truth and good.--S. D. 3525.
ln general angels of every society are sent to men that they may guard
them.-IL ¢ H. 391. _ _
1 The speech of an
angel
or s. spirit with man is heard as sonorously
as the speech of amen wit a man ;
Ft
it is not heard by others who stand
near, but by himself alone.-H Q .248.
1
4
28 msroa! or 'rms casa.
work uponme butyourself." I am heartily willing; but will not
the magnetic treatment prejudice my health 'I You know that I
have myself only just recovered from a serious complaint, and
still feel the consequences of it. "
No, it will not hurt you in
the least. You are not to magnetize me in the usual way; that
would be hurtful to us both. You are only to lay your hand on
the pit of my stomach, or where else I direct you." Still I
am afraid it might not agree with me. When I came in
contact with you last, I experienced oppression at the
stomach, fatigue and loss of appetite. Should this continue to
be the case, there would be good ground for apprehension.
"
0
apprehension!-do not be alarmed. I saw and felt this three
days ago, and just now spoke with Albert on the subject. He
can easily relieve these symptoms, and has promised me todo so.
Do not be coucemed. To-day you will experience no incon-
venience from treating me. You will have an
appetite, feel com-
fortably the whole day, and sleep well at night." How can Al-
bert bring this about 'I "
He says, that you must indeed supply
the power necessary to my treatment; but' that he will directly
make good to you from his own vital force what flows from you
-that he could not operate immediately upon my nerves, al-
ready too excitable-that the attempt would be fatal to me."
But how does it happen that his vital power can flow into me
with impunity, when my own nervous system, too, is by no means
astrong one 7 (She thinks in silence, and then says :)
"
I have
asked Albert; he says, that it is not indeed usual, in the treatment
of magnetic sleepers, that the magnetizers have the vigor they
part with made up to them; but that as your induence is so bene-
ficial to me, you will gladly give me the advantage of it, and that
therefore he will make good to you, as he is permitted, the
power which you lose-that this, however, will not take place im-
mediately, because it would hurt you greatly, but only after you
have come into union with me-that then it will do you no harm."
You mean by this the magnetic relation 'P How is this to bethe
medium 'I "
You are slow to apprehend; it is plain that when
my life and yours are one, neither ol' us possesses his own apart
from the othsr.* When this is the case, Albertcan cause his
"'
So also can one
?irit
be filled by another until he knows not but that
he is the other.-D. . 96.
msronv or 'nn cms. 26
vital power to Bow in, and communicate to you, his, and to ms,
his united with yours."* Still, I do not understand it. "
I will
explain it yet more distinctly. By the magnetic relation, as you
call it, your vitality and mine become one and the same; they
blend together. A stream passes over from your system
into mine. Now, when both are thus blended, Albert
can contribute his power without injury to us. Do you
understand it now T" I will at least believe you, if I do
not. "lt is of no consequence. You will doubtless feel soon
that I am right. But now I must talk with Albert." (She lies
still, after taking my hand and laying it at the pit of her stomach,
for half an hour, without the slightest motion. At length I ask-
ed :) Can you tell what your disease properly is? "I see into
my abdomen; it is the part which suH`ers most. (A pause.) My
_chest is also much a&cted. In the abdomen the nerves are
darker .than in other parts of the body, and, in places, spotted and
not clear. That is very bad; ah! that looks sadly!" Should
you not take medicines 'I "
0, no ! that would now be very hurtful.
Your hand and Albert are my best medicines; any other now
would do me mischief." Can you see also into my body?
"
Yes,
it is what I am doing at this moment." But you have your eyes
shut? "
I see now otherwise than with my eyes. My eye is
here." (She presses my hand to the pit of her stomach.) Vlfhat
do you see in my body 'I "
Your windpipe is weak; you must be
very careful of it, and never speak loudly and for a length of time.
Your stomach too is not yet altogether in a good condition. The
dimculty in the throat is connected with it. The two affections
alternate. It is an obstinate disease of the nerves, that has ha-
rassed you for a long time. Your present mode of living is very
suitable; only keep strictly within its limits. This is better than
any medicine for you, at present, and matters will mend continu-
ally. You may eat according to your appetite; only adhere to the
articles that agree with you; you know what they are. You may
take medicine only in case of necessity, which however is not to
__._
'
When the angels turn themselves to man they so conjoin themselves
to him that they know not otherwise than that the things
appertsining
to
man are theirs-man also, on the other band, knows not otherwise t au
that the things which How in through the angels are his.-Ii ei Ii 258.
v
80 msrosr or nm cus.
~
be apprehended." How can you tell all this so precisely?
"
I
know it; I see it; it is as I said." Can you also see into the sys-
tem of my sister M.? "
No, I do not see her at all. (I take M.
by the hand, whereupon a spasmodie trembling of the body ensues,
lasting however only a few minutes, after which she says :) Now
I see her. I can also see into her system, but it is not clear
enough for me. Albert too does not wish me to look deeper; it
would cost me, just now, too great an effort. I love M. dearly;
she is very good; but she must not approach me too closely; it
still aiiects me. (After reflecting a moment.) She too suffers
in the stomach. She will not get better, unless she has rest, inter-
nal, mental rest and peace; bodily rest, just now, would be of ser-
vice to her also. Both are very necessary. If she has them, she
will improve. (Another quiet interval, during which she moves
the muscles of her face in a singular and extremely rapid man-
ner. This nervous exhibition over, her arms first, then her hands,
and finally her fingers alone, begin to move with extraordinary
rapidity, also for the space of about five minutes. She now folds
her hands, while her feet tremble for the same length of time, and
prays in silence. At length she speaks :) Oh, Albert, how de-
lightful are my sensations. Deep is my joy that l may be with
you. (Pause.) How? You mean to go with me into a beauti-
ful abode? That is glorious. Ah! how beautiful this prospect!
What resplendent appearances are here! Ah, how beautiful!
You are kind, Albert; you have done me a great pleasure."
Whither has Albert carried you 7 "
Into a
delightful region
which I can compare with none that I have ever seen."* Where
is this place ? "Albert says it is in the neighborhoodi' of the
Suu. There are creatures here quite dilferent from what men
are. They are much more pure and noble." You say, in the
neighborhood of the Sun, not in the Sun itself? "
I said so, and
Albert says it is so. You do not believe that there are creatures
in those spaces ; but yet it is so. I see the Sun, and these beings
are not in the Sun." It may be perhaps that the inhabitants of
'
There are there (in heaven) lands and lakes, mountains and hills,
plains and vallies, fountains and rivers, paradises and groves. T. C. R. 693.
1- The spirits of every earth are near to their own ticular earth, bo-
cause they are from the inhabitants of that earth, andnbla similar genius
and temper. E. U. I. note (b).
HISTORY OF THB CASE. 31
that luminary rise from their dwelling place into these wide re-
gions 'I "
That I do not know; Albertdoes not say it; but I see
these beings in the neighborhood of the Sun. (A pause.) 0, if
it were so fair, so glorious on the earth below, as here, where
there are no human passions, it were then good to live there.
This whole life above consists of love; every thing that is and is
done here proceeds from love. This principle makes all the hap-
piness that reigns here above."* Might not we here below be so
happy!
"
Yes, we might, if we would only do as we should-
but we men are often so ungodly, and therefore so unloving! No,
it is not possible, it is not possible. (A pause.) `Move your hand
alittle further up, towards the pit of the stomach. (As I did so,
she said, smiling :) Ah! now I see every thing clearer and better;
but ask no questions at present; Albert is speaking with his
friend." (She appears to listen attentively. Soon after she be-
gins ta weep.) Why do you weep? "Albert is telling to his
friend, who knew my father well, his fortunes. He knew me and
all my family on earth. I have often seen him. But now, in-
deed, be is diferent from what he was there ;'f and I cannot tell
who he is. He too is very good, otherwise he could not he Al-
bert's friend; but yet he is still far, far below him. (A short pause;
then to me :) You will soon be called away to write something."
(Scarcely had she spoken, when the door opened, and I was called
away to write an order for some fruit. During my absence she
lay, as my sister M. told me, quite motionless, with her eyes
closed, and a pleasant smile on her face. When I retumed she
went on immediately to speak of Albert.) 'f I cannot express how
good my Albert is-there is no spark of evil in him. Love, Truth,
Faith, Humility-all in him blends harmoniously. These quali-
ties form a glorious shape in the other world.1 Here, O heres
'
When these (corporeal things) are removed, the love then becomes
more pure, and at length angelic, which is to love the neighbor more than
themselves; for in the heavens their delight is to do good to another, and it
is not delightful to do good to themselves, unless that it may become ano-
ther's, thus for the sake of another. H. my IL 406.
'I' When the spirit ot' man first enters the world of spirits, which takes,
place shortly after his resuscitation, spoken of above; he has a similar face
and a similar tone of voice to what he had in the world. But afterwards
the face is changed and becomes quite another one. H. my IL 457.
1 For every one becomes his own love, not only as to the interiors, which
are of the mind, but also as to the exteriors, which are ofthe face, the body,
32 moron! or ras casa.
it is glorious! On earth he was not yet so pure as he is now.
Ah! how imperfect am I still, when I compare myself with him!
In the waking state I am often not good; I have many fanlts.
O, I thank you, Albert, that I am permitted to be with you,
where I feel so inexpressibly happy. (To me, after a pause :)
You too are here again? That is kind; lay your left hand,
if you please, once more on my stomach. (A pause.) To-day
my Albert is devoted entirely to me in ins calling."* What is
his calling 'I "To heal and to do good. Oh, it is good to be with
him. But great as is my joy at being in a higher world, so
great is my pain at being compelled to return. Everywhere here
there is nothing but joy, love, and happiness; here I see beings
moving about full of the most interior love and friendship.1- One
feels involunfarily drawn to them. How it would rejoice me if
you too could take part in their conversation, if you could only
speak with Albert. Yet, is he at present quite near you."
How can that be, since you assert that you are in a higher world
with Albert? I am here in the chamber. "Albert has come
near to you in spirit; he is, ss it were, in your soul ;1 you need
not wonder that he can, in the same moment, be again in the
most distant places of the higher world ; he is, as it were, every-
where in the whole of his wide jurisdiction, where he wishes to
be, like a thought. He loves you much; I will tell you more of
him hereafter." I am glad to hear it. But how comes it, that
you identified me and Albert a few days since! (R. reflects.)
and the speech; for every one becomes the efligy of his own love, even in
ls. H H 481
extema _ .
Goodness andqcharity is what forms and makes a resemblance of iielf
and causes the delightful and beautiful of charity to shine forth from the
minutest parts of the face, so that
they
themselves are forms of charity.-
Which form, when it is beheld, is ine able beauty. H 4' H. 414.
*
These employments of the angels are
theiggeneral employments, but
everypone
has his
Iparticular charge. H. Q* H. 2.
1' he angelic ife consists in use and in doing works of charity-from
these offices they receive a delight which cannot be described: thus they
are images of the Lord; thus they love their neighbor more than them-
selves; and thus heaven is heaven to them; wherefore an elic ha pines:
is in use, and from use, and according to use, that is according to the good
offices of love and charity. A. C. 454.
1 Angels when they are with men, dwell as it were, in their
fgddlblll,
and are near a man, so far as he is in goods from truths.-H. 4° _ 891.
So also can one
spirit be filled by another, until he knows not but that
he is the other. This has very often been seen by me.-D. P. 90.
HISTORY OF TRI CASE. , 38
Do you know what the word "
identifies" means 3 "
Yes, to make
one of, toblend, to confound. I confounded you, because I was
nogyet raised to the higher world as I am now. My inner eye
was not yet fitted for seeing; I even see Albert only by means
of your vital influx, in which your image exists,* and through
that image I see my Albert. I cannot suiiiciently explain to
you how I see with my inner eye; it is as if I looked out from
you.+ If you were in my condition, you could easily under-
stand it. (A pause). Do you believe that Albert is near you '!"
You say it with so much assurance, I will believe that it is so.
"
It is so, be assured; and he would not come so near you, if
he did not love you, nor would he have chosen you as the
medium for operating upon me." Can you explain more clearly
how his intiuence upon you is modified through me! "
I can
only say, that power of a higher kind proceeds from him, which,
like a stream, works through you upon me, and does you good
at the same time, as I said before. To be sure, you cannot
quite understand it." V
Albert, then, is another person than my-
self, a real second person?
"
Yes, just so." Has your§Albert,
been long among the inhabitants of the higher world! "
That
I do not know, and do not dare, at present, to ask. Perhaps I
shall be allowed to ask about it hereafter. He is so
good, and
does every thing to please me; but I must keep within due
limits. How do you know these limits! "I need only look at
him and I know my duty. (A pause.) To-day he is clothed
in white, snow white,1 and holds a golden wand in his hands.
(To me.) You too are quite other than I see you with my
eyes 'in my ordinary state, you are fairer."§ Whence does
-
*There are spheres, which may be called spiritual spheres, which
continually flow forth, yea, overtlow from every spirit; they How from
:he laptive piriniplpjoat
the affections and consequent thoughts, thus from
e 'eitse . . . .
'tl will add this experience which is common in the spiritual world;
one spirit can infuse his thoughts and ailéctions into another spirit, and the
latter_does not know otherwise than that it is of his own
thought
and
a.iI'ec:1on; 31; 131éhere called, thinking from another and thin ing in
anot er. . . .
fTge les¢}}nZl¥¥e#8(angels)
have bright and white garments without
sp en or. . _ .
5 For the face of man's spirit diders very much from the face of his
body. Ii Q H. 457. A
2*
34 _ Huron! or nm casa.
this come, as Iam sitting here in my moming gown at your
side? "
Because I see you with the eye of my soul; your face
is much more expressive; your soul is copied therein.* (I take
a-pinch of snuill) My nose pains me; (smiling,) you have
taken snuili" (R. now lay quiet a quarter of an hour, as if
thinking, then became restless, opened her mouth several times
but did not speak.) What disquiets you '! "
I have spoken with
my Albert." What was the subject of your conversation?
"
Albert says expressly, that I must not tell you, and when he
enjoins any thing, I must obey without hesitation, though you
should oppose it. Give me your other hand too. So! now I
-feel as if I had one of your hands and oneof Albert's. Albert's
power works upon me especially through your left; through
your right he has already caused power to dow into yon-This
-is also of benefit to me. (A pause.) But now-alas i now Al-
bert tells me he must soon leave me. That distresses me
greatly. O, Albert, return soon again, I pray you-When will
you come again? Ah, you will come again to-day! About
four o'clock'! That is excellent ! Come without fail! (My
sister M. approaches her couch without R. being able at all to
see her.) Tell M. that her being near me is not painful to me;
but that, for the present, she must not approach me too closely.
I must accustomimyself to it by degrees. I perceive it hurts
her alittle that I should express such a wish; however, it is
absolutely necessary. But M. is good, she will understand it-
(In consequence of sitting uneasily and bending to the left, I
feel a shooting pain in the muscles of the right side, without
mentioning it however to any one. But she observes it and
says :) My right side pains me; sit up straighter-Your band
will produce the effect, if you lay it but very lightly on the pit
of my stomach. (A pause.) I feel very warm, will you not blow
on me 1"-What do you mean 1-" I wish you to blow, but not
strongly, into my face. (I did so.) Ah, that is cooling, that is
refreshing. (After a few seconds z) That is enough-When I
awake be so kind, as to prepare a drink for me." How must it
te made 'B--ln two glasses of water, drop 21 drops of lemon~
"Phe face of the body is from the parents, but the face of the spirit
from its elfeclion, of which it inthe image. H. 4' E 457.
meson os nm caan.
'
35
juice, and put in some sugar; but only you must prepare the
lemonade."-I will do so.-" I will ask you also to blow on it
and to pass your lingers over it--look-(making the magnetic
passes) in this way." I will do so-'° Yes, you will do it gladly,
I know, and all your desire is to benefit me-With you, yes,
with you I shall recover my health. But I cannot now stay here
in Schnaith; your departure is at hand. My Albert says, that
to-morrow I must set out for R---, and what he tells me I must
do without asking why. Only let me not be absenttoo long,
my Albert; otherwise my body will suffer too much. But you
will be quick to hear- it. (After a pause.)-Yes, he grants my
request; I may come to you again; but then you will no
longer
be in Schnaith. When that will be, he does not tell me. (A
pause.) Yes, I must set oil' to-morrow; I am expected in R. ;
but I have a request to make of you." What is your wish?
"
It will not be good for me to walk early to-morrow to Enders-
bach; (where the conveyance to Stuttgart would take her up,)
it is desirable that I should ride."-That will be cared for; give
yourself no concern about it. But will not the journey itselh
be hurtful to you 3 "
It will be of no service to my health; still,
if I am not too long separated from you, the ill eliects may be
repaired-(After a longer interval of silence.) I have some-
thing still to say regarding my own and your bodily state. In
the disease you have just passed through, the nerves of the
abdomen have more especially sufered; the stomach and liver
were only incidentally allbcted; your affection was one of the
nerves, and it is necessary for you still to take care of yourself.
But follow only my advice, observe the regimen you are on at
present, and do not suffer yourself to be too much affected by
any thing; what does not pertain to your afairs directly do not
trouble yourself about, and quietly refer every thing where it
belongs, until it is understood. Be not too much concerned
about any thing ,external. You must overcome yoursel£ Al-
bert will help you, if it is too hard for you.* For the present
*In
general, angels of every society are sent to men, that they may
guard t em and withdraw them from evil aEiactions and thence
thoughts,
and inspire them with good nllections, so far as they receive them rom
freedom; by which also they rule the deeds or works of men, removing,
ssfarssitispossiblmeviliutentions. H. QH. 391.
86 ,
nlsromr or TRI CASE.
I
you need have no fears as to your health. -But if you do not
obey me it will be ruined. Your nervous system is very delicate
and has been weakened by your previous attacks--a .circum-
stance, however, of great advantage to me. Should you under-
take to magnetize me in the usual way, you would hurt yourself
very greatly. You do so, as it is; but there is one higher than
either, who treats us both, in a manner, as a physician. As you
are operating on me, Albert can be perpetually imparting to you
new vitality. (After a pause.) The physician who treated you
in your last attack is an excellent one, he knows your constitu-
tion well. Continue to follow his advice. You will, at times,
require his aid, by reason of many inconveniences. But have
no fear, there is no occasion for it. (My brother C., who had
left the chamber a short time before, now returned. I looked at
him, intending to ask him some question. At this moment`R.
said :) I see C. ; (as I turned my look from him) nowl no longer
see him ;* but with that single glance I saw
something about
him that should not be."-What is that 'I-" He does not believe
in magnetism, because he does not know it, and it is something
quite new to him. He thinks I do not speak truly when I say
that I am in a. higher world. That hurts my feelings, but he
will yet believe; he will see presently that he labors under a
mistake; oh, in this state, it were impossible for me to say what
was not true. (It was actually so, as C. confessed that he
secretly doubted the phenomena of animal magnetism.) Why
will he not leave off his snuiiing. (I had just taken a pinch of
snuB§ the effect of which was to make her draw up her nose,
and make some demonstrations of sneezing, without, however,
doing it.) I must also (she proceeded after a. short pause,) say
something more of myself before I awake. You must prepare
the lemonade for me after dinner-I must drink no more coffee.
That comes hard to me, as I love it; it aifects my nerves. Milk,
too, is not good for me. I must change my breakfast occasion-
ally. To-morrow, I am to take a single cup of weak tea with
milk that is not rich. The next day I wish health-chocolate, but
still only one cup. Tell me this when I wake, otherwise I shall
*
S irits can see nothing, through man, which is in this solar world, but
they have leon through my eyes. H. Q H. 252, note.
'
mama! or 'ms cast. _
37
drink co&e in R. Albert-says I must drink chocolate that has
no spice in it, until he directs otherwise. As regards articles of
diet during the day, I need not be particularly careful. Those
difiicult of digestion are not `good. Hereafter, my stomach will
be worse at first; this will come from you, and you will reap a
benefit from it, while I shall not suffer. If Albert allows me to
go to Schwaikheim, I must walk a great deal, especially in the
morning. I must, then also, drink water early in the morning,
which will also do you good;-therefore adopt the practice;
only, after meals, exercise is not good for you. (A pause.) My
Albert says again that I must never be magnetized-you are
therefore never to attempt it. (Some one came into the cham-
ber, who was in perplexity on account of some household article
lost or mislaid, which she announced, saying at the same time,
that R.. would know where the *article was to be found, and that
I must ask her. I did so: but scarcely had I begun to speak,
when she said :) I know what you are going to say, but such
questions I do not like; I will never answer them; they are
merely curious and_ answer no good end. (It was discovered at
this moment, that a letter to Schorndorf, by which a place should
have been engaged in the conveyance that went on the follow-
ing day, from there to Stuttgart by the way of Endersbach, had
not been sent. We were thrown by this circumstance into
perplexity, and consulted whether it would not be necessary to
send off a messenger with the letter. But R. declared :) That
is unnecessary, I shall get a seat in Endersbach to-morrow ;
in the mean time, (smiling,) it will occasion a transfer. (When
she arrived early on the 19th in Endersbach, the seats in the
conveyance were all taken, but a passenger offered to give up
his place and take a seat with the driver. She now tums to me :)
You do not feel any weariness to-day, do you 'I Yes, you feel
quite comfortable; you are stronger than you were early this
moming. (ln fact, I felt a degree of power and comfort in my
whole system such as I had not experienced for a long time, and
which, after the occurrences already related, threw me into
astonishment.) "
But now it is time for me to awake. Ah, how
rapidly my Albertcarries me. What a sight the earth presents
at a distance l* How quickly have you returned with me to the
*I was ledby angelslromthelardtoa certsinesrthin thestsrry
38 ,
rnsroar or 'rits casa.
`
earth, Albert. To_ remain there with you would be my most
earnest wish. But it must be so! Ah,he departs, he leaves
me." (Now, there come on quickly spasms in the extremities,
she turns hither and thither, as in a painful struggle, her teeth
gnash, and her arms are twisted into the strangest positions.
All at once there takes place a general quivering of the whole
body, and after a few seconds she opens her eyes, about 12
o'clock, after she had slept for three hours. She rose im-
mediately, and ate the mid-day meal with appetite. As she
was astonished at what we told her, so we also were struck
with the quite altered, ilippant pronimciation of which she again
made use, contrasting strongly with her solemn, slow, and pure
speech during the crisis.
April the eighth.
(Four o'elock in the evening.)
Qualme, cramps and trembling attend the transition into the
higher state, exactly as in the forenoon at nine. She begs me,
after the cramps had come on, not to approach her until their
violence was past, because it would not be good for me and
herself. At last she asks me to lay my left hand upon her
stomach, whereupon a sudden and violent shivering of the whole
body came on, followed, after a deep sigh, by a general quiet
and comfort, which showed themselves in a pleasurable ex-
pression of her features. Soon she speaks low and slowly, as
usual, without being first addressed.
"Ah! my Albert, my friendly attendant, are you come again !
yes, I am permitted to be with him once more. (A pause.) But
this time he is alone; his friend is not with him."-Where was
Albert in the mean time? "
Far, far distant; in many places;
but he was busy on the earth too."*-Where 'Q-" In Bava-
ria." What was his business there? "To heal, to do good,
to create joy, to mitigate pain, is his calling, 'and he loves it.1~
haavigrli,
when it was given me to take a view of the earth itaelfl E;
*
In general angels of every socie are sent to man.;-H. Q- H. 391.
1' That the divine love is lite itseli,yaudthat hence the love appertain-
ipg to man is his life, is confirmed by many testimonies, but themes: dis-
Kmmuhad of these testimonies is the consideration that the :pmt of man
ntsroar or 'ru casa. 39
Ah! it pains me to think that I must leave him to-morrow.
But I must, must set oil' to-morrow, and it makes me very sad.
(She weeps. After a long pause :) He promises, so far as be
can, to give me relief, without your aid, and at a distance from
you. He says that the reason why he has come to me twice
to-day is, that he cannot be with me as he wishes, for some
little time. Oh you are good, my Albert. (A pause.) She prays
with her hands folded :)
'
Ithank Thee, merciful Father, who lookest lovingly on the
needs of all Thy children,that Thou has sent me a physician so
compassionate, so faithful a guide in my Albert. Oh, help me
that I may never forget the gratitude I owe to Thee, to Whom
alone it is due. (A long interval of silence.) Whither are you
carrying me, Albert! Ah, into a mild fair region again!
"
Yes,
here I can be refreshed." Where is this region! Again
in the neighborhood of the Sun?
"
Yes; there again.
But remove, l pray, the ring from your left hand, it gives
me pain at the stomach. (When I had complied with her
request she said :) So! nowl feel better. The gold in this
ring is not quite so fine as in that which you wear on your right
hand. The mixture of the metals causes me an unpleasant
tensipn in the stomach and abdomen. I do not know what it
proceeds from. There is copper in it. Each by itself would
have a different effect. So it is, though I cannot explain it.
(After being silent for some time :) Ah, my Albert, you are very
kind. You are carrying me into the sun! Ah, how beautiful
it is here ! A splendid garden extends before my eye, adorned
with fragrant flowers."*-" There are flowers then blooming
in the neighborhood of the sun 2-" Yes indeed, but you could
not see them with your eyes ;f they are of a quite different na-
ture ;1 much more delicate, like light and fragrance, and yet they
_1i.i.
is
nothinglbnt affection, and that hence man, after death, becomes an a63c.
tion ; if e be an
angel, an ejection U good use, and if he be aepirit of
hellnlan alffection
of
xevil nine.-D.
L.
9h h
o t use (an e s) w o are in inte
'
ence, t ere a em md
paradises full ofgoes and flowers of evdfy kind.-H. 211. 17?
1* For the things which are in the heavens cannot be seen by the eyes
of ma.n's
body,
but by the eyes ofhis spirit.-H <2 H l7l.
1 But the t ings which
aglpear
in the heavens, although they are in
great part similar to those w ich are on the earth, still they are not aimi-
ar ae to essence.-H. 4' H. 172.
1 »
1
40 msrony or 'rua casa.
are flowers. I perceive this, and my Albert confirms it. (She
moves her lips in silence, and a lovely serenity and cheerfulness
spreads over her face. All at once she becomes serious, and
her features express an effort of attention.) Ah, I see angels!
what majesty ! what glory !* I cannot sustain it. This then is
the residence of many blest ones that were once on earth '!"~|'
Did your guardian spirit say so! "
Yes, I see in him that it is
so.
(A pause.) Oh ye exalted beings! ye lovely forms that
have walked upon earth, with deep reverence do I behold
you. Yes, you have escaped all the miseries that still oppress
us here. Ye -know nothing more of the suiiisrings of earth, of
the, so often, bitter sufferings of human life." (She weeps in
in silence-a long pause.) In order to quiet her, I said : speak
with your Albert and ask him about the employment of those
high beings.
"
I cannot do it just at present; for he also is
lost in gazing at the angels. (A pause.) Only think, even my
Albert, this pure spirit, bends with humility and reverence before
these high beings.1 Now Albert has turned to me again,
but I cannot see in him, on what employment they are gone.
Oh, how I thank you, my Albert, that you showed me the place
by which they passed; what a pleasure was that to my soul!
(A long pause.) Sweet Peace! Only in this higher world
thou dwellest in all thy fulness !§ And what love reigns here!
Only love, only faith, my Albert says, and the happiness pro-
*
They (tha
angle)
have been seen by some, and have excited aslo.
nishment.-H. ey . 414
1' Wherefore they (the an els) wish _that I should 'assert from their
mouths, that in the universe?heaven there is not one angel who was so
created from the beginning, nor in hell any devil who was created an an-
gel oflight and cast down; but that all, both in heaven and hell, are from
the human race.-H. 4' H. 311.
The angels in the celestial kingdom of the Lord very much excel in
wisdomand
glory
the angels who are in the spiritual kingdom.-H
g
H. 25.
I But sttllt ey (the govemors) have honor and glory; they dwe in the
midst of the society more elevated than others, and also in magnificent
palaces; they also
ac?
this glory, and that honor, yet not for the sake
ofthemselves.--IL my . 218.
§ There are two inmost things of Heaven, namely, innocence and peace .
They are called inmost, because they proceed immediately from the lord.
Innocence is that from which is all
th%food
of heaven, and peace is that
from which is all the
delight
ofgood.- .
dr H. 285.
The state of the Lord's ingdom is a state of peace,and all happ states
deivecé frgcg
love and faith toward the Lord exist in a state oiypesce.
msroay or nn: case. 41
ceeding from them.* exist in these high regions. 0 that I could
speak it out to all men! Me too, O Father, Thou wilt receive
as thy child. Behold, I too am full of trust in Thee, although I
am but weak, a mere weak mortal. Thy love, Thy bound-
less mercy, causes me to find favor in Thy sight. Of this I am
sure. How blessed a thing it is to rejoice in Thee! Already
I have a foretaste of that high felicity. (She prays with ber
hands folded and raised to her face, with visible emotion, for a
long time in silence. At length she lets her hands fall and
says :) I was in a large Temple# whither Albert carried mc.
Here I was permitted to pray with him.1 Iprayed for my father
and for myself. For you also I prayed, my benefactor, through
whom I shall be restored again to health. God will renew
your health again, believe it, and trust in Him. But now listen I
My Albert bids me tell you, that in order to bring back the per-
spiration of the feet, that is so favorable to your health, you
must still lay the pitch plaster for some time to the soles. The
perspiration will never indeed appear again as strong as in
your earlier years; but this is natural, and not at all necessary.
Only you must always guard your feet, and especially the soles
of your feet, against taking cold. You will always, when you
have cold feet, experience uncomfortable sensations in the up-
per part of your body. Only you must never let the plaster
stay more than from ten to fourteen days ; the pitch would bp
altered by the perspiration and cease to have its effect. But I
see the perspiration has already come. That is very weh. (It
was really so.) I must further say to your sister M., that as the
afection of her eyes originated in her early youth, and is con-
nected with the general state of her nervous system, she can
hope for relief only by sparing her eyes. She is in the habit of
reading much and long, is full of cares too, and often weeps.
That is not good for her. She must spare her eyes more--medi-
cines will do but little good. (A pause.) I am to tell C., with
*
Wherefore an elic
happiness
is inuse, and from use, and
accordingéo
use, that is, acconhng to t e good offices of love and charity.-A. C. .
T And they pre red themselves, and
accompanied
the angel and en-
tered; and beholdxfhe temple was large, capab e of holdi11g about three
thousand.-'I'. C. R. 750.
I Divine worship in the heavens is not unlike divine worship on earth,
ss to extemals, but as to intemals, it ditfers. In the heavens,as onearth
gin
are doctrines, there are preaehings, and there are temples.-Ii 4'
42 nrsronv or 'rms casa.
regard to his left eye, that calamine is not good for him; he
need only be careful not to neglect bathing it every'day with
cold water. Pure water is here better than all mixtures. But
now, I must cease from speaking; Albert wishes me to speak
with him, and give my body perfect rest. (She lies more than
three quarters of an hour motionless, breathing scarce percep-
tibly ; only the delicately colored cheeks, and the mouth occa-
sionally smiling, testify life. At length she moves her arms,
lifts them up and exclaims:) Albert! Albert! you will not
leave me surely? No, he has only withdrawn a little way.
He is already with me again. (Ae I had risen at the moment
and removed my hand from her stomach, it occurred to me
again, that the idea of Albert as a being distinct from myself
was an eifect of the imagination, and that she still confounded
me with a creation of her own mind. But she said all at once :)
Ah, I was mistaken; you removed your hand, and the conse-
quence was, that Icould no longer see Albert distinctly. Now
that you have put it back, I see him again quite distinctly. At
this moment, he is quite near you-as it were one with you."-
But you said, that he and I were two beings 'I "I said rightly;
you are certainly two beings, inasmuch as you are on the
earth, and he in the higher world; thus far you are two souls.
But I mean to say, that your essence on both sides has now
blended together. I do not understand. "
You might under-
stand it. As two bodies embracing, form is it were but one,
so it is here. His soul pervades yours;* it is a kind of hea-
venly embrace." I beg you, however, to ask Albert, if we are
two diH`erent persons ; I could wish a precise answer from him
to this point. He says, yes, that you are two souls, but, just
now, spiritually one, that he is, as it were, interlocked with you,
and that he comes so near because he loves you. He adds,
that while he lived on earth, his dispositions were very similar
to yours, and that therefore he feels a particular attachment
to you."'|' (A slight trembling seizes her.) Why do you
*
Iwill edd_this
experience
which is common in the
spiritual
world:
gpesqgint
can mfuse is thoughts and ailizctions into anot er spirit.--D.
'T All
things
are consociated most ex uisitely in the heavens,
according
to all the di erence of love to the Lord, and of mutual love, and of fait
originating therein.-A. C. 2449.
xnsiron or 'rms casa. 43
tremble 1-" Albert has becomevery serious towards me. You
desired me, from a very good motive, to ask him, whether he
and you were two per ons. I was secretly displeased at this,
and felt hurt that you would not believe me on my own word.'
My Albert saw it, and as it by no means pleased him, he with-
drew his power from me a few moments. But I saw my fault
directly, and now he is again kind and friendly. He is just now
at your right side."-(I extend my arm, point to the right and
ask :) Is Albert here! "
Yes,just here; you must now feel
him more distinctly in your body than a little before, when he
was nearer to you. At a little distance his influence is stronger.
(In fact I experience in my right side a surprising and unusual
warmth.) Yes, that is he ; he smiles at your astonishment.
With what a friendly look he regards you !" I too, should be
glad to see your guardian spirit.
"
Be satisiied for the present;
you have felt him; you have now a mind to see him; but that
would not be good for you. He knows your wish; but you
could not endure his sight." How old was he, when he died!
"Thirty~six years. He knew you long since as a child, and
loved you. At that time he saw you often." Did Iknow him 'I
"
He knew you; let that suilice. Through me you have ap-
proached him yet more closely." Am I related to him 3-" Yes,
(smiling,) related in spirit; upon this point Albert will say
nothing." Did he belong to my profession! Yes,yet he stood,
in life, a degree higher than you." To the sacred profession!
"
Yes, to the same." Was he a citizen of Wirtemberg '!-" That
I may not answer !" How long has he been dead! (No
answer came. After a pause.)
"
Albert does not wish to be
questioned particularly as to his person ; he will hear nothing
more of it." Is it well, in general, to put few questions to
you '!-0 no, continue to inquire; if answering too long is pre-
judicial to me, I will always tell you mysel£ I am glad to
have you speak with me, and I will gladly inform you, where
I may and can. I hope you will always so manage your
questions as not to cost me too much effort. But as to that too,
I can always tell you. At present, my magnetic state is not
sutiiciently advanced : as yet, I know little of much importance
to tell you. Hereafter,I perceive I shall be able to do so. But
now I must let my body rest again." (She lies a considerable
AL
44 nisronv or 'ras casa.
time motionless, with lnr hands crossed over her breast. Soon
she begins to speak again :) "I had a. conversation with Al-
bert." On what subject did you converse 'l-" He gave me
several good counsels, but will not permit me to communicate
them to you. They concern only myself. (A pause.) But the
time is come when you are accustomed to eat. Take something,
I pray you, you require it." Can I leave you so long, without
any prejudice to you? "~Well, but you can take something
here by me ; here is a little table." That can be done-(while
I was eating she said :) You have a good appetite, but your roast
beef is too salt." (This was actually the case, though a word
had not been said about it.) You may drink one glass of beer.
Iwould ask you to take some of my lemonade, if the lemon-
juice was good for your stomach. Beer suits you very well.
Avoid wine entirely." What may we give you to eat this
evening '!-(She answered so low, that I was obliged to bring
my ear quite close to her mouth, whereupon she suddenly ex-
claimed aloud :)
"
Ah, I see into your head; all the nerves-ah,
it is clear there, all over clear; light streaming in every direc-
tion. It is a glorious sight. I can distinguish the radiations in
the fibres of the brain. Yet I knew before, that there was
nothing cloudy about your head"-I thought that in that higher
world, where you say you are, there was no Battery-"0,
speak not so; thank God for your mental powers; no, I had no such
meaning." Be calm;I was only jesting. You spoke, however,
only of the radiation of material light in the nerves of my head.
That is true-yet as a matter of course-(suddenly she makes
a movement with her hand, at the same time showing in her
face signs of pain.) What ails you! What has happened to
you 3-" The fourth linger of my left hand pains me exces-
sively." How can I relieve it? Shall I make passes on it!
"
No, youhave a ring of very fine gold in which some brilliants
are set; put it a little while, if you please, on my linger. (The
ring was brought, and scarcely placed on her finger when the
pain ceased.) It is an indescribably strong effect which these
stones and the fine gold* produce on my nerves. (In subsequent
'
That a natural sphere is continually flowing forth not
onltyofrom
man
but also from beasts, yea from trees, fruits, flowers, and also m metals,
ll a thing generally known.-A. C. 4446.
msronv or 'ras casa. 45
crises also, this ring showed peculiar and extraordinary efects,
particularly on the nerves of her eyes, of which mention will be
made in time.) It will gratify me, if I may retain the ring un-
til to-morrow." As you like-but how will it be with your
health in R. after you have made your journey from me! "
Albert
cannot approach me so nearly there indeed, because you will be
away, but still he will come and help me as much as may be. I
shall be obliged to suffer much in my breast; but he has told me
even now', that I will again feel him more than in Schwaikheim.
He cannot and dare not operate upon me immediately, because
that would destroy me. My absence should not be a long one;
it would be prejudicial to me. (A pause.) When I shall be
permitted to greet him again in Schwaikheim, I. cannot as yet
tell." Listen, R., I wish to ask you a question. (As no an-
swer follows, I repeat what I had said, whereupon she replied :)
"In the world where I now am, I am not called R., but Felici-
tae. Do not therefore call me by that name." But wherefore
have you changed your name there for one that is so old fash-
ioned? "
Oh, it is a beautiful name ; when I awake, it will not
indeed please me; but here it is a very proper name ;* my Al-
bert has told me this."-But why are you called Felicitas ; has
that name a meaning?
"
My Albert was permitted to give me
a name, and he chose this, for the reason that a friend of his
whom he had highly esteemed on earth, and whom I much re-
sembled, as he said, bore this name." I presume that the
friend of your Albert is also dead? "
She is so." If that is the
case, he can be with ber; for what purpose, then, this bestowal
ot' her name by way of memento? "
You take too much for
granted. She is in the other world, not however with him, but
in a far diferent sphere of eH`ort.1» (All at once she became
violently a&`ected by the sudden entrance into her chamber, of
a person, who approached her just as suddenly. The spasms
*
It is not known that in the spiritual world there are not names as in
the natural world, but that every one isnamed according to the quality of
his love and wisdom; for as soon as any one comes into society or partici-
%ti;ngvagh others, he is forthwith named according to his quality there.
1' Because there issuch a distinction between the angels of the celestial
kingdom and the angels of the spiritual kingdom, therefore
tha'
are 110%
together nor do they have intercourse with each other.-IL 4' 27.
/'
46 msronv or 'run casa.
which had seized her, were gradually removed by laying one
of my hands on her stomach and the other on her forehead.
Afteraprsttylong and quiet interval :) "Now Imnst come
back to you, it is Albert's will; he is obliged to leave me-
Farewell, my guardian, my physician; soon I shall be permitted
again to see thee." (She fold her hands and appears to pray
in silence: soon she is seized with cramps tremblings and
oppression of breathing; a. short convulsive cough' and pecu-
liarly violent spasms of the feet c_ome on, lasting some minutes'
whereupon she awakes, retaining not the slightest recollection
of what had happened.)
i
. From April 9th to May 5th.
01| the 9th of April R. set out for R--m, sulfering much
during the journey from pain in the stomach.
The magnetic state returned as early as the llth, after vio-
lent cramps for a quarter of an hour, aE`ecting particularly
the breast, and terminating at last in convulsions of the ex-
tremities. It was marked, now, by this peculiarity, that the pa-
tient lay for the most part motionless and silent, and, especially
at first, felt painfully the approach of any one, as was indicated
by her features. My sister L., in whose house she was staying,
attempted, immediately upon the attack, to approach the bed on
which she had cast herself, to render her assistance; but she
immediately complained :
"
It hurts me, L., to have you near
me." Soon however she called for L., and said to her, "I can
support your presence now, better than a little while since; it
no longer afects me so painfully." But when L. undertook to
lay hes hand upon her stomach, she did not allow her to do it,
nor even to touch her. After lying quietly for some time, she said
quickly,
"
Ah, now he is here, my Albert; but he can only relieve
me a little." She besought herguardian spirit earnestly, to let her
soul go to Schnaith, which he so far granted, that she could see
what her magnetizer and those about him were engaged in.*
*
The case is the same also with man as to his spirit, and therefore he
also may be so translated, [viz., by changes of the state of interior thingy]
whilst his body still continues in its own place.--E. U. 125.
muon! or 'ras casa. 47
When, as she said, she had returned, she said :
"
H. is sitting
and writing at his secretary. C. is going to church. M. is
busy in the kitchen." It was subsequently ascertained, that
all this took place at Schnaith exactly at the time indicated.
To the question of my sister L. whether she would regain her
health, she replied; only with your brother H. and by the laying
on of his hand is it possible ; without this help, I should scarce-
ly recover. I know no one besides him who would operate
upon me so beneficially. After some time, she heard, what
she announced by looks of joy, delightful music,* and saw herself
translated into a fair, but to her, unknown region. Subsequently
she had a painful cramp in the third linger of the left hand,
when she said: "That ring would soon remove the pain,"
and asked L. to write for it to me, and procure it. "
Yet, she
added, he must carry it some days on his finger, or carry it
about his person: for it will supply in some measure the want
of his own presence." Once in this crisis she rubbed her nose,
observing: "Now he has taken snud' again." As my sister's
husband was about to approach the bed, she begged him ear-
nestly not to do so, and to sit down some distance 0E In the
mean time she heard his words, as well as those of his wife, and
always replied to his questions. She further directed for her-
self; that she must take nothing cold, or sour, and use no
spices. She awoke after a sleep of about two hours, with the
cramp and spasms which usually marked with her the begin-
ning and the end of this state.
On the 14th of April, there came on a new crisis accompanied
by the spasmodic attack just mentioned, which lasted from nine
till eleven o'clock in the forenoon. That day R., according to
the letters I afterwards received, was very restless, for the most
part melancholy, and complained of cramps in the stomach and
peculiarly violent pain in the fourth finger of the left hand. It so
happened thatduring this crisis the wished for ring arrived,which
she was immediately aware o£ She took it eagerly ; and scarcely
had she put it on the sufering finger, when the pain ceased. The
i
'
There are here (in heaven) days of festivity appointed by the prince.-
0nTthge§sq4;here
are concerts of music and songs in the public places.
48
'
nrsronv or 'rms casa.
cramp in the stomach was also removed by pressing it to the
pit of the stomach. Soon there followed general relief, accom-
panied by a pleasurable feeling. Albert appeared on this occa-
sion also, and stayed some time with her. To the question,
how it came that her _guardian spirit, notwithstanding her
having said that she would see him first again in Schwaik-
heim, yet appeared to her, she replied : "I did not say that he
would not appear to me at all, in this place, but that he could
not approach me so closely, that is, could not work upon me so
powerfully, as through H. For this reason, he did not remain
with me so long as in Schnaith." My mother, who was living
with my sister, approached her bed ; but her influence also was
not beneficial to her. On this occasion too, R. complained more
than once, smiling indeed, but drawing up her nose and rubbing
it, at my frequent pinches of snuff] using the words: "Why
can he not leave od' his sanding." .
On the 16th of April, at two in the afternoon, a new crisis
was announced by sickness, sighing and difliculty of breathing,
and was fully introduced by the usual cramps, lasting about ten
minutes. When her body was at rest, and her breathing had
become slight, and scarce perceptible, she crossed her arms on
ber breast and said: "I may now converse longer with my
Albert, let me therefore rest." In this way,~she lay more than
three quarters of an hour, like the form of one who had passed
away without preceding disease. Afterwards, ber features
showed from time to time an expression by turns of friendliness,
of seriousness, of attention, and silent mournfulness. At length
she began to be restless, and when she was asked the reason, re-
plied : My Albert has not granted me this time my request to
visit Schnaith." I asked-Why not this time 1 "
He says it
will do me no good, as I am in no contact with H., and merely
visiting him at a distance will only make me more unquiet."
My sister's husband had put on paper several questions which
he wished to propose to the somnambulist, and as he did not
affect her favorably himself, be communicated them to her
through his wife L., with whom a kind of rapport had been re-
stored. There was, however, some among them, which, though
answered correctly, must here be passed over in silence. She
was asked whether an absolute predestinatmn was taught in
msroa! or rms casa. 49
the ninth chapter of the Epistle to the Romans. Hereto she
answered very seriously:
"
What God has not seen tit to re-
veal to man, he should not dive into." L. asked: We must be
childlike, must we not, in our faith! (With a friendly smile z)
"
Yes, that is the right way." Is it taught, it was further asked,
in holy writ, that there shall be an droxarésf-ms frévfwv, (a resto-
ration of all things 3)
"
Yes, every soul in which there is any
thing good will finally be saved."* Now followed the question :
What death did the apostles, Peter and Paul, die! (At this
question she became very restless, and her whole body begar;
to tremble. After some time she answered z) "Peter died on
the cross. How Paul died I cannot tell. But put no more such
questions to me, I pray. They have no other end than that of
curiosity. (Smi1ing.) I am inclined to think the next question
on the paper is, who will be mayor in P. But this I shall not
answer. It is quite too unimportant. Such questions answer no
good purpose. Soon after, R. became restless and said :-A
lady has arrived and is in the adjoining chamber." To the
question, who is she 1 she answered quite correctly : "Mrs H.
of L.; she has just inquired of your mother, how I am. (After
a pause :) My Albert will not visit me again until a week from
the next Monday, on the 28th of April ; ab, I must suffer much
in the stomach until that time. But he says I may go soon to
Schwaikheim ; the day, however, my Albert does not determine."
She now rested again for a considerable time, with her eyes
closed, and her lips moving from time to time. Before waking,
she once more addressed my sister and said to her : "
L., you are
good; for this reason it was ordered that I should come to you ;
my Albert knew well, that I would meet with a loving reception
from you." About half past four o'clock, she awoke with pretty
severe cramps of the breast, and spasms in the extremities.
The following matters of interest pertaining to this day are yet
to be noted. At the noon day meal, and in the waking state of
the patient, the conversation turned upon obituaries and their
composition. Each one gave his view,'about the best style of
*
If by combat against evils as sins,m.an has procured to himself any thing
in the world, be it ever so small, he is saved, and his uses grow
attsrwards like s grain of mustard seed into s. tree, according to the Lord's
words, in Matthew, Chap. xiu.
32.-g.
L. 17.
50 msron! or ran casa.
such public notices, on which occasion R. observed: "Short
and feeling notices of this kind are those which please me best.
Some time agol read one in the Swabian Mercury, which pleased
me very much; it was thus: "Softly fell asleep on the 15th of
April, after a sickness of only two days, and passed to a better
life, Jos. of Th., loved, honored, admired by the few who knew
her well ; a rare instance of one, in whom innocent and child-
like simplicity were united with the richest and most general
cultivation, and a masculine understanding. Of this irreparable
loss, &.c.f' It was replied to her thereupon, that yesterday was
the 15th of April, that no one had read this obituary, that the
girl to whom it related was still living; but R. maintained
firmly that she had distinctly read this notice a short time ago.
On Sunday, the 20th, there came
several papers together, as is
common in R. where they cannot he had daily, and among them
was No. 104, of the 17th of April, which contained the above
obituary, word for word; it was dated the 15th, but was not
printed before the 16th. They were all so much the more
astonished at this remarkable coincidence, as R.. had not even
left the house, much less the place, since the 16th, and could
from no quarter have received intelligence concerning the death
of the girl, of whom neither she nor any in the house had the
remotest knowledge. r
Of the phenomena which attended the crisis announced on
the 28th of April, nothing can here be said, inasmuch as nothing
relating to them was committed to paper, or reported to me by
letter-save only that the cramps attending it were quite simi-
lar to the earlier ones. _
On the 4th of May, my brother C. visited the patient in R.
The latter had foretold his arrival, of which nothing could have
been known there on that_day. Athalf past one in the aftemoon,
the usual cramps came on, after a short indisposition, and there-
upon the magnetic sleep, which lasted this time longer than
usual. The cramps were severe, and accompanied by frightful
convulsions; there were turns of suiocation, and even during
the sleep, the spasms and the violent pains in the stomach did
not
cease. The parish priest, R. of P. who happened to be
present, offered his services and asked the patient: Canl come
into relation with you? to which she replied :
"
Lay your hand
-
ms-ron! or me casa. 51
upon me and it will relieve me." To the further question shall
I magnetize you: she replied in the negative, and added:
"Cease,I beg of you, to address me in the plural. I cannot
bear to hear it." In this sleep she prescribed to herself a tea
of violets and cowslips, which also was of service (History of
two Somnambulists,) to Dr. Kerner's subject.
On the 3d of May, R. heard a voice calling her name early
in the morning as she lay awake in bed. She rose up in bed
and looked about. As she heard nothing and saw nothing, she
lay down again; but directly she heard the voice a second
time distinctly call her name. She rose up again, and now saw
a bright form, vhich she said was that of her maguetizer, my-
self, which however disappeared after a few moments. On this
day, (the 4th,) my sister L. inquired more particularly of R.,
after she had fallen into the crisis, concerning this phenomenon,
and received for answer that she had really seen me. On the
same day also R. foretold, that she should thenceforth have no
more magnetic attacks in R. When asked the reason of it, she
replied : "I shall set out for Schwaikheim ; when, I cannot yet
say. I shall have another _crisis this evening, in which I shall
leam the time of my departure. My Albert tells me that I
must not travel on Wednesday, as I shall be much troubled on
that day with cramps." Shortly after, she awoke with the
usual cramps.
At nine in the night, she was attacked with frightful cramps
and convulsions, which lasted till half past eleven, and termi-
nated at length in a general rigidity. Those about her feared
for her life. Motion and life, however, returned by degrees,
and along with them waking consciousness. I learned further
from my sister, that she had wept and prayed much in the
crisis of that day, and at one time pronounced audihly the
following lines :-
Holy to live and happy die,
Glorious then again to rise,
And with the just enjoy on high,
To evil men denied, the prize-
Whst happiness can greater be 'l .
ls this, dear lord, reserved for me 2
From the 6th to the 15th of May, there occurred no' more
-
l
I
52 rusron! or 'rm-1 casa.
magnetic sleeps; but, on the other hand, she sufered much
from qualms and cramps of the breast and stomach. Some-
times a transient state of rigidity took place in particular limbs,
and sometimes she felt in them shooting pains. Her mood, for
the most part, was sad and tearful.
May 16th.
R. reached Schwaikheim this day at eleven o'clock in the
afternoon. In half an hour after she arrived, the magnetic sleep
made its appearance, having been preceded by sick stomach and
cramps lasting about ten minutes. Scarcely was she magneti-
cally waking, when her features, hitherto expressive of suffering,
cleared up, she testified lively joy at being again near me, and
spoke with evident satisfaction of the sensation of relief which
was caused by my laying my hand upon her stomach. "
Mean
time, she said, I will not speak much to day, for I am exhausted
by the journey." Agreeahly to her wish, she was leR to rest
quietly on a sofa, and no further questions were put to her.
About half-past one she began to speak of her own accord : Ah,
how much I am strengthened ! God be thanked, that I am
permitted to be here once more ! Had you been with me in R.
I should have been spared much suE`ering. But it was so or-
dered. I have fallen back much in my health from this long
absence. My connection with you was already constituted,
and I now feel, for the first time, that its severance was atten-
ded with bad consequences for me. But every thing will go on,
slowly to be sure, but well. What is lost can be recovered ; it
is not too late. (A pause.) Such was God's will, and that
must always be done, cost what it may. (She weeps, folds her
hands and prays.) Yes, Thy mercy extends to me also, Thou
God of truth. I, too, am a plant in Thy garden-Thou hast
blessed me hitherto with infinite love; Thou wilt continue
still to do so. In the height of its bloom it is, that the plant
requires peculiar protection; that protection do Thou afford to
me. Firmly I believe, that Thou wilt be to me a prop, leaning
on which, the storms of life will pass over me harmless. No, I
am not planted for this rough earth alone; I am destined to
bloom again there in the everlasting garden of my God. (A
Hrsroltr or 'rim casa. 58
pause.) Ifeel very warm; be so good as to blow lightly into
my face. (I did so ; whereupon she said smilingly :) Your
breath smells like the most delicate fragrance of apricots.*
It cools and refreshes me. (After some time my mother
stepped into the chamber, when suddenly her whole body
began to tremble; the same thing had occurred just be-
fore at the entrance of my brother C. I asked her
therefore: cannot something be done to prevent your being
so much agitated when any one enters the chamber? She re-
plied:
"
Nothing can be done for this; I cannot change it, nei-
ther can you. It is the consequence of my excitable state; it
always pains me when persons approach me, be they who they
will, yourself excepted. But especially painful and oppressive
to me are those whose infiuence upon my nerves does not cor-
respond to yours ; it always gives rise to cramps. That which
animates my nerves, too, is often not in harmony with that which
animates the nerves of others. I cannot tell you what that is,
and much less the nature of this diversity; but I know from
my Albert, in whom I see it, that the cause can lie both in the body
and in the spirit. The state of the health and mode of life have
an effect, and not less, the person's principles and dispositions.
(These expressions I drew from her by a series of questions,
which are omitted for the sake of brevity.) But how can you,
when persons approach you, seen at a distance, feel them pain-
fully 1 "
Every man, even one awake and in health, has an atmos-
phere,1' which has a certain extension. That of persons in the
magnetic state is wider than that of the healthy. When the
'
That the blood nourishes itself with suitable matters from the air in-
spired, is evident from the immense abundance of odors and exhalauons
that are continually issuing from shrubberies, gardens and plantations, and
from the immense
guantity
of salts of various kinds
issuinf
with water
from land, rivers an lakes, and from the immense quantity o manure and
animal exhalations and eiiluvia with which the air is
impregnated. _That
these enter the
lungs
with the air cannot be denied. And as
th1s_ is the
case, it cannot be enied that the blood attracts therefrom such things as
are servicable to it, and those things are servicable that correspond to
the
afections of its love.--That men in the world impregnate their blood with
similar things according to correspondence of their_love, follows of
consequence; for what a man's spirit loves, that,
accordmgupo correspon-
dence, his blood craves and attracts in respiration.-D. . 420.
1' There goes out, yea flows forth from every man a
spiritualsp_here from
the affections of his love, which encompasses him an lnfuses itself into
54 meson! or 'ran case.
two come in'contact and blend, there arises in me, as being
the more excitable, that sense of pain to which I can give no
name, and which the healthy cannot experience at all. With
you, however, it is the opposite; near you, I feel comfortably,
because that which animates our nerves is in agreement." But
will it not be well, that in your crisis another besides myself
should be present in the chamber! "
It is advisable, by all
means, in order to avoid evil surmises ; however, I beg that no
one besides yourself may come near me while I am asleep. It
is my wish as well as
yours; by degrees, however, I shall
accustom myself to the presence of others. At first, indeed, it
would be best for me to be alone with you." What do you
mean by the words: at first? "
I mean the first attacks, which
will follow each other in quick succession. In these, at their
commencement, I could wish to be alone with you for a short
time, which I will mark out, until your intluence over me is
restored to its destined state. In narrow chambers, the presence
of strangers just at that time operates much more distressingly
upon our atmospheres." This point can be attended to, so long
as you direct. (She now desired to rest some time longer, and
accordingly lay quiet for about twenty minutes. Suddenly a
general cramp shook her whole system, and she awoke cheerful
and strengthened, about half pa t two.)
7 to 10, P. M.
The whole of the afternoon R. was comfortable. About six
o'clock she complained of a desire to vomit, and afterwards, of
ditliculty of breathing; about a quarter past six, she was obliged
to lie down, as she could scarcely move her feet, which felt as if
asleep. About seven, the usual introductory cramps made their
appearance. After they had ceased, which was in ten minutes,
she sighed deeply, and with a pleasant smile raised her hands
and arms as if towards some beloved object at a distance, and
exclaimed :f" Now you are again nearer to me, my dear Albert,
4 _
_____
the natural sphere which encompasses him, so that the two spheres are
coilxyoined.-A.
C. 4446.
liveoigplgreaigge,
as it were, the alnwapheres of spirits in which they
muon! or 'rn casa. 55
your heavenly power pervades me again strongly; eh, how I
thank you. (A pause.) Ah, only see, he is again quite near
you; a stream of light proceeds from him to you; I see it quite
plainly. How resplendent is the sightl" (While I was drink-
ing beer from a glass, I observed that as often as I swallowed
she did the like. I said therefore :) You seem to relish the
beer. "Yes-it is very good. You joke and laugh at such a
thing, but it is so. I do indeed tasteit." But you took none of
it into your mouth, and yet you swallow and taste it! How am
I to understand this? (She.smiles.) "
That surprises you, but
yet it' is very natural. I share your bodily sensations, even
your motions I am often obliged to imitate." Wbence does
this come? "
I can only feel through you. My life and yours
have become one life; that which gives life and feeling has
become so in common to us both that we are not two persons."
Still, I do not understand how you can feel what I feel. "
Ima-
gine my body now as in a state approaching death; the power
through which we feel we both of us have in common, and
when you taste any thing, I taste it of necessity also, through
that which gives us life in common, which all living beings
have and which I cannot give a name to."* Why do your
mouth and neck move when I swallow? This is without an
object, if you have the sense-and taste of what I take while
your stomach does not receive any thing? "It proceeds from
the fact that I am not dead." I do not understand it. "
Under-
stand me,I pray you. I am still alive, even as to the body.
My soul is still in my body, but attached to it' only slightly, so
that it lies as it were powerless. The soul still exercises a
control over it, the body obeying, because it is present, all its
behests. But this control it exercises only when you will have
it. And so my body does what you will." But I did not will
you to swallow '! "My soul also depends on you through the
body. When you swallow my soul feels an impulse forthwith
to do the same. Henceforth this will happen more frequently,
because I shall come yet more closely in connection with you.
*All
animelsilgreat
and small, derive their ori iu from the spiritual
principle in the timateor natural degree.-D.L. 346.
56 msron! or 'ms casa.
Subsequently it will happen more seldom, and at last cease
entirely." (After some time I put to my nose a bottle of
Cologne water which my brother had handed me. Here the cor-
rectness of the explanation she had given manifested itself com-
pletely-at least as to the result. The scent of this article had
never been pleasant to me, while she, in the waking state, was
very fond of it Nevertheless she said, the moment I ap-
proached the bottle to my nose :)
"
Oh, do not ; it is disagree-
able to me. (A pause.) Lay your hand, if you please, some-
what higher on the pit of my stomach, and endeavor to operate
healingly upon me by your vital power through the hand."
How can I do this, and what suggested this thought to you!
"
My Albert just told me to say it." But how shall I set about
it? "Albert says you have only to will." (I did as she di-
rected me, and immediately her body rose by degrees, so that
it rested only on the top of her head and on her heels. The
motion and posture somewhat startled me, and she all at once
sank back, saying :) Do not be afraid; it is well, very well-
so it must be-you must not indeed make passes, but your
part must be perfonned through the hand. (I had risen from
my seat.) "Ah, now I see you better." Whence is that?
"
Because I see through the stomach ; I see more clearly too,
because you are pressing your hand more firmly. While
you were sitting, I did not see you entirely. I saw your hand,
and your head through your hand. But it is not always so.
My soul is often confined, as it were, by a spell to the pit of
the stomach, and at such times can only look out from this
point as through an aperture. Soon again it sees, (but only for
a moment,) my own and your body entire. It is, as though it
were leaving the body and re-entering it, by tits and starts.*
But my Albert tells me I must now rest. (She lies quietly for
about an hour with her arms crossed, as usual, over her breast-
Atter this she begins to speak again, of her own accord :) Ah,
Albert, how glorious is the sight you show me!" Where are
you with Albert? "In the sun." Are you alone with Albert
there? "
No, there are many beings here whom I do not
*
When I had let my
spirit
into the body I was not seen by you, but
when I had let it out of t e body, I was seen.-T. C. R. 280.
ntsron! or 'rum casa. 57
know. I amlon a diferent part of the sun, from that which_I was
lately permitted to enter. Oh, how delightful this state is to
me; my life receives nourishment, my soul gets food here.
Every thing healthful is assembled here. Yes, in this way I
cannot but recover." What do you find healthful to you in the
sun '!-" Life flows into me here; but Albert says I am to stay
here only s short time with my soul, to prepare me for passing
to the evening-star, which at present is better for me." You
speak very strange things. Your body is on earth; how can
you speak of remedies which your soul fetches for your body in
the sun! "
Why should I not say so, when __it is really the
case? MyfAlbert says, that my soul takes from the vital power
of the sun a portion to itself, and it is still united to the body.
There is nothing inconceivable about this; _however, Albert
says it is so, and you must believe it. In Venus, he says, it is
the same. Only the influence of this planet operates differently
on my life." To this I can say nothing, except that I do not
comprehend it. "
Your doubts are not agreeable to my Al-
bert." I did not say I doubted. "
But such was your thought."
(Here she was right.) When will you be transported into
Venus? "
In fourteen minutes from this time--and till then I
must lie quite still and only talk in silence with my Albert."
(In a quarter of an hour she moved her arms joyfully and said :)
Now I am there." Where! "
In the evening-star. Here,
also, every thing is very fair: but its living force is not so pene-
trating as that of the sun, although the influence of the sun is
milder and softer. Here, however, I am to be; it is better for
my health. (A pause of several minutes.)
"
Where I am
now the heat is not great." Can the soul then feel heat also?
It is not indeed heat, but something at least related
tg it; it is
higher than earthly heat ;* I cannot give it a name, and yet it
comes, my Albert says, from the sun.1' My soul feels it, and
*
The heat of the world does not enter the heavens at all, because it is
too d` natnl nd t "tal.-H. H.l35.
Qu,
an is u s no
spin
u <9
1 mething shall now be sai concerning the heat of heaven. The
beat of heaven in its essence is love. It proceeds from the Lord as a
sun, which sun is the divine love in the Lord and from the Lord.-
H.
LH.
133.
T t love, proceeding from
the3I,:>rd
as a sun, is felt in heaven as heat,
58 ntsroar or 'ras casa.
for us magnetics this temperature is just the fitting one." Are
you alone with Albert there? "
No, Albert has with him be-
sides myself three other female patients who are all magnetic,
but in a. higher degree than myself. They are magnetized
artidcially. They are all of about my age, and will recover as
well as myself7" Who is with them when Albert is not 'I
"
They have their guardian-spirits, like all others, and their
physicians who magnetize them." How comes it that Albert,
who is your guardian-spirit, takes care of their persons also,
who yet have, as you say, their own guardian-spirits 'I "
That
is the ordination of God, and Albert loves greatly this business,
which is now committed to him as his employment in the higher
life. This is his business, until he is permitted to enter into a
higher sphere of activity ; but not exclusively so; he has much
more to do. It is the highest pleasure to him to help, to deliver,
to mitigate pa'in."* This is a calling I would gladly pursue be-
yond the grave. "Be as good as he is, and this happiness may be
your portion. O, even on earth, it is a blessed employment to do
good ; but in the higher world it is recompensed a thousand fold.f
(A longer pause.) If I could only repayyou what you are now
doing for me ! (A pause.) Still I can atleast (laying her hand
upon my still feeble stomach) say how matters stand with your
health,and give you some relief. I see your stomach; the beer you
have drunk agree with you ; only, drink no more than one glass
until I allow you more. You need not fear for your stomach ;
it is better than you think. All will come out right, if you drink
water every day as usual, and are careful to take moderate ex-
ercise." (The last words she spoke so low that I scarcely
heard them.) Why do you speak so low! "
My breast is
___i___
gmasgrghgngzgozsg Tetiangels, from the divine good which is from
_ _ ,_
n e e exteriors which grow warm thence are
ln heat. From this it is, that in heaven heat and love so
correspond to
gc;ghfék
that every one there _is in heat such as the love he is in.-
*
All the delights of heaven are conjoined with, and are in uses, because
uses are the goods of love and charity in which the an els are. Where-
fore every one has delights such as the uses are, and lscewise in such a.
degree as is the affection of use.-H dr H. 402.
To him who is good, all his states of good and |ruth,ss of friendship, of
chanty,snd of umocence, are recalled (in mother life) with their delights
and fehcities immensely increased and multiplied.-A. C. 868.
memos! or nm casa. 59
much afI`ected`by thejourney, and the two attacks of cramp before
the sleep came on. Albert however says I may speak, and that
it will not hurt me. But now I have a mind to rssta little; let
your hand lie as it does now." (After a short time she began
again z)
"
My right side pains me; sit more at ease, and the ten-
sion in your right side will cease." (It was in my mind at the
moment to change my seat, in order to relieve a cramp-like pain
in my right side, occasioned by my uneasy posture.) At this
juncture I was called away, and was so incautious as to turn
suddenly from the patient, and go towards the chamber door.
But I had scarcely left her bed, when she cried out, raised her
hands and her body, inclining them towards me, and exclaimed-
"
Gracious Heaven! What dragging pains in my breast! I be-
seech you, come back-I shall certainly die." (When I retum-
ed, she soon became quiet again, only her breathing continued
some minutes stronger than usual, like that of a person heated
by running. She begged me, whenever thereafter I had occa-
sion to leave her, to tell her beforehand, and to part very slowly,
and with the promise of retuming speedily. Doing so at some
subsequent times, no injurious consequences resulted from an
absence not too much prolonged, even during a crisis.) "
But
now (she said soon after) my Albert will leave me shortly. His
time is past, and I am to return to you again in the usual mode
of life." Have you already left Venus 'I "
No, but Albert will
accompany me back shortly." Are the other three somnam-
bulists still there? "
Only one of them." _Why is this disease
found chiefly with females! "
The peculiarity of their nervous
system is the reason, and the mode of their bodily life in gene-
ral. I cannot answer your question more particularly; Ido not
rightly understand it myselh and my Albert is silent." When
will the next crisis occur? "
On the 19th, at nine in the morn.
ing." Can you not so determine your crises hereafter, that my
professional affairs will not suffer by them! "I cannot ; but
my Albert, who has a considerate regard in every thing, will
know how to manage this point. Ask him, I pray you, about
it." (She looks upward to the right,* as usual when speaking
_.
*
The second sort (of drearu|)comeb n I'
'
'ts ti l I b
those whov:are_in front above tothe right.l.=.%.lI=9?7%in
' PM cu at Y y
A
60 nxsroar or rim cast.
with Albert, without, however, entirely opening her eyes, and
after a short pause, says :)
"
He will care for it; he not con-
cerned. (After an interval of rest.) Now, my soul, prepare to
return to thy body of dust. (She prays.) It is thy will, 0 Father
in Heaven, that it should be purified in this body. O, how
blessed is Thy way with us poor mortals ! and Ialso may havea
share in it. O, guard my will, Father, by Thy grace, that it may
ever be acceptable to Thee ; till me with faith and trust in Thee.
Thou, Lord, knowest alone wherefore I must sufer so severely.
Thou wilt turn it all to Thy honor, and to my salvation. Uphold
in me, when I awake, the good purposes I have now taken;
Alas ! I am so weak, I fall so easily into temptation. Be Thou
with me, and let me experience Thy help every moment. For the
mercy, too, which Thou hast shown me this day, O Father, I thank
Thee. Thou wilt again restore my body-I believe, I know it-
to all its original soundness. My benefactor also, who devotes
himself entirely to me, restore, 1 pray Thee, to health; take him
under Thy protection; be his Guide; he will follow Thee. (A
pause.) Oh, Albert_, you are now to leave us ! 0, you are good;
we are neither of us so good as you-we still have this every-
day body about us; but we also can be as good as you, if we
earnestly endeavor to overcome ourselves, and to be strong in
all good. (After a short pause she is suddenly seized with a
violent treinbling; a panting cough supervenes, lasting for a
minute ; then follows a general quivering of the body, and she
awakes.)
'
The 17th and lem if May.
Although our invalid had announced the next crisis on the
19th of May, she fell unexpectedly, on the 17th at two o'clock in
the afternoon, into a state, not indeed the same with her usual
magnetic sleep, but yet very similar to it. At half-past one she
complained of violent pains in the head, on account of which
eine asked me to lay my hand upon her head. I did so, and in
a few minutes she felt relief, but directly fell into the sleep al-
ready mentioned, in which her breathing was more heavy and
audible than in a natural one, and she snored as often as I
passed my hand on the top of her head. She made no answer
msroar or 'ma casa. 61
when addressed, although her features moved convulsively.
As little could she be awaked by calling and shaking. After
she had lain a full hour in this state, her breathing all at once
became shorter, her face was illuminated, and all its lineaments
wore_ a joyous expression. I sat for a full hour on the sofa she
occupied, reading in a book, without having touched her, exceptv
as already mentioned, for a few moments at a time on the head.
She then began all at once to speak of her own accord :-" Al-
bert is not here." Why not? "
He cannot visit me before the
19th, nor do I require his help before that time." You see me,
however? (CheerfulJy.)
"
Why not! You are sitting there in
all the pride of leaming." (She smiles.) You cannot tell,
though, what I have been reading?
"
There you are much mis-
taken; I cannot indeed read in your book at such a distance,
but yet I know what you have read."* How can that be?
"You have been reading about the insane." (It was so; I
had before me Alexander Crichton's Investigations into the Na-
ture and Origin of Madness.) But turn your attention to me
for a while, and lay your left hand on my stomach! (As I did
so, she said :) Inow see yet more distinctly into your soul; I
see now also where Albert is. Ah, he cannot come, but still
he can see me. (A pause.) Lay your hand higher up, if you
please, on the pit of my stomach. So! but-(slowly)-but-but"
--What is it? what ails you? "You are somewhat weaken-
ed because Albert is not here. I will ask him to.remedy this
diiiiculty. (Immediately her whole body begins to move convul-
sively; she turns pale, and lies fora minute motionless. Hereupon
her color and oheerfulness return, and she says :) Albert is very
good; he has given help at once; but it is not in his power to
come." How has he given help?
"
He has directed upon you
a stream of light proceeding from his most interior self. New
I am quite easy; you will feel no diminution of strength." (It
was so, even after the crisis. She spoke no more now for a
half hour, but lay still, and moved her lips only at times, as if
she was speaking with some one. During this time I continued
*
Immediately, on their coming, theyexplored my memory in search of
all that I knew : spirits can do this most dexterously; for when
th?
come
to man, they see in his memory all things contained therein.-E. . ll.
A
62 rnsronr or Tn! casa.
to read on in Crichton, and gave her none of my attention, al-
though my hand still lay on the pit of her stomach. At length
she appeared to get impatient at this, saying quickly :)
"
Leave
those mad people to themselves and talk with me."-(I asked
her :) Will not the state into which you have fallen so unex-
pectedly to-day hurt you 'I "
0 no, do not be apprehensive about
that, attacks of this kind will often occur hereafter. I have
been much put back by the interruption in the last few weeks 1
Whatl have lost must now first of all be made good, and states
of this kind contribute much to it. I am not yet so well as
when Ibegan in Schnaith. I must, to recover this loss, have
some more attacks still." Will you then speak somewhat more
distinctly and be more cheerful than hitherto! "
Certainly I
shall." Will you also see clearer and farther? "
Yes, :ny re-
covery will pursue a regular course ; towards the end, the at-
tacks will be shorter, more seldom, more like the waking state.
This will be a token that my restoration is at hand."
Is the sleep in which you now are imperfectly magnetic!
"
It is now perfect, but it was not so in the first hour; nor can I
now see so far or in general detach myself so much from the
body, as when Albert gives me strength for the purpose." I
had supposed that this detaching was not a proof of higher pow-
er, but of weakness. "That is true; and Albert prevents, by
his presence, the complete separation of my soul from the body;
but you can act more energetically upon me through Albert,
and by your means that separation is promoted which is so bene-
ficial to me. Then, too, Isee every thing more clearly. To-
morrow at seven o'clock I shall fall into a similar sleep, which,
however, will not last long; and in it I shall have no external
bodily feeling: at times the usual consciousness will return for
a few moments. Be near me then, when a cramp, of which I
will apprise you, seizes my stomach, and lay your hand upon
me. (A pause of. several minutes. Suddenly she raises her
whole body, stretches her arms towards me, and says rapidly z)
Ifmust tell you something. (At the same moment, however, she
exclaims :) 0 Albert, I will certainly not tell it." (She trem-
bles violently.) What has afected you so much! "
This hap-
pens when Albert is not here. I am then often tempted to
speak unadvisedly. But thank God! he always sees me and
"'t
HISTORY DF THB BASE. 63
knows what I am doing. Just now he turned to me quickly, as
if angry, when I would have told you that, and I saw in him
that it would not have been good to tell you of it." Is Albert
still there! "
No, I saw him but for a moment." Why would
not that communication have been good for me? "
Believe that
it was for your good; you will know it in a few days and then
perceive how well it has all been. But nowtalk ofsomething else:
or ratherl have somewhat to speak about, myself. You have made
a new division of your scholars into classes ; it is a very good one ;
but the people do not yet understand it ; and for that reason they
are somewhat dissatisfied ; but do not be uneasy-that will pass.
It will be the same with that way of noticing the faults of the
school which you have established, if you proceed cautiously
and, especially at iirst, with indulgence. People do not yet
rightly comprehend the nature of your plans with them. Indi-
vidual malcoptente treat gently and softly, and even they will
be appeased after a time. (A pause.) l shall now awake
shortly and feel stronger. When I am awake, remind me that
I must take a walk every morning, of an hour, or an hour and a
half. I must first drink two glasses of water; the water of
this place 'agrees with me, but still I must not leave the house
before half past five in the morning." Tell me before you
wake, whether your soul is now separated from your body~and
in some distant place 'l "
No, my soul is with my body, although
not entirely united with it. It is always balancing unsteadily;
at one time it leaves the body partially, at another returns. It
is like a wave. Every impression which I receive through you,
be it ever so
trifling, makes a change here. A thought, a wish
that arises in your mind and atfects you but the least, elevates
rnysoul or depresses it." What should be the state of my
mind in order to elevate your soul 1-" Cheerful and free from
care ; that, however is what you are at present. But it is now
time for me to return ; to-morrow evening at seven o'clock, a half
sleep; the day after, at two in the afternoon, my Albert comes
again. Now-now-see-I awake. (All at once she trembled
slightly and awoke.)
The 18th qf May, 7 P. M.
From six o'clock, sudden startings, pains in the stomach,
il L
64 rusroav or 'ras casa.
qualms, and cramp in the bowels began to alternate with one
another. At a quarter before seven, R. saw nothing with her
left eye, though awake and fully conscious. The pupil, com-
pared with that of the right eye, was unduly dilated ; the left
eye also was turned upwards, while the other kept its natural
direction. This lasted seven minutes, whereupon violent
spasms came on, which continued till seven o'clock. Her
breathing, which a little before had been so oppressed, became
all at ence
scarcely audible, and seemed at length quite sus-
pended. The pulse was extremely slender and weak, yet not
quicker than usual ; her limbs lay as if palsied, and her features
had the paleness of death. This state frightened me, because
it continued more than a quarter of an hour. I breathed
steadily for a minute on the pit of the stomach, whereupon,
after a deep sigh, she gave signs of magnetic consciousness,
and made several ineffectual attempts to speak. By degrees
she began to move her arms, and the first thing she did with her
hands, was to point to her mouth. Upon examination, I found
that the jaws were closed convulsively. Breathing on the
mouth did no good; but R. seized my two thumbs and laid the
ends of them upon the joints of the jaw, which immediately
restored its motion. Meantime the tongue also was paralyzed,
and after making various signs with her hands, which I could
not understand, she at length took my hand and laid it on her
stomach. 'After some time she laid her hand upon my breast,
and gave tokens of thought and reflection in her features.
Suddenly she half opened hereyes, turned her head towards
me, looked at me fixedly in such a way as to startle and thrill
me, and drew her hand quickly back. It seemed as if appre-
hension was delineated in her face. The whole scene im-
parted to me a kind of horror, which was increased by observing
her inefectual attempts to speak with me. These emotions of
mine she also felt immediately, in consequence of which she
began to tremble, and broke out into tears. As soon as I com-
posed myseli, she too became more quiet. Subsequently she
laid ber band upon my forehead, the meaning of which I could
not learn. She also made, from time to time, various singular,
and apparently unmeaning motions and turnings with the arms.
To ascertain, therefore, whether she was conscious of her
.I h.
nwroav or 'nn casa. 65
actions, I asked her whether she could see into my body. She
nodded assent. How are things in my stomach 'I In reply to
this question, she laid her hand upon my stomach, and shrugged
her shoulders, smiling. Why did you lay your hand on my
breast? To this no token of a reply was given. ln the last
ten minutes before eight, she made visible eforts again to
speak, but without success. About eight she awoke after a
slight trembling of the arms and legs, and for some time after
waking could not speak distinctly, but only in a. broken and
stammering way. This' ditliculty disappeared only after I had
touched her tongue for about a minute with my fore-finger.
1911. qzway, 2 to 5, P. M.
The cramps which ushered in the crisis of this day were in-
considerable and short, but the qualms preceding them lasted
longer than usual. A few minutes after two, R. was already
magnetically awake, and forthwith inclined to speak. "To-
day, she began, your influence on me is very strong." Whence
does this arise! "A bodily change has taken place. At the
present period, even when I seem to be awake, I am not quite
so, like other persons. I shall see every thing which you wish
to know very plainly." Is Albert here? "Yes indeed, he
means to take me with him to the sun, which he says will be
of great service to me at this juncture. (A pause.) Now Albert
is rising with me. To-day he is very fair.* (To me particularly,)
lay your hand alittle more firmly on the pit of my stomach. (A
pause.) This timel miss the garland# which I have always
hitherto seen on my Albert's head. Instead of this he has to-day
a wand, on which stand the words: "For thee also redemp-
tion !"1 Do you see these words written on his wand? "
Not
written, they are only on it." In German characters? "O
*
The angels are not constantly in the same state as to love, and thence
'th
'
th to isd
ner er in e same as w om.
With the state of the interiors which are ofthe love and wisdom ofthe
angels, are changed also the states of various things which are without
them and appear before their eyes.-H cy H. 155 and 156.
1* Some then, who have been of an infantile mind and a simple faith,
apiearé
to
23;-gmselves
in white and shining garments; some with crowns.
t The Lord thus redeemed not only men, but also angeh.-11 C. R. 121.
A
l
66 _
lrsroar or ras casa.
no, in heavenly signs* which bear no resemblance to our let-
ters."1' And yet these signs, if they are such, have, I suppose,
a certain form? Yes, truly, but here it is only a single sign
which has the signiiication I have given.1 At present I can
say nothing more particular on this point ; perhaps I can explain
it hereafter. It would also cost me too great a bodily effort,
should I attempt an explanation, notwithstanding I receive pe-
culiar strength in the sun. (A pause.) In general these matters
cannot properly be explained, because those who are not in my
state, have no idea of what is going on, where I am: I cannot
myself express it."§ But what are those words designed to
express to you 'l "
What they express to you and to every
Christian." But why are they suggested to you just at this
time '!-" For the reason that they are not enough in my mind
in the waking state, that is, because other things often appear
to me more important, and I think with too little seriousness of
my Redeemer. (A pause.) Ab, if my present perceptions and
feelings could pass over with me into the waking state, how
happy a circumstance it would be! My soul would take there-
by a heaven-ward direction. But still an impression of what I
now see and feel will remain with me when I wake, and do
me good. (After a silence, during which she had prayed with
folded hands, she speaks aloud :)
Thanks to Thee,gracious Lord, for Thy Word 's inspir'd Light.
Grant _me to hear it ever, with affections deep and right.
0 punfy my heart from all its vanities,
And let thy Word shed light upon my path always.
*
They have the Word thus written in the inferior heavens and in the
inmost heaven, by
heavenlg
forms.-H. ti H. 261.
1' Because the angels ave speech, and their speech is a. speech of
words, therefore they have also writings, and b writings they express
the sentiments of their mind as well as by speech.
The writing in the inmost heaven consists of various inflected and
circumi-leeted fomis.
But in the inferior heavens there are not such writings, the writings in
these heavens are similar to writings in the world in similar letters but
still not intelligible to man, because they are in angelic language.-III. 4'
H. 258, 260, 261.
I This writing also involves in a few words more than a man can
describe by several pages.-H. ty Ii 261.
§ These differences being of such a nature cannot be expressed or
described by natural
language,
for the thoughts of angels being spiritual
do not fall into natural i eas; they can only be expressed and described
by the angels liemselves, in their own language, words and writings, and
not by human ones.-D. L. W. 202.
BIBTOIY or rn cus. 67
Whence do you know these verses! She makes no an-
swer-but soon proceeds :)
The word reveals the cross and that heals ev'ry wound;
The cross beforehas made peace in my heart abound ;
Make it then more dear to me and dearer ev'ry day;
Who clings to that is safe, come here or there what may.
Whence do you know these verses '! "
That I cannot say. I
only know them." Have you read them any where before this!
"I cannot remember doing so." How then did you come by this
poetry?
"
I saw the verses here." Where 'B "
Here in the
sun. I was permitted to pray with Albert in a temple ;* I saw
them in bright characters as I looked upwards, not inscribed on
any thing but as it were floating at large.~|- But there are only
three characters which I saw having the meaning I stated. (A
pause.) 0, my deepest soul is penetrated by Thy grace. O
God, give me the humility I stand so much in need of. (She
turnp in a friendly and serious manner to me :) And you also,
who are showing me so much kindness, endeavor after increas-
ing humility before God. You are nothing, altogether nothing,
without Him. Acknowledge this more and more deeply, and
then I-Ie will take pleasure in you. His help will never be
wanting to us, if we call upon Him for support in this endeavor.
Especially, never forget to thank Him for your bodily deliver-
ance. He has rescued you from death ; forget it never. I pray
for you, as do others also ; for me this is a holy duty of grati-
tude ; for you it is doubly a duty. You do it, I know; but do
not grow weary. (After a pause.) You are moved; I see deep
into your soul; the splendor that surrounds you has become
clearer. (A silent interval of some length, during which she
raises her hands clasped together and weeps. After some time
she says more calmly :) I would like you to speak with me."
May I put a question to you '! "
Ask without hesitation." You
laid your hand, yesterday evening, on my breast; why did
*
At the dawn of day, they heard a proclamation, to-day is the Sab-
bath; and they arose and asked the Angel what that was for. He an-
swered, "That it was for the worship of God, which retums at stated
times, and is proclaimed by the priests. lt is performed in our temples,
and lasts about two hours. '-'ll C. R. 750.
`
1* There are also given in the heavens writings without the aid of the
hand, from mere correspondence of the thoughts ; but these are not per-
manent.-H. dr H. 262.
'
.I
¢
68 msroav or 'rm-: casa.
you do so? "I saw its interior state." Why did you draw it
back! "
That I may not tell you just now; such is my Albert's
will ; you will however soon learn what at present Iam obliged
to suppress. I will rather tell you something else, which you
would like to know." And what may that be! "I mean the
health of the members of your family." Your wife suffers from
a pain in the abdomen which makes her uneasy. I see that it
arises from a trifling cause. She has strained herself a little
along the ribs of the right side. Rest and warmth will bring
every thing right. Your sister M., complains of pain in the
stomach ; but there is not much that can be done to help her.
The outward bustle of the house is too great for her, and her
spirit does not find a congenial employment in her present
sphere. Until this changes she cannot get better. Let her eat
calamus and pomegranate shells, they will at least afford her
some alleviation. Your mother suffers with pain in the head, in
consequence of old age. A mind always active increases the
diiiiculty; the state of her hearing is also connected with this.
Little can be done in this case. Tell her to bathe her temples
daily with Cologne water. (Breaking oil' suddenly, she ex-
claimed, anxious and trembling :) For God's sake! Ah, Al-
bert, help, rescue ! My Emily will fall out into the street: oh,
hasten and save her! (A short and anxious pause.) Thank
God! Help has already coma. Thou faithful guide and friend,
even before I knew the danger and could ask, you had pre-
pared aid." What has so startled you? Alas, alas, my little
sister in U." (She tremhles violently all over.) What has
happened to her? She was in the upper story of the house,
while they were raising wood up by a windlass from the
street. Slie tried to seize the rope by which the weight was
swinging, and the vibration would have drawn her out, as there
is no balustrade above, if her father had not seized her at the
moment and drawn her in. (A long pause lasting more than an
hour, during which she lay quite motionless like one exhaust-
ed ; after which she raises her arms and says :) Thou faithful
God and Father, how do I thank Thee that Thou hast saved my
sister from` death! Yes, she also shall thank Thee, and ac-
knowledge Thy mercy. (Turning to me :) She was very
much terrified, and my father not less so. They are now both
msronr or ran caan. 69
in the chamber, speaking of this wonderful deliverance. My
brother Fritz is there too. (A pause.) But to me also, God
has opened the ways of His love : by your means I shall now
be restored to health. All the medicines I have taken have
done me harm. Had I continued them, the result would have
been bad. Ah, and I should have given up dancing too, al-
though my physician allowed it. My chest has suferedg I
must take great care to avoid inflammation in it. But now, A1-
bert says, I must rest for some time, at least must not speak.
(After a half hour she moves and turns to me :)
"
You are
silent, talk with me." Well then, tell me how it was possible
for you to be with Albert in the sun, to be speaking with us at
the same time, and just now to look at your sister? , "That
seems to you strange; but it is not so. It was all by the con-
trivance of my Albert. Without him I should not have seen
my sister. He knew and foresaw the threatening disaster, and
prevented it-in what way, I cannot see in him. This, how-
ever, I did see in him, that he had Emily in his eye, and
thus I was compelled to see her also; he chose to have it so,
and I could not prevent it. But this took place with a rapidity
you cannot imagine. AIbert's movement towards my sister
drew me suddenly thither, while 1 was yet speaking with you.
But I can easily talk with you while I am with Albert in the
sun.* My soul too, is swift as thought. And reflect that Al-
bert, though with me in the sun, can yet operate on my body
with you, if he pleases-and it does please him so often as he
visits me." (A pause.) What is the state of things in that
part of the sun where you are now! "In the region of the
sun where I now am, the temperature is perfectly adapted to my
state. There are high mountains there, covered with plants
which cannot in any wise be comprehended among us.1 Their
shape is wondrously contrived, and they draw their life more
from above and from without, than from the sun. lt is a
l. .
*
I told them (the angels,) that with the
body,
I was in the natural world,
but with the spirit in your spiritual world.- . C. R. 675.
TI have been in gardens; I have there looked at trees, fruits, Bowers,
and pulse; I have observed the correspondences in heaven, and have
spoken with those with whom they were and have been instructed
whence they were and what they were.-H: 4 H. 109.
1 L
'10 HISTORY OF THE CLIE.
wonderful thing; if you could only see it, you would he as-
tonished and worship. No man understands these glorious
things. (She prays.) Great and glorious are Thy works,
Thou unsearchable God! Who can comprehend what Thou
doest! Who trace Thee in Thy ways! 0 keep us weak
creatures in Thy mercy, and ever give us increasing light to
acknowledge and thankfully to adore Thy wisdom and Thy
goodness."* (A pause of some length. Suddenly she begins
to tremble and weep.) What has happened to you 'I-Albert
has brought me_ back to the earth; ah, and there I saw just
now, by his will, a man in Augsburg, whose guardian he should
have been. But he behaved so roughly and so impiously, that
Albert was obliged to turn from him.f Ah, he is now sad,1 very
sad, and that makes me so sorry." (She is taken with cramps,
considerably more violent and long, than those which preceded
the attack, yet resembling those already frequently described.
In eight minutes she wakes up cheerful and strong.) Itis further
to be observed that' she fixed the next magnetic sleep on the
20th of May, at six o'clock in the evening.
The wonderful rescue of her sister Emily occurring in the
crisis just narrated, was fully confirmed afterwards. The
following were the circumstances. We did not fail, after the
crisis of the 20th, immediately to make inquiries in A. if any
thing unusual had taken place with R..'s sister on the day men-
tioned. We soon received the following, to us very surprising,
account. "On the afternoon of the 19th, some time after four,
some persons were employed on the upper door of the house,
in raising stu§` from the street by means of a windlass. The
little Emily had a mind to have a hand in the work, and in-
cautiously laid hold of the rope by which the weight was hang-
*In consequence of the divine essence itself being Love and Wisdom,
all things in the universe, have relation to good and truth.-D. L. W. 31.
1* Angels when they are with men, as it were, dwell in their etfections,
and are near a. man, so far as he is in
good
from truths, but are more
remote in proportion as his life isdistsnt rom good.--H.
þÿ ¬H.
391.
tWhsn the angels are in the last state, which is w en they are in
their proprium, they begin to become sad: Ihave spoken with them
when they were in that state; and have seen the sadness : but they said,
that they were in the ~hope soon_to retum to the pristine state, and thus
ea it were again into heaven; for it is heaven to them to be withhold
from proprium.-H. if H. 160.
msroa! or THE casa. '11
ing, without con idering that the opening at which she stood
had no balustrade. As it, together with its load was in con-
tinual vibration, and the child of course had not strength to
control its momentum, she was on the point of being carried
out by it. She had already lost her balance and uttered only
one cry. At this moment her father, who had come behind
her, seized her by the clothes and drew her in. Terror so
overpowered the child, that she lost all consciousness, and they
were obliged to carry her down in a swoon into the sitting-
room, where, however, she soon recovered her senses." To
these accounts the following very remarkable fact was added.
So early as half past three, her father, who was writing in the
chancery at some distance from his residence, felt a restless-
ness he could not account for, which increased at last into an
impulse, equally inexplicable, to go home. For a long time he
resisted it, as his business was not yet finished and he was com-
pelled to sayto himself that he had nothing to do there; but at last,
the attraction homeward had become so imperative, that, to relieve
the feeling, he seized his papers with the intention of finishing
them at home. When he reached the house he directed his
steps forthwith to the upper floor, without depositing the papers,
which formed a considerable bundle, in the sitting-room, close
by the door of which he had to pass, and came just in time to
save his child from the certain death of a fall from the gable
of the house into the street. A moment later, and help would
have been impossible.
Thus far the facts of the case. The explanation I have en-
deavored to give in the chapter on Presentiments.
9, P. M.
About this time I received notice quite unexpectedly, as I was
already in my chamber, that R. had been seized with cramps
and was lying insensible. I hastened to her, and found her in
the magnetic sleep. Scarcely had she recognized me when she
said : "Sit down if you please, directly by my bed, so that I can
reach your stomach with my left hand. Albert has seen that
you have brought on a fit of indigestion by eating butter. Be-
sides which, a portion of my cramps in the stomach passed over
to you this morning, while laying your hand upon me in Albert's
/'
V
A 5
'12 HISTORY or 'rn case.
absence. Your stomach is thus doubly atfected. For this rea-
son Albert called me into this state, in order to restore to you
through me what you had lost and to remove your indisposition.
(Cheerfully.) At this momeutl see into your stomach. It is
mhch better; see, how it turns ! It rejoices me that I can be
your physician this time, as you generally are mine." It was
really as she said. About five o'clock I had taken some butter
with bread not sufficiently baked, which caused me oppression
of the stomach, gaping and drowsiness. Just before I got word
of R.'s attack, I had frequent eructation and apprehended a sleep~
less night. I now sat down, as my unexpected physician desir-
ed me, by the bed ; whereupon, holding her right arm up in the air
with three lingers extended, she laid the palm of her hand on
my stomach, so to convey vital force from Albert through her
right hand, breast, and left arm into my stomach. In a few
minutes I really experienced a surprising heat in the abdomen,
and shortly also in the right foot down to the toes, and at length
a sense of comfort that I had not experienced the whole day in
an equal degree. All indisposition was gone at the end of eight
minutes, whereupon I fetched a deep breath and said: Now I
feel quite well again.
"
Not entirely yet, she replied. You
have need of me yet for some minutes. (Shortly after this, I
felt a painful cramp in the upper part of the left arm extending
towards the ear. She laid her hand on this part also and the
pain ceased in two minutes. She now dashed ber hand this
way and that, and then said :) That was the cramp derived
from you ; you now feel quite comfortably ; you will sleep well.
Were this not the case, your treatment of me to-morrow would
have proved inconvenient to you. It is all right. But now leave
me to myself." I should like yet to ask you a question.
"
To-
day I cannot and dare not answer any more. (At these words
she trembled violently, and the sleep which had lasted some-
what less than half an hour was terminated. Astonished she
now asked :) How did you get here? What would you have 1
Have I already slept '!"
'
May 20th, 6 to 9, P. M.
After passing through the preparatory cramps and agitations
of the body quite similar to the earlier ones, R. lay with a
msronr or :rua casa. '13
smiling countenance for more than a half an hour, held fast my
hand, which I had placed after the cramps on her stomach, and
moved her lips only at intervals. At length she said distinctly,
changing the cast of her face to a
bantering but still kindly ex-
pression :-" To day you have heaps of questions to put; re-
lieve yourself of the burden, which I begin already to feel
myself." By all means I must ask you something touching
your own and my relations to Albert. "
Your doubts are end-
less ; but go on with your questions." How did it happen that
the pain in your stomach was transferred from you, as you say
yourself, to me, when yet Albert promised, some time since, that
the relation into which I had come with you should not be in-
jurious to me? "
My Albert spoke truly; where is the mischief
which has befallen you! You do not mean to complain of the
weariness you experience in laying on your hand, as of an in-
jury that has come upon you '!" Do not be angry, I only sought
for information. "
I know it, and will therefore tell you what I
see in my Albert." Is he here 'l "
Yes, since I was awake.
Listen then. (What follows she spoke not only, as usual, slowly
and somewhat low, but also at various intervals which I have
not always indicated.) My Albert has indeed promised,
that the magnetic relation into which you have come with
me shall not be of any hurt to you. This does not mean,
however, that you are to be free from all, even the transient
inconveniences connected necessarily therewith. My body
and yours, when I am in the magnetic sleep, are as it were
only one ; your soul and mine are, so to speak, united to-
gether by a closely drawn tie. My body shares every, even the
slightest, pain of yours, and I am obliged to sympathize with
every one of your moods and tendencies. You would share my
bodily affections more frequently than you do, if Albert did not
always impart new vitality through you. This direction of the
stream from you to me, which is also, though not uniformly, pro-
moted by your will, makes the communication of my bodily ail-
ments to you more diflicult, but still not impossible. If Albert is
not here, it may happen in the waking state, that you get a
small part of my indisposition ; it has already been the case ; but
it can never last very long, or hurt you permanently. Without
Albert's help your vital efflux is always weaker; without him,
4
A
74 HIITORI Ol' THE CASE
you could give me relief, in my present state, only at your own
expense." (Suddenly R.. starts violently; there are tokens of
pain visible in her countenance, and her left hand moves hither
and thither as if she feels pain in it.) What ails you!
"
I am
with Albert in the sun; there are besides two females with him
who are also magnetized; I have spoken of them before. My
Albert just now broke oil' the stem of a flower he had plucked,
by which the bud was hanging, with the words: "
As I cast
away this bud, so shall your disease be taken away. You have
suffered enough; be now sound." These words he directed to
one of the two magnetics, who is now entirely restored; but at
the same time he so threw the bud that it fell from the head of
the magnetic on my hand. This was the cause of the pain; I
received in this way a part of her essence, and it will be of
benefit to me; so Albert says." The fantasies you are telling us
are altogether too strange. How can it be thought possible,
that by means of a flower-bud falling on you in the sun, your
body in Schwaikheim should be affected with pain! These are
matters I cannot believe. "
Judge not too precipitately, dear
friend; the matter is quite simple and plain. You callin ques-
tion the possibility of my feeling the pain through the body;
this you should not do. Reflect that my soul, now in the sun,
can be as easily affected there, as by you. There, indeed, the
impression is yet stronger and much more powerful.* More-
over, my soul is surrounded and pervaded by the vital fluid
through which it feels and gives feeling to the body. This is
all coherent. Believe me, the impression ou the soul was much
stronger than on the body; the former felt it like an electric
shock. Your vital etllux also has accompanied me to the sun.
The Rower produced an impression on the substance of my soul,
the nature of which I can neither understand nor communicate ;
"
To the above I shall add this memorable relation. I was once seized
suddenly with a. disease that seemed to threaten my life. I suffered ex-
cruclattng pain all over
mg' head; a pestilential smoke ascended from that
Jerusalem which is calle Sodom and Egypt; half dead with the severity
of my sufferings, I expected every moment would be my last. Thus I lay
in my bed three
days and a half; my irit was reduced to this state, and
in consequence ofn, my body.-A. þÿR:' ¬3l.
HISTORY 0| TRI OAIE. '15
I never had a feeling like it. It was not fall, nor pressure, nor
shock: I can give it no name; but the reaction on my body
was perceptible to my sensations,exactly as when the soul feels
through the body a sudden blow by which it is greatly startled.
This mutual action is much more sensible in a state like my
present one. But now Albert wishes me to rest for fourteen
minutes. (After this time had passed, during which there were
frequent contortions of the muscles of the face, particularly of
the lips, she said :)
"
You wish to ask more questions, do you
not 3" Yes: how comes it that Albert yesterday chose you for
the medium of communicating his power to me, notwithstanding
you maintained before, that Albert could not and might not ope.
rate upon you immediately without injury? "
You forget that
before Albert operates on me I always enter into communion
with your powers both of body and soul. This takes place
most intimately, when the cramps before the magnetic waking
state are passed, and you lay your hand on me. If Albert now
desires to operate on me or yourself, it is not done immediately,
since his celestial power is blended with our mutual vitality.
It is then entirely at his option, what direction his healing life-
stream takes within the magnetic circle, whether through you
into me, or 'vice versa, or whether into you alone without pas.
sing through my body. In the last case, however, his operation
on you is not immediate, but tempered, and, so to speak, hu-
manized by my life-stream and your own, which have blended
together. Now, last night, when I was so happy as to be your
physician, Albert so ordered it that a vital ray, proceeding from
his interior and received by our life in common should pass into
my body; and from it, working healingly by this transition,
stream over into you. In this way, he says, it was good to af-
fect you, and the result has proved it. 0 doubt no more, I be-
seech you ; my Albert always knows better than we what and
how all is to be ordered. Now I am to rest again, my Albert
says, and then to look into my body. (She lies still for half an
hour; at length she speaks again :) My lungs look badly; there
are some spots on the right lobe, which will yet give me trouble.
Still no incurable afection of the breast will arise from tbem~
I shall not, when waking, take suicient care of myself, although
'76 HISTORY or 'ral casa.
you and others will warn me, and I shall have to suffer for it.*
At present I see also into your stomach ; things are well there
-better than in my lungs. You may cherish a well grounded
expectation to see the last trace of that ailection gradually dis-
appearing, if you are particularly careful in regard to your diet,
and do not grow indiH'erenL" (She now speaks quite low to
herself; it was plain, however, from her looks that she was
employed in questions and answers, for which reasonl ask, after
some time :) Are you speaking with Albert? "
Yes." What
is the subject of your conversation? "
Of that you are to know
nothing; such is my Alhert's will. If I should undertake to
tell you, my tongue would immediately be paralyzed again ; so,
speak no more of it; something else rather; you have yet an-
other question on your lips 3" Yes ; but can you also tell what
I would ask you about? (She thinks for some time, pressing
my hand meanwhile more closely to the pit of her stomach,
and then says, somewhat out of humor :) "
It is the old thing
over again ; I can give you no explanations besides
those you have already had." You are mi taken. The
question I wished to ask I have never yet put to you. (She
presses my hand again and more closely to the pit of her
stomach, and seems for several minutes to be reflecting silently ;
at length she says in a pleasant manner :)
"
Yes, you are right ;
it was not what I supposed. It is your wish, is it not, to learn
from Albert something relating to me and yourself!" It is;
try now whether you can find out what it is from Albert's looks,
or in me. (R. is silent for some time; soon she begins to tremble,
becomes pale and stiil] and her breath seems to be entirely gone.
When I perceived these appearances, which, as I had called
them forth, caused me to feel uneasy, I rose and breathed
several times on her stomach, whereupon, after a deep sigh, her
consciousness returned. Scarcely had she again taken my
hand, when she said :) Yes, it is something quite other than
Albert's personality and the influx of light from him into me
which you desire to know." What is it then! "
You wish to
-
*
Au inllammation of the lungs, with which R. was attacked some
months after her recovery, and which brought her to the brink of the
grave, gives significance to this expression.-Nota by the Author.
HISTORY OF THB CASE.
know about the operations of my soul, when your and Albert's
influence are brought to bear upon me." Exactly, it is the very
thing I wished to know ; you astonish me. (She smiles.) "
When
I shall have answered your question, it will no longer appear to
you so extraordinary that I could know it." But tell me first
of all, why you had so violent an attack just now. "I had a
mind to see in my Albert what you wished to ask about; but I
saw nothing, as he was peremptory that I should read it in your
soul.* This cost me a considerable effort on account of the
waving of your_life-stream, which appeared at one time clearer,
at another more obscure ; your will, also, was not always direc-
ted to it with equal intensity. Thence came the struggle ; I
was not unconscious; I was much more clairvoyant than now,
since my body lay as if dead. But I must give an answer to
your question. My Albert tells me thus. As soon as the
cramps begin, my spirit and my soul are loosened from the
body. The more noble of the two, the spirit, leaves first, the
soul follows it. The influx of yourself and Albert helps with
the cramps to bring about this severance. These would ope-
rate destructively on my body, if you and Albert did not control
their energy. But my soul continues, however, still with the
body. You are not, nevertheless, to think of the soul as being
bound to one place, as a person is bound. As soon as it leaves
its body, it is not with the body like a person, and yet it is with
it; it is both near and far from it. It has now a wide fieldof
vision, and is there principally where it works, perceives, or
feels.~|-, These, however, are only different names for one and
the same employment. It continues all the while in connec-
tion with the body; even when apparently dead, it still lives
in it; were it separated entirely, actual death would be the
*
For when spirits come to man, they enter into all his memory, and
excite thence whatever suits themselves ; yea, what I have often observed,
they read the things contained therein as out of a book.-E. U. 13. 4
1' Since by the spirit of man is meant his mind, therefore by being in the
spirit which is sometimes said in the Word, is meant a state of the mind
separate from the body; and became in that state, the prophets saw such
things as exist in the spiritual world, therefore that is called the vision of
God. Their state then was such as that of
spirits themselves is, and
angels
in that worlds In that state, the
spirit
o man, like his rnmd_as to
sig t,
miryése
from place to p we, the body rerneimng in its
oum.- _ . . .
78 KIITORY 0! TH! CASE.
consequence." Is every magnetic crisis, then, a kind of death!
"
Yes, it is just so; we might call each magnetic sleep the
commencement of death." What part is performed in all this
by the nerves of your brain '!-" For the most part none what-
ever, although vital power still streams into them from my
soul; this takes place in so low a degree that they are of neces-
sity thrown out of activity. So it is often with all parts of my
body; and then my soul is farther separated and more free from
the body; for the most part, however, it still stands in need of
the body in order for perception. It sounds no doubt oddly,
when I say: Isee through the stomach or the forehead; but
my soul, notwithstanding, sees quite otherwise than it can
through the eye, hears otherwise, feels and observes all more
perfectly than before.* How it is I cannot explain; I do not
know myself, as Albert is silent on the subject; and if I did
understand it, I should want words to explain, and you could
not comprehend it. Thus much only I can say, that I seem
often to behold every thing at once, but this only for a moment;
then I often see nothing, and again some particular object. If
I could always see so perfectly, I should be dead. So long as
I can speak with you, I perceive for the most part what you
say, and your thoughts, which I read, are a guide to me. If I
speak with Albert alone, the power of his soul exercises a
strong attraction and force upon me; hence I often rise a great
distance with him, because he is so pure, so good, so holy, and
withal so
strong."~|' But how is the spirit united with the soul!
And what is the difference between the two? "The spirit
*For man when he enters the spiritual world or the life after death, is
'
bod
'
th ld
in a
nylasm
e wor .
_
But s
`
the difference between the life of man in the spiritual world,
and his life in the natural world, is great, as well with respect to the
extemal senses and their afections, as with respect to the intemal senses
and their affections. Those who are in heaven perceive bythe senses,
that is, they see and hear, much more exquisitely, and also think more
wisely, than when they were in the world: for they see from the light of
heaven, which exceeds by
many degrees the light of the world- they
bear also by a spiritual
atmoép
ere which likewise by many degrees
surpasses that of the earth.-» .
¢
'I' Such were the ancient times; wherefore angels could then converse
with men, and
convey
their minds, almost separate from things corporeal
into heaven.-E. U. 9.
msronr or rua casa. 79
can receive into itself the Highest# the soul can only think and
feel it." I do not understand. "
The Divine can be essentially
in the spirit, and the soul forms itself after the spirit. The soul
has something corporeal about it,1- the spirit has not; it is
united with the body only through the soul. And yet soul and
spirit are only one,1 not divided ; they are blended, melted
together. Only the spirit is the abiding, the soul is changeable,
shaping itself after the spirit. But I am now exhausted, and
must rest. Albert orders it too. (She now lies quietly till a
a quarter before nine, when she went on as follows :) I shall
now wake up. Albert leaves me. My next sleep will occur
the day after to-morrow, at six in the evening. To-morrow I
shall be attacked with great qualms, but it will not come to a
sleep. The day after, C. and M., your wife and mother, can be
present, if they wish it, during the greater part of the sleep;
I shall be able, now, to bear them better when both together.
(At this moment my child, a boy of four years and a halL raises
a cry at the door, opens it and leads in with great joy and pride
a wooden horse. R. observes him as soon as he gets into the
chamber, and says :) 0, bring the little fellow to me; his
presence produces a very good effect on me; he is so childlike,
so affectionate, so good! When he grows up, my Albert says
he will guard him.§ In those years when more heavy tempta-
tions beset him, he will take him into his special care. He is a
very good child. Albert takes great delight in him; you too
'
Every_ angel, as well as every man, has an inmost or
supreme degree,
or a certain mmost or supreme state, into which the Lord's Divine Essence
is first of all or proximately inliuent, and from which He arranges the
other interior
state*
which they have in succession according to the
degrees of order. his inmost or supreme state may be called the Iord's
ggtréanfgeég
an angel, and to man, and His veriest habitation with them.-
+'I'hence it follows that the human mind is organized inwardly,of
spiritual substances, and outwardly, of natural substances, and lastly, of
material substances.-T. C. R. 38. _ _
tit is a tenet of angelic wisdom that the mind of a man u a
Fltll,
because God is man, and that the body (i. e. the spiritual body) lsthe
sxtemal of the mind, that feels and acts, and that thus they are one and
not two.-D. L. W. 369.
§ And as they (infants,) grow up and come to the exercise of their own
right and their own reason, the guardian angels leave them, and
thegiasso-
tgztléehnselvu
such spirits as make one with their life and th.-
80_ msroa! or 'mx casa.
will experience much joy from him. (A pause, during which
she holds the boy by the hand, who gazes in wonder at one
asleep, yet speaking in tonesso unusually solemn.) Corporeally
he has also much from you; and for this reason too it is so
beneficial to have him near me. (She now lays her hand on
his head and says :) God bless thee, dear child! 0 God, take
his heart into Thy keeping, that it may remain good!" (After
these words she sinks back on the bed, begins to tremble `aud
develope her usual cramps. They last only five or six minutes,
and terminate with a loud groaning, and a sudden, violent
agitation of the body, upon which she immediately opens her
eyes.)
1
May 2lst.
A little after four in the afternoon, R. experiences nausea,
succeeded by unconsciousness, and finally a stiflening of the
whole body. In three quarters of an hour the rigidity was
relaxed by my laying on my hand and breathing on the pit of her
stomach, when she recovered her speech.
"
To-day, she said, I
am in a peculiar state, which has come on from weakness in
consequence of my present singular bodily indisposition. I am
only half magnetized, and see at times very clearly, but often
scarcely at all. I hear with the left ear and see, now from my eyes,
now from the pit of the stomach, but at this moment, besides
you, nothing in the world." Make the attempt once to see through
your fcrehead. (She' made a visible effort to comply with my
wish, the muscles of the forehead moved, and she said after a
few minutes :)
"
I now see you through the forehead." Can
you now see again through the eyes, if I desire it! "Yes, I
can. (She moves her eyes and the skin of the forehead for some
time.) Now I see through the eyes." How can you etfect that!
"
How, I do not know; I make the effort and do it. (Directly
she transferred the seat of vision again to the forehead, obser-
ving at the same time z) It seems as if a trap or a curtain fell
all at once from before my forehead, when I have a mind to see
through it, or as if a sliding~window were pushed this way and
that. But I cannot explain to you how it happens. (Hereupon
I observe, that when she saw through the forehead, the eyes
had aiixed and sidelong look, which was not the case when she
msroar or 'rms caan. B!
said she saw with her eyes. She said further :) At this time
I do not see my Albert either; still I know that he sees me, and
does not overlook me. I feel that he will come to us
yet for a
moment and communicate something to you." How can that
be! "
You will hear it; I do not know it. (In this condition
R. was much more cheerful than in the proper and perfect
magnetic state. She was more friendly than usual, and could
even-a thing she did nbt like at other times in the crisis and
tolerated least of all in me-jest occasionally, and laugh heartily.
She was also able, while she lay in this half-sleep, to look into dis-
tant places here and there on the earth. She saw her sisters in
U. as they were taking a meal together in the sitting-room,and
looked at R. in the kitchen of the rectory, where she saw my
sister L. engaged in preparations for supper. In particular she
observed more than once, that L. went hither and thither fre-
quently in the kitchen, but was somewhat out of humor because
she had a head-ache. In this state she remembered also, that
she was much better pleased in her waking life with the name
of R. than of Felicitas, which last she could not bear. At
length becoming more serious she said :) I see my Albert com-
ing; he is here ; what he has to tell you concerns myself alone."
What is it 3-Can you now tell it? "
He bids me tell you, that
you must now forthwith, for seven minutes, press my two
knees firmly together with your hands, and at the same time
press downwards, and support the pressure downwards with
your will." What good will this do? "
It will relieve me
greatly; only do it. Just now it will be of particularpservioe
to me." (When I had gone through this manipulation her face
brightened more than usual; she rose with the upper part of
her body, notwithstanding she had crossed her hands over her
breast, in a free and gradual manner towards me, so that I be-
gan to feel somewhat awed, and said :)
"
Thou faithful helper !"
(and thereupon lay quietly and slowly down again.) Why did
you rise towards mel "
You attracted me, but immediately
repelled me again. For a moment you withdrew your power
from me entirely." Why so? "The way in which I rose up
was something new and surprising to you; you were startled
at it, and I felt your emotion." Yes, such was the case-but
*ell me how can you talk with Albert; how does he make him-
*4
82 rusronr or :mx pass.
self understood by you!
"
He speaks nothing; I see in him all
that he wills and thinks I* Even when he is friendly and smiles,
he does not do it with the mouth; he speaks and thinks and
wishes all with his whole being at once. Just now he said to me
or rather gave me to understand. that I would have done well
had I followed the advice given to me early in the morning, and
left oil' my corslets. Had I done so, the operation on the knees
this evening would have been unnecessary. (At half-past five
R. awaken, after some qualms like those experienced about four,
without any cramps or agitations of the body.)
May 2211, 6 to 9, P. M.
Uuusually violent and long continued cramps preceded this
time the magnetic sleep. The chest was especially aH`ected,
and her respiration ceased so entirely for half a minute, while
the movements of the body and the anxious countenance indica-
ted a struggling for breath, that I felt apprehensive for the life
of the sufferer. However, she became more quiet about half-
past six, her limbs gradually extended for the last violent agi-
tations which always preceded the magnetic awakening, and
after they had passed,her features brightened up, and in a
short time she began to speak pleasantly of her own accord;
0 God, Thou dealest with me lovingly and like a Father.
Thou hast again sent him to me, my faithful physician, who in
my troubles never leaves me. (She folds her hands.) Heart-
felt thanks to Thee for the same. Still care for me, Thy suffer-'
ing child; Thou wilt do so; I know it well. Art Thou not
my Father, my All? (After a short pause, to me :) Lay your
hand now somewhat higher on the pit of my stomach. (To
Albert :) and you have not come alone, my guardian? What
have you-brought with you for me? (A pause.) Ah! a glo-
rious flower? Such a one saw I never yet ;1~ the purple of its
cup burns like fire ; and how majestically it stands by my Al.
bert's side! (She ponders.) Truly this ilower has great
;__;
*
There is also speech (among the angels) by gestures corresponding
to the affections, and representing things similar to what are represented
b words.-H df H 244.
yi' There are also species 'of trees and Bowers there, which are no
where seen, nor can exist in the world.-H. Q H. 176. _
msroa! or 'ras cus. 88
meaning for me; I see this in Albert." What meaning!
"
I
do not know altogether, as yet, but I shall learn it. It is quite
like you." Like me? "
So I said." I cannot imagine that I
have any resemblance to a ilower. "Still it is so." How is
that possible? "I cannot as yet see rightly; but there' is cer-
tainly a relation in the flower to us. When I learn more
about it, I will communicate it to you." I am in truth very cu-
rious to know how it is§ describe me the flower, I pray, by its
exterior. "It is a noble, majestic plant, more than six feet
high : it is as tall as my Albert, and stands at his side." Is it
a plant like any which we have on earth! "
Yes, but only par.
tially so; it has astalk and leaves, and agloriously beautifulflower
of a purple color adorns its summit, and has the shape of a
cup. The colors are fair beyond those of earth ;* 'the green of
the leaves and the red of the flowers is embroidered as it were
with many golden beams, threads and points. The stalk is con-
stantly ilaming upwards in splendid light, as if a stream of
golden light were coursing through it without intermission."
Has the plant roots also! "
No, here it is different; the flower
does not draw its life and vigor from any solid body, but im-
bibes them from without." Is it broken oil] that Albert could
bring it with him? and where do such ilowers grow!
"
In the
sun there are many such plants; they float at large, and do not,
like the plants in our world, adhere to the bodies in the sun.
Thus they exist, attracting the vital force of the sun,as it were,
independently. They receive no gross sap through roots for
their nourishment, like earthly plants." It needs a
strong faith
to believe this, my good Seeress. (OH`ended.)
"
My Albert
tells me so, and you are at liberty to believe it or not, as you
like. But you will yet hear much which you must re-
ceive svithout being able to comprehend it. But now I
wish to be alone with Albert for twenty-eight minutes.
(She lays her hands over her breast and lies exactly that length
of time without moving. During this interval I was struck with
the phenomenon which had manifested itself in her last half-
sleep when her body was attracted towards me. I made the
l
*
Colors are seen in the other life which so far surpass in brilliancy and
lustre the splendid colon of the world, that they can scarcely be com-
pared together.-A. C. 453).
I
A .
84 msfronr or Tas casa.
trial, as she was lying thus still, so to operate upon her through
a fixed purpose that her body should follow the attraction of
mine. For this end I held the thumbs of my two hands at the
distance of about three inches from her, willing that they should
adhere to mine. Scarcely had I done so, when her arms opened
by successive jerks or hitches, and she rose again with the
upper part of her body towards me. I drew back, and she
continued to follow me, until I feared she would fall at last out
of bed. I therefore changed my direction again, gradually
approaching her feet. The upper part of her person still fol-
lowed me; on which occasion I was struck with the fact, that
when I approached my forehead to hers it followed mine, while
at the same time her arm, when I approached my thumb to it
and made a motion opposite to that of the head, turned towards
my thumb and so to the opposite side, so that one part of her
body could be drawn in one direction, the other in the other. I
now left the chamber for a moment. When I returned and
took a seat by her bed, she said quickly :) You smell strangely;
what have you about you? (She imitated the sound and the
movement of smelling with the nose.) You have omething
peculiar about you. What is it 'P' I do not know what you
smell. (She became more and more restless and excited, did
not lie still a moment, and all her limbs, even the head and the
muscles of the face, began to play in a lively manner. Mean~
while I took in all silence an armed magnet, which I had just
brought and had hitherto concealed in the breast pocket of my coat
where it had been about two feet from her, held it enclosed in
my left hand, and laid it upon her stomach. Scarcely had I done
this, when she began to tremble lightly, then to laugh, to 'sing
at intervals, and to make the oddest motions. Every moment she
declared Q) "
Ah, that is good, very good; but remove it, take it
away." When I went to remove it, she grasped my hand
and would not let it go. At length I lifted it about a foot
above her stomach, whereupon her body rose to that height, so that
she rested only on her heels and her head. This however
seemed to exhaust her; for which reason I laid the stone on
a table which stood near. Doubtless I executed this movement
too suddenly; for she said very quickly and with some ill-
humor: "
Ah, that pulls and tears me again! Can you not
nrsroar or 'mx cus. 85
then proceed more gently with met You should not have
removed the stone from me so suddenly; I had almost fallen
into cramps from it." Do you know than the name of the stone!
Yes, it is a stone magnet, and I can assure you that it operates
on me very beneficially: only remove the iron bands (the arma-
ture) that are on it; they make it too strong Tor me. You will
do it, will you not! Do it immediately,I beg of you; I love
the stone, I long for it, and wish to lay it to my heart. (When
the armature of the magnet was re moved, she seized it, highly
delighted, and did not quit it during the whole of the crisis,
always maintaining that it was healing to her. After she had
pressed it to her breast, perhaps seven or eight minutes, she
said quickly :) This helps me to understand the flower better."
What? "
The stone." What does it show you about tbe
Hower? "
That it is a remedy." Howl A remedy for your-
self 3 "
Yes, for me, and all who are in my condition. Its
power, which it ditfuses like a delightful odor,* fills me and
contributes to my recovery. This fragrance is exactly like
your breath, and its power is like your vital power, and has some
resemblance to the power, of the stone and the heavenly power
of my Albert. Ah, this is all excellent; here every thing works
together to make me well again. See, now I know why I corn-
pared you with the flower; your and Albert's eB`ect upon me
is similar to it." But you said a little since, that the stone
smelt "
strangely" : it would seem that the smell was not
pleasant to you.
"
Yes, such was the fact ; but now the iron is
away; that spoiled the smell." But to what end a remedy like
this, when you have my vital force and Albert's also! Or are
not these sufhcientl "O, your influence is but too powerful;
that of the flower is much milder, and yet different from that of
the stone, which operates with least energy. Just at this time,
when I feel uncomfortably, the flower works to most advantage.
This my Albert was aware of, and therefore brought it with
him." Does it still continue near Albert? "
Yes, there it is,
shining in all its beauty." How comes it that the magnet
excited your smell first! "
That I do not know ; it is the case
*
And there the common delight is perceived in heaven as the smell of
agarden, with variety according to the fragrances there from the dowers
and fruits.-D. P. 304.
A
86 HISTURY O! THE CASE.
probably with all magnetics. Albert says nothingon the sub-
ject; perhaps we should not understand the explanation. (My
sister M. being present she desired that R. would describe
her guardian spirit. When I made her acquainted with this
wish she said :) Your sister has also felt a wish that I should
greet my Albert from her. (Smiling.) I have done so, and it
has pleased him very much. He did not know M., but became
acquainted with her first through myself and you ;* at this
moment he is looking on her very kindly." How does your
Albert look! On his countenance there rests ever a
gentle,
heavenly expression of friendliness; his eyes are blue; his
cheeks are slightly colored, as if the color were breathed upon
them; his hair is clear brown; he has a fine Grecian nose, a
lofty forehead, a face somewhat long, and a pleasing; friendly
mouth. His hand is very fine ; his build strong and tall ; in his
bearing there is something majestic; his look is spiritual and
pure, and a heavenly seriousness rests on his forehead. His
clothing is brilliant white, and on his head rests a wreath of
palms. O Albert, how fair thou art! His whole is unspeakably
glorious. (A pause.) Amandus, my Albert's friend, approaches,
us; I am rejoiced to see him again. He is now standing at
his side and is looking towards me." Has Amandus been here
some time? "
Yes, he came with Albert, but afterwards went
away. He was here a short time ago, when I had the violent
cramps. These lasted so long, because Albert was not here
immediately; he had something important to attend to.
Amandus longed for him to come; he also had to talk with
him; on what subject,I do not know. (A pause.) Oh see,
Albert is holding, in his hand a leaf on which my name is
written; it rejoices Amandus, and he looks at me smilingly."
Which of your names is inscribed there! "The right one,
that by which Amandus knows me, and every other spirit would
know me. You cannot comprehend this name; it cannot
*
Neithefspirits nor
aniels, by their own proper sight, can see any thing
that is in the natural worl -nevertheless both spirits and anfvels, when it
pleases the Lord, can see things in the natural world through the eyes of
man.-E. U. 135.
They who speak with the angels of heaven, also see those things
which are in heaven, because they see from the light of heaven, in which
their interiors are; the BDQBII also see through them the things which are
on the earth.-H. 4' H. 252.
HISTORY O! THE CMI. 87
be written in our characters; it is only one sign which
yet expresses me and my whole nature.* Can you imi-
tate this sign with a lead pencil! "I will make the
attempt." (All at once R. becomes stid' and pale; the
lower jaw is fixed for several minutes, and the power of
speech gone. By breathing several times on the stomach
and mouth speech and motion are restored again.) How
came on this sudden attack! "Albert will not allow me
to write that sign; it would cost me too great an eifort, and be
hurtful to me. He chose to indicate his will to you in this
way." This was a _pretty hard indication, however, for you.
(She smiles.) "O no, I felt nothing of it; it seems to you
worse than it was; it was only a sudden subtraction of power,
which did me no kind of harm." But why was your name
written on a leaf'! "
That I do not know, but I see from Albert
that I shall yet learn the cause. Now I must rest again for
fourteen minutes. (This interval having passed, she said very
sadly :) Only think, Amandus has gone again." For what
reason 'I "
His employment summoned him away; but I shall
see him again shortly." What affairs has he gone upon!
"I do not know them; my Albert says, that he will yet instruct
me on that point, that it is not yet time for that." You take so
warm an interest in this Amandus-who is he then! "
Alas, I
am always on the point of knowing him, but do not make it out.
I love him greatly, and when I ask Albert, he only smiles, and
does not tell me; it makes me right sad. When he wishes me
not to see any thing in him, I cannot, although he knows it. But
now I must look, my Albert says, into my own body and tell
you the state of things there. I have spots on the neck which
return at intervals and have an ugly look. They do not indeed
hurt me, but still I could wish them away. They spring from
my liver and the irregularity of my periods.
"
You are then a
*
Every one is named (in the spiritual world) according to the quality of
of his love and wisdom ; for as soon as any one comes into society or par-
ticipation wiih others, he is forthwith named according to his quality there ;
the naming is done by spiritual speech, which is such that it can give a
name lo
SVG? thing ; because there each letter in the alphabet signifies
one thing, an the several letters joined into one word, which makes a per-
son's name, involve the entire state of the hing.~D. P. 230.
I
88 HISTORY 0? THE CASE.
little vain, still? (She smiles almost imperceptibly.)
"
If we
can remove such things without harm we may and should do
it." What must be done to prevent these spots T "
The juice
of the house-leek must be expressed and suffered to drop upon
them, and then be rubbed in for a while with the finger. I
should like it, if you would press out the juice, and wet a linen
rag with it, and lay it on me." I will do so. "If you repeat
this thrice in seven days, they will disappear. Do not think, I
pray, that I wish them removed, from vanity. They disiigure
me, and that, to be sure, is not pleasant; but I know too that
if they are neglected, they may easily degenerate into tetters.
"
Be at rest, I will do as you tell me. (At this moment I re-
ceived some letters from the hand of my brother C. There
were two of them; I read them, while R. lay quiet. But
scarcely had I taken out of my pocket and opened a third one
which I had received in the course of the day but not corn-
municated to her, when she became restless, and said :) "
This
letter concerns me ; I feel it." (I folded the letter again, and
laid it then on her stomach, with the question :) Who wrote it 3
"
lt is my father's hand. (At these words she began to
tremble and exclaimed :)
"
Ach Gott ! take the letter away; my
father, my good father!" Why, has any thing happened to
him? "
No, no, he is anxious about my health, and has not the
right view with regard to it; he knows nothing about mag-
netism, and is now tormenting himself unnecessarily on my
account. Do not read the letter to me, it would throw me into
cramps." But may I read it again myself 'l "
Yes." (While
I did so, she said with unusual vehemencea) What? that is
too bad; they even believe that I am bewitched." How do
you know that? "
You just now read it." But I have read
the letter already several hours ago; how comes it that you did
not know its contents earlier in the present crisis? "
That is
easily understood ; you know much that I do not know. Must
I then know every thing that you do '!" No, but I cannot help
being astonished that you know, only now, what you might
have been acquainted with before. "That is not the case.
What you do and think while I am asleep, cannot escape me.
But what precedes I do not know, unless you remind me of it,
or lead me by your reduction and your express will thereto."
muon! or rin: cus. 89
(She suddenly becomes stiE and speechless. She was restored
in about eight minutes by breathing on her.) Why were you
all at once deprived of the power of speech? (No answer
followed. When I pressed my little finger on her teeth, her
jaw quivered, and opened so far that I could touch her tongue;
I now asked her :) Can you speak 7 "
Not-not-not well yet;
but soon." What occasioned this attack 'I "
I wished
to,pene-
trate more deeply into the contents of the letter than would
have been for my good, when my Albert looked seriously at me,
and I became unconscious and dumb." You permitted me,
however, to read the letter, and said it would not hurt you.
"
It
is true; the reading of it as you did it this aftemoon and just
now again did me no harm; it was only a very light and gene-
ral impression which I received from it; but digging and
prying into its meaning, which was what I afterwards attempted
myself, would not have been good for me, if Albert had not
guarded against it. But now I must rest again until he leaves
me." When will a new crisis occur? "
To-morrow at nine in
the forenoon." She folds her hands and prays in silence. Six
minutes before nine she is seized with didicult breathing, s.
short, dry cough sets in which threatens to suifocate her. All
at once it ceases: her arms and legs undergo violent agitations
several times in succession, whereupon she awakes perfectly
cheerful, and assures us that she feels very comfortably.
May 2341, 9 to 12, A. M
The introductory cramps were less violent to-day than yester-
day, though lasting somewhat longer; for the rest, they were
quite as they had been hitherto. Some time after they had
ceased R.. said: "
Yes, you are again with me, faithful Albert.
I may rely on you entirely. But you also are a servant of the
great God,* Who alone is true and faithful. (A pause.) Alas-
we men ! Weak uncertain creatures, how much must we put
off before we reach your elevation, my Albert! O selfish-
;_
'
But all these employments of angels are functions of the lord through
the angels, for the
angels perform them, not from themselves, but from
the Lord.-H. 4 H. 39 .
A
90 .
`
mu-on! or "nn case.
ness, this curse of our souls, it is the sole obstacle in the way
of our perfection! But you, my Albert, are led by the love
which proceeds from the Father of love it Oh, that I were as
full of love as you are! How happy were I then; how would
I make all about me happy lj; (She prays.) O, give me power
and spirit, Thou merciful God and Father, that I may learn to
overcome myself ever more and more--and give myself up to
the behests of Thy love. Help me to struggle, help me to
conquer! (She weeps in silence, the tears flowing down over
her temples.) And into the heart of the friend who stands here
at my side pour ever more and more of Love, that he may learn
to bear, more willingly and submissively, what Thou hast laid
upon him. (A pause.) The Spirit of Thy love is near us; 0
Father, behold our hearts; to Thee they are all open. Take
us under Thy protection, and rejoice us with Thy favor. (A
long and silent interval; after which she says z) Albert, it is a
great pleasure you have again afforded me; your friend Aman-
dus has accompanied you again? (To me.) He is not so
fair, so
perfect as my Albert, but still he is very good."§ How
comes it, that Amandns at present comes to you for the
most part with your Albert! "I see in Albert, that his
friend has the same employment with himself. They are
conversing together about it now." Does Amandus also
help magneticsl "Yes, that is a part of his calling, but
much else besides." For example,-" He, as well as my
Albert, has it for his business, to instruct ignorant souls,
and lead them to God and their salvation.l| He will be permit~
*Hence it is, that so far as any one is in self love, so far he removes
himself from heaven, because from heavenly love.-H. 4' Ii 557.
1' That the Divine
proceeding
from the Lord, which aflects the angels
end makes Heaven, is love a
extrerience
in Heaven testifies: for all
who are there are forms of love an charity.-H dr H. 17.
:How great the delight of Heaven is, may be manifest
only
from this
that it is a delight to all in Heaven, to communicate their
elights and
blessings to
another-for, as was shown above, in the heavens, t ere ll a
communication of all with each, and of each with all.-Ii gr H 399.
§ Hence it ie, that the angels who are in the inmost heaven are the most
beautiful, because they are forms of celestial love. But those who have
loved divine truths
exteriolriy,
and thus have lived exteriorly according to
them are less beautiful.- .
¢{H.
459. _
ll There are others who teac the simple good from the christian world
and lead them into the way to heaven.-Ii 4' H. 391.
'
msron! or 'rut cast. 91
tad shortlytobecame the guardian spirit of a man, as Albert has
long been, and Albert is now preparing him for this end. He is
not yet so perfect as Albert, but yet very good, oh, very good;
he is glad to leam from my Albert, and Albert treats him so
lovingly." Why does this friend come to Albert, and just when
you are in connection with him? "Amandus too loves me ;
Albert has told him about me, and in consequence of this he
takes a lively interest in me. (Suddenly she raises her arms,
expresses great astonishment in her face, and then exclaims
aloud :) My God ! It is you! Can it be you? Is it possible?
0, how am I rejoiced ! Some attraction was *always drawing
my soul to you. (To me :) Only see, how Albert and Aman-
dus are enjoying my delighted astonishment!" You know I
cannot see it; tell me, therefore, what has so joyfully surprised
you? Oh, think only, this Amandus is the deceased 0. F. R..
M. of U. How rejoiced I am at this! Long ago, when I was
a child, he was very fond of me. I-Ie has given me many a
good lesson. Why, my Albert, have you kept this joyful intelli-
gence back from me so
long '!" (A pause.) What was Albert's
reply?
"
The surprise, hitherto, would have been too great for
my nervous system. 0, what pleasure dear Amandus gives
me! When I was yet a child, he begged a piece of writing
from me as a memorial. (A pause.) If I might only tell it to
his W--e! But no, it must not be communicated." Will
you still see him frequently?
"
Yes, and it will always give me
joy." What occasion have you for praying?
"
I am not pray-
ing; I was only beseeching my two venerated friends that they
would pray for my highest interests. (A pause.) Amandus.
also is now
looking at you ; he does not as yet see you quite
clearly. Albert has told him who you are. (A pause.) Aman-
dus pities my sutferings; he knows my situation perfectly. He
knows my parents too." Will he be with you during the whole
of your sleep to-day!
"
No, he is obliged to leave us shortly
to help a suiferer like myself, in our own country." Where is
this sutferer! "
Albert does not allow the question. (A pause.)
Ah, could you only see my Albert; I should like you to enjoy
this sight. Just now he is again standing by you, on your right."
I should like it too. "
Albert knows that you wish it. You have
put down a question on your paper, he tells me at this moment,
f
92 Imran? or 'rss casa.
'
which relates to this matter. But he was with you already
last night, when, without doubt, you slept soundly. He laid
his hand on your head." I am surprised at what you say; no
one in the world knew any thing about this question. "Albert
smiles and says, that he knew it when you first had it in your
thoughts to put this question. Through him I learned that you
had noted it down. O, I know still many things about you,
which I do not tell you ; it would not be good for you should I
do so; and if I should attempt it, my tongue would be immedi-
ately paralyzed. You had a very pleasant dream last night;
Albert was quite near you ;* can you not remember what you
dreamed 3" I remember a large, splendidly lighted church, in
which I was to preach before thousands. I experienced a sink-
ing of the spirit and uneasy feelings, at the prospect of speak-
ing oil, in an unusual place, before so many strange persons. In
this distress, a clergyman, in the garb of his profession, stepped
up to me, and asked me if I would let him preach in my place.
Glad of this friendly offer, I gave the pulpit up to him. But
how astonished was I, when he delivered the same sermon, word
for word, which I had carefully committed to memory# When
the sermon was over, he came down the steps and found me be-
low. As I was on the point of thanking him, he looked at me
with a penetrating but friendly look, and I awoke. "
Only
think, Albert says, that was himselft Can you call to mind
his form! "
O yes, it is very fresh in my mind, but it does not
agree with that you delighted us with yesterday. "It could
not have been otherwise ; Albert says, that he showed you his
dgure as it was during his life on earth. You have seen him
also in your earliest youth; but you will never remember him."
But how comes it that you saw his form so very differently from
*
The third sort (of dreams) come by spirits who are near when man is
alexa-A.
C. 1976. _
'l' ides,a.n an lor a spirit, when he comes to a man, and by tumrng
to him is conjoinegto him, comes into all his memory, insomuch that he
scarcely knows otherwise than thathe knows from himself what the man
knows, thus also
languages.-H. 4' H 246. _
1 During the
night dreamed, and when I awoke I spake with two who
a peered in the ream, who acknowledged that they were the ones. It
tillence appeared that dreams are of a two~fold kind; one flows in from
spirits, who act the part of the persons that are seen in the dreams and
precisely as the dreaming appearance is.-S. L. D., pt. 2d, $8,877.
msroar or nnfcass. 93
myself '! Neither did I see him with my bodily eyes ; would it
not have been the same thing, had he shown himself to me in
the dream, in his present essential form! "
0 no, Albert says
that even in a dream, such an impression would have been in-
jurious to you." I have yet another doubt which prompts me
to ask you a question.
"
Ask it by all means." You delineated
Albert's form indeed beautifully, but mixed up in your sketch
so much that was earthly, and even, if you will allow me to say
it, contradictory, that I cannot believe you have given us an ac-
curate account of your Albert. "Albert smiles, and tells me
you are right; I know not what to think of the matter. (An
interval of silence, during which she seems to be thinking, and
speaking with Albert. After some minutes she says cheerfully :)
"
Ah, now I know what you mean. Albert has informed me.
Even I, he says, though I stand now much higher than you,
cannot as yet look at his essence exactly as it is, so long as I
am united to the body. I could not endure it either; I have
only an approximate image of him.* Every thing, for example,
of the nature of color which I saw about him, the red cheeks,
the blue eyes, and the like, were additions which he gave me
to see only in appearance, in order to veil his true interiors
which would not have been supportable to me. In like manner
I am not permitted to know the true name which be has there,
because I could not comprehend it. Ah, it makes me right sad,
that I cannot see my Albert as he is." (She weeps a long
time.) This explanation gives me great joy, since it has re-
moved scruples very natural to me in my position. (R. would
not be soon comforted, and remained sad nearly half an hour,
weeping and sighing continually. At length she said :)
"
Alas,
my Albert is obliged to leave me for half an hour, to aid some
dying personsf O, come back soon, I pray, dear guide ! Al-
ready he is gone, and I no more see so clearly." Where have
you been, since falling asleep, with Albert 'E "
Here in Schwaik-
heim with you and Amandus. The Bower is not here this time."
*
There are several kinds _of visions and
theyaare
the more perfect, in
proportion as they are more mterior.-A. C. 17 .
'I' There are also some
(animals)
who are present to those who are raised
from the dead.-H. Q H. 89 .
94 HISTGBY or 'ru cus.
Why not again in the sun! "
I do not know ; Albert thought
it not best. (After a pause.) Ah, I hear now with my right
ear; I see Albert at a great distance. (I laid my left hand on
her eyes, which were open but quite fixed, whereupon she
said z) When you do this, I always see you with my forehead,
and then you are larger and more shining." But I am not
made any larger by merely laying my hand on your eyes; so
that you must be again mistaken! (Peevishly, gloomily and
shortly :) "
Mistaken! You are always thinking about mis-
takes; I am not mistaken; but I cannot explain the phe-
nomenon at present." I am sorry for it; meanwhile it
would gratify me, if you could. (The answer was yet shorter
and sharper :) When I say I cannot, you must rest content.
(This short repulse, not at all suiting her relations towards me,
determined me to the following declaration :) I excuse your
unbecoming speech, simply because I believe that you are not,
now that Albert has left you, quite mistress of yourself; but I
hereby enjoin you to be silent, and to say nothing until Albert
appears again. (After about eighteen minutes, during which
time she lay quite rigid, she evidently made efforts to speak.
Her jaw was closed convulsively; I breathed on her mouth,
and it was relieved. She then said :) "I was wrong; Albert
has already given me a reproof on account of my ungentle con-
duct ; forgive me ; I will take care not to repeat the fault. You
were right; Albert's presence was wanting to me, and I sud-
denly fell back quite near to the earth again. Now, however, I
can satisfy you on the subject of your doubts. When you laid
your hand on my eyes, I saw you through the forehead, and
much brighter. Your form had to me a more distinct outline
than is usually the case; hence you appeared to me just as you
really are, and so it happened that I took you to be larger. Of
course you were not in fact any larger for it. When you now
lay your hand on my eyes, I see my Albert also brighter, and, as
it were, larger; this without doubt is a delusion on my part.
For the reason that I then see Albert so clearly, your image
falls a little into the back-ground, and is seemingly eclipsed by
Albert' splendor,* which is much stronger than yours. It
*
Those who are in_this affection, or what is the same
thing,
in this love,
are in heavenly intelligence, and shine in Heaven, as wi the splendor
_ HISTORY or 'rns casa. 95
was from this cause, you thought that I confounded you
originally with Albert. Not so, I scarcely saw _vou any more.
I have always considered you as distinct persons, as you indeed
are. Oh, I often see you both very different in form, notwith-
standing all your resemblance, and in diubrent places. But
Albert will yet convince you firmly, that he has a rea] existence
and is no image of my fancy." That will give me great plea-
sure. Only he must not use you as a medium for this purpose,
as your bare assurances in the matter, very naturally, are not
enough for me.
"
I understand you; Albert is amused at your
doubts, which I cannot rightly comprehend; me they do not
please; but he says he will confirm your faith soon. But now
no more sceptical questions. I must rest for some time. (She
rests a good while; at last she says :) Amandus is going. He
is summoned away by his charge. He nods me once more a
friendly farewell ! Farewell, good Amandu ; come to see me
again soon. (A pause.) 'I feel very warm; I pray you, blow
lightly into my face. (I did so.) That cools me very pleasantly;
the sensation pervades my whole frame." Do you again smell
any thing 3 "
Yes, your breath smells like apricots." (.Iestingly.)
I could not have thought so ethereal a fragrance was contained
in my breath. "Jest on; but I have the enjoyment of it."
Allow me to ask you one thing more? "Do so." You said
yesterday, that you saw your name written on a leaf in Albert's
hand ; can you tell me what that was for 'I "
Now I can.
Albert wished to give Amandus, who had known me formerly,
an image of me." Did it require a written explanation for this
end 'I "
Oh no, the thing is not as you think. Amandus had
known me, in life, as a child ; Albert knew it would gratify him
to represent me as I had become in my interiors since that
period; this Amandus could not see so clearly as Albert can.
He gave him, accordingly, a kind of delineation of me, which is
more than an image, or a name, or a cypher. This you can-
not comprehend, there is more of essence* in the matter than
you can understand, or I am able to explain. I do not myself
.
pf the expanse. They shine thus, because divine truth, wheresoever it is
ln Heaven, gives
light.-H. 4- H. 347.
'
It is worthy o remark that writings in the henven's flow naturally
from the
thoughts themselves, and this so easily, that it is as if thought
put itself fort --IL 4' H 262.
Q
96 HISTORY 0|-' THE CASE-
fully understand it, but the fact is so. That the delineation ap-
peared to me as my name on a leaf, was done by Albert for my
sake. He meant to tell me thereby at the same time: As these
characters, which signify you, beam with pure light, so your
heart must become quite pure and bright. Thus the leaf was
at the same time a symbol to me. (A pause.) To-morrow
Albert will come again at six in the evening. Now, he is again
called away; but he will be here again immediately." Will
your attack ever happen on Sunday!
"
Never in the morning;
if it occurs on Sunday, it will always be in the evening. You
preach the word of God on this day; you are not to be inter-
rupted in this business; Albert has so ordered it." ls Sun-
day observed also in Albert's country!
"
Certainly; the praise
of the Most High is always celebrated there, but on that day
more universally and more solemnly.* Albert has also a pecu-
liar employment on Sunday." Wherein does that consist? "
I
do not see clearly; probably he then gives instruction# (A
pause.) I am looking into your throat, which yesterday was
hoarse ; it is now well." Yes,I was surprised at the sudden im-
provement. (Smiling) "It was Albert's will that I should
take the malady on myself] and hence it came, that you lost
your hoarseness to-day, while I have it now. (She was troubled
with it for several days afterwards.) It will be easy for me to
surmount it ; with your profession you would find it more dilli-
cult.
"
I thank you for having removed this inconvenience.
"
None of that; I have only proceeded according to Albert's
will, and the transfer of your affection will not hurt me. But
now my return is at hand. Albert has come again to give me
back to the life of the earth. (A pause.) To-morrow at nine
o'clock give me some raspberry-juice with water. I must not
walk out in the morning to-morrow. Your brother C. has a
swelling on the neck; tell him to put on it'a clay poultice, but
;T
*
At the dawn ofday we heard a proclamation :
To-dna
is the Sabbath ;
and they arose and asked the angel what that was for. e answered that
it was for the worship of God, which returns at stated times, and is pro-
claimed bythe riests.-T. C. R. 750.
1" hom the above account it appears manifest, that
spirits
retain in the
memoryewhat they see
and hear in another life, and t at they are capa-
lgegg mg instructed alike as when they were men in tho world.-E.
msronv or 'run oass. 97
warm; the clay must be baked. (A pause.) Now-now-I
awake. Farewell ! my Albert." (The usual cramps come on and
she wakes up strengthened.)
May 24th, 6 to 9, P. M.
R. had announced another crisis for this evening at six o'clock.
To satisfy myself whether the occurrence of the cramps took
place punctually at the time indicated, and with no agency on
her part, I begged the members of my family, in answer to her
question what time she had fixed for another sleep, to say five
o'clock. This Was done; and thinking it would be no other-
wise, she so arranged her affairs as that she should have them
oil' her hands at that hour. As no attack occurred at five, and
there were no signs of it so late as a quarter after, she thought
she had made a mistake. I now asked her to go with us into
the garden lying near the house, as it was warm and pleasant
in the open air. She followed us, and was in a cheerful mood.
I must also observe, that I had put the mantel clock for-
ward a quarter of an hour, in the morning, so that it struck
five and six sooner than it should by the sun. I had also,
without her knowledge, had all the watches in the house
set, in the morning, with the mantel clock. Thus it struck
six, and R.. still continued in lively spirits in the garden.
Under some pretence we now brought her back into the
chamber just as it struck a quarter to seven in the sitting
room. This clock had been exactly a quarter too fast by
my watch, an excellent time-piece, which alone I had not al-
tered. The watch therefore pointed precisely to six-and
scarcely had the first quarter struck, when the usual cramps,
the short, dry, hacking cough, and the trembling of the limbs
came on. R. was now quickly laid on the bed. In a few
minutes, after the accustomed general agitation of the body was
past, she said cheerfully :
"
How much trouble you have given
yourself to cheat me! It was well that I left the garden and
reached the chamber in time. You may set it down for the fu-
ture, that I can neither add nor diminish in this matter. My
malady takes its own course; only. my Albert can change the
time of the crisis, and he does it only in case of necessity; but
5
98 msronr or 'nu casa.
I always see it in him forthwith, without being obliged to e!-
amine my own nerves and blood-vessels. But I must administer
you a reproof, my dear doctor." For what cause! "You
have not regarded, this time, my warning to keep at a.
little distance from me during my cramps; you might
easily have been afected by some of the consequences.
Albert however has prevented it. In such cases, when they
come on unexpectedly, let the cramps take their course; they
will not hurt me. You stand in too close connexion with me,
not to run the risk of taking them yourself. In case of need,
rather ask your brother and your sister to lay me on the bed.
But do you remain at a distance. The harm that might come
to me from contact with others will soon be removed." Is Al-
bert heré? "
Yes, he was here when the cramps first began.
Give me, I pray, the magnet again ; it does me good; lay it on
my breast. (I did as she wished, and she said with satisfac-
tion :) This stone I would not take a great deal for; it smells
delightfully too." How 'I "I cannot compare the smell ; it is
as though compounded of many others. It is something like
fine fruits, and at the same time like good, strong wine. But
now I must accompany Albert." Whither! "That I do not
know yet; he only tells me that he will go with me forthwith.
Ah, it is done already ; I am at the destined place." (Suddenly
her countenance was pale, and her breathing less perceptible, as
was always the case when her soul was far from her body.)
Can you now name the place in which you are? "
No, not yet;
I only see that it is not at all light, here." Is it a fixed body,
where you arc? "Yes, but it is quite dark there, although
torches are lighted every where." How! Torches? I am
astonished. How can that be? Torches in a place that belongs
to the supersensnal world? "
Not altogether to the super-
sensnal world. No, there are creatures there that are grossly
corporeal." Is it any remote part of our own earth? "
No:
Albert is now going with me to another part of this body; ah,
there it is still more gloomy." Vhy is this place so obscure!
"
Because it lies so deep below." I do not understand that.
You say "below ;" what is below! "
The sun does not shine
into it; it is a place whose position is opposite to the sun."
Is it the moon! "
Yes, yes, that is it; l know it now; Albert
HISTORY DF TH! CASE. 99
coniirmsit." Do you see any living beings in this planet!
"Yes, just now very many together." Are they cprporeal
beings that you see! "They have something corporeal, but
not like meu."* Are they the original inhabitants of the
moon? "
No, they were transferred thither."1~ Do you know
any of them? (She looks long and attentively.) "
There are
so many there, I cannot at once see aright. But yes, now I
see one whom I knew upon earth. He worked long in my
father's employment in E. He was a Wagoner. I recognize
him perfectly. There are many other forms and countenances
there that I have seen before; but I do not exactly remember
them." Do soul of departed men then dwell in this place!
"
Yes, they do. But there are also spirits there which have
been transferred hither from other stars."j[ But for what
purpose do these souls need torches-or material light at all!
"I did not say they needed torches. Besides I spoke, a little
before, of another region of the moon, where I first was.. But
there are also, where I now am, such lights, if the term torches
offends you. The place is lighted in u
peculiar manner, be-
cause there is no sunllight. I may properly use the word
"lights." You will have nothing to object to that?" No;
only tell me, whether beings other than departed souls are
found where you now are.
"
Here I see none, but there are
such where I was first. When I go there again, I will tell you
more of them ; I cannot at present." What is the nature of
that mode of lighting the moon, you spoke of. "The moon is
illuminated, like the earth, by the sun ; there are also alterna-
tions of day and night on it." Exactly as on the earth 'I (She
thinks and then says :) Lay your hand, if you please, on
my
*
Hence nppears the nature of corporeal men: they are not corporeal
us to their understanding but as to their love, that is,they are not corporeal
as to their understanding when
the! speak in company, but when they
speak with themselves in spirit; an as in spirit they are such, therefore,
alter death, both as to love and understanding, they become what are
called carporeal spirits.
1' 'l'he good spirits who are to be instructed are conveyed thither (to the
places of instruction) by the Lord, when
tlzy
have passed through their
second state in the world of spirits.-H. Q . 513.
tThat there are many earths, and men upon them and
spirits
and
angels thence, is very well known in the other life.-H: Q IL 17.
1 x
100 HISTORY OF TH! CA8& ~
forehead, so that I may see more clearly. (When I did so, she
said :) Yes, the moon is enlightened by the sun altemately, like
the earth; only, in the moon, the days and nights are longer.
One side of the moon is turned to the sun much longer than
the earth ever is. The other side, consequently, has a night of
corresponding length. Still it is not so very dark there, as you
think perhaps. It is the place where I am now." That is
just what I wished to ask you; namely, what is the nature of
the artificial illumination of which you spoke.
"
I did not
speak of any artificial illumination." But you spoke of torches
or lights.
"
Yes, but I understood by it an illumination that
does not proceed directly from the sun, or any other heavenly
body; an illumination that does not , comprehend the hemis-
phere of the moon, but is only partial." Tell me what you
can about it. "
That is not much; I see here and there s clear-
ness, which proceeds perhaps from the atmosphere of the moon.
I do not know this, and Albert says nothing on the subject."
Are you then on the dark side of the moon, which is always
turned away from the earth! "
Yes, there. And here I see
only such beings, as, when they lived ,on earth, were very low in
point of knowledge." What kind of knowledge do you mean '!
"
I mean moral and religious. In particular, such come hither,
as, on earth, did not believe in Christ, the Redeemer of men,
who either found His doctrines unintelligible, and therefore
rejected them, or were neglected from their youth up in re-
ligious instruction, and for that reason never felt much interest
in such matters.* Ah, only think, here in the moon there are
souls, who, even after their temporal death, are unwilling to hear
of it.1' (Interrupting herself, with joyful looks :) Ah, Albert,
I just now observe it, you have then brought the flower with you
again? Thank God ! It is here once more." Why does that
*There are a few who are altogether ignorant of God: that these if
they have lived a moral life, are instructed after death by the angels, and
in their moral life receive a spiritual
princme, may be seen in the kloc-
tnne of the new Jerusalem concernin the rd.-D. P. 254.
'I' From being so dominantly natural? they scarcely know that they are
in the other lile.-S. D. Pl. Zd, 3507.
At length they acknowledged, when they were with me, that they
were spirits, but still they could not he prevailed upon to believe that
they were out of the body.-A. C. 941.
HISTORY DI THB CLIE 101
flower interest you so much? "
I now learn, for the iirst time, from
Albert, that when this flower shall have withered, my malady
is at an end. The lowest and largest leaf is already withered.
I see plainly from that flower and from Albert, that my health
will soon begin to improve. It is indeed high, but it will wither
away entirely. This will take a considerable time yet, it is
true. My magnetic sleeps will cease by degrees ; then cramps
and qualms will come on, three or four times at first in the day ;
but these also will grow fewer and weaker, and the disease at
-last will cease altogether." How will it be then with your
period?
"
If I do not commit any imprudence, every thing will
then be regular, and I shall have nothing more in particular to
suffer. (A pause.) Only my lungs. Ah, there, things are not
altogether right. As yet I can say nothing certain on this
subject; my breast at the best is weak ; the lungs are spotted
here and there, and that is not a good sign. For a long time
after my recovery I shall frequently have oppression of the
chest and shooting pains. When the termination of my present
disease will take place I cannot yet tell. At all events, I must
remain with you for some time after the last attack, as, other-
wise, the cramps might easily return. I will indicate the time
more precisely. (A pause.) But now remove the magnet; its
operation begins to be too strong. (I removed it slowly, keep-
ing it still however in my hand, which I approached, without
her being aware of it, to the head of her bed, and there press-
ed the magnet. Immediately she cried out :) Ah, that
draws ! It hurts me above there ; take away the stone.
I see you now through my head. (To hring the vision back
to the pit of the stomach, I moved my hand with the stone slowly
over the head and breast down towards the stomach. When I
came where her hands were crossed over her breast, the left
hand, which lay uppermost, moved quickly toward the stone;
I raiseéthe stone, and the hand followed in every direction in
which I carried the magnet. As a needle attaches itself to the
magnet, so was it with her lingers. If I removed the stone from
one of her fingers the next immediately adhered to it. This I
did with my arm raised up, by which I became gradually fa-
tigued. Thoughtlessly, I let my arm sink to lay the magnet on
her stomach, in doing which I forgot that I must necessarily
A
102 INTO!! Ol' THB CAI!-
take a direction downward from her arm. The consequence
was that she complained vehemently, and exclaimed: For
heaven's sake, not back, not back, it causes me great pain. (I
was obliged to hold her hand for some minutes, on which the
pains in the arm gradually disappeared.) New letthe stone only
lie a little while on the stomach ; it will restore all. (In fifteen
minutes she bid me take it away again, which I did, this time,
more cautiously. I will add here, that as often as I touched
her right eye, or her forehead when she was seeing through it,
with the magnet, she always said that she saw me much larger.
Once she even said a) You look like a giant. (A pause.)
You are feeling to-day some inconvenience in the stomach, and
I suffer with you." You are right. Whence does it proceed!
The reason is, that yesterday and to-day you slept some minutes
after every meal. You must avoid this habit. It is not at all
good for you. Rather leave od' your habit of sitting and read-
ing after meals, when you are very apt to be overcome with
sleep. Divert yourself with conversation, or entertain yourself
with music, or take gentle exercise. Your digestion would suf-
fer from a frequent repetition of this error. (A pause.) Ah,
my Albert, whither are you going! He is gone; he was oblig~
ed to leave me for a short time; I am now alone with you; but
he will soon be back. ( he says nothing whatever now for
half an hour, lying still. Then joyfullyz) Ah, there he is again,
my dear Albert; I bid you welcome. You have performed an
errand in the service of a superior angel 3* 0 happy Albert,
how weak and imperfect are we in comparison with you !" Are
you still in the moon! "
Yes, but I can tell you nothing more
about this body, to-day. You have a mind, I see, to hear more."
You are right, I should like it ; if, however, it exhausts you, do
not attempt it. "Albert says, it would be better for me to do so
at his next visit. (Shortly afterwards I made the surprising dis-
covery, that when I looked into her half-opened eyes, the right
one moved this way and that, and the head nodded forwards. I
repeated the experiment several times and always observed,
*
While they were en d in these things there came a messengerfrom
the prince, who invited argl; to eat bread with him. And they prepared
themselve|,e.nd accompanied their angel.-T1 C. R. 742.
HIITOBY 01' 'Ill CASE. 103
that when I no longer looked fixedly at her, the eilhct ceased.
I wished to see, now, how far this would extend, if I continued
my gaze some time. The result was as follows: The right eye
was fixed on mine, while the left had a quite different direction,
so that she squinted; the head moved forward by jerks towards
my right eye, rose higher and higher, and when I drew hack
with my head, the whole upper part of her body rose up, but al-
ways with a manifest direction of her right eye towards mine.
At length when she had come within a few inches of me,
the jerking movement forward became quicker, and her head
then struck my forehead pretty hard, the right eye seeking mine.
When this contact took place, her whole body trembled a few
moments ; thereupon she said: "
My eye is satisfied," and
of her own accord laid herself quietly down again on her back.
This phenomenon occurred several times afterwards. Almost the
same effect was produced by a reflection of the sun's rays from
the above~mentioned brilliant, which she sometimes asked for
that she might lay it at the pit of her stomach. A broken ray
from one of the stones of this ring, once by accident, struck her
right eye, when it began suddenly to move, the head com-
menced a jerking movement forward towards the ring, and
never stopped until she had pressed her right eye some moments
strongly upon it, with the like trembling of the body. If I took
the ring away after the head had begun to move towards it, her
right eye became spasmodically fixed, and she complained of
shooting pains in it, which could be removed only by breath-
ing and laying my hand on it for some length of time. The same
was also the case, when she had already brought her eye close
to mine and I suddenly removed my head.) "
My Albert asks
something of you, which you will doubtless do with pleasure."
Tell me what I can do for your guardian spirit! "By your
morning walks, he says, in consequence of which you breakfast
at a different hour from the members of your family, it has
happened occasionally that the morning prayers of the house-
hold have been neglected. He begs you so to order things, that
this may not be the case hereafter." Say to your Albert that
I thank him heartily for this suggestion, and will take care that
all hindrances shall for the future be put aside. "This rejoices
my, Albert. He is especially glad, that you have received his
request so lovingly. He says, this encourages him to suggest
104 ,HISTORY O! THE CLIE.
another matter to your consideration." Tell him that I will be
gratihed by any suggestion from him. "
Albert says, you have
more to do to-morrow than is right." To-morrow, I shall
preach ; I do not understand it. "
You will do more than that,
Albert says. You will also have a church-meeting on the holy
day. This, he says, should not be." (Of this she could, as I
think, have known nothing, as I had spoken with no one in
the house on the subject.) Who wld you that! "
My Albert
knows it and does not like it." If he knows that, he knows
also that I did not wish it so. Circumstances are such that I
could manage no other way.
"
Albert is aware of that, he only
wishes you should seek to cut oil' this necessity hereafter." I
will do so. "I will now rest some time, Albert wishes it. (For
about twenty minutes she lay quiet and spoke not a word. She
then said :) Ah, the little fellow is crying in the parlor ;, he is
refractory to his aunt. (Immediately thereupon the boy came
in at the door, still weeping, and R. called to him :) Come to
me, dear boy; you did not wish to obey; you should have done
so; cry no longer, and be a good and obedient child." (The
boy had refused, as appeared afterwards, to let any one but
his mother undress and_ put him to bed.) Will the crisis of
to-day last much longer?
"
It is just now terminating. Next
Tuesday, my Albert will visit me again; he leaves me now in
a few moments." It was so. The usual cramps, which, how-
ever, were extremely light, came on, and she awoke with the
words: "
I am hungry and thirsty; give me somothing."
(About nine o'clock.)
May 27175 6 to 9, P. M
The cramps in the breast and the cough come on a few min~
utes before six, without being preceded by nausea; they are
very slight, however, and last only tive minutes. On the other
hand, the body is agitated, just preceding the sleep-waking
state, with greater severity. It shakes all over as in some vio-
lent ague; she then stretches all her limbs spasmodically, and
jerks and strikes with ber arms so violently, that I was appre-
hensive she might injure herself against the bed frame. This,
however, is not the case. Suddenly she grows calm; the eyes
ursrou or ma cus. 105
are half closed, the arms as usual crossed over the breast. In
a few minutes she says :) "
Albert, where have you been stay-
ing so long 3" Was he not here immediately!
"
He has one
dangerously sick in French Switzerland,who was treated amiss
in her magnetic state. This is what detained him; he has re-
moved the mischief." How do you lind your Albert so soon,
when you fall into a crisis, in the land of spirits? (Smiling)
"
He linda me ; it is his chargeto visit me." Is he alone! "Yes,
as yet; later, Amandus will come too." Will your Albert stay
with you here this time! "
No, he will immediately accompany
me again to the moon. (A pause.) But, Albert, you look very
seriously on me! O, I have done wrong; I promised you to
control my temperament better, and forgot the resolution yesters
day, altogether. Ah, I was foolishly sensitive and excited. I
will certainly not do it again, my guide; be kind to me once
more, I earnestly beseech you. (A pause, during which she
weeps :) Yes, indeed; my heart, Albert says, and not my health
only, will suifer from it, if I do not watch myself more closely.
O, I thank you, Albert, that you are now kind to me again; he
is looking at me again with perfect kindness; I am quite happy
(A pause.) He is going with me now to the moon." (A slight
trembling comes over her, and her body visibly stretches itself
out, the face is deserted by its color, and the breathing becomes
almost imperceptible.) What carries your Albert into the
moon? "
It is good, at present, for my health, to accompany
him thither; but besides
this) his business also leads him thither."
What has he to do there? "
He teaches among the inhabit'
ants of the moon." Is this what he is
doing now! "
Yes, at
this present moment." Can those who learn perceive you!
"
Yes, some of them are looking on me , but do not however know
me; Albert is frequently accompanied by persons in my state.
I am at some distance from the heaters; Albert says I may not
come close to them, as it would be very injurious to me." Do
you hear and understand the instruction! "
I hear, indeed, that
he is teaching, and know it too, but it is done in a language I do
not understand." Are they the sounds in which we converse
here! "O no; I only feel it. On other occasions as well, Al-
bert does not speak as we do ; I gather every thing from him by
sight; he does not speak with the mouth, like men, but with
51: _
106 ms'r0n¥ or :rrnr can.
his whole essence.* His satisfaction and his seriousness, also, are
not to be seen in his countenance only, but in his whole person.
This language every departed spirit understands immediately#
Should I be magnetized artificially, I could he raised to a degree
in which I should understand this language perfectly; but it
would be my destruction." But as you understand Albert's
communications to yourself, you ought likewise to understand
when he peaks with the inhabitants of the moon.
"
0, that is
not so. Albert accommodates himself to my weakness, and so
makes himself intelligible to me. But I cannot follow him when
he speaks with elevated spirits. There is still a wide difference
between a departed soul and one in a magnetic state." Does
this instruction, then, in the moon, belong to the usual employ-
ments of Albert! "
Yes, but besides him there are several other
guardian spirits there who are charged with this duty."1 What
are the chief topics on which he is now speaking! (She con-
verses in silence with Albert, and shortly says :) He is speaking
with them on what was not rightly intelligible to them here in
Godfs word; he instructs them concerning it,§ gives them ex-
hortations, shows them the way to the true understanding of it,
and points to the glorious goal. 0 Albert, were I butthere! O,
make me so good, that,`when I have finished my course, I may
be permitted to worship, in those higher circles, the God who
has led me hitherto in so faithful, so
fatherly a manner, and
thank Him for his unmerited love. Ah, I am still so imperfect.
*
Iam informed by the angels, that the firstdiscourse of all in every earth
was effected by the face, and this from two
origins,
the lips and the eyes.
This kind of discourse, therefore, excelled voca d\scoum,as much as the
sense of seeing excels that of hearin , or as the sight of a fine country ex-
cels a verbal description of it. Add to this that such discourse was in
agreement with the discourse of angels, with whom men in those_ times
had communication; and also that when the face speaks, or the mind by
the face, the angelic discourse is exhibited with man in its ultimate natu-
ral form, but not so in verbal discourse.-E. U. 54.
1* It is in consequence of the correspondence of the speech ofthought, and
the speech of the month, that msn when he comes after death among
spirits, knows how to speak in an universal language, thus with spirits,
whatsoever had been their language in the world.-A. C. 6987.
51;
Instructions are effected hy the angels of various societies.-H &' H.
$ All instruction is there effected from doctrine derived from the word,
and not from the word without doctrine.-H. tj' H. 516.
-HISTORY 01' THB CASE. 107
We might all accomplish more than we do, but we so very often
do not will it. Oh, you should see,-I would have you see it,-
the holy zeal with which my Albert is now teaching, and his
deep humility. Think it, only, this glorious Albertholds himself
for one of the meanest servants of God. That is well pleasing in
His sight ; He is near to all who are of a huinble spirit. lat us,
dear friend, strive to become such." (A pause.) You said, just
now, that you did not understand the language in which Albert
conveyed his instructions: how could you then give me the
substance of them? "Albert wishes I should hear what he
says, and therefore makes himself understood by' me, in his
usual manner." But how can Albert teach, and speak with
you, at the~same time! (She smiles.) It is not there as it is
here, on earth. He sees me, hears me, cares for me, answers
me,-all, while he is teaching. You have no idea of
the rapidity with which all this is done. A thought, and he
is here with me, a thought, and he is in the remotest place.
He does not need the.tedious way, and the lumbering speech
of men; he is nd impeded by a body. At this moment, how-
ever, he has ceased to teach." The instruction then is over!
"
Yes, the assembly is dispersing." Whither are they going?
"
Each one goes to his own calling."' In what does that con-
sist! "
That I cannot now see clearly. It would cost me too
great an effort. As Albertdoes not answer such questions, I
should be obliged to find it out myself. But go on with your
questions; I will tell you, when it hurts me to answer; it
gratifies you to talk on these subjects, and for that reason I
speak of them gladly." Is that side of the moon which is
always turned to the earth inhabited, as well as the other!
"Yes." What kind of ibeings are there? "They are de-
parted souls of men also." But you said that there were also
grossly corporeal beings in the moon. "I said so; and such is
the fact. The moon is different in this respect from the earth.
It has three kinds of inhabitants. On that which is for the
most part the obscure side, are found departed souls that
have been sadly neglected. This is here, where I am now.
I have already said something to you about this abode. On the,
side always turned to the earth, are also, for the most part,
r'
A
108 BIITOBY or na casa.
separate souls; they are somewhat better ;* but they are still
far behindhand. In the middle, in a ring about the moon,
where twilight reigns, are the original inhabitants, of whom I
said that they were gross and corporeal. They are, in a great
measure, hemmed in by huge mountains and rocks impossible
for them to pass: nor do they have any desire to pass them.
(A pause.) I must now rest. In fourteen minutes you may
ask me more questions." (When this time had elapsed I
asked :) Are the original inhabitants organized corporeslly
like men? "
They are much smaller than men#-their ex-
ternal form is similar to ours. They breathe also, but their
lungs are diierent from ours."1 Why so? "Because what
they inhale is not of the same nature as our air, and because
the moon has a much smaller atmosphere. They stand also on
a much lower grade of cultivation, than the inhabitants of the
earth. They stand still in need of visible heavenly guidance,
which we no longer require, and for that reason there come to
them instructors like my Albert."§ (A pause.) Do you see,
where the original inhabitants of the moon seside, works like
the artificial works of men? "
Yes; I see, for example, build-
ings; they are however entirely of stone; that kind of stone,
however, which is very abundant here, is not found on the earth.
They have metals also, as Albert says; but they too are differ-
ent from ours; and they have but a few of them. Their style
¥
*All who are in places of instruction dwell distinct among them-
selves.-H. Q- H. 514.
#Their faces appeared not unhandsome, but longer than the faces of
ot.her spirits; in regard to stature they appeared like children of seven
years old, but more robust; thus they were dwarfs,(homunciones.) It
was told me by the angels that they were from the moon.-E. IL 111.
1 lt was
perceived
that this was owing to this rticular circumstance,
that the in abitants of the moon do not speak Prhm the lungs, like the
inhabitants of other eanhs, but from the abdomen, and thus from a.
certain quantity of air there collected, by reason that the moon is not
Etcpfmpppsed
with an atmosphere like (similar to) that of other earths.-
§ ln every other earth divine truth is manifested by word of mouth by
spirits and angels, as was said above in speaking of the inhabitants of the
earth tn
this solar system ; but this manifestation is confined to families;
for mankind in most earthstlive distinctaccording to families; wherefore
divine truth thus revealed by spirits and angels is not conveyed far be) ond
the limits of families, and unless a new revelation constantly succeeds,
truth is either perverted or parishes.-E. lL 120.
~
HIITORY 0I` TBI Gills 109
of building is quits different from ours; they_are all rounded
of at the top. There are' mountain chains every where in
the moon, of enormous elevation; and some which eject fire
and masses of every description."-Do you see trees and forests
in the moon! "
Where the human inhabitants are, I see such,
but not many; they are diferent too from our trees ; but how
I cannot say. I see that they are smaller and thinner." Is
there water__aIso in the moon! "
There may be water, but I
do not see it." Ask Albert. "
He says yes, but I do not see
any. (A pause.) Only think, here, 'in this gloomy abode where
I am, there are creatures so deplorable as to doubt of the
immortality of their souls,* and the existence of a God.1-
Theee are forced back into the huge mountains, and so re-
strained to these places, that they do not dare to leave them.
Ah, there they mutually torment themselves, by continual
strifes and contradictions,1 in which none are right.§ Albert
says these are the most unhappy beings. They are such as
gathered nothing on earth for their spirit; in consequence of
which they have nothing there. 0 these are very pitiable;
they are so empty, so desolate ;l| they are wretched creatures,
and a torment to themselvesfll (A pause.) It is also much
.1
'
The
quality
of their (the spirits of the Hollanders) faith, even though
miracles shoul be wrought, may hence
appear.
It is such that they
neither believe in spirit, nor heaven, nor hel .-S. D., Pl. 2d, 3521.
1' Those who How out of the natural world into this, and hear that they
are in another world, gather themselves into companies in
mauygaces
and ask-" Where is Heaven and where is Hell 1" as also,
"
here
is God !"-and nfler they have been instructed,
may
still
begin
to reason,
to dispute and to debate whether there is a God.- . C. R. 32.
#They (certain spirits,) are called reasoners because they never con-
clude any thing, but take up whatever they hear, and dispute whether it
be by continually contradicting. 'l`hey love nothing more than to attack
truths and thus to pull them to pieces by discussing them. These are
they who believe themselves to be learned above all in the world.-
T. C. R. 332.
§ From these appearances I conjectured that below those meteors stood
those who were
drsputigg
about imaginary things, which they esteemed
of greatmoment.-T. . R. 335.
ll l asked the angels concerning the lot ol' such -. And they said, that
such, when they are alone, cannot think any thing, and thus
speak;
but
that they stand mute like nntomatons and, as it were, in a esp sleep,
but that they are awaked as soon as they hear any thing.-T C. R. 334.
11 That some are vastated by fears, some b infestations from their own
evils which they have done in the world, an!from their own false# which
they have thonghtin the world, whence come anxieties and pangs of con-
science--H 4° H 513.
110 HISTORY 01-` TRB CLUB.
'
more dimcnlt for them, to correct their knowledges there,
since those means are wanting which we have on earth.
At times they are permitted to cast a look into the state
of such as are better and happier.* This is done with the pur-
pose of at least stirring them up to desire for what is better;
but with these beings this is hard to accomplish. One that has
brought with him so little, or rather almost nothing that is true,
has no desire to learn: for this reason they are not willing.-I'
Freedom remains to them there also.1 O God ! Let us always
endeavor right earnestly to loam more purely the things that
are better. From you,_(turning to me,) my friend, will much, very
much, one day be required. O be zealous to reach the prize
that is held out before you. (A pause.) Ah, the poor creatures!
They do not believe in the Redeemer, a thing that is justly
re uired of us all. Through Him alone we must and can be
sav d ; for this cause He came into the world, to save sinners.
A belief in God is not enough; our knowledge must go higher
than that of Jews and Heathen ; but the requisitions on us are
greater also; we have far more means to elevate our knowledge
and animate our faith. (A pause.) O that all men would lay
it to heart, that no one would forget it, that we can live here
but a short time. All our endeavors should be directed towards
enlarging our knowledges for the higher life, according to the
precepts of the doctrine of Jesus, and at the same time to im-
prove our moral state. Then we need not be anxious about the
help and support of the most High; for He is great and of
great power. (She prays :) Great is Thy name, O Lord. The
wonders of Thy works praise Thee; unsearchable are Thy
doings. The happy hosts of the angels adore the depths of Thy
Certain spirits, not evil, sunk into restas into sleep, and thus as to the
interiors which are of their mind they were translated into heaven; for
spirits, before their interiors are opened, can _be translated into heaven,
Epdgcbgliratfucled concerning the happiness of those who are there.-
'I' Some understood when they were turned to those who were in the
light of truth, that they were truths, but still they were not willing to
understand them, wherefore they denied them, when they were in their
own falses and thus in themselves.-H. Q Ii 464.
3
1 Hone; it appeared very evident that the wicked as well as
thggod
(in the other world) have equally the faculty of liberty.-D. L. ll( .
BIBTDBY or 'nn casa. 111
wisdom! Without limits is Thy love, without bounds Thy
mercy; all souls are happy in Thee! (A pause.) I search
deeply to know Thee, but only find that I cannot do without
Thee. (A long pause.) If we only have reached the feeling
that we stand infinitely below Him, we have already made
great progress in true knowledge. Only the humble are pleasing
in God's sight. He is with them. (Turning to me :) A few
days ago you had a conversation with me in which your brother
took part; it was in your chamber, in the evening. We looked
out on the beauties of nature. That was of benefit to me; I
shall never forget it. I am still very far, in the waking state,
from having clear ideas about higher things. My Albert begs you
to repeat similar conversations with me. But now I will rest
a gain. (She lies quietly for a quarter of an hour.) Your hand
trembles on my stomach; your arm is somewhat fatigued ; you
cannot keep your hand on me, in this position; sit in a more
convenient posture towards me." (It was as she said; my arm
pained me in con sequence of its uneasy position. Suddenly she
starts.) What has happened to you? (All astonished she
says :) Just now I saw my own self, my whole form. I was
sitting in a chaise that was driving past. That is very singular.
(After a short interval.) Ah ! that is the chaise you have a mind
to buy; it is painted green." How can you know that? I
have not yet.seen it myself, and it is full fifteen leagues distant.
"Nevertheless I saw it, and without doubt it is the one ; I am
not mistaken. I shall ride in it too, I see plainly. To-morrow
afternoon you will receive more particular accounts about it.
(It was really the case. Unexpectedly there came, instead of
a written communication, which, for the rest, I was not looking
for under eight days, on the next afternoon at half past one, a
messenger who brought me information respecting the chaise.
R. described the chaise which I had never seen, accurately,
to the smallest particular, and added that it was good and not
too dear; that I should not repent of the purchase. Of the
price she could know absolutely nothing, and yet she named it
correctly, and even did not forget to say what present was
intended for the negotiator. All turned out as she had foretold.
She said further on this subject :) I saw this carriage before;
but where 'E (Thinking) Where could it have been 1 Ab, a few
.I a
112 Huron? or me case.
days ago I dreamed that I drove up in it to the door of the
post-house in Tuttlingen. That was an ordinary dream, of no
account ;* but the conveyance was the same that I saw just
now, and which you will buy." Will you see more widely and
clearly hereafter, than you do now? "
Somewhat more clearly,
without doubt, but not much more. I am capable of the highest
degree of clairvoyance ; but the thing must be allowed to take its
own course. It would be disastrous should you carry me higher."
That I will never do. "I know it, but I will tell you what
would be the first consequence should you do it. I should lose
my period altogether, from which, deplorable states and unin-
terrupted ill health would ensue. I should never be well agajn,
and must soon die. "
I thought that the period would be in-
duced by artiticial magnetism, and rather be increased? "
That
would indeed be the case at first, but soon every thing would
take another turn, and be as I have said. (Surprised :) Ah, I see
my blood at this moment running in the larger and more minute
vessels. It is a glorious sight! (A somewhat long pause.) What
a streaming up and_down !" Do you see your heart too? "
Yes,
that is the centre of all the motions. Oh, you ought to see it '!
(A pause.) Without R.'s being able to perceive it, I had taken
in my mouth a peppermint cake : immediately she made a wry
face, made the various motions of tasting with the mouth, and
then said :) What have you, I pray, in your mouth? B-r-r-r !
how it burns 1 Ah, mint, peppermint ; confess it! I feel pep-
permint on my tongue. (Smiling.) You meant to cheat me;
but do you not tind that you cannot impose on me 'I (A pause.)
But listen, friend, I must tell you something." I will
hear it. "I could-I ought-no, it cannot, must not be.
What do you wish to say 'E "I had a mind to tell you something ;
but-no, I dare not. But yet-(A long pause, during which she
becomes more and more restless. At length her features
brighten again, and she says :) My Albert tells me to ask
you, not to preach on the coming Sunday." Why so'! My
throat is indeed somewhat weakened; but I hope it will be well
*
The third sort (of dreams) come by s irits who are near when man
is asleep, which are also significative. §utfantastic dreams have nn-
other origin.-A. C. 1976.
ESTGBY 0!' THE CLUB- . 113
by Sunday.
"
Not on account of your throat, Albert says." Then
ask him if he will be so good as to communicate his reasons!
"
It is not good for you; I cannot say more." Without good
grounds I cannot, as you see yourself, dispense with this duty
of my calling. "Albert says nothing more-he only advises
you, and you can act as you will." We will leave the matter.
Can you not give my brother some advice respecting his throat!
It pains him; what must he do? "
Ah, that is no wonder: why
do they heat the pillows on the bed-pan! Water is not good in
his case. They should be heated in a dry place ; then the pain,
which only proceeds from the peculiar influence of the water,
will depart. This I did not see in my waking state. I helped
to till the pillows myself yesterday, and to see them laid on the
bed-pan : now I- see it better. (The result justified the predic-
tion of the somnambulist.) It goes well with the perspiration
about your feet; it will never appear stronger than it does now;
and that is good. You did right also to put new pitch-plasters
on the soles of your feet to-day. (I did it in my chamber with-
out witnesses; no one knew a word of it.) Now I must rest
sometime before I wake. Amandus came just now ; he conversed
but a short time with Albert, and immediately went away again."
(After a quiet interval of about a quarter of an hour she again
starts violently :) What has happened to you'!
"
A large frag-
ment of rock has just fallen from a. cliff in Lauterthal, in the
neighborhood of the mill of Unterherrlingen ; that was what
startled me." Why did you notice that, when you do not hearfa
noise in the chamber 2 "I hear such noises too, when you attend
to them. But why I saw the falling of this rock,Ido not know.
Albert chose thatl should perceive it." What object can there
be in it 'I "
Icannot tell that either ; there certainly is one, other-
wise Albert would not have willed it; but he says nothing on
the subject. (A pause.) But now I am to awake. The day
after to-morrow at six in the evening I will see you again, my
Albert. Farewell!" (She trembles as usual, and wakes up
cheerful, as the clock strikes ten.)
'
May 29th.
Instead of the crisis announced for this evening at six, one
altogether unexpected came on early in the morning.
I'
114 HIITGBY 01' TRB CASE.
So early as half-past seven, after a moming walk which she
had taken, and alter which she had just finished her breakfast,
R. came near falling from her chair to the door, without having
given any previous tokens, as was usually the case, of indispo-
sition. She was carried to the bed in an unconscious state,
where she lay a full half hour without signs of life, without hear-
ing me, or sensibly feeling my influence. At length tokens of
life made their appearance; the eyes moved half-closed, the arms
trembled at times, and there were manifest endeavors to open the
rigidly-closed mouth. This struggle lasted another half hour.
Frequent breathing on the mouth brought the jaw to quiver. I
now blew into her mouth, and laid my foreinger on her tongue,
whereupon she tried to stammer out some broken words. By
degrees her speech returned. She now began of her own ac-
cord :-" To-dayl am in an extraordinary magnetic state. I
told you, in my last sleep,that Albert requested you through me,
not to preach next Sunday. You replied, that you must have
good reasons given you for this, proving that it would be right;
that you could not postpone the duties of your ollice on my bare
word. Have you not now, (seriously,) good grounds'I" I will
not preach, certainly, but you cannot know the reason, inasmuch
as no one besides myselfknows it. "
I knew the reason already
when I was bidden to ask you not to preach on Sunday. I
wished to tell you what was before you. You remember, my
Albert did not allow it, and I did not dare to do so.
Yesterday,
early in the moming, you coughed up some blood in your walk;
it made you very uneasy, and caused you to pass the last night
without sleep. You must now be more quiet, unless you would
have your health suifer anew. For this end, Albert has called
me unexpectedly into this state,to tell you this and to calm you."
(It was, indeed, exactly as R. said. I had coughed up blood du-
ring a walk, and had said nothing about it to any one. This
incident naturally disquieted me very much. She now raised up
her right arm, reached out the first three fingers of her right
hand, and laid the left Hat on my breast; whereupon spasms
immediately followed, which evidently moved from the right hand
through the arm and the breast into the lelt hand, and thrust the
whole body towards the left. Thus, for about five minutes. It
was exactly the process she had formerly resorted to,inorderto re-
me on purpose, because it would have made me uneasy. It
nrsron! or 'rn casa. 115
movean inconvenience of the stomach under whichl was sufering.
(Compare 19th May, P. M. The five minutes passed, she said :)
You will already feel an unusual heat in the breast, and feel re-
lieved this very hour. (It was exactly so.) Be not concerned about
this accident. Spare your breast somewhat more than usual.
Keep it especially warm; it will then pass away without bad
consequences." Will I be able to preach again next Sunday
week 'I "
That I do not yet know; ask hereafter. (She now
attempted to remove her hand from my breast, but declared that
it was not possible for her to do it, her hand being, as it were,
glued fast. "
It is with my left hand, she said, at present, as with
a
glass, the smooth bottom of which rests on a wet, smooth sur-
face. It can be removed only by force." The reason, no doubt,
in the case of the hand, is different from that in the case of the
glass? "Of course; here your attraction is the reason; you
are a magnet to my hand, and your breast now attracts my Al-
bert's force stronger than any other part of your body. [Compare
the crisis of June 21st.] (At length she detached her hand, but
said :) My Eve fingers have become entirely without feeling ;
breathe on them. (I could not, however, get possession of them,
because he frequently dashed them this way and that. [Com-
pare May 19th, P. M.] When she had done this about twenty
times, she said :)
"
So, now breathe on them! (I did so, and feel-
ing was soon restored to her fingers.) You are more calm now;
I feel it." Whence came the spitting of blood 9 "
You exerted
yourselftoo much on Sunday. The church meeting lasted three
hours. That was too much. For this reason such meetings are
not good on these days. The change of weather and the cold
morning mists in _which you walked also had an eH`ect. Be
easy now about your breast; I have just now looked into it
again ; it is not such a bad afair after all." Why did you, a
little since, move your fingers about so rapidly 7 "
Because they
pained me, and the motion relieved them." How can that be 'I
"I received a portion of your vital fluid, which, in consequence of
the alfection of your breast, is not altogether healthy, into my
hand; by those movements I got rid of what gave me the pain."
Why, in your last sleep, did you foretell six o'clock this evening,
incorrectly, as the time when you would fall into another crisis,
when you foresaw my spitting of blood long before, as you say,
and as I believe '2 "
Albert concealed this unexpected sleep from
/
l
116 ,HISTORY or 'rim casa.
would have excited surprise in you also, if I had told you the day
before yesterday that I should have an attack so early to-day.
But a crisis would not have been good for me yesterday evening,
and, at the same time, he did not wish to leave you till this even-
ing in an uneasy state of mind. (A pause.) Praised be God,
that the accident wiH have no further consequences. I have felt
apprehensive for a long while, because I knew of it so long ago.
I hinted at it several times'before this; but you could not under-
stand me, as I was not permitted to say more.
"
(She now rests
for some time.) Is your Albert there 'I "
Yes, he will not come
in the evening. This crisis takes the placeofthe one announced."
Express to him, I pray you, my hearty thanks for his interest, and
the perceptible reliefwhich he has justatforded me.
"
He is look-
ing at you ina friendly manner." Will you leave the earth to-day
again '1 "Albert will stay some time here, and then I shall ac-
company him to the moon." (At this moment her righteye, into
which I looked iixedly, began to move strongly from side to side ;
her head rose up,and advanced towards my right eye.) What is
the nature of the attraction exerted by my right eye 'I "
lcannot
explain it. I only feel_ as if there were something fastened in
the middle of my eye by which they were drawing me to
your eye. The same eflbct is produced by the diamond, but in
a lower degree. (A pause.) Albert now departs with me. (The
usual phenomena occur with her body.) I am in the moon." Is
Albert teaching again 'I "
Yes, but this time he is on that side
where the less degenerate souls are found. There are not very
many to hear him to-day." Do you know any of these souls 'I
"
No, not one; I see them each separately. These will soon be
permitted to change their present abode _for a better one."
Whither will they be translated 'I "
Albert says, that depends
on higher ordinations, and he does not know; that they will pass,
however, to another of the heavenly bodies, as is always the case
when souls are ready for their translation to a more perfect state.
(A pause.) 0, how wisely and how lovingly has God arranged
it all! (She prays.) Make me good, O Heavenly Father, and
everbetter, that I too, like Thy better spirits,may draw nearer to
Thee, by one degree after another, and not lag behind. Lead me
by Thy good Spirit in Thine own ways, that I may never lose
sight of Thee, my highest and last aim. (An interval of silence
of some length. My sister M. approaches her bed.) I can now
msroar or 'ras casa. 117
bear the presence of M. pretty well; I see her also; she is stand-
ing near me. She is right good, but something is still wrong
about her stomach. (A pause.) The time will yet come, dear
M., when you will be in a sphere that agrees with you better
than your present one; where you will be less harassed by the
calls of external circumstances. Your heart and your spirit will
then have more nourishment, and you will then enjoy better
health. Conlide only, it will turn out so. (A pause.) But now
I shall soon wake up ; the day after to-morrow we shall see one
another again, at six in the evening. (She trembles.) Alas!
my Albert is going. The return to the life of earth this time will
be accompanied with a hard struggle." (It was so. She
coughed for more than a quarter of an hour; then came on op-
pressions of the chest and convulsions, which terminated in uni-
versal agitations of the body. After a full half hour of bitter
struggles she awoke about ten o'clock,* much exhausted, and
astonished to find herself on a strange bed.)
May 30th.
To-day, according to the announcement of yesterday, there
was to be no magnetic crisis. It was so. Still R. as she was
sitting, about eight in the evening, on the sofa at work, suddenly
laid her head on one of its pillows and slept, while her head ap-
peared much heated, a natural sleep. Her breath was quite
short. '
She soon woke up, and my brother C. and myself talked
to her; but she never fully understood the meaning of our words.
"
I do not understand you, she said several times; I do not know
what they want." All at once she fell asleep during a speech
which she had not yet finished, woke suddenly up again, looked
about her quickly, begged me to stay near her, and again fell
asleep. ln a few minutes she woke again, and looked about
iixedly, seeming to bein full possession of her consciousness.
These alternations lasted for more than an hour, whereupon her
breathing became easier, and alter fully waking up, she recover-
ed her consciousness perfectly. The magnetic relation in which
I stood to her exhibited itself in this singular half-sleep, chieiiy
in the circumstance, that, while she slept, she became suddenly
aware of it whenever I left her bed in perfect silence, and be-
118 msron! or 'rn cuz.
came quiet only when some part of my body touched hers.
'Contact with her clothing, or with the ends of her fingers, was
sutiicient. It was further a circumstance particularly striking
in this slate, that she moved the muscles of her face with singu-
lar rapidity in all directions, and at first, made, now the most
laughable, now horribly distorted grimaces, but afterwards
imaged forth the most various emotions so
perfectly, in her looks
and gestures, that each was recognisable at the first glance.
On awaking, she complained of violent headache, which passed
od, however, in a short time.
May 31st, 6 to 8, P. M.
After the usual cramps, which, however, were considerably
shorter and less violent, and especially expressed themselves less
in convulsive movements of the arms and legs than had hitherto
been the case, there came on a short sleep, more like a natural
one, in which she neither saw nor heard me. After this, her face
brightened, and magnetic consciousness returned. (She imme-
diately said :)
"
Ah l Albert, you are here 'I You are ever look-
ing after me. I cannot sutliciently thank you for what you do
for me. (She speaks with Albert for some time in silence.) You
too are near me, M. I am heartily glad of it." Can you see M. 'I
"She stands quite near you, and her clothes touch you. You
are looking at her yourself; how should I not see her ?" Would
you then not see her, without my intermediation? i'
No: but if
you earnestly willed it, I should be obliged to see her, even though
she_ were not in the chamber." May M. speak with you 'I
"Yes, if she wisha, but through you. Attend closely to what
she says, and I shall hear it better. (Just as M. was going to
speak, she was called away. A silence somewhat prolonged.)
There comes my Amandus too. 0, is it my privilege to see
you again? 'Where have you been meanwhile? Ah! so? You
have been treating one of Albert's patients ?" Ask Amandus
why Albert does not treat his patients himself. "
Amandus says,
that Albert has heretofore, from time to time, committed suffering
persons to his care, that he might relieve them and direct the
cure of the disease, but that in more important cases Albert is
always present himself." Are they only magnetic patients whom
muon! or THE cas . 119
he attends ? "
Amandus? Yes." Is not that the case with A1-
bert too ? Does he relieve other sick persons also? "
I will ask
my Albert. (A pause) ; he says there are many kinds of diseases
and sufferings, in which there is need of help from on high, inthe
life of men; that it is his callingto render assistance, and to calm,
not only in the sufferings of the body, but in those of the soul
also.* He has already helped many somnambulists, but he must
be near the aiiiicted in mind also. He says that there is no suf-
fering which can befal the man, what name soever it may have,
in which there is not a supematural helper assigned to him by the
Most High; that every man has a guardian or protecting spirit ;~|>
but that frequently several men are committed to the care of one
higher spirit." But of what kind is the influence of these higher
beings upon waking men, not in the magnetic state? "
Often
bodily, often spiritual, according to the exigence of the case." I
cannot see how higher beings operate on men who have no such
susceptibility as those in the magnetic state for receiving that
liner vital substance, whose influx into you is now proving so
healthful. Albert says that this, with those quite sound in
body, is unnecessary. The deeper troubles of the soul, however,
always make the body to stand more or less in need of help, and
in consequence susceptible of a
higher influx of life ;1 but that
it is often suflicient, in silence and unconsciously to the sufferer,
to operate on his soul." But is it possible to affect a human
soul, save by means of some substance, although an extremely
fine one, while it is yet in the body? "Yes, he says that this is
always the case with the higher spirits appointed by God to take
care of men. Often they form the voice of their consciences,
which seems to them as the voice of God in their interior.§ But
what the nature of this operation on the soul is, my Albert does
*
The will and understanding of man are ruled by the Lord through
angels and spirits. And because the will and understanding are so ruled,
all things of the body are also, since these are from thence.-H. 4' I-L 228.
1' '1'here is with every man nn associate spirit.-T. C. R. 330.
1 It has been
given
to the angels to move my steps, my actions, my
tongue and speen , as they leased, and this by influx into my will and
the ht.-They said afterward; that every man is so ruled.-H 4- H 228.
§u%Vhen evil spirits begin to have dominion, then the_angels labor to
avert evils and falses, and hence there exists e
combat ; it ts this combat
rendered
sensible by perception, inward dictate and conscience.-
1 5
120 aisronv or THE css!!
not explain to me, because I could not comprehend it. He says,
this is an ordination of God which is not more incomprehensible
to you than the fact that you think and will and breathe. But
now let me rest. This conversation affects me. (She rests for
half an hour, at the end of which she exclaims with joyful asto-
nishménts) Ah, ah, how glad am I !" What delights you so
much 'I "I see the Bower again with Albert; O, God! how do I
thank Thee !" What throws you into such emotion 'I "Two
leaves are once more withered on it. And for that I have to
thank you, my benefactor." Why me 'I "
Because you hold out
with me in my suferings, stand at my side, and do not abandon
me. Oh, if that had not been the case, O God !" What would
have happened then 'I "This disease would not have left me in
two full years, and even then I should have remained sickly."
But how long will your disease last now 'I "
'1'hat I cannot tell
exactly, at present, but by no means so long." Will the leaves
of the flower wither in certain intervals oftime? "
Yes, such is
to be the case; but this depends still on circumstances, all of
which I do not yet see clearly. I do not at present know so
pre-
cisely the external influences which may operate upon me until
my recovery. Still I see that I am not to be sick very much
longer." How many leaves has the flower? "
I cannot rightly
see." But can you not count them? "
Ah, dear friend, it is
quite one thing to count with waking eyes, and anotherto do it
in my state. It is much more ditiicult; yetl will try. (She
makes an evident effort, and counts very slowly.) One-two-
three-four, no, I shall never get through ; I can never finish it
without mischief to myself; the exertion is too great. O, my
Albert, do you tell me the number; you can very well do it.
(She looks towards the place where her eye is always directed
when she speaks with Albert.) Now I know; there are yet
thirty leaves." There were then altogether thirty-three?
"
Yes."
How did you learn the number? "I saw them in A1bert."
Where is Amandus at present? (She points in the direction
opposite to Albert's position.) "I am between the two." You
are looking towards Amandus; are you speaking with him?
"
He is speaking with me. He is giving me good lessons. He
tells me that I should become better and better, and often remem-
ber what, on
many occasions, he inculcated upon me, whilel
nrsronv or' :rua csss. 121
was yet a child. (A pause of some length.) Whither
are you going with me, my Albert? I am leaving the
earth; ha, what a rapid iiight! I am already at the spot."
Where are you 'I (She gives no immediate answer, be-
coming rigid, and lying for some time like a pale, dead statue.
After several minutes she moves her mouth, and answers
to the question when repeated : Where are you 7 "
ln Venus."
Why not again in the Moon? "Albert has business just at
this time, in Venus, and the stay in this planet will now, he says,
be of great service tome." Will you be able to tell me some-
thing about this part of the creation also, that is of interest to
me 7 "
Ask, by all means; what I can observe myself, or Albert
can inform me of, I will again tell you faithfully." Tell me, in
the Hrst place, what business Albert has in Venus 7 "He is
teaching." He stands higher in knowledge, then, than its inhs._
bitants'I "
Yes; yet there are souls there already very enlight_
ened." Are there also departed men in this heavenly body?
"
Yes, precisely such." But also such as are originally and
properly inhabitants of Venus? "I see none, but Albert says;
there are such there, and that they have a considerable resem-
blance to us men !"* Why do you see none 7 "
Albert says, I
may and must not; that no somnambulist has ever been per-
mitted to see the original inhabitants of Venus." Why not?
"
That he does not tell me." What inhabitants of Venus is Al'
bert teaching? "Those who were once inhabitants of Earth,
and now, in Venus, have got an extremely line
bpdy, like the
clothing of my Albert, which seems to consist of light and gold-
shinc."1' Do you see these beings?
"
Certainly ; yet I may
not approach them so
nearly as those in the Mooni" Why not 7
"
They are all purer than I am, and Albert so wills it." Yet I
should think, that when their teacher is so closely lmited yvith
you, the scholars could have no objection to your approaching.
"
I do not know that; but Albert's command is enoughfor me."
*
In the planet Venus there are two kinds of men.-E. IL 106.
1* Spirits and angels are clothed in agreement with their intelligence, and
accordin to the reception of truth in their life, for this is intelligence.
Indeed the light of their inmlligence is formed into garments, and when
this light is so formed, they not only appear as garments, but actually are
garments.-A. E. 895.
6
A
122 A
HISTORY or 'ms casa.
On what degree of perfection do these inhabitants of Venus
stand, as compared with Albert and the inhabitants of the earth?
"Into Venus are translated all good souls, who, on earth, with
the best desires, were always in a condition where they did not
feel themselves happy; souls, who, without their own fault,
have missed the aim of their life, but remained uncorrupted;
the persecuted, the abused, the falsely estimated, good men, are
very numerous there ; the ignorant in religion, also, who were so
without their own fault, and yet remained good.* Such souls
have here a
happy lot; they all have their employments, con-
cerning which Albert tells me nothing. They are happy
among themselves, and yet this place is only one of preparation
for a
higher happiness that awaits them." You said that Al-
bert teaches ; is he about it now ? "
Yes, but there are fewer
hearers assembled this time, Albert says, than usual." Why
so? "
Many are celebrating a
parting, festival,1' in another
region of Venus, where several souls, who are ready for their
transitioni to a higher planet enter once more into the circle of
the friends whom they are about to leave, and rejoice in cotn-
mon with them." Whither are they transferred ? "
Albert
says, that he knows only of two, certainly, that they pass to the
sun." VVill the highest felicity the human soul can reach be
experienced in the sun? "
0, no, no, all that is only the begin-
ning. Above the sun, there are worlds without end§ and
felicities without number. The more perfect spirits are found
in other places of the creation. Yet God very often sends His
angels too, (and these are much higher than all the inhabitants
of the suns,) into our solar system to execute His commands.
Albert says, that I will be permitted to see this, this very hour;
_
*
It is provided that all who have lived well,and acknowledged a God,
are instructed by the angels after death.-D. P. 328.
#There are here days of festivity appointed by the prince.-T.
C. R. 745.
1But this beginning of ma.n's life after death continues only for a few
days; but how he is afterwards led from one state into another and at
length either into heaven or into hell, will be told in what follows.-
IL & H. 451.
§How immense the heaven of the Lord is may also be manifest from
this, that all the planets visible to the eye in our solar system are earlhs,
and moreover that there are innumerable ones in the universe, and all
full of inhabitants.-H. & H. 417.
/
HISTORY or 'run casa. 123
I do not know what he means." On what subject is Albert
speaking!
"
Of God's loving providences, and His wise and
fatherly designs in all His ways. I hear him also speak of
Jesus' doctrine, and of redemption, and of God's grace through
Him. Oh, you should hear how my Albert teaches! Now he
assumes a holy seriousness-a majesty before which I bend
with humility. When the names of God and Jesus are pro-
nounced, his whole person becomes glorious. Oh, my Albert
is deeply in earnest. You too must learn to speak thus before
your congregation; then God's blessing and power will be in
your preaching. (A pause.) O Thou most loving Father!
How do I thank Thee, that Thou hast caused Thy truth to be
proclaimed to me! What would Ibe, if I knew nothing of
Thee, and the doctrine of Jesus ! For me, too, did my Redeemer
die. How can I thank Thee for this, 0 Thou most Holy!
(A pause.) Yes, obedience to Thy will-let that be my tirst
duty, and love-yes love! Give me ever more and more of
living faith and love, and of trust in the grace which Thou hast
bestowed upon me. Thou hast often heretofore poured comfort
into my suffering heart; when my faith began to sink, Thy
love always raised me up again ;* O thanks and praise be to
Thee forever. (A pause of some length.) Make me, 0
Father, ever more and more ready to submit myself to Thy
holy leadings; teach me, in all zealous endeavors, to give
myself up to Thy wise ordination. Send light into my
heart, when darkness overshadows it ; teach me to pray
aright, and ever to cling to Thee. Teach me, for every
benefit of Thy hand, to render such thanks as are
pleasing
in Thy sight. 0 Father! make me good. Make me to account
little of the things of earth, and never to lose sight of the highest
aim. Then I shall never fall, and, when strong temptations
come upon me, Thou wilt protect me. Bless, most Merciful,
my resolutions ; give me strength and power to execute them.
Help me to fight against myself: Thou seest I would do so,
but without Thy aid it is not possible for me to do even the
*
For in them (temptations) man, to appearance, is left to himself alone
although he is not left, for God is then moat really preseutin the inmost oi'
him and supports him.-T1 C. R. 126. _
I
124 muon! or 'nm cssr.. _
least thing." (A long interval of silence, during which she has
her hands folded. The above prayer she spoke very slowly
and solemnly, making a shorter or longer pause at almost every
line.) Can you tell me any thing of the external nature of the
place where you are now staying!
"
Yes." What do you see
there! "Delightful lanscapes, and plains, and gloriously beau-
tiful gardens.* In the moon it is much more rugged than here."
Are these gardens laid out articiallyl
"
Yes, but not hedged
in, as below on the earth, and, in general, they are diB`erent;
they wind into one another, and into the country which I am
looking over. There are also quite different plants here, such
as we know nothing about. Still, they stand in a fair order,
delightful to my eye. The abode in this planet is glorious. (R.
now rests again for a quarter of an hour. After this she lays
her left hand on my breast, and says :) Your breast is still
somewhat affected ; yet it is better, and the attack will pass ofll"
(With her hand outstretched, she causes a stream from Albert's
power to flow through herself into my breast, which I feel
distinctly in the course of half a minute. During the process,
her left arm trembles, and, subsequently, a rigidity came on in
the forearm, the hand, and the five fingers.) Whence this
phenomenon! "Hold my hand now, and it will soon go over.
That which is diseased in your breast must pass over by degrees
into mine; I shall get rid of it more easily than you." You also
had a spitting of blood one day after me,_as you know; take
care of yourself, I pray you. "Be easy, quite easy: a part of
your affection I must have; it cannot be otherwise; but it will
do me no harm whatever. But do you take care how you go
out to walk, on cold, misty momiugs, and how you walk at the
rapid pace you usually do. (ln the meantime my sister M. had
come in again, with the intention of putting some questions to
R.. As she again stood quite near me, she observed her imme-
diately, and said :) M. has a mind to ask me some questions ;
let her do so by all means; I shall hear what she says through
you, if you pay strict attention." (M. asked :) Can you name
"
For there are in the spiritual world objects in all respects like those in
the natural world. Thus there are lands and countries, plains, fields, gar-
dens eud groves.-11 C. R.
autos! or rx: case. 125
nothing that will relieve the man who is sufering under con-
traction, whom we visited to-day! "
Ah! (joyfully :) if I only
could ! O, he suffers very much ! Albert, name me, I beseech
you, some remedy. (A pause.) Alas! now I see the case just
as it stands. We can only relieve him; he can never be cured.
Dear M., boil him occasionally a little wine ; it will be pleasant to
him, and will strengthen him; but always half water and half
wine ; otherwise it would be too strong for him ; leave out spices,
too, but do not spare sugar. (A pause.) How I thank you, Albert,
for telling me this. (A pause.) He may also take lemon-juice."
M. wishes to ask one question more. "I will hear." (M. asks :)
Whence does it come, that little incidents in my own or another's
life, if they are of _
a somewhat serious nature, often affect me so
much more strongly than they should 7 Can no bodily remedy
be applied for this! "
No, my dear, this depends on the tender-
ness of your heart, the depth of your feelings, the external and
often disagreeable circumstances of your position, and doubtless
also on your bad state of health. Hope for a change in your
circumstances, and these' things will all be better. (M. leaves
the chamber. When she was gone, R. said :) Oh, M. is very
good; she deserves all our love. Still-but now enough of
questions. Every one of them costs me an eH`ort. I will be
glad if you will now let me rest. (She appears to converse for a
long time silently with Albert ; when I left her couch, she always
begged me to return soon. M. called me shortly out of the
chamber, and gave something into my hands, with which I re-
turned, and said :) I have brought something for you; do you
see it! "I see a rose, and a sheet of paper, on which there
is something in M.'s handwriting." Can you read it! (I lay
the 'sheet on her stomach; she makes a manifest effort to read
it; after some time she says :)
"
Ah, 'it is sad, I cannot accom-
plish it; were I in a higher state only for a moment! (A
pause.) The intention, indeed, I see plainly in Albert and
yourself ; only the words-but yes-rose-garden-gift; at the
top is also the word friendly. Ah, Albert, I should like so much
toknow it." Well, then, I will read it. (I read:) You have
answered my questions in so friendly a manner, accept, there-
fore, the gift of this rose, the first from our garden.
"
Ah, how
much this delights me! Kind M.! I saw the general meaning
I
156 matron! or 'rmt case.
well; I had a clear image of the action, in my soul, but the`par-
ticular words I could not read in their connection. Remind me,
I pray you, of this scene, in the waking state; I shall know
something about it." How is it that you will remember this
particular scene, while, in general, you remember nothing that
occurs in the sleeping state! "
I exerted all my power to read
the paper; it was a matter of great interest to me; for which
reason, the impression on my soul was so
strong that it will oc-
cupy my thoughts hereafter." Do you know of no means
which would make it easy to bring your memory over with you
into the waking state! "
No, there is none." Think earnestly
on this point. I wish it greatly. (She reflects a long time, at
length, in about eight minutes, she saysz) "Yes, there is yet a
way; you must charge me earnestly to retain that which I am
to remember;right earnestly,-otherwise it will be ofno avail."
(The next morning, at breakfast, I asked her :) Did you not get
something yesterday as a present?
"
I do not remember any
thing, but last night I received something in a very vivid dream
from M.* What was it? A rose, and a paper on which stood
the words, &.c. (She repeats the above words exactly. But
when we gave her the rose, with the paper, which were both
near her in the room, she was exceedingly surprised, and, for
the moment, could not comprehend the circumstance. After
a short pause, R. said, all at once raising up her arms, as
if startled :) Ah, what a glorious splendor I see away
over my Albert!" Is it a splendor which proceeds from
him? "
O no; at a great distance, I see many hundred angels
approaching; what heavenly radiance beams from them ;1' it is
what no human eye could bear. (A pause.) Now they begin
asong ;1 Oh, you should hear it; never in my life have I heard
*
Neither did the Apostles, before the Iard's resurrection, see the Lord
in the glorified human, with the eyes of the body, but with the eyes of the
ggilrit,
which appears, after awakening, as if it were in sleep.-11 C. R.
1' Those who are in this a5'ection, or what is the same thing, who are in
this love, are in heavenly
intelggence,
and shine in heaven as with the
splendor of the expense.-H. Q . 347.
I have seen angelic faces ot' the third heaven, which were such, that
no painter with all his art could ever give any thing of such light to
colors so as to equal s. thousendth part of the light and life which ap-
peared i.n their faces.-H. Q- I-L 459.
I To convince them that this was the case, there came choirs out ofhea-
ven, consisting of angels from our earth, one choir after another, who o~
HISTORY or 'rua casa. 127
such harmonies.* Albert and Amandus approach to the choir
of angels, as they move by. But these stand much higher than
my Albert. He and Amandns take no part in the song; they
only stand at a distance, but even that is happiness. I dare not
now approach even my Albert. 0, in Heaven above it must be
glorious ! (A pause.) The singing ceases; the angels are
gone ; Albert and his friend return to me again." Do you know
the meaning of this appearance of angels? (A pause.)
"
Ah,
those parting souls are festively escorted from Venus to the sun
by these messengers of the Most I-Iigh.~|' Oh, who would not
exert himself with all the powers of his soul, in order once to
reach such heavenly honors! But now I -shall soon awake.
Albert will visit me again next Wednesday. To-morrow I shall
fall into a half-sleep. To-day the attack is shorter; I shall
awake as early as eight o'clock. You will still remain with me
after that, as long as the final cramps last before eight. To
leave me quickly is not good. But my recovery is advancing
rapidly; this you see by the shorter sleep of to-day ; the inter-
vals, also, between the attacks will, from this time, be longer. I
must further say to you, that I must now drink the tea which I
have prescribed. The last stool was attended with loss of
blood. Remind me of the tea; and do not forget to press me
earnestly to use the juice of the house-leek for those spots
again, as, in the waking state, I am averse to the application.
Now, my Albert goes away with his friend; both of them bid
me and yourself a
friendly farewell. Farewell !" (The cough
begins, but is soon succeeded by the oppressions, which last
longer; at length, after about eight minutes, and exactly at eight
o'clock, the usual guakings and agitations of the body come on,
whereupon she wakes up~in good spirits.)
géatlgrerivith
one voice, and in harmonious concert, glorified the Lord.-
°
These choirs sH`ectad the spirits ofJupiter who were present with such
delighglgxt they seemed to themselves to be caught up as it were to hea-
van.-
'I' After spirits have been by instructions prepared for heaven in the
above mentioned places,
they
are brou ht to the wa which tends up-
wards to heaven, and are de ivered to the angel- s there, and are at2
terwards received by other
angelg
and are in uced into societies, and
into manly gratificauons there.- .
Af IL 519.
.1 L
A
128 muon! or 'run casa.
June 3d.
The prediction of R., that she would feel more serious in-
convenience between the principal crises, was verified. As ear-
ly as ten in the morning, she complained of general indisposi-
tion, and subsequently, of pains in the breast and stomach.
About eleven there came on a half magnetic sleep, lasting half
an hour, which being ended, she remembered to have dreamed,
that it had been recommended her not to travel on the 4th to
Ludwigsburg. She had arranged this jaunt with a female friend,
without knowing that she had announced her next attack for
the fourth of June. In the half-sleep just mentioned, she now
observed, that Albert had brought her into the sleep on account
of this journey. During the middle of the day she was com-
fortable. About five in the evening there came on a new indis-
posltion and a short unconsciousness, from which, however,
she soon recovered. At length, about half past six, she
was attacked with violent pains in the breast, of which she
said, that she had never experienced them with such severi-
ty. She was, at the least, somewhat soothed by my lay.
ing my hand on her. Towards eight she fell again into a
half-magnetic sleep, the reason of which she assigned as being
the strong damp from ironing, in which she had been staying
the whole afternoon. For an hour she lay with her tongue para-
lyzed. She said afterwards, that if I had not been near her in
this attack,her healthwould have suffered so serious a prejudice,
that she would have been put back some fourteen days in her
recovery. She further observed, from feeling my breast, that I
felt pains in my right side, which she removed in a short time
by laying her hand on me, and raising the right arm, as above.
About half-past nine she awoke with new strength.
June 4th.
Very violent pains in the breast preceded the crisis announced
for to-day; they came on about six in the evening, lasted till
half past six, and probably took the place of the usual coughing,
which this time did not occur. At length, after many ex-
pressions of impatience, which she could not entirely suppressv
rnsroar or na casa. 189
she was delivered from her pains by violent agitations of the
body, and quieted, and transported to the land of her Albert.
Some minutes afterwards she began to speak: "Albert, my
most faithful guide, you are with me again ; you do not abandon
the poor sudiarer. But what do I see! (with a face of distress.)
You are so serious ; your look is notso friendly as usual! (A
pause, during which she seems to look upon him.) Ah, indeed,
Ihave done wrong. 0, if I had never said it! Forgive me-I
will not say it again." What was the wrong thing you are
here asking pardon for! "
You heard the word which I uttered
in the violence of my pain, and which immediately made, as I
now see in you, an unpleasant impression on your mind. Oh, I
should not have done it. It escaped me. (A pause.) O my
Albert, be kind to me again, forgive me; it was only an excla-
mation of pain: certainly I will not do the like again. Ah!
(joyfully) he will; he forgives; he believes me ; be willbe kind
again. (Before the sleep came on, she had once, from the pain
which she suffered so severely and so long in the breast, uttered
in impatience the words z
"
Heaven! Cross!" Iasked whether
these words, which had also immediately struck myself, were
what she meant. She replied inthe allirmative. There follow-
ed now a long pause, after which she said :)
"
Albert has given
me very earnest exhortations, growing out of the word which I
used so inconsiderately." Where are you with Albert to-day!
"
In Venus again ; as my cramps ended to-day, my Albert con-
veyed me swiftly thither. But what do I see! How glorious!
God, my God! whom shall I first thank 'l" What is the mat-
ter! what moves you so much! "Ab, the Bower is again visi-
ble to me, and six new leaves on it are withered. 0 Albert, you
are full of kindness to me. Be always hereafter. I pray yew my
guardian spirit; stand at my side when I am restored to health,
and can no more see you ; and when I am on the point of sinking,
do thou be near me, and hold me up ; draw my heart thither, where
purity and virtue and love have their abode. (A pause.) Yes, (joy-
fully,) I shall recover, entirely recover ; but I must then take care
of my body. My Albert says, that it does not fall sick by my own
fault. 0, if only I do not lose you, my Albert, if you only lead
me, I am not afraid; you and your will I will follow, follow
without reserve; and l shall
eva;
feel you (this you promise
l30 HISTORY OF THB CABB-
me) in my soul ;* how do I thank you for this. (A pause.) How
lovely, fresh and fair, the tlower stands there! The more leaves
wither on it, the fuller and more juicy becomes the stem and
the flowers. The power of the withered leaves withdraws into
them. 0, my guide, I owe you much and earnest gratitude;
(tuming to me) but I must thank you too." For what I pray!
"Had you left me in my attacks, what would have become of
mel I thank you heartily for it. (A pause.) Now, my Albert
is no longer alone." Who is with him? "I see five other
guardian spirits with him." Whose guardian spirits! "Three
of them are attendants of souls that still belong to our earth;
the other two are guides of beings that inhabit the star where
I am at present." Have the inhabitants of Venus still need of
guardian spirits?
"
Yes, Albert says such is the case ;f but he
adds, that the more perfect souls become, the more glorious is
their attendant; and that the angels who execute this omce at
the behest of the Most High are in the Sun. See, now they
fall down; they bend themselves and pray.1 0 the splendor
that beams over this whole scene! 0 that I might dwell here
and return no more to the earth." (A pause.) Do you perceive
the matter of their prayers! "Only God sees that, at this
moment; but I see a sign in the heavenly radiance that encom-
passes the suppliants,§ whose meaning I perceive in Albert.
This sign says:
"
God is love," and I see distinctly, that they
direct the impulses of their inner being to this heavenly sign.
(A pause, she prays.) Yes, Thou, O my God, Thou art love.
Thy love has loved me also. It often seemed to me dark and
gloomy, the way Thou wert leading me; but Thy love was in
it. Worship and praise be to Thee! Holy, Holy art Thou, O
God! All the heavens 'are full of Thy glory. 0 that I could
now join in the song of those higher, purer spirits, who are
'Riagg vtgipn they are with men, dwell as it were in their atlections.
1' Tiereiare others (of the angels) who defend novitiste
spirits,
which
are
those who have come recently from the world, from in estations by
evil spims.-H. Q* H. 391.
R.; gzsfw
a company of spirits all on their knees praying to God.-T1 C.
5 Thhre are also given in the heavens writings without the aid of the
:gg lgsglearispondsnce
of the
thoughts ; but these are not penns-
HHTOBY Ol' TH! (IASB. -
131
praising Thee! my prayer is weak, receive it graciously. Thou
hast promised, that even sinners may approach Thee with
believing prayers; bear me then, also, and let my weak suppli-
cations be pleasing in Thy sight. Make me well, make me
good, and repay to him, also, who stands so
benevolently at my
side, the good he does me. Bless him for the many sacrifices
he has already made for me. (A pause.) Now my Albert
departs with his friends. He will converse with them; but yet
be remains so near, that my body, through yours, still continues
powerfullyto feel his influence ;how beautiful it is-it is asthough
a path of light extended from him to us. (A silent interval which
lasts almost an hour.) Now my Albert has returned. I see in him
that he hastalked over with his friends a weighty commission,
which has been given to them from above." Can you not see
of what nature this commission is 'I "
No, Albert is very
serious ; I am not permitted to know it. Speak of it no more.
But, Albert says, you must speak frequently with me, when I
am awake, of higher things, and remind me when I forget
myself. One sees faults in others much more quickly than in
one's seltl Do so very often; I desire so much to growing
ever better and better. (A pause.) I see into your body; your
stomach is suffering to some extent ; you have been vexed ; that
should not be. (She laid her left hand on my stomach, and the
uncomfortable sensation I had been experiencing there for some
hours, was, in some eight or ten minutes, almost gone. Ou the
other side, she complained of cramps in the hand, which
however, soon remitted, on pressing it for half a minute.) I
must further say to you, that you must not preach yet the
coming Sunday. Will you obey, this time, readily! You have,
I think, good reasons. (She smiles.) I shall shortly be trans-
ported to the earth. Albert will visit me again on Saturday
evening. (She trembles slightly.) I have just arrived here with
Albert. To-morrow there will occur a half-sleep. Give me
to-morrow afoot bath, with salts and senna. Now I shall awake.
Farewell, my Albert! 0, see, thdre he soars away!" (The
usual cramps come on, and she awakes.)
June 5th.
At tive in the afternoon a letter was delivered to her, whose
L
'
132 . nrsronv or :nut casa.
contents so affected her, that she was suddenly attacked with
cramps in the breast, and shortly afterwards, following a few
convulsive motions, there came on a half magnetic state, in
which she continued an hour and a half without speaking a
single word. The lower jaw was spasmodically closed; she
indeed recovered some powers of motion from time to time, when
my hand was laid on her; but she wanted the ability to speak,
as even her tongue seemed paralyzed, as I inferred from some
inarticulate sounds which were evidently attempts at pronun-
ciation. Only alittlebefore waking did her speech gradually re-
turn to her; nevertheless, she spoke at first in a very broken,
painful and stammering manner. To the question, Is Albert
there? she answered,
"
No, he cannot be with me at present;
he is engaged elsewhere." When will you wake up?
"
In
eleven minutes." How can you see this so plainly in your
present state, when you recognize it at other times, as you say,
in Albert! "
I feel it very distinctly in the ray of vital power,
which proceeds from you, and is growing thinner and thinner;
at the time I have mentioned, this elliux will cease entirely, and
my vital fluid will then withdraw into the recesses of my body.
Thisl can see distinctly, although I am just now on a very low
magnetic degree." (Her prediction was fulfilled, according to my
watch, most punctually : she waked up cheerful, and it was ob-
servable, that she did not remember the contents of the letter she
had received, during the whole evening, although her attention
was directed to it. The letter was again given to her lirst, on
the following morning, and then there awoke by degrees in her
soul, the recollection of having received it the day before, with-
out, however, producing by its contents the same strong effect
upon her.)
~
June 7th.
The magnetic sleep, instead of coming on at six in the even-
ing, as had hitherto been regularly the case where the crisis was
pre-announced, came on to-day an hour later, to wit, about seven.
The cramps in the breast and neck scarcely came on before
seven, and were violent and long continued. When magnetic
consciousness was present, Iaslred: How does it happen that
the crisis has occurredto-day an hour later than usual 7 ='
The
msronr or 'rnl casa. 133
reason is, the interval attacks, which greatly advance my recov-
ery, especially when you do not leave me while they last. My
nervous power is already more strengthened, and there is 'more
time required now to transport me into this state. Hereafter,
also, the sleeps will not last so long as before." W'ill you also
see less clearly from this time 'l "
No, this faculty will be ex-
alted yet, for a short period, and then gradually diminish. My
recovery advances rapidly; those interval attacks serve, as it
were, to disburden my body; they are of a different kind from
the present one, when you operate upon me through Albert; it
seems as
though, in the half-sleeps, my body, at the same time
that it assumed vital power, exhaled, as it were, diseased stuif;
after which, less of it collects, and my vital force works with less
hindrance towards my restoration." Is Albert with you!
"
Yes; he has also brought his friend Amandus again. I thank
you, Albert, for the pleasure you have thereby afforded me. But
Amandus cannot stay here. His business will summon him
away shortly. (A pause.) Ah !--the iiower! I see it too
vith Albert! 0, thanks be to God! How full is my heart
of joyful gratitude! (She folds her hands, and prays for a
long time in silence ; at length she says :) To you, too, my
Albert, I offer most heartfelt thanks; (to me :) You have not
done less for me. My Albert looks at you and rejoices over
you." How is it with the flower? "
Again there are six leaves
withered, and consequently the half of my disease is gone, and a
great part of my sufferings passed through. The disease is now
on the wane; things will go on so after this, unless peculiar
circumstances, which I cannot foretell, intervene. From this
time until Friday, I have, indeed, a great deal to suffer; Al-
bert will not visit me again before the. thirteenth." Why so
late 'I -" Albert says, that the interval attacks must now have
place, that they are better than his influence, only it is almost
indispensable that you should lay your hand on me while they
last. These attacks are more striking, to those who do not un-
derstand the case, than the real magnetic sleep; but they are
true medicines to me. Towards the conclusion of the disease
I shall have still to pass through fearful cramps. But do not be
alarmed at them; [shall have them as well in the waking as in the
magnetic state, especially before the principal attacks. As soon
134 HISTORY or :rim casa.
as these occur, my complete recovery is not far odl Between
to-morrow and Friday, there will happen several light attacks of
this kind, and two unconscious states. (My sister M. asks :
What is to be done for the maid, who has been vomiting con-
stantly for the last two hours, and` even throws up the things
given to strengthen her stomach? R. repliesz) She over-
heated herself, and then chilled her stomach hy drinking cold
water too soon; let nothing spirituous be given to her; let her
only take a cup of warm flesh-broth, and she will be better; let
her be put to bed; she will soon fall asleep, and wake up well."
(They followed her directions, and the result justified her pre-
diction, to the letter.) Where are you, this time, with your
Albert! "
Here in Schwaikheim ; the departure of my soul to
any distance from my body would not be of service to me to-
dayl" Why so! "
He say that you are my best medicine, this
time, and_that it is therefore best as it is. You have a mind to
ask some questions; do so." 'On what subject would I like to
be informed? "
I see in you, that you wish to hear something
from me relating to the state of the soul after death." Exactly ;
but tell me first the meaning of the expression you made use of
some time since, when you said that the magnetic sleep had
some resemblance to death? "I said so, and it is the fact; this
state is apartial dying," Can you not explain this to me some~
what more particularly. "I can well believe that this is a point
of some interest to you; you have already to-day thought right
seriously on your own death. I know the place where you
meditated on this great change ; and I can also name to you the
time." (This declaration startled me; for it was really as she
said, and no one in the world could have had the slightest idea of
this contemplation of mine.) Be calm, I pray you ; I am obliged
to have a share in it, when your soul is, thus agitated. (She
trembled some moments.) You need not be surprised that I
should know this. You thought, just now,-(it was the fact)-
ahout the meditations on death, which passed through your
mind to-day. This I saw; otherwise, it would not have been
possible for me to know them." Tell me then-for I am think-
ing the same thoughts at this moment-what did I think to-day,
and when and where was it? "
We were still sitting at table
at the noon-day meal; you had left the room and were looking
msroar or 'rim casa.
`
135
through the window of your own chamber, which looks towards
the church. Here you asked yourself; "How would it he with
you, if you were summoned into eternity this very day 'l" And,
after a little time, you gave answer to yourself: "I could part
calmly with every thing on earth." (It was exactly as she said.
My surprise at this deep inspection of my sou! again produced
emotion in me, the consequence of which was, that she began to
tremble again, and said quite seriously z) I must beg you ear-
nestly to be more calm; you injure me too." (To comply with
her wishes, I diverted my thoughts by the following conversa-
tion :) You said that the magnetic state was a partial dying;
explain this to me, if you can. (She gives no immediate answer ;
as I repeated my question, she said, turning her head upward
with a pleasant smile: "
Farewell, dear Amandus! (To me.)
He has just been called away; but he will come back. (I
now repeated my question once more, whereupon she replied :)
Yes, certainly the magnetic state is similar to death. The way
in which the soul leaves the body I cannot indeed explain I0
you ; I can only give you an image of it, as I feel it. It seems
to me now, as if, in the waking state, the body were the house
of the soul, and it might look out, now at this window, now at
that. In the somnambulic state, however, the soul has gone
out, and shut the door of its dwelling. For this reason I now
see you and myself, as a third person does a group. I am at
your leil, and am looking on
you and my own body." Do you
see your body so, and in the position, that it now presents itself
to my eyes?
"
Certainly." (She describes to me,very cor-
rectly, the position of her several limbs.) Will this be thecase
also in dying?
"
Yes, only with the difference that the return
of the soul to the body is no longer possible. It has then cut
off from itself its very last way of access. In dying, the spirit
leaves its residence exactly as in the magnetic sleep.* But as
*In what follows to the close of this crisis, there is a diference of
phraseol between the Seeress and the extracts from Swedenborg. But
ll is a dwnnce of hroseulo only; the
harmong
in the substantial
meanin of both wilrl be mum perceived. 'l'he eeress makes man's
imrnorrgl part to consist of nerve-spirit, soul and spirit. Swedenborg says
that the human mind is formed in three degrees, natural,spiritual and
celestial. lt is only to compare what the one says of the spirit, with what
the other says ofthe celestial degree, to see their agreement. And so of
r'
1 s
186
'
axsronv or ras csss.
it cannot be without the soul, (because they are united as body
and soul,*) for this reason, itclannot rise without it. This latter
does not.part from the body so easily as the spirit, which is
divine in its quality ;1~ only with hard struggles does the soul
leave the body, with which it has much ainity and which it
greatly loves. For this reason it also, for the most part, takes
with it, in dying. its corporeal appendages, which often are not
the best; because they have grown as it were into its very
nature." What distinction is there between spirit and soul?
"
The spirit is the life of the soul, the eternally Divine, begot-
ten from God ;1 the latter belongs to its personal essence and
the other two. Swedenborg's general account of the mind is here an-
nexed.-Translator.
'1'he human mind is distinguished into three regions; the lowest is
Zalgd natural, the middle spiritual, and the lughest celestial.-T.
The interiors of man which are of his mind (mens) and mind (animus)
are also in similar order (with the three heavens ;) he has an inmost, a
middle and an ultimate.-IL Q' H. 30.
It is well to be known that the interiors with the angels are what cause
them to be in one heaven or another ; for the more the interiors are open
to the Lord, the more interior is the heaven in which they are. There
are three
degrees
of the interiors with every one, as well angel as spirit,
and also wit msn. Those with whom the third degree is opened are in
the inmost heaven; those with whom the second or only the first is open,
are in the middle or ultimate heaven.-li Q H. 33.
'But from much experience in the s iritusl world it has been made
known to me that a man from head to £ot, or from the lirst things in the
head to the last in the body, is such as his love. All in that world are
forms of their own love, the angels forms of heavenly love and the devils
of infernal love; the latter being deformed in face and body, but the
former beautiful; and when their love is assaulted their faces change,
and if it is much assaulted they disap ear totally; this is
'peculiar
to that
world and happens because their are as one with eirminds. It
is a tenet of
angelic
wisdom that the mind of a man is a man, because
God is man, an that the body is the extemal of thc mind that feels and
acts; and that they are one and not two.-D. L. W. 369.
Every man has an internal and an external.-The internal and extemal
of which we have treated, is the intemal and the external of the spirit of
man. His body is only an extemal supersdded, within which they ex-
ist.-Tl C. R. 401.
'l'The human soul, forasmuch as ltis a superior spiritual substance, re-
ceives influx immediately from God ; but the human mind, forasmuch as
it is an inferior spiritual substance, receives influx from God mediately
throagh
the spiritual world.-I. 8.
I ith every angel and with every npn there is an inmost or
highest
degree, or an inmost or
highest something, into which the Divine o the
Lord
proximately liows,an from which it disposes the rest of the interiors,
whic succeed according to the degrees of order with them. This in-
most or highest may be called the entrance of the Lord to sn angel and
to s msn, also His veriest dwelling-place with them.-IL ti H. 435.
nxsromr or 'rss casa- 137
completes its whole. In its essence it is a spirit-body, and
hence can put on altogether the nature of the spirit, and spirit-
ualize itself; and, on the other hand, can overcome the spirit,
and more and more'corporealize and debase itsel£ It is the
countenance of the spirit, its characteristic form, or
clothing, as
ybu will.* Neither can subsist without the other; they are as
closely united as soul and body-how, I cannot tell. These
are connections that exceed the power of my eye." But per-
haps you can tell me how both are united with the body.
"
Yes,
I can." The soul is the internal sense of the man, by which
the spirit expresses its essential activity; the latter gives the
soul power for its vital expressions. But that these may be
manifested, there is required still a third, which is superadded,
and which, at the same time, moves and animates the body.1'
This is an exceedingly _fine substance, of which the soul itself
seems almost entirely to consist, and with which it pervades
the body in all its parts." Is this the so-called nerve-spirit!
"
You have the right idea; it is what gives to the body external
life, mobility and power; but the name does not please me."
Do you know any which describes it better! (She reflects.)
"
No, I know no word for it." What becomes of this nerve-
spirit, in death? "
It is indeed taken out of the essence of the
soul, but, by its operations in the body, has more of its nature
than the soul, in itself considered.1 It is always its instrument
for operating in the external world." But how is it with itafter
death? "When the soul parts from the body, this fine sub-
stance accompanies it': for it is as well a
part of the soul as of
the body. Should it stay in the body, this would live on, not-
'The body of every angel and spirit is the external ibrm of his love,
a.lto§et'he_r correspignimé maggie
intemal form which is mind (mens) and
mm (an1mus).- _ . _
1 The interior man is the middle between the internal and extemal
man ; by means of the interior man, the intemal communicates with the
externaliaiéd Igvgghout
such medium, no communication could possibly
enst.-- _ _
-
1 The reason is, because an
angel and n spirit, in cons nence of being
lint born _s
mg;ir.;
the world,
delrivessubaiitenci 'grheederiylesfrom the
mmost nap o nature a me ium wil. imse tween W at is spirit~
ual onnrwhat is natural, That there is such a medium the angels know,
but whereas it is from the inmost principles of nature, and the
exgressiorll
oLa*lLl:¢:§1|a.g5sWegrom
its ultimatee, it can only be described y things
a ._ . _ .
u
I A
l38 memos! or 'rns casa.
withstanding the soul had left it. This is in some measure the
case in my present state." What object has the transition of
this substance with the soul into another world! "
In death the
soul is the body of the spirit, and is destined, if the spirit is not
to miss the high end of its creation, to become one with it,* to
be spiritualized. (A pause.) This presents itself to me as an-
other dying; the nerve-spirit is destined at last, as what is more
gross and corporeal, to be entirely removed, and the soul to as-
sume the nature of the eternal light, of the spirlt."1- To what
end does the nerve-spirit serve after death! "
It does not re-
nounce its nature; although invisible to the bodily eye, it is
very gross and corporeali in comparison with the essence which
spirit and soul form together. The soul cannot free itself imme~
diately after death; each, it may be said, takes something of
lower desire with it into the other state,§ and this is what at-
tracts and weighs the nerve-spirit downward to the earth. Souls
quite earthly, wrap themselves gladly in it, and give thereby the
characteristic form to their spirit. II By the aid of this substance
they can make themselves seen, heard, and felt, by men.
"
Yet not
when they please!
"
No, it is always by God's will or permis-
sion."1i Can they also produce sounds '! "
They cannot utter
_;_ __
*
It is a tenet of angelic wisdom, that the mind of a man is a man, be-
cause God is Man ; and that the body is the extemal of the mind, that
feels and acts; and thatthus they are one, and not two.-D. Q W. 369.
T That man alter death is his own love, may likewise be manifest from
this, that those things are then removed, and, as it were, taken away from
him, which do not make one with his ruling love; if lie be a
good spirit,
all things discordant or
disagreeing are removed, and, as it were, taken
away,
and thereby he is let into has own love.-I-L 4- H. 479.
t he natural mind also derives its form partly from substances of the
natural world, but the spiritual mind, only from substances of the spiritual
world.-D. 4- W. 270.
§ Some [are conveyed into heaven] after a short stay with
gpod spirits,
where the grosser
things
of their thoughts and aliections, whic they con-
tracted from honors an richesfin the world, are removed, and thus they
are
gurilied.-H. Q' H 513.
ll or with every one the exteriors and interiors must act in unity, and
must correspond, it not being allowed to any one in the spiritual world to
think and will in one way, and to speak and actin another ; every one then
must
l:»e_the eliigy of his own appetite,or his own love, and, therefore such
as he is in the interiors, such he must bs in the exteriors.-IL Q Ii 49§.
li All order is from Jehovah. that is frornthe Lord, according to which
all and single things are govemed by him, but with a manifold difference,
lxsméalgagomwill, from good pleasure, from leave, and from permission.-
nxsroa! or rn: cuz. 139
them themselves, but only excite them in the atmosphere of the
earth." But if they can make themselves felt, they can do men
harm and mischieii "
That they may not do ; such a thing will
never happen without God's express permission. But ask me no
more questions at present ; I must rest, Albert says. (A pause
of three quarters of an hour, after which she begins to speak
again, of her own accord :) You wish to ask something more;
do so, it will not hurt me." Have the departed, then, a kind of
body after death 1 "
Yes, what I told you of they take with them
in dying, and that, certainly, is something corporeal. The spirit
is wrapped in this purer matter,* and the qualities of the bodily
are governed and regulated by the essential qualities and the
moral worth of the spirit. If the spirit is enlightened by the di-
vine,~|- the body also is light; if its endeavors are upwards, it
spiritualizes and exalts that which is low about it, and gives it to
partake of its heavenly nature ; but in the opposite case, if it is
the common, the selfish, which the pirit desires, the inferior
gets the upper hand, and the heavenly light derived from God in
it is enveloped, in a manner, in mist ;1 it is overcome by the
meaner portion of its essence, and by its selfishness; the undi-
vine, the dark hangs about it, attracts it, and presses it down-
wards to the earth and sin. This is the way to the kingdom of
darkness ; the inner light beams no longer purely; it is dark-
ened, and the corporeal quality of the spirit draws near to the
shadowy or to darkness. Even its form is divested of all that
is divine, and falsehood, and sin and selfishness have attached
1_;
*
The natural mind of man consists both of natural and spiritual sub-
stances; from its spirituil substances thought is produced, but not from its
natural substances. The natural substances of that mind, which, as has
been said, recede by death, constitute the cutaneous covering of the spi-
ritual
body
of spirits and angels.-D L. W 257.
1' The
ight
of heaven is divine truth, and divine truth is the Lord in
heaven. his light does not enter except into the interiors of the mind:
for the interiors ofthe mind are formed for receiving that light, and as it
enters, it also afects and delights--I-L 4- Ii 347.
1The same
iiglxt
also presents pleasant colors in one object, and un-
pleasant in anot er; yea it brightens itself in bright things, and shines;
and it dims itself in
things
inclinin to hlaclt, and darkens itselil It is the
like in the spiritual worl : there also there is heat and light from its sun,
which is the Lord; 'yvhich How from Him into their
suggests
and objects ;
the subjects and olnects there are angels and spirits.- . P. 292.
f
140 nxsron! or 'rn casa.
what is undivine, ugly,* delusivef and perpetually fluctuating,
even to its exterior." Whither are departed spirits transferred
after death? "
God has many dwelling-places for them, de-
pending altogether on their necessities, and the internal charac-
ter of the soul."j; Are they transferred thither immediately alter
death! "
O no, by no means all,§ although no soul leaves the
body without supernatural aid." Who gives it aid '! "Higher
beings, also guardian spirits are put in charge of this business
too. Even in the magnetic sleep I should never find my Albert
in immeasurable space, and therefore he can find me. So it is
in dying; immediately at its departure there is a guardian near
to the desolate soul, who points out to it the way it has to go."||
In this manner, every soul would still be led, directly after
death, to its appointed place.
"
Every soul retains its freedom,
and hence it happens, that souls, who, with ditliculty, tear them-
selves away from what is earthly, who have found their whole
happiness in lt, and have not learned to know and value any
higher good, or have become perfect victims of their passions,
are then, as it were, magnetically attracted by the earthly, and
following their own internal propension, cannot quit the
earth. Invisible to common eyes, these unhappy souls, hy God's
permission and their own perverted desires, still dwell on earth,
until they have come to the knowledge of their wretchedness.
Alas! and this is often along while." _Is it the middle state, or
middle kingdom, called Hades, in which such souls are! "
Yes,
but still the souls of which I speak are in it by their own free
will ; many others endeavor higher, nevertheless, they also must
fo* 'I'goseI;vhoI;re4g¢;rporeal loves, appear gross, obscure, black and de~
rme .-- _
5- . .
'I' Evil spirits in mother life are scarce any thing else but lusts and fan-
tasies, having acquired to themselves no other life -
their fantasies are
such that they perceive them as realities.-A. C. 1966.
gi
All
gh;so
in plscesof instruction dwell distinct among themselves.
§ 'lines who are immediately taken up into heaven, are those who have
been regenerated and thus prepared for heaven in the world. But those
who have been interiorly
wickedhand exteriorlylas
to appearance good, are
immediately
cast into hell. Butt e latter end e former are few in com-
parlson wi those who are
keptin
the world of
splirits,
and there according
to divine order
arelplepared
or heaven or for he .-H. my H. 491.
II When the so thus separates itself it is received by good spirits,
wh: aéesrfaady
to do it all kind oflieee vvhilstit is in fellowship with them.
msron! or 'mx case. 141
continue in such a 'middle state for some time." For what end
is this? Can you tell me more about this middle state! "I see
you do not fully believe in it. I will tell you, however, what I
know; my Albert communicates it to me. But no more for to-
day; I shall awake in a short time. (A pause.) See, Aman-
dus has come for Albert," Tell me yet, why the magnet has
produced so little efect on you to~day'!
"
Your influence great-
ly preponderated to-day, and swallowed up, as it were, that of the
magnet. (A pause.) Now I awake. Farewell, my Albert!
Farewell, Amandus !" (She begins to tremble and wakes up
after the usual cramps.)
June 8th.
On the eighth of June, at half past ten in the morning,
without external occasion and without being preceded by any
mental emotion, which, when at all intense, always produced a
balf-sleep, there came on a half magnetic state, during which
she lay rigid and pale, with her eyes open and directed askance,
the pupils much dilated and the lower jaw convulsively closed.
The breath was scarcely perceptible, the pulse extremely slight.
An attack of rigidity quite similar came on her in the afternoon
at three o'clock. On both occasions it lasted an hour and a
half. It seems worthy of note in these attacks, that they were
not preceded by the slightest indisposition, so that she lost her
consciousness suddenly, in the midst of conversation, and in the
most cheerful mood, and was already quite rigid by the time
she was carried to the sofa. No convulsion was connected
with them, none of the usual cramps, no
cough. She woke also
quite suddenly, without any bodily agitation going before. The
forehead was only contracted for a moment; at the same time,
the eyes took their natural direction; her features returned to
their usual form, and she was awake. In spite of the cramp-
like rigidity of her limbs, which to-day lasted three hours, she
was so far from complaining of pain or bodily exhaustion, that
she declared she had not for a long time felt so comfortable.
June 9th.
On the ninth of Iune, at four in the aftemoon, there occurred
142 nrsron! or 'rms cur.
an intemal attack, which received 'greater intensity and dura-
tion from the following cause. R. spoke, at breakfast, of a letter,
concerning which she knew that its receipt had for the present
been kept from her, from motives of kindness. After learning
by accident that the letter had been received, she had recognized
the kind intention of this concealment, and yet must needs
throw my sister M. into embarrassment by asking about it. I
censured this conduct, and in doing so, used at the breakfast
table the expression: This is a case in which more delicacy and
kindness should have been manifested. These words olfended
R., and she replied 2 It is unjust to charge me with intending
to act without delicacy and kindness. Upon my replying that
I had not asserted as much, and had said nothing whatever of
the motives of her conduct, she maintained her pointwith some
irritation, which compelled me to silence and put me somewhat
out of humor. A jest misunderstood and taken in bad part by
R., who still continued excited, renewed this dissatisfaction at
the noon-day meal, on which occasion she allowed herself to
use, with a peevish expression of countenance, the words :
"
I
am made a fool oil" About four in the afternoon I was called
to see her, as violent cramps had made their appearance. I
found her still conscious, and by laying my hand on her, as she
begged me to do, the symptoms were visibly relieved. Soon,
however, there followed a half-sleep and palsy of the tongue,
which, in spite of all endeavors to relieve it, lasted ,two hours
and a half After this period the lower jaw at first moved
tremblingly, then slowly up and down, and she began of
her own accord, to speak slowly and low. "Your influence
on me to-day is not very eifectual, neither is it as bene-
ficial as usual." Whence does this proceed? "I do not
know: I do not see very clearly, even you, I do not see
quite distinctly. (A pause.) Ah, your mood is by no means
pleasant either. What has happened to you? Certainly I am
not in so pleasant a mood as usual, and I should think you
ought to know the reason of it right well ; you have put me out.
(Startled and astonished.) "Il Good Heaven, I know nothing
of the matter." Remember, I, pray you, what ha taken place
to-day, and especially your conduct at breakfast and after dinner.
"Yes,l have, but only obscurely, an idea of what you allude
-
msroar or TBI casa.
'
143
to; but I only feel it; I can see nothing in you, as my Albert is
not here; tell me, if you please, the matter. (I did so, and she
quickly remembered the occurrences; nevertheless, she said :)
I was not in the wrong,either in the morning or at dinner. My
intentions were good." That is not the question; it is whether
you did not receive from me, in an excited and irritable manner,
a reproof which was well deserved. (She weeps, falls into
cramps, trembles, complains of violent pains all over her body,
and says :) "
I did not deserve it; I was in the right." If you still
adhere to that opinion, I do not know, in fact, what to think of
`the much extolled, high moral sense of somnambulists. I am
somewhat comforted only by the fact, that you are half awake,
and in a very low degree of magnetic sleep. If Albert were
here, he certainly would not approve your conduct. "I feel
that he will yet come." Why to-day,,when, in your last crisis,
you fixed his next visit as late as the thirteenthl '°
He must
come, if I am to have it in my power to awake." Can you not
'wake otherwise? "
No, your iniiuence is now withdrawn from
me; I am, as it were, screved together." What canl do to
relieve you?
"
Nothing, nothing at all; I must wait, and lie
and sleep until Albert comes, or you change your view and
take a better humor, if I should have to lie several days." I
am heartily sorry for that; but my view of your behavior I
cannot and will not change. Albert will certainly not stay
away under these circumstances. (She lay in this way, as if
dead, for an hour, until she said :) "Ah, now he will appear,
my Albert; I see him at a
great, great distance; he approaches."
(She is evidently rejoiced.) Will you now be relieved from
your rigidity '! (No answer follows ; she shows a very earnest
face, and at length weeps violently. In about five minutes she
says :) I was entirely in the wrong ;_ I saw it immediately in
my Albert as he came nearer. He was observing me fora long
time before he came, and saw my suiferings ; but he purposely
delayed relieving me from them immediately. I deserved it;
why was I so self-willed and passionate ! I have hurt the feel-
ings of all, by my unhandsome behavior. Albert says, you were
entirely right in_ giving me the reproof; I should have been
perfectly silent about that letter, and then all would have been
avoided; neither ought I to have been irritable and offended,
I
144 msronr or 'ras casa.
inasmuch as your motive was perfectly kind. He says further,
that you must always tell me what is not right about my
conduct, that you must indeed do it with some management, be-
cause my nerves are so excitable, but that this nervousness does
not excuse me for doing as I have done." I will do so, and
proceed with a constant regard to your morbid state, when it
happens that I must speak. "But understand well, that you
are always to tell me the whole truth; in this article, Albert
says, you must not spare me." I understand you, and I am
right glad that Albert has taken my view of the matter. Had
the contrary been the case, I should not have known what to
think of him. "I was half Waking; this was the reason why
my self-will mastered me. Albert has now given me a lesson,
and he is looking at you with a pleasant countenance. (A
pause.) I could now wake up, but I may not, because *I have
lost too much strength in the last three hours. I must recover
it from Albert first, through your hand. He will stay yet longer
with me, because I require his presence." Is it then a perfect
magnetic crisis in which you now are! "
Yes, but I shallstill
wake up without the magnetic cramps." Can I then put some
questions to you, which take up again the important subject
we were speaking of lately!
"
Yes, I now see every thing in
Albert as heretofore, quite clearly ; and I have now reached the
highest degree of clairvoyance of which I am capable. I shall
continue sometime yet in this degree. This faculty will after-
wards decline with the disease." Tell me if there is really
what is called a middle state for departed souls? "
Albert says,
such a state undoubtedly exists, in which all souls must tarry,
for a longer or shorter time after death."*' Is it a detinite place
you mean? "Yes, it is the earth and its atmosphere, and the
moon that accompanies the earth, and an extensive region
beyoud." The moon is really then, as you said before, a
destined abode for departed souls? "I did not say so. There
are departed souls there ; but this is only a_ temporary
*
The world of spirits is not heaven nor is it hell, but it is a middle place
both f thith n he death first comes and then ether
or state between ; or er ma s r , _
some time, he is,
eccordingfto
his life in the world, either elevated into
heaven or cast into hel1.- .
'Q IL 421.
HISTORY 01' THE CASE. 145
porary residence for them, if they vilI."' It is true, many have
no mind to strive upwards. It is not God's will, that souls
after death should wander hither and thither uncertainly, and
not reach immediately a lasting residence ; they are all in fault
for this themselves. Even the most advanced souls make some
stay after death, thoiigh a brief one, in their proper place in this
middle kingdom. Every soul takes with it into the other world
something imperfect that must be fully stripped away. Every
care about the things of earth, which they have left, must`be
removed ; the best of souls, however, may take something of this
kind along with them. These, however, by their intemal wealth
and by divine aid, soon become free from it, and rise to the
place of their further destination."{' Does this middle state
extend also to the inhabitants of the other planets-to Venus, for
example?
"
There is a happy abode in Venus; it is a longer
residence for human souls ; but neither do they remain here ; it
is not the earth and the moon alone that form this middle state."
But are all souls together in this place without order and
arrangement?
"
No, no, that is impossible; the middle state
also has its divisions, and the soul immediately after death is
directed by a guardian spirit to the place where it belongs.
There are classes and degrees in the middle realm, like grada-
tions of happiness and misery.t (A pause.) Oh, happy is he
who brings with him little that is earthly or dark, into this
state !" Do the souls form their own shape after death as they
like? "
Yes, by means of the fine substance you call nerve-
spirit; but they can by no means give themselves a form at
their own option. They can do this only so far, as that their
'
A novitiste spirit, or s
'
'tual man, is led about and brought into va-
rious societies, as well goodndls evil and is explored whether he is adected
with goods and truths and in what manner, or whether he is affected with
evils and falses.
'I' If he is atibcted with goods and truths he is led away into evil socie-
ties and is led into good societies, and also with various ones until he comes
into a society corresponding to his own natural affection, and there he
enjoys the good corresponding to that aifection, and this until he uts of
glue nhatural afli;:'ti¢2'n, indzguits
on the spiritual, and then he is elevated
nto ea ven
¢All the societies there (in the world of s irits) which are innumerable,
:led gvipisrgpla
in
order;
according to natural affections, good
1
146 msronr or 'rua case.
true essence shall always be perceivable in their form. They
cannot appear better than they are ;* but this_is a thing they do
not desire. What would it profit! There, all are seen through
at once.1» Every soul appears after death in such a form as is
an image of its essence, and this is made out of the finest parts
of the material (malaria) which envelope the spirit.1' The soul
also recognizes itself forthwith as to its true worth and charac-
ter as it is recognized by other spirits. Playing the hypocrite,
and putting on false faces here terminate."§ Can the soul in
this middle state, educate itself in good, or still repent?
"
Yes,
if it will ; but there are quite too many there who do not wi1l.l|
Only think,there are such there as still deny immortality.'Ii 0
such forms! 0 Albert, I shudder at them; do not show me
any of them; I shudder only to think of them." What ! those
who deny the immortality of the soul in that state? It is not
possible. "I tell you the truth. Such are like persons stun-
*
In the other life it is not lawful for
any
one to counterfeit affections
which are not properly his own, thus neit er to induce on himself faces
contrary to the love in which he is; all, whoever are there, are reduced,
into such a state that they s ak as they think, and show by the looks and
gestures what they will.-EQ H. 457.
1 Such is a spint after
passinguhrouglh
the first and second states spoken
of above; wherefore he there, when e is viewed hy the eyes; is imme-
diately known as to his quality, not
only
from the Bice, but also from the
bod , and likewise from the speech nn gestures.-H. Q H. 552.
thlvery man after death, puts of the natural which he had from the
mother and retains the spiritual which he had from the father, together
with a kind of border
[gr(grey:-mR)r;bientaccretion] from the purest things
of nature, around it. . .
§The reason, also, why t.he feces are
changed is because in the other
life it is not lawful for any one to counterfeit aH°ections which are not
roperly his own, thus neither to induce on himself, faces, contrary to the
I) `
hihh `s H¢}H457
ovemw c e1.-- . . .
Thrgacég
of hypocrites are changed later than the faces of the rest.-
H 4» _ .
Il And they (evil
Spirits)
have been heard also to declare that they
indeed wuld will an act according to such arcana (of angelic WI8d0lIl)
but that
they
would not; when they were told that
they]might will them
if they wo d only shun evils as sins, they said that t ey could do that
also, but that they would not; hence it
appeared very evident that the
Ylicaedéss
well as the good have equal y the faculty of liberty.-D.
'I The seventh (new comer from the natural world) after this said, "
If
I believed that there is a heaven and a hell, and thence alife after death,
lshould also believe that birds and beasts would likewise live. Are not
some of them equally mural and rational as men! lt is denied that
beasts live; wherefore l deny that men do; the reason is equal, one
follows from the other. What is man but an animaL"-TZ C. R. 160.
ntsroair or ml casa. 147
ned and at a loss, and do not know how they have been trans-
lated to this state.* They appear to themselves quite stupid ;1>
they know not what to set about in their presentcondition." Btrt
these sceptics are often, here, men of most understanding. "That
is true ; but here they have the sensible world upon which they
employ their understanding, earthly plans and operations to
which they apply it. Here, they can shine by means of it.
There, the world of sense exists no longer, and in case their
spirit has gathered nothing, they possess nothing,1 and their
former splendor is changed into obscurity.§ Oh, these unhappy
beings! They_ will not, because to be able is attended with
inlinite diiiiculty; they are not able because they will not. I
mean, will not become good, repent. The soul is estimated by
this standard in that world. He that had no faculties here, but
was of a good disposition, is preferred far before him who was
the reverse. The understanding is only a means, not an end
and aim. Moral purity is the highest thing, and faith in Him
Who is desirous of making us happy, and that is Jesus Christ.
0 that we might mark this solemn truth: To whom much is
*Of such caverns which are
nothing
but etemal worlt-houses, hell
consists. It has been given me to enter nto some and see, IQ order that I
might make it known; and they were all seen as vile -
netther did one
of them
knolvv
who
or
what
eimploymgl:þÿhehhad]b¬T?;in
the
flvorld;lgut
th I wi me i tome, ttts a enintewor a
zgaldier, this ar?ofIicer, this a
priest,this in
dignitg,
this in
plpulence :spd yet they all
kn1ov%miogrsirwrse
than that they ad been
avesan iecompanionsf- _ . . .
'l' Th th h
'
th ld have been in extreme love of mls from
the lovznof ::i'Lviin(d 2 th: :lainie time in superlor elevation of understand-
ing, appear as to
their bodies like Egyptian mummies, and as to their
minds stupid and idiotic.-D. L. W. 424.
1For whatever a man
acquires to himself in the world, this remains,
and he carries it with him atter death, and also it is increased and filled,
but
wiahin thaqdegne pf giedngectipra anglrdeeire ofdtiéuth
and good, po:
beyon it. ose w o a ut me a ect on an entre, receive u
l' tl _-H H. 349.
"Gt has biengranted me to
speak with several of the learned after their
departure from the world; with some
who were
of mostdistmgmshed
reputalilpn,
and were celebrated
bg =_l1eu°dwr}itings_;:1h;hielli:ieimry mrld,
d
'
h t erat utstt | enw om
ildlthgrgselggf wTl(io:ser:vhli>°ir:oh:eart denied the Divine, howsoever they
confessed Him
:Ivithithe montlh, ware bfppme
so
stnpid,tpat tlheylpould
l com n any civ' tru sti els an spiritua trut . W8-I
:ii-isteivyed andrslsg seen that the interiors of the; minds were so closed,
that they appeared as black (such things tn the spintual world are pre-
psnted tplth;piigggi
and thus that they could not endure any heavenly
iglxta- . _ .
I
I
148 nrsroair or 'ms casa.
givefn, of him will much be required. (A pause.) No, no
spirit goes to heaven, that has in it the least of what is impure;
it must away, quite away. But if it is small and trifling, then,
the time also is short in which it gets rid of it."* (A pause.)
Has the soul then its full memory after death! "
Yes
indeed."'|' In that case, no soul is lacking in the necessary
helps to its moral improvement. "There you are mistaken.
The earth was its place of exercise, education, preparation.
Souls have doubtless a memory of all former aids, but the aids
themselves they no longer have; they have nothing but memory.
'I`hey must have it in their power to wish for new helps, and in
that case they will receive them; but when the interior im-
pulse to this wishing and striving fails, they do not fall in his
way of their own accord, as happens on earth, where they, as
it were, force themselves upon us. If the _spirit after death
strives, from its own free impulses, after what is pure and
divine, new instruction is not withheld from it. But this
endeavor is too often wantiug,1 for this, it is necessary
we should have power to draw something good from our-
selves. (A pause.) Oh, God is a just and loving Father; He
wills that all should be assisted, that all should come to the
knowledge of the truth and be saved. But where obstinate re-
sistance tinds place, there, is only unavailing remorse, there, is
hell." (A pause. Without her knowledge I had again ap-
plied the armature to the magnet, and, closing my hand upon it,
softly laid it at the pit of the stomach. Immediately she grasped
my hand with both of hers, and endeavored eagerly to open my
lingers, and, not succeeding, seemed to be very much grieved at
it. Scarcely had I laid the stone, naked, on her stomach, when
the lower part of her body became agitated, her hands suddenly
moved to seize the stone, and were`as suddenly withdrawn.
..
'Those who are so regenerated
anldosrepared
that
they
have need to
reject only natural impurities with the y, are immediate y conveyed by
thedangsls gm h;;.v:&; I have seen them taken up soon after the hour
of eat
'l' That mangvlienhe passes out of the world has also with him all his
memory, has been shown (to me) by many circumstances.-H Q H. 462.
1 The third state of man after death, or of his spirit, is astate of instruc-
tion: this state is for those who come into heaven, and become
an$¢;ls,
but
gg;
for those who come into hell, for such cannot be instructed.- . 4' H.
HISTORY or nn: cus. 149
The second finger of the right hand, while the motions of the
lower part of the body continued, slowly approached the arma-
ture, but was jerked quickly back again the momentit came in
contact with it. This was several times repeated, and was
somewhat as when a child tries to bring his linger near the
light, which he knows will burn him, and, as soon as he feels
the heat, jerks it suddenly away. At length she said :) "
The
stone is good for me, only do not make passes with it; it is
then too strong in its efect; without the iron, however, you
might do so. Let it lie quietly as it does. (At this moment
she turned a little on one side, and the stone suddenly fell from
her body to the floor.) This startled her very much, and excited
some convulsions. (A pause.) Albert is standing quite near you;
he is looking into you." Does he see my thoughts? "How
should he not 2* Your spiritual substance and his, at this moment,
are, as it were, blended;1- if you had not a body you would be able
also to see into him. Through Albert I boo now see what you
are thinking, much more distinctly." What was I thinking of
just now 'I "
You had a desire to see Albert." You have
guessed right. "Not guessed,I know it surely. You have a.
mind to see Albert ; but it would not be good for you; he says
that he loves you." Tell him in return thatl am rejoiced at it,
and say to him that I wish to see him." He knows it, and
bids me tell you, that at some future time, when your body can
bear it, he will appear to you`again in a vivid dream. (This has
really happened more than once since that time; it must be ad-
mitted, however, that nothing can be inferred from such ap-
pearances.) But now, Albert will leave me, I must wake. (A
cramp seizes her right arm ; she trembles violently. By grasp-
ing her arm strongly with my left hand the cramp was removed,
but, in place, of it there succeeds a severe pain. R. now raises
the first three lingers of her right hand, holding them on high
and directing them towards the right side of my breast. When
*
But l can assert, that spirits, who are with man, know and observe
the minutest particulars of his memory and thoughts, and this more clearly
than man does himselil-A. C. 2488. _
1' When an angel of heaven determinates his sight to others, m
such
case his interiors are communicated and transferred uno them,
accordpnig
to the uantity and quality of his love; and are received by them acco -
ing to llxe quantity and quality of their love.-A. C. l0,l30.
A
a
150 HISTGBY or 'rua case.
I asked the reason of this gesture, she replied :) "Through
these three lingers Albert infuses vital power, which flows espe~
cially from -your breast into my arm." (This posture was kept
up for about four minutes, whereupon there followed a sudden
agitation of her right arm and breast. To my question, what
was the matter, she answered :) I imbibed with my arm some-
what more power than was necessary and good. This was to
be got rid of; hence the agitation." Scarcely was this over,
when she woke up without further cramps, cheerful and
strengthened, after sleeping four hours and a half.
It is iurther to be observed as to this crisis, that in the first
half hour of the sleep R. at one time directed her righteye to
mine. But as, from the circumstances above mentioned, there
was no operation on my part, the eye became fixed, and kept
rigidly its first direction. This continued until Albert came and
released her. This eye pained her at ten o'clock at night, after
she had been already so long awake.
June 1 lth.
In the afternoon, at half past four, R, fell into a half-sleep,
which lasted more than three hours. She ascribed it to a bodily
cause, which, however, she would not name. Albert was not
present. She did not see clearly or far. At first she did not
even observe persons with whom I put myself in communica-
tion by giving them my hand. About an hour afterwards, when
I again extended my hand to my sister, who was standing near
me, she saw more distinctly, and aa soon as I touched her, com-
plained of a painful burning in her left eye. My sister M. was
suffering at the time from an inflamed eye, which was also the
left one. Of the magnet she said on this day that it cooled her
very much. The positive pole, she adirmed, acted with a. bene-
Ecial and cooling efect on her; the negative, on the contrary,
was cold and contracting,as if breeziug, and somewhat disa-
greeable. Has the effect of the magnet any analogy with my in-
Huence on you?
"
Yes, but still the difference is great. Your
power is a living one, warm and animating ; that is cold and, be-
yond comparison, less beneficial to me." Do you see to-day in-
to your own body l "
Only with didiculty ; there is a kind of mist
`
.
nisroar or 'rua casa. 151
before my inner eye. If you wish me to see more clearly, lay
your hand on my forehead ; this excites my vision for some time.
Looking into myselt§ however, is always a thing attended
with some ditiiculty, because it is a kind of return, a forcible
drawing-back, a reversal of the life-stream-I know not what
name to give it. It is something that goes against me." (I
was suddenly summoned from her couch to write a letter. Not-
withstanding I wrote it only two steps distant from her, she fell
into a state of iusensibility, and said afterwards, when I asked
her the reason of this accident :)
"
Your spirit was far from
mine, you were engaged with something quite different, and
for that reason I could no
longer think." (During the greater
part of the crisis after this she lay quiet, her eyes half open but
looking askance, and having the pupils unusually dilated; she
did not speak, and woke up all at once, without cramps, a little
before eight.)
June 13th.
At seven in the evening, after several hours of head-ache
and qualms, there came on very violent cramps of the breast
and difiiculty of breathing, attended with pain, and lasting three
quarters of an hour. The general cramps more immediately in-
troducing the sleep, and coming on after the cessation of those
in the breast, lasted for n quarter of an hour, and terminated by
degrees in an apparently natural sleep. This last continued,
however, only eight minutes, after which the face brightened
up, the arms were crossed over the breast, and a universal sen-
sation of pleasure was visibly manifested. The lips moved a
long time in silence; at length I inquired: Whence came the
hard struggle of to-day?
"
The disease has now reached its
highest degree." But you said some time ago, that half the
disease was surrnounted! "I said truly; Ispoke then of the
period of the disease, but now of its expression and its violence.
The cramps indeed from this time will be more violent, but the
sleeps will be shorter. The highest degree of the magnetic
state which I was destined to reach, is attained to-day." How
is it with the flower! "
It is there with my Albert; its cup un-
folds more and more; 6h, how glorious it will shortly be !_Five
I
I
|52 muon or mn casa.
new leaves`are again withered; now only thirteen more. (Alter
a. pause.) From this time you have a stronger attractive in-
fluence over me in the magnetic state, because my disease is on
the wane." Whence is this? I should have thought the con-
trary.
"
Albert Ends it good ; he has not thought fit, however,
to tell me explicitly the reason of it. I think he will remove
from me somewhat further and longer, and increase your in-
fluence upon me instead, which now is very beneicial to me.
But it will be of advantage to you also. By degrees-alas! I
do not like to think of it-I must be weaned entirely from his in-
Huence. This is a sad thought to me." When will you re-
ceive the next visit from Albert! "
If nothing unusual hap-
pens, a week from to-morrow. Ah, that is a happy circum-
stance; the interval is long, and indicates a speedy recovery.
In this interval, however, I shall have several indispositions;
also half-waking states; for example, on Sunday, Tuesday, and
Thursday evenings, at seven o'clock. This will be the case, if
something unusual does not intervene to interrupt the order,
something I cannot foresee." (A pause.) Is Albert alone
with youl
"
Yes." Does he stay duringthe whole crisis with
youl
"
Yes." Why does he not accompany you to Venus or
the Sun? "
Albert says, that after so hard a struggle as was
that of to-day, so distant a departure from my body would be
hurtful to me."~ Is Albert then here in Schwaikheiml "
Yes,
(smiling,) he takes pleasure in your company; at this moment
he is looking at you again in a very affectionate and friendly
manner; he loves you. Oh, if you could only see him but for
a moment! 0 Albert, aEord him this gratification; he wishes
it so much; can you not then do it'! No, he cannot and must
not, on any account, do it. It would be of the greatest detri-
ment to you." Would my nerves be too much shaken by it!
"
Your nerves are considerably stronger than before; but if
you should see Albert, you would, of necessity, very soon wither
away and die. Oh, you are yet much wanted here. Pray God,
that He will suH`er you to live yet a long time, that when He
summons you, you may be able to stand in your knowledge and
moral perfection before them. 0 pray, ever more fervently, ever
more heartily. (A pause, during which she lays her left hand
on my breast.) You will preach on
Sunday ; that is well ; you
nrsronr or rm: casa. 153
must preach heartily, and with power. I will derive power to
you for this, and from Albert. (She repeats the motions al-
ready described.) Do you feel the stream that is entering your
breast? "
Yes, I feel an unusual warmth there. That is
from my Albert* (After some minutes :) That is enough;
your health is now right well established. (A pause.) Albert
is now quite near you; Oh, you should see his splendor! He
is often near you; he loves you; he accompanies you very
often; he has already been with you in church. Oh if your
spirit were not so strongly chained to your body, so that you
could occasionally make a journey 'with him and me
to the
higher world, you too would feel a disgust there at the gross-
ness and he aviness of this world of sense. There, faith, love, is
the highest thing. 'O thither-to go thither at last we should
all summon up our utmost powers." (A pause.) You have
heretofore asserted that Albert is your guardian spirit, have you
not! "I have." Have all men such an one. "Certainly."
Is Albert mine also 'E "
No, only at present he is nearer to you
through me. He has known you indeed from your youth, but
only since I came into magnetic relation with you has it been
granted him to approach you closely." Will he again leave me
at the conclusion of your case? Yes, yet will he always take
an interest in you. You have another guardian spirit; Albert
knows him. I also have seen him." Why do you now tell me
this for the first time? "Because I have just now learned it
from Albert." Where did you see him! "
He is one of those
five higher spirits who witnessed that escort of angels of which
I told you. His form attracted me without my knowing that he
was your guardian spirit. At your question just now I turned
myself to Albert, who told me that it was he. Your guardian
spirit is a beautiful and youthful form, oh, so lovely, so child-
like.1' Who was he '!_ tell me, my Albert, it will please my
__l
*
Sometimes they go about, and ask those they meet whether they will
give
them some warmth, which spirits indeed are enabled to do.-A. C.
111.
1' Those who are in the inmost or third heaven, are in innocence ofthe
third or inmost
deglres. They appear
simgle
in the external forrn, and
before the eyes of t e
axejls,
ofthe inferior eavens, they seem as infants,
thus as little ones, and as those who are not
V6§g0WlS0,
although they
are the wisest ot' the angels of
heglen.-H. df H. -
_
I n
154 nurromr or :rn can.
friend, if I can inform him of this. (A pause.) Ah, I may tell
you about him. It is already more than a hundred years, since
he died in Hamburg, where he was a skilful physician. His
name was K-r. He was your attendant from your childhood;
he was a pious man and did much good, especially to the poor.
Oh, he that does good to the poor is highly esteemed of God. He
was a very skilful man, and might have become very wealthy;
but he only took from the rich what he needed in order quietly
to follow his calling. (A pause.) Often have you heard his
voice in your younger years." How could I ever hear his
voice! I never knew that a higher being accompanied me.
"Very often our guardian spirits form the voice of our con-
science ;* this is a high, divine influence that supports our
weakuess." `But such a secret, spiritual influence appears to
prejudice the freedom of man.
"
Oh no, this operation is not of
that kind. As little as warnings from friends, instructions from
the' experienced appearances in life, which by God's will come
not in vain before our eyes, prejudice our freedom, so little is
this the case, when your guardian spirit reminds and warns
you. Man is always left free in choosing his resolves. (A
pause.) But what is this I hear from Albert! Your guardian
spirit will leave you shortly." Why? "He will pass to a
higher destination; but another higher spirit, of whom however
I can say nothing particularly, has already been in communi-
cation for some time with your guardian spirit, on your account.
To this spirit he will consign the charge he has hitherto had of
you. (A pause of some length.) To-day my Albert has a
palm-chown on his head." What is the meaning of this orna-
ment! U Ha has been permitted to-day to fetch away a pious
soul,1~ whom 'he crowned with this ornament. The garland is
now on his own head again." Was this the soul of a deceased
'
lt is s
thingimost true, that man is govemed from the Lord by spirits
and angels; w en evil
spirits begin to have dominion, then the angels
labor to
avert evils and fa and hence there exists a combat; it is this
comgt which*llCY¢;g;l'Q sensible by perception, inward dictate and
puns ence.- . . .
't ltisalso
their (the
sngslsb happiness to raise up the dead to the life
iqfetemtty, and s
terwards, f it be
(possible,and there be s.
capacity in the
|oul, to introduce 1t1nto heaven; rom these offices they receive a delight
qhieh cannot be described.-A. C. 454.
muon! or rascal. 155
man? "
Yes-to-day there died, in a country far distant from
this, a man exceedingly poor, who was very good and pious, but
was scarcely noticed by men. This is that happy one. Here
one can rightly see what external show and riches avail in the
higher life. (Smiling.) It gave him no pain to part from his
treasures. He has now a glorious place of abode. Oh, the
earthly is nought. If I could only stamp this truth on the minds
of all men! (A pause.) You would like to inquire further
concerning the spiritual world ; I will answer gladly." There
are men who say they have seen spirits-how is this 'l "
They
may be right ; there are men to whom departed souls can he,
and are permitted to be, nigh. But it is, for the most part, a
morbid' condition of the nerves, which gives the faculty of
seeing them.-" But who, in this case, can be sure that there is
no delusion! "
Many, doubtless, are deceived by their imagi-
nation; they believe themselves to see departed souls when it
is not so. But who can distinguish how! He who experiences
any thing of the kind is soon convinced; but it is a diferent
thing to convince a third person that such an
appearance was
real. Only thus much can be said : let the thing be examined
carefully; do not believe lightly, but, on the other hand, do not
reject all that goes beyond the limits of ordinary experience."
But whereby may we know a real apparition?
"
It may be
safely believed that departed spirits have appeared, when sober
persons, of good credit in other matters, relate of such appari-
tions, things which cannot he known in the usual, natural way;
when they relate of them facts respecting the future which are
fulfilled and are of a kind that a man could not know of them.
Doubt will indeed always cleave to the natural man ; this
cannot be helped." You say then, that there are spirits, so
called, which can make themselves visible to men? "
Yes,
it happens so in certain cases when it is good for themselves or
those to whom they wish or are enjoined to appear." The dead,
then,are not permitted to return to their former abode, and show
themselves when they will! "Without God's will or per-
mission, nothing whatever happens. Departed souls have their
bounds in this matter.
'
The friends to whom love attracts them,
are often permitted to see them in silence. Their own attract
them more than strangers." Can evil spirits also appear to
[_
156 Imrrovar or 'rn can.
men! "
0 yes, both the good and the evil, under the conditions
I have mentioned. (A pause.) You are not hitherto fully satis-
ged of what I have told you on this subject; this I see in you ;
but whatl have now said to you about the realm of spirits is
certainly true; I am not mistaken. It would gratify me if you
would believe it." Much, in truth, is still inexplicable to me;
meanwhile, I tind nothing in the most of your explanations
which I could not allow to be possible, and perhaps admit. "You
will be more and more convinced, the longer and more eamestly
you test what I have told you. But I wish no further conver-
sation of this kind to-day ; it taxes me too much. (A pause of
about a quarter of an hour.)
"
You wish, as I feel, to ask a
question." Yes, it relates to yourself. "Your question con-
cerns my health, or the time of my recovery." No, I have al-
ready wished several times to ask you, from what cause your
magnetic state originated; whether, perchance, it had its rise in
your former life 2 "
The foundation of it was laid in my early
life. While yet a child, I su8'ered from ahiactions of the abdo-
men, enlargement of the mesenteric glands was suspected, and
there was doubtless something of that kind. These indurations
gave me a great deal of trouble till my ninth year. Till my
sixth, I suffered from obstinate constipation, and required a clys-
ter almost daily. After my ninth year I passed happily through
the usual diseases of children, although the whooping-cough
tormented me long, in my tenth year. Afterwards I had the
green sickness also for a long time. In my eleventh year I
sudbred under a dangerous erysipelas of the face, but was other-
wise tolerably healthy till my fourteenth year. On the llth of
November of this year, 1829, an important Zchange took place
in my system ; I was very sick at the occurrence of my iirst pe-
riod. Soon after, an eruption like that of the itch attacked me,
which unfortunately was not properly treated. It was repelled
too early and suddenly from the skin. The first consequence of
this was, that swellings made their appearance on my feet,
which would not heal. For more tlian a year they were covered
with sores; I suE`ered greatly from them, and, after all, when
they healed at last, all the consequences of that maltreatment
were not removed. I missed my period for four months, and
sufered innumerable inconveniences resulting from it. Nor
msroar or 'res casa. 157
were the proper measures taken against this irregularity. At
length the long desired period returned, and from this time I
was pretty well, until the past year. My bowels, however,
were never afterwards perfectly in order, and my nerves mani-
fested great excitability on the slightest occasions. So early as
June of the preceding year, at a time of great importance to me,
because it determined the character of my whole future life,
Albert once appeared to me in a dream. Any pretty strong
external cause could now bring on the magnetic state, and
this was not long wanting. (A pause of some length. She
begins to tremble.) Ah, my Albert, what are you doing!
Are you ascending with me '!" Whither are you going with
Albert? "
To a place where I never was before. (Joy-
fully :) Only think, a whole company* of children come
to him to-day: he means to teachf them, and wishes me to see
and hear it. (She gives signs of the greatest joy.)` Oh, how
am I rejoiced! Albert, you are kind; you do me a pleasure
wherever you can. (A pause.) Oh, teach me to become so
minded as you are; let me too learn with your children when
they come. (A pause.) No, that, Albert says, may not be.
(After a few minutes she is seized with a joy which causes
her to tremble, and she says :) Now, see, now the children are
coming. 0 how beautiful! And among them is a sister of my
own, who died when a little child-how delightful that is to
me. She is looking on me. And how friendly, how loving
and soft is my Albert in his treatment of these children-it is a
spectacle you should see once.1 And then how they cling
about him ; how they revere him. 0 thatl were such a child!"
What is the subject of his instructions? "He is instructing
them about God, and telling them it is His love which has brought
,them to the blessed residence where they now are; and that
this would not have been the case, if He had not sent His Son ;
out of love to men, into the world, and that by their baptisml
*
Several times when some infants have been together with me in
choirs, &c.-H. Q H.
'I' After this first age is past, they (infants) are transferred into mother
heaven where they are instructed
:ty masters; and so on.-Ii Q H. 334.
1 For nothing is more
delightfula happ to the an ls, than to instruct
those who come
from earth mto another 11%.-A. C.§B4.
§ But this (baptism) ll done on earth; but in the Heavens infants are
_
'
158 msroa! or 'ras casa.
here they had claims to His peculiar love. This is the sum of
his instructions.* (A pause.) There are several among them,
who heard something concerning God, from men here in the
world. The children appear, by their forms, to be as from
different parents. (A pause.) 0 ye lovely, ye good ones,
would I were so childlike, so pure as ye! that I too could look
so innocently on
my Albert as you do. Oh, when I look at him,
it pains me that I cannot. (She prays in silence ; then aloud.)
Thou All-knowing, knowest my dispositions. Oh, teach me to
approach Thee in humility and the temper of a child. Lead
me on ever in self-knowledge; give me pleasure in Thy Word,
and let it he my delight. Make me good, 0 Lord, make me
good. (A pause.) How much, 0 Father, hast Thou already
done for me ! Ah, how thankful should I be! Then should I
evermore be advancing in the knowledge of Thee. O Thou
faithful God, Who art near to all and to me also, Who givest
rest to all the weary, refreshest the sick, and iillest the sound
with strength-Oh, that all might leam to seek Thee! Thee,
Who alone art good, my soul praises; Thee my prayers do
glorify. (A pause.) Full of zeal my soul offers to Thee,
Father of All, its thanks. The cheerful mind and the quiet
peace of the heart are Thy gifts alone; and Thou wilt give
them to me also, once more. What equals the faithfulness of
my God! Yea, Father, receive it, receive my gratitude, the
deepest thankfulness of my heart. Soon, soon Thou wilt
deliver me from my heavy sufferings. Then will I honor my
body as Thy gift. (The preceding short sentences she spoke
very slowly and softly, and always in such a way, that a short
pause occurred between each one. My sister M. desired to
say something to R., and I wished, on the occasion, to try
whether she was able to hear her without my being the me-
dium. I removed therefore so far from her couch as to be
beyond the magnetic atmosphere. M. put a question to her;
introduced
byebagtism
into the Christian Heaven, and angels are there
assigped
to t m
y the Lord, to take care of them.-T. C. R. 677.
*
rom these things it may be manifest that infants do not come
instantly alter death into an
angelic state, but that they are successively
introduced by the
knowledge
o good and truth, and this according to
all heavenly order.-H. Q . 336.
msroa! or nn: casa. 159
R. however did not hear, but cried without intermission: Come
back, I pray vou, you tear me, you pull me; come back!"
(When I came back and took M.'s hand she was soon quieted,
and saw my sister, but always plainer when I looked at her
myself. If I turned my look from her, she saw her only ob-
scurely and wrapped, as it were, in mist. As soon as I had
taken M.'s hand, she said to R.: Griiss Gott, R! She heard
it and replied in a dissatisfied manner :)
"
Griiss Gott! (Sha-
king her head.) Griiss Gott! We should not say so." (I
asked :) How then! "
Rather, God's favor or God's blessing
be on thee!" (M. added :) Or, as Jesus said: Peace be with
thee! "
Yes, that is the`sarne thing. (A pause.) Oh, M. you
are good, very good; I love you; your heart is full of love.
(A pause.) Yes, my Albert, I see the writing." What
writing! (She turns her head and her eye upwards, and looks
slowly from right to left.) What are you observing!
"
God
alone is Love! These words stand in golden writing, high
among the stars.* My Albert has explained the characters to
me. (A pause.) Blessed is that heart, that knows the love of
God. (An interval of silence during which she prays. The
lips move at last and she speaks, with her hands folded, the
following verses, more rapidly than I could take them down.)
'
God on Whom my bliss is founded,
Be Thou to me both light and power:
God, on Whom my all is grounded,
Be my trust in every hour.
~
When my feeble
steps
are sliding,
And incautiously stray,
~»
Make the thought with me
abiding:
Only goodness lasts for aye.
If in life there's tribulation,
And Thou'd'st have me to prevail,
Stand at my side with Thy salvation,
Stand, Lord, a Father without fail.
_
*And I cunversed with them (angels) about many things, amon t
which also concerning this, that in the world, where 1 am in the bog,
there appear, in the time of night innumerable stars, greater and smaller,
and that they are so many suns, which only transmit the light into the
world of our sun; and whenl saw that in your world also stars are to
be IOGD, I conjectured that these may be as many as there are in the world
where I am.-T1 C. R. 160.
1
160 ms-roizv or 'ras casa.
Thou art He my soul has chosen
'Mid the sorrows of this life;
Thee my soul would fain repose on
Wcansd in this evil strife.
You spoke so rapidly,tha.t I could not write the verses.
"
I
will repeat them slowly to you. '(When this had been done,
she said :) My Albert now takes his departure: I shall awake
shortly. (Immediately afterwards she stretched her limbs, as
after a deep, natural sleep, made some convulsive movements
with her arms, and woke up cheerful and strengthened, after
nine o'clock.)
`
June 15th.
At seven in the evening, after short cramps in the breast,
preceded by head-ache for several hours, R. was attacked by
a rigidity which lasted for two hours. Towards nine she spoke
some words, very low, relating to her lungs and the spots still
discoverable on them. She awoke, after a single violent agita-
tion of the whole body, feeling very comfortable.
June 17th.
On this day, the anniversary of a journey very critical in her
fortunes, she was attacked at four in the afternoon with violent
cramps in the breast; she was not free from them so late as
half past four; all the objects in the chamber she saw, as she
asserted with astonishment while yet awake, double, and stand-
ing awry. A quarter of an hour after this she passed into the
magnetic state, and to the question-whence the violent cramps
of to-day 2-replied :)
"
This is the anniversary of my journey
from U. to G. The recollection of that event in my life ope-
rates very strongly upon me. This day and hour a year ago I
besought God, in tears and on my knees, to show me His right
way." (She now all at once became speechless, her jaw was
closed, and all her limbs became rigid. This state continued
more than half an hour, and gave way at last by my repeatedly
breathing'into her face and laying my hands on her as usual.
When she was again in the half-waking state, she showed a
peevish mood, and reproached me that I had remonstrated
HISTORY OF TRI CASE. 16|
earnestly with her for unbecoming behavior in a certain case
on the morning of this day. Far from seeing the impropriety
of her conduct, she had already shown anger and irritability
in the morning; but now she broke out into violent dis-
pleasure, and expressions which threw me into astonish-
ment and determined me to leave her~quietly alone. In
this way she lay for three hours, again unmoved. All of
a sudden she started up with the worda:) "Ah, Albert!
Albert! (A pause.) I saw him a moment, he is already gone
again." What did he say to you? "I warn you, for the last
time, no more to give ear to the evil voice you have followed for
the last few hours. This is what he said; he was very, all,
very serious. When Albert visits me again, I will ask him
what is the meaning of the evil voice." Do not look for this
out of yourself, R. ; it lies in your own heart, in your wounded
vanity.
"
It is inconceivable to me, how I could act so; ah, I
was so self-willed, so perverse. Forgive me this behavior; I
will never repeat it; still admonish me when I am awake. I
shall now be more docile. (A pause.) No, I cannot compre-
hend it; it is not long since Albert was obliged to give me a
similar reprootl I am, alas, not very near with Albert in my
present state; but there must be something more than com.
mon about this evil voice; I saw this in Albert. Believe
me, I do not mean hereby to justify myself, but I saw it dis-
tinctly in Albert." Well, we shall hear about it, when he visits
you again. (When she woke about nine, she was astonished
at the account I gave her of her conduct, and reproached her-
self severely for it. On this occasion, also, she awoke with a
single strong and general agitation of the body, and felt, after
awaking, very comfortably.)
June 18th.
To-day R. lay in bed from some indisposition until three in
theafternoon. There were some guests in the house, who en-
tertained her several hours, by turns, with singing. This eH`ort
increased her weakness, and occasioned, about half past seven,
a slight half-waking state, which, however, was so far from being
profound, that she felt thirst in it, and drank water, a thing that
IL
162 nrsronv or run casa.
never happened before. When I magnetized the water, she
extolled the smell and taste of it as something uncommonly
pleasant. She woke in the course of an hour in the most
cheerful mood.
'
June 19th.
My brother C. called me to see R. at eight in the morning.
I found her in a state of delirium. She spoke incoherently,
sang, drummed with her fingers, saw persons she did not know
dance round a table, jump over stones, and the like. I laid my
hands on her stomach and forehead, which occasioned her some
relief. To the question: Do you see me! I received no
answer. After some minutes she answered me, "No." Do
you hear me! "
Yes." With your ears! "You foolish fellow !
ha, ha, ha! What should I hear you with? I never heard, in
all my days, that one could hear with anything but ea.rs." I
know one who has asserted it of herself. "I do not understand
you, do not speak so obscurely; what does that mean '!" (She
rubs her forehead, tries to pluck out her hair, and wrinkles her
forehead often and quickly.) I-Iave you pain in the head? (No
answer: she is unconscious; she strikes her forehead and says :)
"What is the matter! What madness! You fools ! You are
all asses! What will become of mc? O God! 0 God l"
(With both my hands I press her forehead aud temples together
for a few minutes, firmly willing her to sleep magnetically;
whereupon her face soon
brightened up, and she says at last,
after a deep sigh :) "
Ah! you are here, my benefactor! I am
heartily glad of it." Whence are these surprising phenomena
in your state to-day!
"
What do you mean! I do not under-
stand you." (I told her what had occurred; vhereupon she
said :) "I do not like this ; I did not know what I was about ;
it was like a dream; and I had a swoon from the violence of
the pain in my head. There was a confusion in my head,
of which I have only an obscure idea. Madness must be
something of this kind. I can say nothing definite respecting
this state; it is only as if I had had a preposterous dream.
The whole proceeds from my having taken cold last night;
my period was checked, and occasioned this derangement.
mama! or me casa. 163
Make three downward passes over me, I -pray you, from the
forehead to the toes, and then press your two hands firmly, as
long as you can hold out, upon my knees; by eleven o'clock,
if you repeat thi three times, the period 'will return, and no
bad effects remain. (I did as she desired me, and in somewhat
more than live minutes she said :) Now I feel a strong influx
into my body downwards; ah! that does me good." What
would have been the consequence, if you had not been treated
by me as you directed? "
Alas! I might then have gone
crazy; that is terrible! I now see, for the first time, what
melancholy consequences might have resulted. But now I
shall wake up in a few minutes; stay a little while with me
after that. About eleven o'clock press my knees again, and in
like manner at half past twelve; my period will be restored
before one. (A pause.) Ah, I see at this instant that I cannot
wake up to-day without your willing it ; I depend entirely on
you." But can you wake up at my bare wish! "
No." You
must then sleep, until you wake of yourself!
"
No, in any
event,l should have communicated to you in due time, the
means of waking me up. What means are there of `this
kind! "
It will be accomplished either by a reversed pass
from the stomach to the forehead, or by blowing on my fore-
head. In case you prefer the latter, you must at the same
time will earnestly that I wake up." (About ten o'clock I
woke her up by blowing lightly on her forehead. The predic~
tion that her period would return at one o'clock was punctually
fulfilled, after my performing the prescribed manipulations at
eleven and half past twelve.)
At eight in the evening R. fell, without any warning, from
her seat to the floor. After she was carried to the sofa, she
slowly stretched out her arms and feet; her breath was scarcely
perceptible, her pulse extremely weak and small; her features
resembled those of one at the point of death; her eyes were
turned upward and her complexion was of death-like paleness.
It was impossible for me, either by laying my hands or by
breathing on her-means which had hitherto been eH`ectual-
to restore her to any animation. After this state had continued
for more than an hour and a halh I had a mind to try some
magnetic passes. But scarcely had I-made the first from her
164 msroa! or rn casa.
forehead over the temples to the shoulders, when her body
trembled violently, all its bands were relaxed, and she sudden-
ly cried out "
no passes! no passes!" and awoke at the same
moment to her ordinary life.
June 20th.
At half past ten in the moming there came on, after a short
turn of sickness and a period of insensibility lasting a quarter
of an hour, a half-waking state, in which R. spoke all kinds of
things and partly wild ones, of which she had no recollection
whatever in the magnetic state which directly followed it. A
strong pressure of the head was what brought on the latter,
together with magnetic consciousness. Immediately after her
countenance had brightened up, she began to speak:
"
Early
this morning I had a little shock of the nerves; it is a sad
thing that the slightest agitation of my feelings produces such
an effect upon my system. My period is again in a measure
repressed ; I must call upon you again for help." I willingly
undertook to repeat the manipulation above described, and with
so favorable a result, that the catamenia returned at five in the
evening. (After a short pause she turned to me with the
words:) Your stomach is out of order; it is acid; hence the
acidity I have experienced myself for some days. My stom-
ach will be better so soon as your own is brought right.
It will be relieved in a measure by to-morrow. The day
before yesterday you took cold in the stomach. A portion
of vital force also escaped from you three days since, in
laying your hand on the head of one of your guests; this you
should not have done ; it was not good for me either ; you should
come into magnetic relation with no one for the present but my-
self. (A pause.) To-day also I cannot wake up without your
explicit will." Why is this so! "
There has already been a
diversity, in some states, in the mode of my spirit's returning to
the body; it depends on this circumstance." Can you not ex-
press yourself more distinctly! "I want the necessary words ;
neither can I fully see how the matter itself stands. Only this
much I can say with confidence: Isaw in Albert, when he was
with me last, that he wishes to disuse me
gradually to himself
_
mrropr or rss casa. 165
and his inhux. From this time, you are more and more to
stand in his place with your vital power, a thing which now
can no longer he of any'prejudice to you ; you have gained
considerably in strength. When Albert comes the next time, he
will dispense less powertoyou. Notwithstanding, my system must
imbibe the same quantity, until it .is satisfied. You, therefore,
must stand hereafter, more and more, in his place; for which
reason I shall depend, till my complete recovery, altogether on
you, and shall not be able, even when Albert is present, to
awake from a crisis without your help. But do not be con-
cerned; Albert knows well what he is about; he assured it
will not hurt you. (She said further before waking :) It is of
service to me that I had an attack to-day." Why so! "It is
Friday, and that day is a favorable one to me." You are jest-
ing surely; is not one day the same as another! "
O no, no,
in my state it is otherwise." Then give me some reason for
an opinion of this sort. (She thinks a long time and says at
last :)
"
No, I cannot; but yet it is the fact. But now I wish
to resta. quarter of an hour. After this interval had passed
she said shortly:) Wake me up-you know how to proceed."
(I blew on her forehead, and she awoke.)
June 2lst.
So early as six in the evening the approaching crisis was
announced by oppressions of the chest alternating with qualms.
About seven o'clock the latter ceased, while the former went
on increasing to such a degree, that I was several times appre-
hensive of actual sutfocation. To this were added, somewhat
later, distortions of the face and writhings of every limb of the
body into the most unnatural postures. About half past seven,
R. at length asked me to lay my hand upon her, which was
shortly followed by a general quietude of the system. She
now `slept quietly till eight, when, with a sudden start, she
became magnetically awake, and forthwith began to speak:
"
God be praised ! this struggle too is past; if I am to get well
these are things I must submit to. It will seize me yet more
violently hereafter." But whence proceeds the increased
violence and obstinacy of your cramps! "I have already told
Q L
A
166 H!.l'!0B¥ OF THR CASI.
you, that the nearer my restoration, the harder they will be.
My period is also concerned in it. A few passes over the head
towards the stomach might doubtless have relieved me greatly,
and spared me many pains." Why did you not tell me this
before? "Because it must not be resorted to. What might
benefit me in one way would hurt me in another. I should
very soon be raised to higher degrees of the magnetic state,
and then-oh Heaven! then I might see no end of my suffer-
ings. It would not be good. (She rises suddenly and turns
her head to the right.) Ah, Albert, my Albert! "Peace be
with thee!" this was the salutation he just now gave me.
Thou faithful friend! How well do I feel when thou art with
me! ('I'o me.) 0 this delight that pervades me, you should
feel it once! I no longer feel my body when Albert is so near
and so intimately united with us both."* Is your Albert now so
near to us again!
"
Yes, he stands quite near on your right and
is looking into you. He smiles. (A pause.) He sees what is
going on in your soul; I too see it in Albert; but I do not speak
of it. Ob,how pleasantly he looks upon you ! When he smiles,
I do not see it in his face, as with you, but in his whole person.1»
I see and feel it too quite otherwise than I perceive it in my
waking state. (A pause.) Ah, in the society of such pure
spirits a good soul must feel boundless happiness, and grow
rapidly in heavenly perfection. How beautiful must it be, where
you are permitted to be, my Albert. Might I _but go with you,
and not return again where there is so much sufering and im-
perfection. (A pause.) I am still far from being prepared;
ob, I mu t become much better before I can reach that place.
(A pause. Suddenly she gives a joyful start, and raises up her
*
How great the
delight
of heaven is, may be manifest only from this,
that it is a delight to al in heaven to communicate their delights and
blessings to another.-IL 4' H. 399.
_
'I' Hence it is, that the spirit of man, which is his mind in the body, is
ln all form, a man; wherefore, man alter death is equally man, as in the
world,
onlty
with the didérence, that he has thrown away the cast-odii,
which ma e his body in the world. Now because the human form is such
that all the parts made a general whole, which acts as one, it follows that
one cannot be moved out of
tplace,
and
changed
as to state, except with
the consent of the rest ; or if one shoul be moved out of place,
T32 changed as to state, the form which acts as one would sutlisr.-D. P.
`~ HISTGBI 0! THE CASE- 167
hands with the words :) This is what you meant, my kind Al-
bert! How would I thank you!" What did your Albert say
to you!
"
Think, he tells. me that I shall yet see in company
with him, to-day, a pious soul departed, one well known to me,
and whom I loved in life; that she has come od' victorious from
the struggle of life, and now is happy." Who may this he!
(A pause.) Ye happy, ye enviable beings, who have passed
through the hard combat of this world! Oh, that I might be
among you! Ye have held out to the end; but I also am bound
to do it; yes, I both must and will do it; the Lord's will be
done; He will make it as light and easy to me as is needful.
(A pause. She folds her hands and prays :)
"
By Thee, 0 Lord, the hosts of Heaven
To ns for guardians sure are
_giv'n,
'Gainst ills on earth so rife.
Make me, Father, in dejection,
More worthy of their high protection;
Oh, punfy my life !
Whence have you these verses! "l saw them in my Albert.
(A pause of several minutes. Suddenly she raises up her
arms and says :) I am to go with you toVenus! Yes, my Al-
bert, gladly; where you are, there lfeel happy. (She is sud-
denly agitated over her whole system, and says, after a pause of
a few seconds 2) Here I am then with you, my faithful guide,
in`the fair land of good spirits. (With joyful surprise :) and I
am to see her now, my Albert, now immediately? Ah, there
she is approaching already; Isee that she knew about me be-
tbrehand from Albert. (0verjoyed.) Good Heaven, it is you!
you 3 Ab, that is what I could not have looked for; how am I
rejoiced!" (Her joy causes her whole frame to be agitated.)
Who is it you see, besides Albert? "
Ah, only think, my de-
ceased friend T. of§. Yes, it is she. Oh, you are lovely and good ;
soft and gentle creature, how happy you are now. Your abode
then is here! (She converses in silence a quarter of an hour
with the friend who had appeared to her; at length she raises
up her arms in a longing manner, and says :) Ah, there she
soars away; _she leaves me again z but thanks to you, dear one,
you have strengthened my heart; from this time you are my
example and pattern. Thanks! (A pause of several minutes.)
~ I a
168 :nomar or 'ras casa.
Have you really spoken with your friend T. of 8.3 Was it her-
self, or only an image of your highly excited imagination?
"
You are always the sceptic ; (somewhat impatiently :) How
can I give a proof to your sense and to your understanding '! Do
not ask it; it is out ofthe question." That I do not ask for; but
it seems to me that a doubt may be permitted, in a matter where
delusion comes in so
easily, and has already occurred so often,
and in a sphere where the usualutests cannot be applied.
"
You
say well, and are right; Ah, Ioiten forget that you are in a very
different state from myself; but as I am so intimately united
with you, every doubt, even when it is a natural one, hurts me.
But Icannot help you; Albert could give you proofs ; but he is
not permitted ; Oh, believe rather, believe, I beseech you." If
the appearance of the person mentioned by you is real, you can
give me perhaps, information of other persons deceased, who
have been dear to me and mine! "I will ask my Albert." (Af-
ter a pause :) "
My Albert_says that he will gladly communicate
to you what he can and may. Ask then without hesitation."
Is the abode and state of my deceased wife known to yourll-
bert 1' "
He says, that he saw her three years since for the first
time, and recognized her as your wife, that she is in a place
where it goes well with her; but that he does not know whether
she is there still." Where is this place! "Albert does not
wish you to ask further on this point; he wishes you to be satis-
fied with the assurance that it goes very well with her, that she
is happy." Can Albert communicate to me any thing respect-
ing the late Professor A-I! (Cordially.) Oh, he, Albert
says, is in a happy, very happy place. Oh, it must be beautiful
there, as I see in Albert. I should be glad to go there also.
My Albert is looking thither, butl do not dare let my gaze
penetrate into it. Albert is not yet at that high degree of hap-
piness which this pious and good spirit has attained. He, too,
was, though for a short time, in a lower place of preparation, be-
fore he came where he is now." Can Albert tell me something
of my father also! "
Oh, how Albert is rejoiced at this ques-
tion ! He loves him much, and knows him well. In this world
he was a very good man, and he is correspondingly happy in the
other. Albert says, that he often thinks of you and of his friends
on the earth, with deep love. Yourself in particular he loves
~
HISTORY OF THE CASE. 169
heartily, and has done much for you."*- Was Albert acquainted
with my father in Tiibingen!
"
No, in Balingen; there he
saw you also, when a child, frequently, and loved you. (A
pause.) Your father, Albert says to me, has a noble employ-
ment-where he is. He was engaged almost his life long on
earth in teaching; there he has received a similar one, but
much higher." I had a brother G. ; where is he, and how is it
with him? "
Albert does not name to you his abode ; he says,
however, that he has become very amiable, that he has seen
him several times, and that his lot is a happy one; that ho
thinks much about his friends on earth, especially about his
mother, and strives earnestly to improve his moral state." C.
bids me ask, how it comes that he dreams so much of his bro-
ther G., and that his dreams always present him with scenes
from their youthful years!
"
Because G. was brought up with
him, and the dreams of man very often select the period of
youth for their theatre. C. never saw his brother otherwise
than as he was here below, never ashe is now. Still, G. often
thinks of him ; but your father yet oitener of youl Oh, heloves
you still, Albert says, very dearly. Ah, I should greatly like to
see your father, as Albert sees him now, and can see him when-
ever he pleases; but I dare not. (R. gave an account of va-
rious relations and acquaintances departed, which, however,
cannot be inserted here.) But now I must rest for twenty-eight
minutes." Have my questions exhausted you? "No;`but it
is well for me now to be alone with Albert. I should always
say it immediately, if conversing or answering were not good
for me. (After resting for half an hour, she laid her hand on my
stomach, and said :) See, Albert, my benefactor's stomach is
still suffering; help him, I beseech you. (A pause.) Albert
says I must pray for you; that, without the power and will of
the Most High, nothing can be done for YOIL (She prays :) Mer-
ciful, faithful God and Father! Thou knowest my request ere
I bring it_before Thee ; my trust is in Thy aid. Remove this pain
'Nothing is more delightful to the
angels
than to instruct and teach
spirit: at their first coming from the worl , and also to serve mankind, by
inspiring them with whatis good, and by restrainin the evil spirits lt-
tendant on them from passing their proper bounds.-E. C. 454.
8
I 5
I
170 HISTORY or Tl! GAB!-
from him, 0 God, if it be -Thy holy will. Restore his health to
him again. Requite to him thereby the benevolence which he
has shown to me in so many ways. Lord, Lord, hear me.
Amen. (A pause.) 0 Albert, you are a purer spirit, you are
mach better than I am; do yon also pray for him; Ah, see, he
is doing so; he prays for you. You should see this sight, how
bright his form appears in prayer; how holy his essence is, how
childlike, how trustful in God, and pure! Ah, what am I!
(She weeps; after a pause :) I-Ie rises, tums to me and says:
I am permitted to give him peculiar power through you." (She
again`raises her right hand with the first three lingers, while
she lays the left on my stomach. There follow now, at inter-
vals of about fifteen seconds, seven very strong jerkings and
agitations of the whole body, but especially of the upper part,
of the right hand first, then of the breast, and lastly of the left.
For several hours I had suiliared sickness and oppression of the
stomach; atter what has just been related, I felt myself newly
strengthened; 'a peculiar warmth pervaded my whole system,
and I felt from that hour no further inconvenience.)
"
Do you
feel nothing peculiar in your body 1" O yes, a great and very
comfortable change. Express to Albert my most heartfelt
thanks. "
He smiles in a
loving manner upon you, and says,
that he will do for you what he can and may; he also bids you
hope that you will become once more entirely healthy; but says
it is indispensably necessary for this, that you should continue
your present manner of living for years, and never forget prayer
to God. Oh, apply to Him in frequent and earnest prayer, and
then His blessing cannot fail to come." Are not particular ex-
ternal remedies still necessary for the restoration of m
y stomach '!
"I see your stomach, at this moment, all illuminated; matters
can go on very well, if you adhere strictly to your rules. The
nerves of the stomach, and many of those connected with it in
the abdomen, have indeed been unstrung and weakened by the
long continued cramps; but things will go on well; only have
patience, and be constant. At present, particular remedies are
not necessary; you are in the hands of an excellent physician ;
my Albert has known him long; follow his advice. When your
stomach becomes acid, but only then, take a tea-epoonful of
burnt magnesia. The quassia drops also will now be of service
mama! or ns ous. 171
to you again; they increase the activity of your stomach. le-
sides this, there is nothing particular to be observed. Only do
not neglect daily exercise, and repair as soon as possible to the
Dizenbach Spring. The use of these waters is highly henei-
cial to you. (Thus far, after the communication of strength
mentioned above, R. had kept her hand on my stomach; all at
once she started with a pretty sudden movement and the words :)
I must continue this no longer, Albert! I must lay on my right
hand,tool So? Ah l-Both fartherup? and crossed! Now
it is right. (A pause.) I feel again exactly as if my left hand
were glued to your stomach; exactly as when a glass appears
to be stuck to a smooth, wet surface. (She smiles.) It is a
singular power-this magnetic force. (After a little, she at-
tempted to remove her hand, but without success. She said
she experienced a pain in her arm when she attempted to re-
move it forcibly. Only after a quarter of an hour she suc-
ceeded in it gradually, and for some time afterwards she com-
plained of numbness in herleft hand, which, however, disappeared
before waking. She rested now
quietly for more than fifteen
minutes, then raised herself up, with the whole upper part of
her person free, and her head elevated, as if listening, and said :)
I hear delightful harmonies; ah! ah! what tones! they are
not of earth l" What do you hear? Every thing about is still.
"
I hear a glorious song from many happy inhabitants of Venus,
vrbo, as Albert says, are not very far from me, but whom I cannot
now see." Why not! "Such is Albert's will; I am here, he
says, to recover my health, not to see strange things; and that
rest of soul, just at this time, is of peculiar benefit to my body.
But still I see something singular." What is it you mean?
"I see again, inscribed on high in a golden bow :" "
Thank ye
the Lord; Father is His name."~|' Are the characters that
you see such, again, as are unintelligible to us men! "
Yes,
they are short but comprehensive signs, which the departed
;_l_
'
In the spiritual world there appear nlnbows of many
kindk
some of
various colors, as upon earth, and some ofone color
only;
here ( ev. iv.3)
of one color only, because it is said, like unto an emeral . This appearance
was round about the lard because it is said round about the throne;
round about him is also in the Heaven of angels.-A. R. 232.
1' Throughout all heaven they know no other Father than the Lord,
(Jesus Cln'isL)-A. C. 15.
17| ~l!l'.l'0l'!0l'THl(!.l!!»
understand immediately! I recognise their meaning in my
Albert." , Do you also understand the words of the song!
"
Yes, I perceive that the song has for its subject the praise of
the Highest, and gratitude to Him. There are not words there,
as on earth; as one character signities many thoughts, so one
tone, many feelings.1> I cannot explain it to you." Is there
not, however, s speech in the other world! "
Yes, but the com-
munication of souls among themselves cannot be explained to
natural men.1 And yet there are in this world word-forms which
we could copy on eartb, though indeed very scantily and imper-
fectly, if they were known to us."§ Can you name or imitate
for us such a word, or such a character, so that it shall fall into
our senses! "
I see, at this moment, several of them in my
Albert, who takes pleasure in showing and explaining them to
me; but as for imitating them, it would cost me, much as it may
surprise you, extreme and hurtful efforts. Consequently, I dare
not attempt it." Do you know the meaning of the word "
opti-
nipoga"! (She reflects.) "
Yes, this word has a meaning in
the other world; it means :
"
I iind rest with thee," or: "Thou
ailhrdest me solace." Is this word known to you from the Seer-
ess of Prevorst'! "
You know I have never read that book. If
that Seeress has assigned another meaning to this word, you are
to reflect, that she was in a far higher magnetic state than myself.
She was often in higher spheres than I am, and, consequently,
there might be some diversity. (Suddenly checking herself :)
No; my Albert smiles, and I see in him that the language of
spirits is every where the same;|| Iam sure that the Seeress
'
Every man comes into this language after death, for it is implanted in
him from creation.-T. C. R. 19. _
'|* There is an aEection of spiritual love, which is sung every mommg,
that is is sounded by modifications or modulations of a musical voice, and
that airssssn is perceived in me
singing
ss ifnwm itself: is Rows into
the souls of the hearers, and excites em to a correspondence. Such is
heavenly singing.-71 C. R. 745. _ _
1 The angels spoke concerning these things spiritually, and spiritual
speech embraces thousands of
things
which natural speech cannot ex-
press; and, what is wonderful, whic cannot even Esll into the ideas of
natural thought.-Tl C. R. 386. _ _ _
§ This writing, which is made by types of a heavenly form, is in
use ln
the inmost Heaven, where they excel _all others iu_ yvisdom. But in the
inferior heavens there are not such writings ; the writings in these _heavens
are similar to writings in the world, sn sunslaf letters but still not intelligi-
bl b h
'
xi 1 .-ii. H. sex.
e to man, ecauset ey are in ange c
angluage
&
ll All in the universal hsaven have one anguage, and they all under-
/
lI!T0l.Y UI' 'Ill Gill. 173
has not spoken otherwise than I have." Do not be uneasy ; the
diference is not such a serious one. The Seeress said the word
meant :
"
Thou must sleep"; and gave it as a means of quieting
andputting her to sleep. Meanwhile, it mnstbe said, there are
already three meanings, and even three diferent sentences,
which the word will have to signify.
"
That is the case, also,
in the speech of men on earth; only with this diE'erence, that
the soul gifted with clear sight, when set at liberty, needs fewer
words and signs to understand and to be understood. One sign
stands for a dozen words of human speech,* and the power of
souls to look through each other, to read each other's' interiors
and to recognize immediately the internal will and endeavor,
which are spontaneously expressed by natural characters in
every soul, comes in place ofthe diffuse communications of men,
who can make themselves mutually understood only by external,
often fallacions forms. (A pause.) Albert, my Albert, whither
are you hurrying? Ah, he means to fetch the flower. (Alter
afew seconds :) There it is; he has brought it for me. Ah, see
the cup ! what splendor! It is indescribably beautiful!" Do not
forget the main point: How many leaves has it still! "
Thank
God ! only five; eight more are withered. There is something
peculiar aboutthis flower; I cannot rightly understand its nature ;
it' is no bare symbol, and yet it is a symbol; it is nothing al-
together material, and yet it is not entirely supersensnal. (A
pause.) I begged Albert to explain it to me ; but he says that
I cannot comprehend it." How often will Albert visit you
yet?
"
Only a few times more, with the special purpose of
bringing my disease to a conclusion; still I shall still see him
occasionally hereafter for a short time. In the visit of my Al-
bert preceding the last the flower will appear in all its glory;
the leaves then will be all gone, and the last time. '
Alas, then
he takes leave of me. (She weeps.) I shall not become quite
healthy for some time, even when Albert visits me no longer.
My present disease will then indeed be removed so that Al-
stand each other, from whatever society they are, whether near oridistant.
-H
236. _
*
_
is writing also involves in a few words more than a man can
descnbe by several pages.-H. 4' H. 261. _ _
l'14 ns-roar or -rsx casa.
bert's appearance will be no longer necessary; and your in-
duenoe will cease; but I shall still remain somewhat excitable
in my system for a long time. I shall have to guard carefully
my breast and abdomen." You coughed up some blood lately,
how is it with that ailhctionl "It calls for no remedies. It
was partly the consequence of the cramps in my breast, and
partly from obstructions. It will disappear of its own accord
with my present disease." You asked me to remind you, when
Albert should be here_again, of that "
evil voice" of which you
spoke a few days ago. "|Yes, that is true." (A pause, during
which she turns herself to Albert.) "
Albert says, that every
man has not only his own guardian spirit at his side, but an
evil being also.* I do not see this spirit, thank God: but I
heard his voice distinctly in that half waking state." You
heard his voice! How is that possible! "
It is the fact, do
notbesurprised. It is indeed no voice whose sound comes
through the air and is heard by the ear; but, in a way which
I cannot explain, I hear something from without that I can
eompare only to a soft, insinuating voice.1' Albert says, that
thi comes from that evil being; When he sees that there is a
ground for self-justification ever so slight, of which self-love
oanavail itself, he seizes it quickly, and lays it right temptingly
before my soul for its choice. It becomes then very diicult
for me to follow the better voice, also perceptible, because the
other course seems to give me the advantage. Yes indeed-
eeeme: 0 Albert, destroy him!" Oh, not so rash and violent!
"You are right. He too can still turn to what is good; but
he has deeply excited me." I am almost tempted to think, that
with your two attendant beings you have expressed, in a figure,
the two main tendencies of the human spirit, its perpetual
wavering between good and evil, its double life for God and the
world, for heaven and earth, and that too in a way that might
A*ghggel
are with every man at least two evil spirits and two angels.-
if it is evident, that the sch of an angel or spirit with man
is
heard ln man, and because it equgfy moves the organs of hsanng, that it
is also equally sonorous. That the speech of an angel and of a spmt flows
gave;mio
the ear from within, was evident to me from this.-
memos! or rss cuz. 175
bedangerousto morality. Is not the humanheartby nature
filled with a prevailing bias to the sensual! And is not the
human spirit indebted, on the other hand, to its divine derive-
tion for that attraction towards the alone True and Good, which
it received as an endowment when it came forth from God, and
which we csll conscience 3 For what end, then, any external,
supersensual representatives of that which already lies sui-
ciently _in our sensual and spiritual nature 'I Is it not plain,
how dangerously the supposition of such spiritual guides and
especially tempters may work on the morals of men-to say
nothing about the point, that such induenees must make our
moral freedom very doubtful! "
In this, my Albert says, you are
altogether wrong. I have already told you,that the choice both to
will and to ect is always lelt to the freedom of man. Supposing
you have rightly represented the human heart and the protection
of conscience, yet the equilibrium* in the interior of the soul is
not impaired, if there accedes a prop to the conscience, and an
alluring voice to the weakness of the heart. Never can the
latter become audible, without the good spirit showing himself
active on his side, and the greater the temptation, so much the
stronger the exhortation and prompting to its.opposite.1- But in
this struggle the choice is always left free. The human soul,
oh, believe it I pray you, is by no means a prey to evil, if it will
only learn to will what is good ; no where is there less a being
yielded up at random than I in the world of spirits. All here is
high, divine plan.1. (A pause.) And then I ask you : do you
Quan know so certainly that such an ordination of God was un-
necessary."§ No; still it is, after all surprising, that two higher
*
To the intent that man
max)-be
in freedom, with e view to his being
reformed, he is conjoined as to
`
spirit, with heaven and with hell. For
there are with every man spirits from hell, and angels from heaven: by
spirits from hell men is in his own
evil; but by angels from heaven msn
is in good from the Lord; thushe is mspiritual equihbrium,thet is,in
freedom.-H. Q' EL 599.
1 Temptations
agperteining
to man, are spiritual combats between evil
and
50011 spirits.- . C. 8131.
I nless the Lord ruled both the heavens and the hells, there would
not be
anyeixnrilibrium
and if noequilibrinm, there would not be a heaven
and sm ; an and iiagu ming. in in. univsm, um i|,1»a» inthe
natural world and in the spiritual world, derive consislence from equili-
brium.-H. 4' H. 592.
§ Thatmsnisgovsmed of the Lord,by spiris,'is because he i notin
A
I
176 muon! or rn casa.
beings should have to be perpetually occupied with a msn, in
the manner you mentioned. "
Surprising? that is deciding
very hastily., Do you not then consider, that an infinite deal
depends on every human soul, and that as well the guardian
spirits as the evil ones, are working,while thus employed, towards
their future destination, and that the destinies of three human
souls are here concerned, and not merely those of one? Such
at least is God's will and plan-let us not seek to add to or di-
minish from it." (A pause.) Have you yet seen, with the eye
of your soul, a less good, or an evil spirit, in what you call the
middle kingdom 1 "
No, hitherto Albert has carried me through
the atmosphere of the earth, without my being obliged to see
such a spirit. Albert guarded me against it. In the atmosphere
of the earth there are departed spirits in multitudes and of every
kind. (A pause.) But now cease from questions. Albert
says that he must leave me, and I must return to the earth.
Alas! why may I not stay here? (She is agitated for a few
minutes over her whole system.) Here I am again in Schwaik-
heim. My Albert leaves me at this moment; alreadyl see him
beaming in the remote distance* Farewell, my true attendant !'~
(An interval of silence.) Will you wake up to-day ofyour own
accord! "No, by your will; you must blow into my face."
Now! "
I will tell you when it is time." When will the next
crisis occur? "
Next Thursday-in the mean time there will
occur some half waking states, on Sunday and Tuesday. (A.
the order of heaven, for he is hom into the evils which are of hell, thus alttf
gether contrary to divine order; wherefore he is to be reduced into order,
and he cannot be so reduced, except niediately by spirits.-H Q H. 296.
That spirits, who communicate with hell, are also
adgoined
to man, is
because man is bam into evils of every kind, and thence is first life is only
from them; wherefore, unless there were adjoined to man spirits, such as
he is, he could not live, yea, neither could he be withdrawn from his evils
and be reformed. Wherefore he is held in his own life by evil spirits,
and is withheld from it by good spirits; by both also he is in equilibrium ;
and because he is in e utli rium, he is in freedom, and can be withdrawn
from evils, and inclineid to good, and also good can be implanted in him,
which could by no means be done unless he were in freedom; nor can
freedom be given him unless spirits from hell ect on one side and spirits
from heaven on the other, and man be in the midst.-I-L 4- H. 293.
*
'Phenceis the
guanine
a8°ection oftruth, which is an affection of truth
fbr the sake of tru! _ Those who are in this_ affection, or, what is the same
thing, who are in this love, are in heavenly intelligence, and shine lIl_h§8~
ven as with the splendor of the expanse. _
They shme thus,because divine
truth, wherssoever it is in heaven, gives light.-IL if IL 347.
H!l'l0l! or 'ru cus. 111
pause.) You may venture to preach; it will fatigue you somo-
whst, but Albert will attend you, and give you strength, as I
saw in him when he left IDE. (A Pelle.) Now wake me upt'! I
blew into herfaee; she started,bu.t did notwake. I blswon
her forehead with the same result. (She smiled and said :)
"Here it is not as in the half-waking state: you must begin to
blow on the lower part of the face, and, slowly carry it upwards
over the forehead, firmly willing me to awake." (I didso and
all at once the usual cramps came on, after which she awoke
quite cheerful, at half-past ten o'clock.) V
June $41.
At seven in the evening, R. was attacked with a trembling
over the whole body, which had some likeness to the phenomena
of an agua lit, and lasted a. short quarter of an hour, during
which she retained her consciousness perfectly. This was suc-
ceeded by a strong and general jerking of the entire system,
and by violent stretching and twisting of the arms and legs;
after which she closed her eyes, and only made some very
rapid motions with the lower jaw. At last the mouth
closed convulsively, and it was plain that a general
rigidity had come on, in which, as I did not dare to apply
magnetic passes, and laying my hand on her was of no
avail, I was obliged to leave R. to herself. This state continued
for two hours, after which, the limbs regained by degrees the
power of motion, and the lower jaw at last began to move.
She awoke, without having spoken a word, after a slight trem-
bling of the body, and felt comfortably.
June 24th. ,
An attack altogether like the preceding, took place in the
evening at four o'elock. Inst before waking R. recovered her
speech, and said z
"
To-day I lay for three hours without being
able to stir; but it was my own fault." How so 'I "Half the
time would have produced the same ed`ect if I had not eaten to-
day too many meat-balls." Yes, that is the dish of your palate.
(Leibessen-Bodyfood.)
"
Dishes!my palate ! (Smiling some-
l
178
'
msroav or -rn casa.
whatsoornfully.) Whatkind ofan expression is that,Ipray'! Then
the soul too has such adish." Tell me such an one.
"
I mean
the gratification of any favorite desire 7* you understand me."
What is the reason that you bled at the' nose yesterday and to-
day?
'°
From severe head-ache; but it will do me no harm; I
shall still think, when I wake up, that it will he good for me to
he bled ; but persuade me out of that idea; it is not good." How
is it with my stomach? "
I scarcely feel my hand attracted to
it morestrongly than to any other part of your body. You may
now venture to drink beer again; only not more than one large
glass." R. observed further before she woke, that, to-day, for
the Erst time, she could distinguish the various objects in the
chamber through the right eye. In looking further, as through
the window, things were still covered to her as with a mist.
June 26th.
A
At half past six in the evening there came on general sick-
ness; a disposition to vomit alternated with a slight, dry, short
cough until, at seven o'clock, the usual cramps made their ap-
pearance, which continued till a quarter to eight with a violence
hitherto unknown. The oppressions were often so strong and
lasting, that I seriously apprehended sutfocation more than once.
The convulsions, which cast the body from one side to the other
and upwards, could not be looked at without pity. I could do
nothing to relieve her. Abouteight there came quiet and sleep.
After a few minutes, during which a lovely color had gradually
returned to the cheeks, and cheerfulness to the features, she be-
gan to speak of her own accord :-°' 0 my Albert ! you are here !
Thank God 2 you are here! 0 you have left me to go through
a hard struggle. But what are these struggles compared with
one single look upwards to you, in comparison with the happiness
which I experience in your society ! My sensations now are
all of delight. So a departed one may feel when he has cast oif
the painful wrapping of the desh. Such a struggle is indeed
*
No scientiic and rational ,which man acquires, from infanc to old
se;
is ever insinuated into him except by what is good and dslightsome;
w 'ch things are therefore called meats, and are meats, because his soul
lives and is supported by them.-A. C. 678.
muon! or 'ru ous. 179
hard ; it is a kind of dying." Whence did this hard struggle pro-
ceed? "
Now that my restoration is at hand, it is fsr more dim-
eult than before for my spirit to leave its dwelling. The bands
which confine it to the body are already strengthened. (A
pause.) O Albert, if you had rather chosen to let me die fully,
and taken me to be where you are, how gladly would I have gone
with you! But it was not so determined in the counsels of the
Most High. I am to wrestle yet longer in the arena, and Ithank
Thee for it, Father ; Thou only desirest that I should be im-
proved by trial. (A pause.)
Blest is the man who dwells in God's rutection,
And walks beneath His wings' eternal)shadow!
(A pause. She prays in silence; her lips move; at length
she speaks aloud :)
Whene'er I seek Thee, Lord, in care and trouble,
Thou art as on some rock a lofty tower;
Thy
love patemal is my sword and buckler _
An Thy as-eng um will
signs
me from all miwmen
Thou givest charge to all hy holy angels,
In all my ways to bear me up from stumbling.
'
(A pause.)
'
_
Oh, if Thy holy name I do but honor,
And seek, before all other things, Thy kingdom,
Thou graciously wilt hear my supplication,
And rescue me from ev'ry fear and trouble.
Beneath Thy wings of love 0 Father, sheltered,
`l need not fear for
eominé
ill and sorrow ;
But in those evil days w k fearlessly,
When dire disease invades my feeble body.
Thou, when this earthly
pilgrimage
is over,
Wilt take me to the happiness of eaven.
(A pause.)
To Thee, 0
Loving Father, I
bring)worship ;
.To Thee,
ma
heart s best thanks my Redeemer;
'l'o Thee, a
_praise and honor, Holy Spirit._
(A pause.)
All thanks to Thee, for ever Merciful !
For that in Thee my trust as rocks is steadfast.
Let Thy most
holy will be done henceforth;
Whste'er it be, with holy faith I yield me.
_
(A pause of several minutes.)
l80 msronr or 'ras case.
Ah !-A`h !-the friends of my Albert, the noble spirits; they
ans coming here ; they bring the flower. (She speaks low-
then aloud :) _
`
How
happy
thlu to raise
My voice or God's high pra.lse,
Among the choirs of angels bright!
(She prays in silence, and then proceeds aloud :)
Who may taste this pleasure!
The who count their treasure
X'll'etlxat's
pleasing
in God's aight.
Like angels make me oly,
0 Lord, as one so lowly,
The
Can
helmadi
below.
, in si o
I'll :ow brglbre Thee,
And Thy eternal praises show.
(A. pause.)
Did you know these lines before! "Yes, I get them by
heart when a child. The unrhymed ones also I have frequently
read in my earlier years. Albert, beloved Albert! hearty
thanks to you too! Oh, that I could give you more! You are
my guardian spirit, and with my thanks I will join the entreaty:
Let me never fall! Guard me, lead me, whither it pleases thee
and the Most High. If I am in forbidden paths, and will not
hear thy loved voice, then resort to harder measures, lead me
back to the right way by suifering, if it cannot he done by
gentler means. Oh, help me, that hereafter I may attain the
happiness in which you, my Albert, are living. (A pause.)
How glorious is the flower! There it stands in its highest
splendor! Oh, if you could only see it! Joy beams from Al-
bert's face,* that it now appears in all its glory. All its leaves
are withered; supported on its vigorous stem its cup is all
resplendent with purple hues, and all embroidered with golden
rays. Oh, how beautiful! How glorious! (A pause.) How
beautiful, Albert, you are to-day! You appear in your most
°
The form of
charity
which is seen to the life in heaven, is such,
that charity itself is w at etligies and is edigied; and this in such s.
r1x;an<;¢}i}tl;s;;the.whole angel, especially the face, is as it were charity.-
HISTORY OF THB CASE. 181
glorious splendor.* 0 Albert, who would not gladly endure
every thing, when beckoned to such a goal as you have reached!
Yes, joyfnlly henceforth I will bear all the burdens which the
Lord lays upon me, that I may one day be with you. `(To me.)
To-day my Albert has a palm wreath on his head. He is
clothed in the fairest garb of Heavend- He celebrates a festi-
val to-day1-that of my recovery. Oh, there the sudierings of
others are more regarded than they are in this world." (I had
taken up by accident a mouth-harmonica, which she imme-
diately observed. he asked me to play on it, and I did so.
Scarcely did she hear the first sound when she began to ling.
Her voice was exceedingly pure and melodious, and with ad-
mirable skill she passed from one chord to another as I chose
them. Frequently she invented transitions quite unexpected,
and yet exceedingly beautiful and harmonious. fler song
retained a delightful unity, whatever chords I might blow, and
yet it was only an accompaniment to the simple, fundamental
notes of the harmonica. When I was somewhat tired of
blowing I stopped, and her singing ceased at the same time.
But soon she requested me :)
"
Let me sing yet more. (I
blew, and she sang-now adding words to the notes as fol-
lows :)
Holy holy art Thou, Lord;
The heavens above declare Thy power _
And extol Thy majesty.
Praise to Thee, Father, Son and Spirit!
For evermore!
(She requested me twice afterwards, in this crisis, to let her
sing again, and adapted words, on these occasions also, to her
singing; but I did not understand them, as the sound of the
harmonica was too close to my ear. The lines inserted above
'
'l'he
aqgell
are not constantly in the same state as to love, and thence
neither in e same as to wisdom. When
they
are in the greatest
degree
of
A031thlfrti Hhey
are
tl? 5and
heat o their life, or in their c ear
an
`
t u state.- . . .
'
1* The);(the angels) said also that their garments are changed according
to the changes of their state, and that in the lint and second state, they
vos ln an | tgarment|,mte nn 0 nl amor!
ha
dbrgh
'bthird dfurth lttl
obscure.-I .
ti
H. 1 l.
ere are ere In eaven) s o vi .
¥ Th
`
h day f festi
'
I
182 HISTORY OF THE CARL
she sang so distinctly that I understood them. On my request-
ing her subsequently to repeat the verses, as I had not under-
stood them, she replied :) _
I was elevated by this music to a
higher magnetic state. It lasted, however, no longer than the
music itself. I do not myself remember any longer the words
I then made use of. I have descended again, and Albert keeps
silence and will not tell me the words." Why not 'I "I must
not pass into that higher state again at present; but if I should
hear the words I should immediately be thrown into it again,
and that would not be of service to me to-day." I think it
further worthy of notice, that R., when I laid the harmonica,
which had several accords, upon her forehead, began forthwith
to sing in the same manner, and, as I satislied myself by everal
trials, sang always in the key which was the fundamental note
of the chord which came in contact with her forehead. When
I placed the harmonica so that her forehead was touched
by two chords at once, she passed alternately from the one
to the other in her singing, without striking into a third. I
requested my brother C. to blow the harmonica: he did so
within our magnetic atmosphere, and she replied to the ques-
tion :) What do you hear! "A sound similar to that pro-
duced by rubbing a glass. It comes from C. I hear it through
you. (A pause.) Let me, I pray you, examine your stomach.
(She lays her left hand there.) Things are very well there.
Albert says, that a happy- change has taken place in your
system, for which a preparation had been going on for several
weeks, and which was brought to effect by his operation upon
you on Saturday last. From this cause proceeds your want of
appetite for some time. You will soon be well again. I shall
not be so happy. I shall indeed soon be free from the cramps,
but I shall not immediately regain perfect health; my breast
will sutfer long; especially will I need to be on my guard
against an indammation of the lungs. After this disease, which
is now near its termination, I ought, as is necessary after every
disease at all serious, to spare myself for some weeks. But
this, I foresee, my circumstances will not permit. (A pause.)
In eight days from this time my Albert will visit me again;
and then you can undertake the joumey you intend. The
springs will be of great benefit to your health. The waters in
HISTORY 01' THB BASE. 188
Dilenbach are well adapted to your case." Will not preach-
ing next Sunday be injurious to me? (To Albert.) "
Do you
attend him again, my Albert; he wishes it so earnestly: do
you give him strength! Oh, it is a noble calling which you have;
he that fulfils it truly will»not be without a blessing. (A
pause.) Yes, my Albert will be near you on Sunday; you
will not be overdone." (My son-in-law- B., who happened to
be present, inquired through me z) How are things in R. 7
"
L. (his wife) has some head-ache from the heat ; but it is of
no importance. She is expecting you every day." Can you
tell B. any thing about his late father? "
My Albert knows
nothing about him. I would gladly have done a pleasure to
kind B. by intelligence on which he would have set so much
value; but Albert knows nothing in this case, he does not
know every thing. At this moment he is looking at you, B.*
(To Albert.) Yes, my Albert, he is good and honest, and
upright of heart. This you know well, my guardian. (To
me.) Now he is standing quite near to you again, my Albert;
see, quite close to you." You know that I cannot see it. "
Ah;
how sorry I am thatyou cannot." Does Albert see my sisters
also, here present!
"
Yes, through you and me ;1' but he is
now entirely taken up with you. He is observing your soul."
Have departed spirits of another and lower kind the same
power! "No, only when ways are opened to them by some
morbid state of the system in certain persons, as in my own
case.1 My Albert has hitherto guarded me against this. It is
'Wives have in this manner (throu h my eyes) seen their husbands
and children, and have wished me to tellthem that they were
present
and
looking on them, and thatl would mention the particulars o their state
in the other life; but this, I said, was not allowed,
bfy
reason that they
would have called me mad, or would have pronounce my infomation to
be all a delirium of the imagination, inasmuch as I was well aware, that
although they gave assent with their lips to the doctrine of the existence
of sprnts, and of the resurrection of the dead, and of their being amon st
spirits, and that spirits can see and hear b means of man, yet they did
not believe these things in their hearts.-E? U. 135.
fl' It has been given them (spirits and angels) to see throu b my eyes the
thugs of this world, and as
plainly
as I myself did.-E. 135.
t ut rt is not permitted them (t e infemals) to flow in even into the
solid parts of the body, or into the parts which constitute the viscera, the
organs
and members of man, but only into the lusts and falsities- only
w en man falls into disease,
the;
then dow into such unclean things as
appertain to the disease.-A. C. 5 13.
A
/
184 HISTORY 0| TBI CASI-
almost as much a mmer of honor to departed spirits to ap~
proach men, as for men to come in contact with departed`sonls.
Souls quite earthly-minded strive towards earth, indeed, but
then it is the worst torment to them that sensible things are no
longer to them what they were formerly. Their state is a
wretched gone from these double tendencies. (A pause.) I
beg you to let me sing a little more." Can you not do I0 of
yourself1 "No, without something proceeding from yourself,
such as music, to raise me, I cannot bring it about." (I blew
on the harmonica and she sang :)
"
Thou, Who of all the Father art,
lin sixth
as
vzell
as
Heaven,
-
o name, ru ev ,
shau didigl prune be givgidmn
Thy kingdom, long before prepar'd
~
A glorious habitation,
Come soon, and, after death, be heir'd
By all with its salvation.
I shall awake now soon. My return will be easy and
without paiu.'? Will the next attack be introduced by
cramps as violent as these were 7 "
I fear they will be
still more violent. If I am attacked then with weakness, as I
have been to-day, you need only rub my temples with Cologne
water and hold something pungent, it matters not what, under
my nose. Give me after the sleep to-day. a cup of Malaga wine.
Hereafter I need not be so careful in my eating. Only, what ie
very indigestible I must avoid for a long time. (A pause.)
When my Albert visits me again, he will leave me for some time
in the midst of the crisis, in order that I may accustom myself
by degrees to his ab ence. In the interval I shall several times
fall into a cataleptic state, which will be of service to me. Let
nothing then be done for me. At the end of these interval at-
tacksl shall fall into the usual half-sleep, and be able to con-
verse with you." Will not Amandus also come again?
"
Yes,
he will come once more to take leave of me. Albert now takes
his departure." (She looks after him a long time.) Are you
still out of the body I "
Yes, my spirit is ; the operation of my
soul does not remit, after the separation of my spirit, in the body,
otherwise it would be dead. Now _wake me-up. (I blew over
her face, without willing her to wake up. She started without
waking, and said :) Now will earnestly." (I did the like with a
IIIITOIY or 'ras cuz. 186
firm will, and, aher a slight convulsive moment that scarcely
agitated.her body, she was restored to waking life, having slept
for three hours.)
'
July 8d.
According to R.'s prediction there occurred on the 27th and
29th of June, as also on the first of July, attacks in all respects
like those of the 22d and 24th of June. She did not speak at
all in the , and always felt remakably better after them.
The struggle which brought on the crisis of the 8d of July was
yet more violent than that of the week before. There were,
strictly, several attacks succeeding one another, attended by the
most violent agitations and convulsions of the whole system, and
so extreme, that if I had not used my utmost strength to hold
her, the suferer would more than once have been hurled from
her bed to the floor. After each attack there succeeded great
exhaustion, and a breathing which was very similar to the
death-rattle and lasted each time some five or six minutes. In
this state the mouth and eyes were half opened, and the features
strikingly changed. The struggle lasted, in the whole, anhour.
Sometimes we could hear, while it continued, the words, pro-
nounced in'a broken and very slow manner: J' Help, Father in
Heaven! Help Thy child !" Or: "I am so near to dying
let me, 0 Merciful Father, pass hence entirely to Thee!"
Or, "
0 Father, only some relief !" Cologne water rubbed
on her temples, and held under her nose, strengthened
her visibly. She also nodded her thanks when I mois-
tened her lips with cold water. At length, about eight
o'clock, a single slight agitation carried her entirely over into the
land of her Albert. After resting a short time, she began to
speak with folded hands and of her_own accord :-" Peace, yes,
peace be with me! 0Albert! are you here? Thanks to Thee,
Heavenly Father; Thou hast helped me to overcome in this
dreadful struggle. 0 Lord, none is like unto Thee; great is
Thy name. Thine eyes did see my substance, being yet im.
perfect. Thou hast prepared my members, concluded my life,
and measured the number of my days in Thy wisdom. From
my childhood I have been led by Thy Fatherly hand; hitherto
hast Thou led me, and still Thou art leading me with love and
186 1181011 01 'Ill 0A|l» ~
txuth. Who can recl:onnp all the proofs of love which Thy
Fatherly kindness has shown ms, far outnumbering the sands
that lie by the sea»shore'! (A pause.) It was Thou, 0 Father,
who sentest Albert to me, and Thy goodness it was that in
every stage of my disease provided me a helper. How merci-
fully dost thou deal with Thy child!
Heweouldthatdreadful thonghtfsrtakeme,
That tortures feeble souls with fear,
That Thou, 0 Iord, eonld'st quite forsake me,
A God that numberost every hair,
A Father of such tender care,
It feeds the fowls that wing the air;
All-Wise, Thou see'st my every want,
All-Good, Thou giv'st me without scant.
But yet, how often have I forgotten Thee, my faithful God:
Oh, how often have I not heard Thy call, how often in my folly
taken the way of sin! 0 God, still be gracious to me, and blot
out my sin, in Thy mercy, through Jesus Christ! (A pause.)
She weepl; then raises up her hands and utters the following:
To know Thee, Lord, I was alas! too blinded
When Thou didst exercise me in Thy love,
To go the ways of my own folly minded,
llgneved Thy tender Spirit from above.
ough I am evil in Thy
sght,
0 lord,
Thoustill Thy favor to me ost atford.
Thou sentest Thy good angel down from Heaven,
To show Thy self a gracious Father still,
And till me with the joy of sins forgiven,
While bent on doing
mf
pervened will.
Thou seest my hea.rt; give it thee anew,
And vow it now to Thee for ever true.
Oh, look upon my fervent heart's devotion,
Regard me with Thine eye of heavenly grace;
The cross-which every troubled heart's emotion
Can still-behold I make my
hiding-place.
Thou know'st my purpose as a roc ll fast;
I know Thy love, that 'twill for ever last.
M faithful `an,thou rfome must leave me-
wl. »
1'1"""'i. ~
Pi h 1
sneer ovet ethin mostsondhate,
When the vain Batteries ofsense deceive me,
Until my heart cleaves to this earthly state-
Oh, let me know thou can'st not aid impart,
When s'er I choose the ways of my own heart.
msroa! or nn cur. 187
Hear then, a 'romise of m heart'| dictation:
Virtue alonqlxenceforth, shall be my end ;
And so, when sin allures me by temptation,
Thou'lt be my monitor and my sure friend;
But in the strife should courage fail my heart,
-
Be at my side, 0 Albert, then to take mypart.
(After thus pouring out her heart, R.. lay quietly with her
hands folded for nearly half an hour. To my question: where
have you read these verses? she replied.
"
Inever read them;
I saw them just now for the iirst time in my interiors. Such a
thing is easy in my situation.
'
On this occasion it was my heart,
yes, my heart that spoke." But now she raises both her arms
in the direction that she sees Albert in, and says :)
"
Oh Albert,
Albert, could I, might I, follow you. But novv you no longer
show yourself so near, and I must even thank you that you are
leaving me. What s. joy is that of restoration to health t
What a pain, that of parting from you, my beloved guardian!
But so is it ever in human life; pleasure and pain constantly
united. Nothing here is
perfect-fyet one day, when my eye
shall be closed, when once my spirit, led by its guardian, quits
its tabernacle, yes, then it will be otherwise; then there will
be no pain, no sudiaring more. (A pause of some minutes, after
which her face becomes overcast and she says :) To-morrow,
before you set of to St- M. R. will treat you very unhand-
somely; keep yourself quiet then and do not be ofended."
Can I not avoid it! "
No, though you are never so much on
your guard. This is something you have to pass through."
How did you learn this? "
Through my Albert." Will
Albert leave you to day for ever! "
No, he will visit
me
once more, but only to take leave of us. Alas! this'
is too paiuful." When will he visit you for the last time!
"
On the seventh of July, which is next Monday, at seven in the
evening. But now I beg you to let me sing." Could you not
listen in silence to the harmonica? "
No, I must sing when you
play on it. But when you cease, I suddenly descend from the
higher state into which the lines had elevated me, and remem-
ber no longer the words I have been singing. Still I remem-
ber that I have been so employed. (I played, and she sang :)
%'.§'l'f.'?.§°§f'.2'§ "°"°"
Lord, help me.
I
C
188 ll'lWY@'l$C|ll'.
0s1'beeIesst|ye|esall,
'l'hous.rtn|yhelpa';
Illd,F¢¢dD0.
'l'heelwiIlInlbw,'
. Thnusrtmyfaxher;
Isli,condlctne!
(A Paw-)
Thissingingraisesmywholenature towhat is better and
higher. It is as though it gave wings to my soul! I pray
you, let me sing more." (I played, and she sang :) /
"Iard,do'I'honlead ms;
Tboncanstperformit,
Yor'l'hylove haosvlofriolimiis;
Whnneersupportis needful,
0h,then giveitme.
Isee bitterpainsinthefnmre-
Let Thy grseebelp me bear them.
Thonbronght'stmeinto the combat;
%'"'°.;a°.:'.f'»
""'
"°'..i...,"'° °°°°"°'~
accom .
llyydsstinyis in Tgypower,
Leadme s ways nhcr Thy good pleasure."
This song also was very pure, and the voice peculiarly sol!
and gentle; nor was it less skilful in its transitions, for which,
as I chose the chords at my own pleasure, she could not be pre-
pared. I had accidentally taken my snulfhox in my hand as I
was about to lay it on her stomach, and unconsciously, while
speaking with my sister, laid the hand in which I held it, for a
few seconds, on her stomach. Suddenly she complained of a
burning sensation in the stomach, and of stupefaction, and beg-
ged me to remove the box; when I did so, all unpleasant sensa-
tions in the stomach ceased. I laid the box on her forehead.
She wrinkled it up and said: "It seems as if every thing in
my head was vacant and empty. This is the joint efect of the
silver and the snudl" When held to her ears, the box drew from
_;__ .
*l Such is heavenly singing. 'I'he female singers say that the sound of
ahelr sinnlng,
as it were, inspires and nmmates itself from within, and
ilifiigtii y exslts itself according to its reception by the bearers.-71 C.
HISTORY 0F Tl!! CASE. 189
her the expression:
"
It sounds as if there were may-beetles in
the box." Laid on her lips, it produced a pungent sensation
"like Spanish pepper." She rubbed her mouth for a long time.
If she took the box into her hand, the palm immediately began
to perspire. For some time afterwards she scratched with the
nails of the other, "because it bit so much." Shortly after
this I was unexpectedly called upon to make a payment of some
money ; on this occasion also her aversion to silver manifested
itself very plainly. I made the payment only a step or two
from her, and it affected her so much, that she was thrown into
convulsions. Every piece as it fell on the table shocked
her by its sound, and she begged earnestly that the
thing might be terminated. To the question, whence this
aversion just now, inasmuch as I had carried, money in my
pocket that day without its giving her any uneasiness, she
said :) 't When you touch the m'bney and make it ring, and
your soul is engaged with it, it hurts me all over my body; it
feels as if needles were stuck into me. (A pause.) Alas, my
Albert now leaves me. But (joyfully) he will come back
again ; farewell!" (She lies a long time silent and thoughtful ;
at length she raises herself to a. sitting posture, aversion and
terror are expressed in her face, which she all at once turns
aside, she slowly reclines backward while her arms are rigidly
stretched forward, and only from time to time turns her face
slowly to one comer of the room, looks for a moment at some-
thing there, and then suddenly turns it away, her countenance
betraying unusual fright and horror.) What ails you! What
are you about! "
Oh God! oh God ! (She seizes a pillow and
buries her face in it. She looks up only at times, as if timidly
and by stealth, and then says quite low :) For Heaven's sake,
was it necessary I should go through this also 3" Tell me, I
beseech you, what is the matter with you; you make me un-
easy. (Suddenly she draws my left hand convulsively towards
her; the highest degree of fear expresses itself in her features;
her whole body trembles violently and she cries or rather almost
shrieks out :) "
Good God, he is coming towards me, the mon-
ster; he will destroy me." But tell me, I entreat you-(She
makes a motion to check me and says :)
"
Keep silence, for he
hears you ; he hates both you and myself." You are dreaming 3
I s
190 HISTORY 0| Tl! 0A|!»
be quiet and desist from such fancies. "Fancies! would God
they were such! Alas no, I do not fancy it; I am not out of
my head; whatl see is a melancholy reality. But be silent
for your own sake; he hears all that you say through me."
What should I be afraid of 3 Let any one who chooses hear
whatl
say.
But what is it then you see? (She cries out
aloud :) 'O God, The Almighty, help! Albert, help! Al-
bert! Albert! as you love me come and help me! He is
coming towards us. (She weeps, and moves from side to side
in great terror. All at once she exclaims.) "
God be praised!
you are here! Oh, how I thank you! (She looks- timidly
towards the place whence her fright had come, and says :)
Thank God, he is gone." But who is it you have seen! "
Oh,
a horrible creature. Albert says, it was a monk belonging to
a monastery in Switzerlandgwho died one hundred and seventy
years ago. Oh, he is a frightful object. (She clenches both
her hands; her face expresses the highest disgust.) O thou
abominable spirit! What is it you wanted of me! You will
dare to come near me! No, that would be frightful." How did
he look in shape 'I (She shudders all over.) "
Frightful, wild,
disgusting, revolting, dark; all these together do not say
enough."* But describe his appearance, if you please, more
particularly. "It was the form of a man, dressed in a dirty
countryman's frock,f not very tall. His face, like his whole
figure, is dark gray, iuclining to black; it has no proper features
but is all rough and rugged.1 The eyes are like those of a
bear.§ He appeared to be bent and grown together in a shock-
ingly strange manner, a true monster ;l| he has crooked, club-
feet, and a form crippled all over, with shockingly long fingers.1T
'Those (evil spirits) who are corporeal loves appear gross, obscure,
black and deformed.-H 4° Ii 481.
1' Because every one in the spiritual world has garments according to
intelligence, thus according to the truths from which intelligence ls, there-
fore those who are in the hells, since they are without truths,
appear
indeed! cigozthed
with garments, but ragged, squalid and iil y.-
H .
:fn some they (the faces) are black in some Gary like little torches, in
some disfigured with pimples warts and ulcers.-H. 4' LL 553.
§'l'he who separate them (the natural and spiritual senses) appear
also in the spiritual world like bean.-A. R. 47.
ll Their bodies also are monstrous.-H
ti
H. 553.
1 Instead of feet he had long ankles wi out flesh.-72 C. R. 661.
HISTORY OF TH! CASE. 191
Oh, he is an abominable creature. He is a right wicked being.
God be thanked for the privilege of guardian spirits ! My
Albert was able to hear my voice, and he drove him away with
a strong rebuke." Do guardian spirits then hear our prayers?
"
Certainly; the prayers of those committed to their charge,
they hear them all. (A pause.) But my Albert is to go away
again ; he will only remain until I am somewhat more quieted."
Does Albert sary nothing respecting the life of the dark spirit 'I
"Ah, yes; only think, this monster has murdered and buried
live of his own children in the monastery. He was frequently
in the neighborhood of Neufchatel, where he also com-
mitted crimes of other kinds. God be gracious and merciful to
him; I cannot help him at all. He has indeed committed many
'shocking crimes; he is very wicked; he was a Jesuit too."
But how does he come by a peasant's frockl "
It was in this
dress he fled from his monastery, when his crime was suspected
and he was on the point of being seized. He then laid violent
hands on himself. Albert says, he has been trying to approach
me for some time." What is it he wishes, what would he have!
(She gives no answer, but turns her head slowly upward and to
one side, as if looking after some one, and says :) There goes
Albert again ; but he will visit me once more to-day. (I repeat-
ed my question, and she replied: (He wanders about unsteadily,
full of unrest,* and seeks some alleviation of his dreadful state.
He is looking out every where for gaps, through which he strive
to come back to the life of earth.<|> In this way he found me
through Albert. He knows well that he can get no help from
me, and yet he came. There is a kind of desperation in him that
makes him stupid. He knows that men cannot help him, and
yet he seeks them, because he cannot and will not, as yet, seek
aid from above. Albert said, however, that there yet lies agood
germ concealed in his spirit." Why did he not come to you be-
*
The
sngfls
who are with man rule his rational, but the evil spirits
who are wit him rule his natural, and hence is combat. If the rational
conquers, then man comes into the tranquillity of peace, and in mother
life, into the peace of heaven ; but if the natural conquers,then, during
his life in the world be appears ss if he were in tranquillity but in sn-
other lib he comes into the restlessness and torment of hello--A. C.
2183.
1' They who have been ensnared into adultenes, are, in another life
more llmn others desirous to obsess men, and thus by them to return intd
the World.-A. C. 2752.
192 mlm!! 0! 'Ill OASI-
fore 1 "
He has been for some time near me without my know-
ing it. Albert kept him ofll This time he came without Albert's
seeing it. Albert is not all-knowing." (Suddenly I heard a
clashing noise on a small table near me, as if one dish had fallen
pretty heavily on another. As the noise was heard so
very close,
I looked towards the table, on which I observed nothing but a
few fragments of cloth cut a few hours before in fitting a gar-
ment. As there was no object in the chamber, certainly
no where near me, to produce such a sound as I had dis-
tinctly heard, and besides myself and R., there was no per-
son in the chamber, the sound struck me so much with sur-
prise that I said 1) What was that 'I I heard something like
the rattling of dishes. "
That was from him ; he is again about
us; I feel him ; he wished to indicate his presence from despite;
he does not dare to show himself at present." (Scarcely had
she spoken when the noise was renewed; it came from the ta-
ble-from which I had entirely removed the strips of cloth a
moment before-much louder than at first, and was repeated
several times in succession. I moved the table on one side,
almost to the wall; but scarcely had I taken my eat again
when we heard the same noise again. R. now said :)
"
It gra-
tifies him to attract our attention to himself ; even this makes
him feel more comfortably. But it is a dreadful case with this
spirit; when he finds no help where he expected it, he rushes
away, and becomes quite furious and despairing. You remem-
ber well, that so early as four in the afternoon of to-day I felt
so much anxiety. I told you then that I felt as if something pecu-
liarly disagreeable would befall me to-day." (These words she
had really used.) This feeling came from the neighborhood of
this being. Hitherto I have seen only good spirits, and I must
even
submit, since it has been necessary once to see an evil one."
Will you see this wretch again 3 "
Not to-day; but as he has
found the way to me, I fear he willlay hold of every opportunity
to approach me. But Albert says, he will not have it in his
power to hurt me. He can also come near me in the interval
attacks which I am yet to have. Ah, that is a thing I dread;
thank God, Albert has set him bounds.* Although he cannot
__l_._
*
For nothing is more delightful to the angels, than to serve mankind
nrsron or ru ous. 193
prevent him from appearing, he 'yet will not dare to approach
me in any injurious way. But I have no mind to speak further
of this wretched being; I will rest a while. (She lies quietly
for more than three quarters of an hour. This time having
elapsed, she says :) Ah., my Alben has just come to me again."
Will he stay long with you I "
No, l shall awake soon.-This
time, however, you must blow three times over my face; other-
wise I shall continuue to sleep, and each time your will must
be lirmly Hxedon the idea that I shall wake up." Shall 1 do
this immediately! "
No, I will tell you the time shortly. (A.
pause.) You intend to set out to-morrow for Stuttgart; my
Albert says you must be here at six in the evening ; I beg you
so toarrange your atlhirs, that you can be with me at the time
mentioned. Should you be away, my snllhrings would be
greatly increased. -I shall have cramps." I shall certainly he
with you abouttsixdeleok ; do not be afraid. When will the
interval attacks occur? "Every dry regularly, Albert says,
from now till Monday. 0 God ! then I shall be well! (She
folds her hands, and prays in silence for some minutes.) Now
wake me up; at this moment my Albert leaves me." (I did
as she had directed ms, and she woke cheerful and strengthened,
after a slight agitation of the body attended with a deep sigh.)
_
July Uh.
I drove into the village in the evening as the clock struck
six. In a few minutes I stood by the couch of R. already suf-
fering with violent cramps. Towards the end of the struggle,
which lasted fifteen minutes, she looked from time to time to one
side, with an adlighted manner and 8 countemmw of |10!l"0l'-
She could not answer the questions which I put to ber on this
subject, en account of the very great diiculty of her respira-
tion. The oftener, however, she repeated this look, the more
violent grew her spasms. At length she forced out the words:
Albert ! Albert! you musteome, if I am to be relieved from these
cramps." But they continued about half an hour, so that Ibegau
'
"l withwhtls andbyestrsiu' theevillpirill
i?s'f<iih'i'2'i.:afghan paasihg m%Lp¢r.s¢ui1a».-4%. 454.
l
194 HIITOIY' _or 'mn
~
casa.-
io feel anxious.. At length she fetched a deep sigh andsaid witlra
joyful face : "Thank God, my Albert is here B" Why does he
come te-day! He left you only yesterday. "Alas, the dark
spirit, who was near me before my Albert came." What have
you to do with him 'l "
I saw in him, that he had been with you in
Stuttgart ; that increased my cramps, and he was rejoiced at it."
Do not be alarmed; I know nothing of the wretch; I enjoyed
myself very.well in Stuttgart. "Ah, 1 see it new in Albert also,
who prevented the mischief." I do not know what you mean;
what, then, does Albert say? Ah, only thinlr, in Stuttgart the
wretch dared to withstand my pure angelic Albert and bid him
defiance. He protected you from his approach." Explain your-
self more distinctly; I do not understand you.
"
You made a
visit; between eleven and _twelve this moming, as I see in
Albert, to some one in tuttgart. At this time the dark one
camein the front chamber of the house where you alighted, and
which goes out on the street. There he intended to wait for
your return. But Albert, who was near you, saw him and bade him
away. But he bid him defiance and would notretine, where-
upon Albert seized him with his heavenly porver* and hurled him
far away. During this defiance the wretch raged violently, and
threw down, in his impotent fury, two
'
flower-pots from the
middle window to the ground. Oh, it would not here been good
for you to have had him approach you. Your nerves are still
very excitable, and his influence might easily have recalled your
old a&ction. You would not indeed have seen him, but you
would have felt him. Albert guarded you strongly in this
matter." (This communication of R.'s surprised me the more,
la the matters of fact cognizable by the eye which she connected
with her account of these spirits had really happened as she
said. By way of explanation. I here add the following :
I returned, having made a call, to the house where I was
*
.But the power of the angels in the ritual world is so 'st that ifl
should relate all the things concemingqlit which have beegrzeeir b rue,
they would_exceed belietl If any thing there resists, which is to he re-
moved because it is contrary to divine order, they cast it down and over-
tum rt
merelylby
an effort of the will and look. I have seen also some
hundreds of t ousauds of evil spirits dispersed and cast into hell by them.
-HJ/am _ _
_
A
arsronr or an-~oass. 195
lodging, after twelve. When one has thestaircase behind hisris
this building, there are two doors onthe right and left, leadiugto
ive chambers, which mn into one anotberand form togethera bow,
so that the two doors mentioned form the two extreme points of
the whole suite of apartments, which points are opposite yet
near to one another. The door on the left leading into the
chamber on the street was locked on the outside. I stepped,
therefore, into that on the right which gives access to the obam-
ber in the rear of the house. Here I beard, at the same moment
with the landlady whom I found in this back chamber, a loud
noise of something falling in the front rooms. Instantly,we has-
tened both through the apartments connecting the front and
rear, and entered the one which I have already observed was
locked on_the outside. In the middle of the door, not close under
the window bench, we found, to our great astonishment, the two
Bower-pots, which had stood for several weeks quietly on the
bench of the middle window, broken into many fragments, the
earth scattered along to the door opposite the window, and the
plants they contained, a Hortensia and a Cactus, hurled tothe
stove which stood on the opposite side of the room. Our astou-
ishment was greatly increased by observing that the rigln
portion of the curtain belonging to the middle window, which
usually, like the others, hung down to the door, was now spread
over the cage of a canary bird, which was hanging near the win.
dow from the ceiling, and so wrapped about it that the cage
seemed enveloped in its folds. The whole phenomenon was the
more astonishing to us from the fact, that the room was locked,
that there was no living creature, not even a cat. in it, that, though
the window was open, the blinds were closed, and that, along
with a degree of heat almost intolerable, there was auentire
absence of wind. The derangement, however, was so great,
that even a violent storm or a cat could not possibly have pro-
duced it. The envelopment of the cage by the long curtain
hanging up so high was to ns the most surprising and inexpli-
cable thing of all. In the course of the afternoon, and by the
diversion of the ride homeward, I had meanwhile forgotten the
afair; and as I had not attributed much importance to it at the
time, and as, especially, no such connection with the supernatural
as R.~asserted in the evening had entered my mind in the re-
196 r-nsroar or nn casa.
motest manner, I was certainly surprised at the wonderful ex-
planation which I received on my arrival at Scbwaikheim, and
the more so, as I had not yet mentioned the incident to any one
in Schwaikheim, and had repaired, immediately on leaving the
chaise, in my travelling clothes and before even I had greeted
my family, to R.'s sick bed. R. now proceeds :) "
He will not
sow try te approach you any more. The struggle was not a
successful one to him. (She smiles.) 0 what an idea! He
-he-to dare a struggle with a being so pure !* He cannot
endure you, because you preach the pure doctrine of the Bible
which he profaned ; he is a malicious spirit, but his very hell
consists in this, that he consumes in his own unsatisfied wishes
and desires# Albert, however, says that there is still something
good in him.1 He has moments when he perceives his wretch.
edness, and endeavors, or rather I should say, makes an essay,
towards reformation; but he has not yet a true longing to be
better. He has even moments when he really thinks better;
then he immediately receives strength from above ; but then
again he becomes just as quickly self-conceited, and reckons
himself better than he is. That is just like man! Only to the
humble is God near. The dreadful thought ofthose he has mur-
dered and seduced, remains ever a heavy obstacle in the way of
his improvement.§ His endeavoring to return by force to the
life of this earth is a new sin which he commits. He knows
»
'
Since truths fromgood have all
mer,
hence falses from evil have
no power at all. All in hell are in e from evil, wherefore they have
no power against truth and good.-H Q H. 233.
1' Evil with msn is hell with him, for whether we speak of evil or of
hell, it is the same thing.-IL
11011.
547.
3 There are many persons vv
during
their abode in the world, thnmgh
simplicity and ignorance, have imbibe lalses as to faith, and have formed
s certain species of conscience according to the principles of their faith,
and have not, like others, lived in hatred, revenge and adnlteries. These
in another life, so
long
as they are in the false, cannot be introduced into
the heavenly societies est
they
should deiile them, and therefore they are
kept for n certain time in the ower earth, in order that they
many put of
the
pnnciples
of the false. The times of their continuance ere are
longer or s orter, according to the nature of the false, the life contracted
thereby, and
sccordinglx
the principles confirmed in themselves: some
endurilhard thingsin t
A igetpiorghers,things not hard. These are what
d t -
. .
are cs e vasta ions. .
§
Qnirits
are vastated in a great variety of ways-some b infestation
from evils which they cmnmitted when in the world.-H. 3 It 510.
msron or 'run case. 197
that this is contrary to God's will; but he has l`reedom,* and God
permits it; but, at the same time, He sends higher and good spi-
rits who frustrate these attempts. (A pause.) You would not
believe what a horrible stench this black spirit diH`uses.1~ Just
as my Albert leaves behind him a delightful odor when he goes,
so he-a shocking one."1 But what does this evil spirit want
with me! "
It is a part of his torment that he seeks help
where he knows he cannot iind it. Defiance, rage, stupidity,
malice, are perpetually driving him about. As I told you, he
cannot endure you for the very reason that you have a spiritual
calling." Whence does he know this? "
He saw it in me and
Albert. He knows that you proclaim the right doctrine, and
that he taught, willed and did wrong in the world. By himself
he cannot see you and your concerns, without such a medium
as I now am to him."§ Then he does not know where l am at
all times! "
No." How then did he guess that I was in tutt-
gart!
"
He saw it yesterday in me, and in Albert. You
thought several times about it, as I also did myseltl Albert
knew of it, and so he saw your intention. He found you in
Stuttgart easily, as he knew that Albert would be near yon.
He went after him, and so there came about the contest in
which he of course was worsted." But could not Albert fore-
see all this yesterday 3 "No, Albert does not know every
thing. (A pause.) Just now I remember a paper which I had
in my hands in Heiligkreutsthal. Albert reminds me of its
contents." What were they!
"
In that convent I took up a
bit of printed paper, on which, in characters scarce legible to me,
were the words :
The Bible made false is the coop of the devil;
Within it there hides every sort of evil.
-
*
It is an eternal law that
every!
one be in freedom.--A. C. 2870.
1' When they are taken sway t ence they are
cgiven
to be sensible of
th' ste h hih' ll'
'
.-A. .90l.
sir own nc , w c is mosto ensive
I Every delight whatever
corresponds
to asmell, and can be converted
into itin the
spiritual
world: and t en the common delight is perceived
in heaven ss e smell of n garden, with variety
accordir?
to the fragran-
ces there from the flowers and fruits; and the common
slight
in hell is
perceived as stagnant water into which dilferent Iilths have een
thrown,
with
varieg, according to the had odor from the rotten and stinking things
therein.- . P. 304.
'§ Neither spirits nor angels, by their own proper sight can see any
thing that is in the natuml world. Nevertheless both spirit and angels,
when it pleases the Lord, may see things in the natural world, through
the eyes of men.-E. U. 135.
lk
198 nrsrosr or rn casa.
This he had had printed; so Albert says' that bit of pa r
1 P9
was from him." Can* you tell me nothing of the contents and
title of the book from which that leaf was' tom. "
Albert does
not tell me the title of the book, because he does not choose to
pronounce the name ;* but he says the substance of the book
was directed against the Protestant doctrine." I suppose, how-
ever, that, if the words you have quoted can be found in any
book the author will then be known by name! "Oh no; Al-
bert says these words have been used by many both before and
after him ; that he did not originate, but only used them."' (A
pause.) Why did you lookin such aterrilied and shuddering
manner towards the garden, during the struggle preceding this
crisis! Did you see any thing so early as that, of this dark
spirit! "
Yes, I saw the dreadful creature again, as he stood
there all bent together and distorted. But Albert immediately
bade him away. He would most willingly have had help from
me. But Albert says that, if I have too much to do with him, he
will directly think he has claims on me, and nowhere would
allow me- any rest. This I could not endure; it would destroy
me. Albert says that he has been a long time trying to approach
me. Remember how," several times of late, there has been a
sharp report in the stove, though it had no fire in it and no one
was near it; and remember the fall in the dining room, while
yourmother, your wife, your two sisters and myself were
standing at the door. It sounded as if some heavy weight had
been thrown down near us on the floor-we were all startled.
That was the dark spirit; he wished to draw attention to him-
self, and for this reason the fall was so close to me." Just at
that moment I was stepping into the kitchen ; I remember your
alarm very well. But tell me how it comes, that I, who was
only three steps from you, did 'not hear what tive persons de-
clared they heard so distinctly? "
Albert prevented it. r
You
were speaking with the maid about some indifferent matter,
and were closing the door behind you ; we were standing in the
passage, and talking aloud together; the fall took place, then,
very near us, and so it escaped you. You too would have
*
For the angels cannot open their lips to pronounce the word Gods, for
the celestial aura in which they live opposes ir.-71 C. R. 6.
mama! or 'ms casa. 199
heard it, if Albert had not prevented it. You were' on the
point of joining us, when he suggested to your mind
the thought of going into the kitchen. Had you heard the
fall yourself, the circumstance, inasmuch as you could not have
explained it, would have caused more uneasiness to you than to
alltberest of us. This would not have been good for you at
that juncture. The diiculty in your stomach was likely, just
at that period, to become active again. (A pause of half an
hour during which she rests.) But now Albert is obliged to
leave me, and lam to wake up. There he already soars away.
Farewell, loving guardian! Now wake me up!" (I blew
over her face ;- she started several times and awoke.)
July 5lh.
At nine o'clock on the morningof the tifth of July there
came on, after a short sickness, a half-sleep in which R. several
times declared that she felt a delightful rest. This state, how-
ever, lasted only half an hour; for, all at once,a spasmodic
agitation came over her whole system, followed by a general
rigidity, which continued an hour and a half. After this she
recovered, which I ascribed to the long continued breathing on
her mouth, which eagerly drew in my breath, as though it were
some delicious reduction. As soon as the rigidity was gone,
her countenance brightened up; but only for a short time, for
all at once she exclaimed. "There he is l" and looked again
into the same corner of the apartment. Who is there! "
The
dark spirit."' Where is he ; in my chamber! "
O no, he dares
not visit your house ; Albert has solemnly given him this
charge, and, in that case, he must obey. That now enrages
him." But how can you see him when he is not in the cham-
ber'!- "Ah, your walls do not prevent me; I see his form in
the air, over your garden, near the barn and seventy paces from
us. (I pointed in that direction with my hand, whereupon she
said :) He saw that.; it vexes him that you point at him and
he dares not approach. Ugh! he has coarse, rough hair like
awine's bristles* (A. pause of about eight minutes.) Ah, now
'
Spirits can know from the hair, its color, length and the manner
in which it is spread, what had been the quality of the natural llfeln the
world.-A. C. 5570.
Swine signify filthy loves.-A. E. 1044.
/
200 HIDTOIY OI Ill OABI.
he must begone; he bows himself; a hkher power has hurled
him away. I do not see him any longer. _That must have been
Albert; I see something there of his splendor. (She continued
to lie quietly until eleven o'clook, when, at her request, I
waked her up.
At live in the evening of the same day R. was again attached
with sickness and general cramps, which, in seven or eight
minutes, turned into a general rigidity similar to that of the
morning, and lasting till half past seven. By laying my hand
on her and breathing on her mouth I brought her back, about
this time, to the usual magnetic half-sleep. Scsrcely had she
recovered the free use of her organs, when she ,drew up her
nose with a face expressive of great disgust. Shortly after-
wards she made the motion of smelling, several times, in the
direction of the garden, and said: "Ah, what s stench comes
fromhim. He is near, I smell him." How is that possible!
"
Why should it not be possible 3 I can smell his atmosphere* as
wellae I can see him. As you and Albert diifuse an odor
which is agreeable to me, so he, one which atfects me unfavor-
ably.'|~ (A pause.) Remember, that I do not smell with my
nose; it is, indeed, something somewhst diferent from smelling
that I mean; but I can only compare it to a smell. It is just
so with your breath ; it often smells in such s way, that I must
compare its eflirct on :ne to the smell of violets; and yet it is
*
The heres of charity and faith, when
rereeived
as odors are most de-
lightful ; .sie odors are sweet and pleasant, ike those of tlowers lilies and
spices of divers kinds with an
indefinite
variety.-A..
C. 1519.
1* Mandoes not know, that nccordmg to the ife of his atfections, a cer-
tain spiritual sphere encompasses him, which sphere is more perceptible to
the angels, than s sphere of odors is to the most
exeluisite
sense in the
world. ll' his life had been in extemals alone, name y, in pleasures de-
rived from hatred against his
netghbor,
from ,revenges and from
cruelg,
thence from sdulteries, from sel exaltation, and thence oontemptof o -
ers, from clandestine rapines, from avarice, from deceits, from luxury, and
the like, the
sgiritual sphere which
encomgassed
him is as foul and oH'en-
sive, as is in t e world the sphereof odor m dead 'bodies; from
dun|g-
hills, from
stinking
Elth and the like. The man who has led such a li e,
carries with him issphore after death; and because he is wholly and
entirely in that sphere, he cannot be any whore but in hell when such
spheres are. But they who are in internal things, namely who have had
delight in benevolence and charity towards the neighbor, and es cially
who have had blessedness in loye to the Lord, are snoompsuednwith a
grateful and pleasant sphere, which is essentially heavenly.-A. C. 4464
HISTORY OI TBI CASE. S01
not properlysmelling." Do you see the dark spirit at present?
"'Yes, he has been visible to me for a few moments. Truly, I
see in him, that he wishes me to pray for him- ~
I-Ie cannot him-
self; I will -even do `it. (She prays :)' 0 merciful Father in
Heaven! help this poor, unhappy creature; let him come
to -the knowledge of his wretchedness ; deliver him soon from
his pitiable state. (She looks towards the dark spirit.) Ales!
He thinks, already again, that he is able to help himself ; his
self-conceit is hack so soon. He believes that he must new be
delivered, and that he wants help no
longer. ~~
0 shockingly
deluded spirit ! But this moment you prayed for help, and you
are 'already proud and seltlcontident again !*` Repent at lest;
turn yourself to Him Who has given you an example that you
can follow His steps, and Who has oiihred His grace even to
such a depraved sinner as yourself. 'Hewill even yet receive
you, if you only will come toacknowledge your moral Wl'¢¢¢hB&~
ness #and take tirm resolutions of amendment. (She starts back
with' signs of displeasure.)
~
Ah, think, he' is laughing with
proud insolence ;'|' dreadful transgreseonwhat have I to do :with
you ! -(All at once she says joyfully :) Ah, my Albert is coming,
and see, the dark spirit gives way ; he has gone already. (After
three minutes :) Oh, my Albert has already left. me again; he
only wished to strengthen me, because the dark spirit has so
shocked me by his laughing. (A pause.) This was one of the
good moments of the unhappy wreteh. Oh, God's goodness and
grace are without limits! Scarcely does the first desire stir
itself, when He gives strength and light: even to him will He
ever give them, although hitherto He has only abused them.
(A pause.)
'
I have to thank him, however, at least fortbie
short but friendly visit ef Albert's. But this spirit, as I just now
saw in Albert, has done shocking things on earth." What is
it! "
It excites and almost makes me shudder to tell; only
_
_* All such spirits are sensual-natural, and think thatthey alone live, and
look on others as images : they think themselves wiser than all others sl-
thou h they arein a state of insanity.-D. df W. 144. <
_
~
'l' §ucl| persons ap ar in the other life, when they come mto the state
of their interiors, and"are heard to speak and seen to
act, up infstuated ;
for fromtheir evil lusts
the;
burst forth into pll-abommanons, into eos-
lempt
3' others, into
'
and blasphemy, into hatred and revenge,¢-
H. 4' . 506.
9*
'
[_
.QL
202 HSTOBY Ol' TBS CASE-
tbink, before be killed his own children he tortured them, with
unnatural pleasure, with a dagger, and even after death he ent
their dead bodies in pieces.
~
The monster did the last, also, to
keep his crimes more certainly secret. He cut and tore their
bodies to pieces, and concealed them by night, until, with the
help of a maid belongingto the monastery, he was able to convey
them out and put them behind the covering of the high altar.
He succeeded several times in these attempts; but he was be-
trayed in the last ; unhappily for him, at the time he concealed the
fragments of the body in the place I mentioned, the church was
never without some monks in it. The bodyqnichlybegan to putrefy
in consequence of the weather, which happened then to be very
hot, and the affair was soon discovered. Search was made for the
author ofthe deed. The dark spirit was the irst and loudest in
expressions of censure against the infamous and, as yet, undis-
covered oliender. Suspicion, notwithstanding, fell upon him,
and, when he saw that he could no longer escape detection, he
resolved upon iight from the monastery. One of the maids of
the monastery, with whom he had all along carried on his loose
practices, procured him a peasant's froch, and so he made his
escape. Despair followed him; he found rest nowhere. He
dwelt by day in forests, caverns and thick bushes ; at night he
prosecuted his flight, as he knew well that he would be pursued.
At last he hung himself, in a lit of despair, on one of the trees
of the forest. He was sixty-eight years old when he died.
Even at this age he led so infamous a life. But I do not wish
to speak more of him ; he might retum." (She now lay down
quietly and slept till eight. About this time she asked me to
wake her up. I tried to do it in the usual way ; but instead of
waking there came on violent cramps which lasted several mi-
nutes. All at once she cried out, startled ;)
"
He is here again;
he is furiously enraged." (Immediately after these words
there came on a convulsion which extended over her whole
body, and which quickly brought her back to the waking state.
'After waking, she wept without being able to say why, _and
complained, (a thing quite unusual with her,) of oppression at
'the stomach and in the head. These unpleasant feelings were
removed, by my laying on my hand, in about six minutes ; but,
to make amends, I experienced in the left hand, (the one which
mares! or rea casa.
l
208
was kidonherstomsclg) assvere pain,andastii`ness which
lllltbd fora whole hour.)
'
July cut.
On the sixth of July at three in the afternoon R., after a short
sickness at the stomach and a few slight convulsions of the
_limbs, fell into a general catalepey, which lasted again an hour
and a half. With the return of speech, about five o'cloclr, the
dark spirit also made his appearance, and R.. said z) There he
is again already ; he wishes me to' pray for him once again. 0
Heaven ! this time he has one with him who, if possible. is still
worse than he is himself. He has a form only half humani*
(Shortly she turned to the dark spirit with the words :) I told
you yesterday that you must apply to your Redeemer; but you
laughed at an exhortation that was so necessary for your ease.
In this way, you can never receive any help. lf you do not ap-
ply all your own powers, your own self, to a reformation, you
are lost." What does he say tothis! "
Nothing-not a word.
Nevertheless I will pray for you once more. Unhappy being!
Have you then gathered absolutely nothing while you lived on
earth, that you are so utterly' poor? (A pause.) Now he laughs
again. O miserable creature! you are lost, forever lost, if you do
not cultivate better dispositions. Who will save you? Still] will
pray for you once more; but if you believe that you need nothing
more, that you _are raised above the necessity of prayer, it will
again be in vain. (A pause.) His companion allows him no
rest now that he sees that my exhortations are likely to pene-
trate his interiors. He drags him about by his long fingers, and
tries, in his own way, to divert his thoughts to other subjects.
Oh, this one is all heavy and unformed like a bear.1> (A pause.)
Why did you not come alone? Then your soul could have been
much more easily affected." What does he say to this 1 "
That
*
The punishment of such is dreadful; after they have suBéred infernal
torments for e succession of ages, they at length acquire s shocking and
most monstrous countenance or face, so that it is not a face, but a sort of
coarse and ghostly substance: thus they put oH` all that is human, till
every one who sees them shudder-s at the sight.-A. _C. 816.
m'Ic:'|;ia 2; appear also, in the spiritual world, at edis-
I
204 msronv or 'ras caan.
the other accompanied him against his will. Do you see, that
is your tormentl* Oh rise above yourself and resist this mon-
ster. You can do so, if you earnestly will it. Should you not
do every thing to procure yourself only a more tolerable con-
dition '!" What does he say to this! "
Ah, you try to lay the
blame on him ! Wretched subterfuge! You can, if you will.
Yet I will try-if I cannot remove the monster. In the name
of God, depart immediately ! Albert! Albert ! (A pause.)
Now, now, he is obliged to go. He flies away with horrid con-
tortlons of his hideous fomr. (A pause.) Now I have a mind
to see whether you are in earnest. Take courage ! Hear my
prayer and my address, and then endeavor to be better. Think
how happy you will feel, when you can think more calmly of
God and of yourself. (A pause.) He is reflecting earnestly;
he takes pains. Now hear what I shall say to you. (She
folds her hands and speaks slowly and solemnly :)
"
Our Father
in Heaven !" How do you feel at this expression! O see, He
desired to be even your Father; you were not His child; lay
hold, at last, of His hand. He still feels lovingly toward you.1-
"Hallowed be Thy name!" Oh that you have never done.
Begin at last: learn to revere Him as your God : learn to love
Him, and then you will come nearer to Him and become happy.
"
Thy kingdom come !" Yes, to you and into your soul may it
come, poor one; you, too, He will bless as a citizen of His
kingdom, if you will keep His commandments. Oh, resolve;
leave the kingdom of sin and misery.
"
Thy will be done on
earth as in Heaven !" On earth you despised the will of God,
and, for that rea on, you are not 'there among those happy
creatures to whom it will be eternal joy to do His wilL Sum~
mon up your powers at last, renounce your own will, cast away
your foolish self-conceit and bow before the Highest and the
__;
°
ltwasigranted me to discourse with those miserable persons (under
ynstatzaxn)
or
séigne mime ;
they complained
'chiefly gfEvié9?irits
as bum-
mg wi a con ua esire on to tormentl em.- . .
1'
The love of God goes andyeatends itself not
only to good persons and
good things, but also to evil persons and evil things ;
eoneeqtuently,
not
only to those things and persons which are in heaven, but a so to those
which are in hell; thus not only to Michael and Gabriel, but also to the
davll
and
S;'ta%;éor4§'1od is, everywhere and from eternity to eternity,
e same.- ....
-
msroar or 'rua casa. _
205
Best. "
Give us this day our daily bread !" Be it from this
time the food of your soul to do the will of God, and then He will
never, no never, suffer you to want for heavenly nourishment,*
for internal light and the sustenance of your powers.
"
For-
give us our debts as we forgive our debtors!" This your
revengeful heart has never done, and yet has the everlasting
love of God hitherto mercifully supported and bome with you.
Oh, pray at last for forgiveness of your heavy sin; acknowledge
your transgression and feel your misery! "Lead us not into
temptation !" Never has God laid on
you aught too heavy.
You yourself have brought on your own
temptations to sin ;1-
you had a will to commit them ; never have you tried to govern
yourselti Oh, it is high time; try it eamestly, and with God's
help you will succeed. "
But deliver us from evil !" If you
have hitherto prayed earnestly after me, then, without doubt,
these words are spoken from your deepest soul. And believe
it, if it is: your serious purpose to be better, your Heavenly
Father will soon deliver you from this wretched state; for His
is all power and might forever. (A pause.) How do you feel
now! That was the prayer of the Lord, your Redeemer, and
you must live after Him, if you ever wish to become happy.
(To me.) God be thanked! He wills, hs wills at least to
become better, and- he is already better by that very circum-
stance. His face is no longer so
rugged, his hair no longer so
shockingly wild and rough.1 (A pause.) Now depart, you
have food ; you can nourish yourself; be as diligent in pursuing
good, as you have heretofore been in seeking evil; then you
will at last acquire a relish for it, and your Redeemer will
make you experience His grace. He will receive you, hut-
understand it well-from grace !§ Give over your arrogance!
*
Every man in christendom imbued with religion,may know, or if he
does not know, may learn, that there is natural nourishment and spi-
ritual nourishment; and that natural nourishment is for the body, but
spiritual nourishment, for the soul.-T! C. R. 709.
'l' The evil, ol' himself, continually leads himself deeper into his evils:
it is said-of himself-because all evil is from man; for he turns good,
which is from the Lord, into evil.-D. P. 296.
1The
spirit
of man, viewed in itselll is nothing but its own affection, the
external orm of which is the face. All whoever are there (in the
sp:-,it-
ual world) are reduced into such a state that
tha' speak u
the;
t
`
k,
and show by the looks and gestures what they
'
.-H <2 H. 45 .
D§#lege
is thereby withdrawn from evil not by bimsell} but by the Lord.-
206 A
maroay or ras cies.
Now he goes slowly. I see him no more. Ah Lord! if I may
have been so happy as to have fanned the good spark in this
poor soul to a hating dame! God will help him. (Attera
longer pause.) Yesterday evening I wept, without having
been able to assign the cause; novvl see it. Just before I
waked the dark spirit came nearer to me than Albert had
allowed him. He was angry because I had told the truth about
him. The near operation of his atmosphere [Dunsdmcin
Vapory spher¢]* stupelied my system and operated hurtfully on
my spirits,-yet no evil consequences will result from it. Now
I shall see him no mole. Well will it he for him, if he follows
my exhortations. I have promised to pray for him; I can do
so without his being near me; I will often do so; remind me
of it when I wake up. New awake me." (At this moment I
felt a slight twitching of the left side of the upper lip. With-
out saying anything about it to R., I approached a finger of
her left hand to the spot, which had scarcely touched it when
it was spas odically contracted. Soon her arm began to
tremble and she complained of pains in it, which, however, lasted
only two minutes. The twitching had ceased with me, but on
the other hand, made its appearance, in a considerably greater
degree, in the same part of her upper lip, which for a few
minutes was drawn convulsively from side to side. At last
she saidz) "On account of this, little attack I must sleep
fourteen minutes longer." (This time having elapsed I waked
her in the usual manner.)
July Wh.
After six in the evening, a deep melancholy, which. took pos-
session of her without any occasion, or without any cause
which she could assign for it, brmed the introduction to R.'s
last crisis. A flood of tears bursting out at last relieved her
feelings in the course of fifteen minutes, upon which followed
-*_-1-
'
The will or love of every man constitutes the whole man there, and
the sphere of the life thence flows forth from lim as an exhalation or va-
p4orb T£ompasses him, and makes as it were himself around him.-
aisronr or 'ras casa. 207
oppression of the chest, alternating with cramps in the limbs
and convul ions in a degree Iliad never seen before. The agi-
tations and reactions of the body were so violent, that I was
not able, by myself, to guard her against possible mischief, for
which reason I asked my brother to assist me. On this occa-
sion, as well as on the third of July, there succeeded several
spasmodic attacks, one after another, which were uniformly fol-
lowed, when theirviolence was spent, by complete prostration.
It was like a struggle between life and death several times re-
peated; when the fit of exhaustion came on the sufferer was
the exact image of a dying person. The half-opened mouth
uttered slow and stammering words almost inarticulately; the
breathing was heavy and rattling; the eye was fixed, and the
complexion ayellowish white; even the nose seemed sharper
and more prominent than usual. After this dreadful struggle had
lasted about an hour, it appeared, on washing her head with
Cologne water, as if some vitality was likely to return. The
cheeks were slightly colored; the limbs were only slightly con-
vulsed, the spasms were gone, and she could now fold her hands.
Still I could scarcely hear the lightly whispered words which
she uttered, although I held my ear to her mouth. In the
course of a quarter of an hour, during which she had lain
quietly, we heard the following more distinctly.
Novv at the goal I stand, through Thee, 0 Father!
Through heavy
strulggles
I
havelgassed
to sin it.
Thanks, thanks to ee fer all y lovin iindncss;
Thy arm it is, by which 1 have been holgen
From sinking into night-what words can praise Thee !
(She weeps in silence.)
Behold my heart and see its earnest longing !
To do what's
'pleasing
in Thy sight henceforth,
To seek Thy leasing on
my
works
be£1n,
From Thee my power for a l good dee to borrow,
'l'o 'I'hee alone, of all to give the lory;
This only is the gratitude Thou asiest.
(A long pause, during which she speaks too low to be heard;
at length more distinctly :)
HISTORY UI' Tl! CASE.
0 Shepherd of my soul so tme and loving,
Show_ me the
Wag,
wherein, no longer roving,
I may advance, t rough whatsoever sadness,
Till, pure in heart, I see Thy [see in gladness-
Oh, blessed day, whenl may come before Thee,
And thankful join the angels to adore Thee.
(Again an interval of silence of some length.)
And thou, my Guardian good and fatherlike,
How, for thy care, can I e'er make thee payment,
Who led'st me by the hand through all my trouble!
Look in my heart, it bums with love all purely;
What can I
Five
tliat's better than affection Z-~
Henceforth ll shape my life by thy direction.
'
What were I without thee, my faiihful helper?
'l`hou shiel<l'st my body, while my soul thou leadest.
Vilh calls :ind warnings, censures, checks :ind thrcu.t'nings
Thou benrest still with all my wnywurdnesses.
No, never shall sin tempt my feet to wander,
For thy monitions I will ever ponder.
I have thy promise-theu wilt never leave me,
So lrmgas ln this vale I am a pilgrim ;
Help me in sorrows--help me to meke holy
All my enjoymente and to live for Heaven,
That so-my daily prayer 'twill be-earth's sadness
All over, I may come to thee with gladness.
Thou also, noble friend, physician, helper,
Deserv's1;my deepest thanks-Thou wen the fountain
From which new life stream'd to my wasted system,
And by this love, to health I am recovered.
Still in the bonds of fell disease Pd languish,
But for thy aid to soothe and end- my anguish
For this, thy hands forevermore be blessed,
That worked in all my pain so heslthfully.
Nor didst thou value heavy sacrifices-
To do me good, thy oonstant, sole endeavor.
For this, there stirs within me deep emotion-
No, ne'er will I forget thy true devotion. -
(She prayst)
To Thee, 0 Father, now I turn my prayer-
Impert to this my friend, in all its fulness,
As now to me, of health the heavenly blessing,"
That to the work, whereto he has Thy calling,
I-Ie may retnm with a new strength and spirit-
Such is my prayer-Thine all the praise and merit.
mason or 'rn casa. B09
After these words R. lies quietly with her hands folded for
a full halt' hour. At length her features brighten up in a
striking manner, she lifts her arms slowly, directs her face
upwards towards the point where she always said she haw her
guardian spirit, and says 2) "
It approaches-the flower;
Gracious Lord! what joy! It is Amandus, Amandus who
brings it. Then I am permitted to see you once more, dear
friend!" Is the flower already there! "
Yes, he brought it
to me this moment. (Astonisbed.) But what do I see! The
flower is again adorned with all its leaves. 0 how beautiful
it is! Only I see a dark spot on the side ofthe cup; this sig-
nifies the affection of my breast ; my lungs will still .suffer
for years. Yet that will be good for me, and protect me from
many ills. (A pause.) What I supposed was the case my
Albert now confirms." What do you mean! "The flower
is a remedial agent of the higher world, and is applied to
others also who suffer as I have done. For which reason
the leaves ure now renewed ; the internal virtue of the tlower,
in obedience to its nature, puts forth the leaves." I took this
flower, hitherto, to be only a symbol of your case. "lt was such
doubtless, at the same time; but it is yet more ; its inmost
nature is salutary. Its approach has always operated greatly
to strengthen me, and it seemed, at the same time, as if there
was a transfer of morbid matter from myself to it. (A pause.)
Albert confirms this, and says, that this was the reason why its
leaves gradually withered." Are there many of these flowers
where Albert is! "Yes, such plants flourish in the sun;
from there, Albert says, their salutary power is conveyed into
all the planets! (A pause.) Ah, Amandus is so
friendly!
And I am compelled to mourn that I must see him to-day for
'
First it shall be told what correspondence is. The whole natural
world corresponds to the spiritual world ; not only the natural world in
general, but also in every particular; wheret'o|e,wha.tevsr exists inthe
natural world from the spiritual, thstis said to he correspondent.
I-Iow the things which are in the vegetable kingdom correspond, ma be
evident from
man; things ;-That all the
thirgs
that are in that kingdom,
are also correspon ences, has been made man' est tome from much
*gre-
rience: for oiben, when l have been in gardens, and have there loo gt
trees, fruits,
gamers,
and pulse, I have observed the correspondences in
heaven, and ave spoken with those with whom they were, and have been
ns uce w uce eywereen w tt were.- . .
, .
ltrtdhe th dhahey 1149889109
,if
210 BIFBOB! OF THB CAIR."
the last time. Perehance, ye happy ones, you will soorroome
and fetch me away from the earth, where it is so sad, eo troub-
lens, so dark. Oh ! how do I rejoice in expectation of' that
gloriels -light !* But no ; I must Erst become. good, and ever
better and better ; now, I should not be permitted te approach
you, ye holy ones; my heart is still too impure; your splendor,
your dignity I .could not endure." (A pause.) C., my brother,
would be glad to ask you a few questions more. "I will gladly
answer them, if I cau."` He asks, Whether Albert knows where
Jesus dwelt, while His body was in the grave?
"
Albert says,
with all departed souls ; that he died for them too ; that he be-
came their Redeemer alsosl Oh, then, he says, many souls
"
That there is light in the heavens, those cannot apprehend who think on-
ly from nature ; when yet, in the heavens, the light is so great, that it exceeds
bgmany degrees the mid-day light in the world; it has been seen by me
o en, even in the times of evening and night. In the beginning I won-
dered when I heard the angels
sag,
that the light of the world is scarcely
other than shade
reapectivelyto
t e light of heaven; but since it lrasbeen
seen, I can
testify to it ; its rightness and its splendor are such, that they
cannot he described. The things which have been seen
by me in the
heavens, were seen in that 1' ht; thus more clearly and distinctly than
things in the world.-H.
3
124.
1* Jehovah God descen ed and assumed the human, to the end that_He
might seduce to order all things which were in heaven, and all things
which were in hell, and all 'thin which were in the church; since, at
that time the power of hell preva§;dover the power of heaven, and upon
earth, the power of evil over the power of ood, and thence a total damna-
tion stood before the door and threatened. This impending damnation
Jehovah God removed by means of His Human, and thus redeemed men
and qngels.-T. C. R. 121.
If the true nature of Jesus is
right%
stated in
thzupreceding note,-
namel , that He is Jlnevau Gen in a urnanity, inst of being the Son
of God only, the second of Three Divine Persons
existing
from etemity,-
it might be
suiposed
that it would have been stated exp ieitly
gg
e being
of the spiritu world, who must have regarded it as a most hi and im-
Rortant veriry, to one given into his care and, by the Divine Providence,
rought into open intercourse with him. It appears, however,
hy the fol-
lowing
extracts from
Swedenborg, that this, as
beingxepoxnt
of octrrne-7
indee the first of all "
doctrinals '-could not have n
taught
to R., rn
the state she was in, without an infraction of the laws of the rvine order.
The same extracts will help us to understand how itis, that Alben seems
even to confirm the common error with regard tothe Lord's nature, as, rn- re-
presenting to R. the tenor of his instructionstothe spirits ofthe nroon_and of
the planet Venus. Since he was not permitted to reform her farthflus corn-
nrumcatrons mnat of course be adapted to, and so, seem to confirm, the
views she had been taught from
infancy;-13-anslator. _ _ _
Speaking with spirits, but rarely wit angels of heaven, is still given,
and has been
given
for many ages back ; but where it is given, they speak
with man in is mother tongue, yet only a few words ; but they who
speak from permission of the Lord, never speak anything which takes
awronr. or 'rn casa. 211
were' saved."* He asks also of the conditions of Antietes
Hess and of Reinhard. "Albert says,- that both are in ahigh
degree of happiness; that Reinhard, in particular, is a very
pious, pure spirit; that he has boruehis name with honor; that
they are in the place where Lavater has his abode; that this man,
also, has done vast good that will work on to eternity." You
said, on the fifth of April, that C. had another name in the
world you then inhabited. C. wishes toknow what it is. "
He
is called here Facuidus." Has this name a sense, a meaning 'I
"
Yes, like all names in the upper world. This name imports
the exhortation: '
Be 6rm and strong.
' "
But what higher
import_ has the name of Albert! "My Albert told me, at the
very first, that he had another name, whose meaning was :
'
Let
thy soul be pure !'-but that, if the name of Albert pleased me, I
should call him so." What is the sound of Albert's name in
the higher world! "
It is called Almador. (A pause.) Now'
I must look once more into your stomach. (She lays her left
away freedom of reason, nor teach ;` forthe Lord alone teaches man, but
mediately through the word in illustration, which is treated of in what
follows; that it rs so, has been
given
to know from my own experience;
I have had speech with spirits an with an ls now for many years, neither
has any spirit dared, nor any angel tn tell me any still les
to instruct me concerning any things in the word, or
concemtgug any doc-
trinal: from the word, but the Lord alone has taught rue.-D. . 135.
The ninth law ofthe Divine Providence is, that the lord doth not im-
mediately
teach mon truths, either from Himselforby the
azrgels,
but that
He teoc es mediately by the word, by preaching, by re ing, by dis-
course, and by communication with others, and thus by consideration in
private of what is taught ; and that man in this case, is enlightened
according to the aH`ection of truth grounded in use ; otherwise men would
not act asof himselii These things follow as consequences from the law
of the Divlne Providence before explained, namely, from these, that man
is in freedom, and acts what he acts from reason; also, that from under-
standing he should think ss from himselt, and hence from the will should
do good as from himself ; and further, that he u not to be
comyelledby mira»
des or by visions to belabee any thing, or to do any thing. Itua laws are
immutable, because they are of the divine wisdom, and at the same time of
the divine love, and yet they would be disturbed, if man was to be ismne~
diately taught either by indux or by discourse.-A. E. 1173.
*
When my eyes have been opened for me, it has sometimes been
granted me to see how immense, even now, is the multitude of men who
are there; it is so great that it can scarcely be nlnnbered-such myriads
are there, and that only in one place, towards one
Quarter ; what, then,
must the numbers be towards the other quarters! hence it is evident
that the natural world, the abode of men on earth, cannot be compared
with that world, as regards the multitude of the human race ; so that when
man passes from the natural world into the spiritual, it is like going from a
village into a mighty city.-L. L 27.
212 HISTORY O! THE CAIR-
hand on it, and says :) Ah, it is in a very good state. Pursue
your mode of life, as you are accustomed to it, and you need
not be apprehensive. Albert advises you to apply leeches oe-
casionally to the place your physician has indicated; and says
that this is necessary from time to time. M. has a mind to try
bathing ; it is good for her ; only let her use cold bathing, perhaps
in Kawnstadt or Tiibingen; but Albert says that she ought to
do immediately what she means to do this year, that it is full
lime." She further wishes your Albert's advice about her
trembling. Albert says, there is no remedy for this; but that
it is a thing of little consequence." How can the pain which
the wife of Dr. H. of S. suffers in her eyes be relieved! A1-
bert says that her disease is not properly an ocular adiaction,
but a general disease of the nerves, which it is very diicult to
remove. She must not take medicines, that they only hurt her;
but that she can alleviate the afection, which attacks different
parts at diiliarent times, by continual rest of soul and body.
Her eyes, which are sudiaring just at present, she may
strengthen by looking for some time, early in the morning, he-
fore it grows hot and before breakfast, immediately after waking,
on the shadowy green of the meadows. 'But she must at the
same time clothe herself warmly, and avoid the wet of the dew
as much as possible, as also the view of sunny spots; that the
eyes are peculiarly susceptible of being strengthened by the
green of the meadows, immediately after waking." Can you
say nothing about the state of her son, 0.3 "Albert says, that
if he is treated as carefully and judiciously for years, as he has
been hitherto, he will, by God's blessing, get entirely well; that
his disease, however, is tedious and dangerous, and that there is
no possible means, at his age, of curing such a disease at o cc,
inasmuch as it is founded in his natural, bodily constitution."
(A pause, during which she looks for a long time in the direc-
tion of Albert's position.) What are you looking at so iixedly!
"
I cannot satisfy myself with looking at Albert. He now
promises you again, that he will appear to you, as soon ts you
can bear it, in a vivid dream. He will also strengthen you
again in the church on Sunday. He says you will still possess,
for seven months yet, a kind of magnetic iniluence over me;
that merely laying your hand on me, however, will no longer
rusroar or run casa. 213
sndice to put me to sleep, and that you must never make passes
over me; that I would, thereby, as you know, be greatly in-
jured. Slight indispositious coming on would always be quickly
removed in this period, if I could be near you, by simply laying
your hand upon me. (A pause. Suddenly she starts, and
cries 2) 0 God !" What ails you!
"
Albert, my Albert an-
nounces to me that he must now leave me. (She weeps so vio-
lently that she breaks out into sobbing.) 0 Albert, do not
leave me ! Stay with me I (She weeps a long time, extending
her arms all the while towards Albert. At length she seems
to be somewhat paciiied, saying after a few minutes :) I cannot
change it, only never leave me altogether, my Albert; continue
still to lead me. Thanks to you for your help, your protection.
Be with me when it goes hard with me. Warn, impel me, and
when at last my days are ended, conduct me to my Creator, to
my Redeemer, who has committed me tn your care. To you
also, beloved Amandus, Igive my thanks for your visits, which
have always afforded me joy. While yet in the world, you
loved me, and now, in higher light, your love has not forgotten
me; thanks to thee therefor. God grant that, a pure spirit
myself, I may hereafter see you again in joy. (A pause.) Oh,
Albert, I shall miss you painfully! (She weeps.) Alas, you
take leave of me ! (To me :) He takes leave of us both. He
says to you, that he will be near you hereafter also, as often as
it is permitted him; that he loves you, and hopes you will con-
tinue worthy of his love. 0 God! Now-now-he leaves
us; Ishall see him no more. (She stretches her arms after
him weeping.) Oh, farewell, good Albert, farewell! (She
looks after him.) Once more he looks back in a friendly man-
ner towards us. Amandus attends him. (A pause.) So the
disciples of the Lord must have felt, when He rose before their
eyes to Heaven. Neither could they comprehend that it was
for their good. So is it now with me. (A short pause.) And
now, we too, dear friend, must part. Farewell, then. Never
will! forget what you have done for me. Perpetually will I
think of you with love and gratitude-God bless you! yes, God
bless you." (After these words she awoke spontaneously, after
a slight convulsive movement, about half-past ten o'clock.)
/'
f
214 ntsroay or"1'ns casa;
From this time R. was quite well, not the slightest relapse
into her oppressions or spasms, did she have again. The Cata-
menia were regular, and, for a year, unaccompanied with the
slightest inconveniences. My magnetic intluence on her was
so slight, as I convinced myself so early as the 8th of July,
that she had no unusual sensation when I laid my hand on her,
and showed no disposition even to sleep. Magnetic passes I
did not venture to make. Qn one occasion, when she met with
an extremely violent shock to her feelings, two years after-
wards, she fell unexpectedly into a cataleptic state, which lasted
several hours, and ended with clairvoyance. Some months
subsequently, on a similar occasion, the same attack was re-
peated with the same circumstances. From that time, also,
the Catameniawere attended, for some months, with slight in-
conveniences. For the rest, these consequences were only
temporary. She soon 'recovered-entirely, and is now enjoy-
ing the best of health, with the prospect of remaining exempt,
for the future, from all magnetic attaolrs.*
~*
Those who have perused the preceding
pages
with a candid mindcan
now
judge
how far they constitute s. fair cal u n them to examine the
claims o the New Jerusalem Church-a fair cazpor emminalion, it is said,
i'.°f,.'3l;:lZ';Z"I¢T,5";1'¥{\\'Z'..§."M.'""i?.llL' `l`i7.1'§°£l\..T"° ".'l'*""¢'$5i" ii""""'
_ V
are w in o m Jus-
tice, and to
malrethose who willbedigrposedto misrepresenthimdo it in the
face of an explnnt statement. He begs leave, therefore,_to say, that he
doesfnot meanto argue the truth of the New Church doctrine directly from
;,l;p_ease IEpreseraltid,prlanydone
of
:lhe likedkind, but?
on
thalpontrary,
ueves msn wuto mwre' trines t' source
and thatthe attempt to do so will lead,
ingzgicar; wherergi; made, to th;
rnostserieusdelusions-thstthe proper use, in_
is_opinion,to
be made ofthese
mstaneesofmtercoursswiththehl hB¥WOY|d\B,6lb ertooonlirmtruths which
have been
previous%embraced
gem the only source of any truth what-
ZX¢°¥.?2'§.i..Z;§5'f»...?&?¢`£1'2J?ai5°iii;2'»a°°¢~
'"°"..i'l'.I;"|i»'° J§".'i'2..'{\i'é' '53
be led to
inmppire,
whether
they
are or
are potto fohhd in the Syacred
?.i"P'"'°.;.;fs.2x.";'"°'as°°"; .,."*' '°""}"i'°'i1°"'2»."2\§"°"'°'°"£`¥'i.'l'.;
isa ewx no successum wx eman u
hope that a few will be led by his effort to test, in a candid,
prolgdgedand
comprehensive investigation, the remarkable system promu god by Swe-
denborg with the claim of a divine origin, and especially to take up that
point, which. rather than the disclosures he has made res cling the spi-
ritual world, is the main point to be settled in the case-th: existence in
the Word of a spzntusl sense-such a spiritual some as Swedenborg pro-
muon! or 'mn cuz. 215
faueu to demonstrate. The appeal ie to thoee who ere sincerely in quest
of religon: truth, and mint therefore be made in vein to ell who are eo
thoroughly persuaded of_their respective systems, as to be hnmpered by u
false conscience end tamed from the very thought of looking at my op-
posite one. Such have no real love of truth, however they may think to
the contrary. For he who really lovee truth in ever looking out for it, or,
at the leeet, etande reedy to receive it when it comer-ee knowing,thn¢
all truth ie from the Lord alone, end that to seek and fellow truth is the only
possible way of seeking and following Hnl. To person: ofthin letter clan,
the investigation is
earnestly commended, with the neeurence that the
vvill find their progreu in it ike the course of one *whose joumey lang
hm the mints of some low valley to the mountain top-a continue!
acqumtion of cleucr light, of wider prospect, and of more genial reapi-
ration.
O
O
