{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1848__arthur___agnes_or_the_possessed.pdf","mytitle":"Agnes Or The Possessed","mylang":"de"}
i
AGNES;
OR,
THE POSSESSED.
A
REVELATION O
F M
ESM
ERISM
.
BY T. S. ARTHUR,
///
AUTHOR OF “ LOVE IN A COTTAGE,” "LOVE IN HIG H LIFE,”
"LUCY SANDFORD, A STORY OF THE HEART,” “ IN­
SUBORDINATION; OR, THE SHOEMAKER’S
DAUGHTERS,” “ ARTHUR’S TEMPER­
ANCE TALES,” ETC. ETC.
COMPLETE IN ONE VOLUME.
} 3 l ) U a b e l p l ) i a :
T. B. PETERSON, No. 102 CHESTNUT STREET.
ABOVE THIRD, GIRARD STORES.
Digitized by G o o g l e
V
Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1848, by
T. B. P E T E R S O N ,
in the Clerk's office of the District Court of the United States in and for the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania.
!
!
¿■L.______________
Digitized byGoogle
■
f
32101 032678128
TO THE READER.
The disbeliever in the phenomena of uMesmerism/’so called by some, as *
well as the advocate of the new science, will find in this story many things
not in agreement with their views on the subject. The writer, while he
admits the existence of the power called Mesmerism, assigns to it a disor­
derly, and, therefore, evil origin; and in the history drawn, exciting as it is,
and to many minds improbable, has not, he believes, given an exaggerated
picture. If any think so, let them ponder well the following admissions,
recently made public by a professor of the u art and mystery/* who is entitled
to credit. He says:
mI have had many subjects,who, when to all appearance perfectly
awake, would believe that a piece of blank paper was a bank note of any
denomination which I asserted it to be. At Saratoga Spa, in the presence
of Judge Marvin and many other gentlemen, I made a young man of ex­
cellent character take worthless paper for bank notes, and give me a written
obligation for a large amount of money, which he supposed he had received.
Suppose him to be the cashier of a bank—would not this be a dangerous
power in the hands of a dishonest man ? Or suppose him to be worth a
large amount of property in real estate—he might be made to transfer it by
deed in the presence of witnesses while he was under this influence, and
witnesses not suspect that he was in a state different from usual. The wit­
nesses would go into court and swear that he seemed perfectly rational and
master of himself, and yet he would be in such a condition that he could not
perceive any thing to be different from What it was asserted to be by the
operator. Black would look white, if the operator declared it to be so.
Copper would feel and look and sound like gold, if the operator affirmed it.
In a word, the subject and all his property and other legal rights would be
at the mercy of the operator. He could be made to sign anything—a
deed or marriage contract, a confession of murder, or anything else.
a Others can judge, as well as I, how far this power will be abused ; but
I perform my duty in giving a warning to susceptible subjects. Let them
not lightly disregard it. They should know that when once thoroughly
inducted by one person, they can easily be inducted by any person who is
permitted to attempt it. They should know that they may be made to per­
form very improper actions, without being aware of it or afterwards recol-
3
Digitized by G o o g l e
4 TO THE READER.
lecting it. They should know that they may be made to commit actions
which in the eye of the laware criminal, without really intending to do any
wrong whatever. A woman may be made tobelieve that any person is her
father, or brother, or sister, or husband, and she will act accordingly; and
afterwards she will have no recollection of it, excepting such as the operator
pleases. It is my opinion, founded upon experiment, that one person ic
twenty is susceptible of this peculiar influence.”
Digitized by G o o g l e
AGNES; O
R
, THE POSSESSED:
A REVELATION OF MESMRIS3.
CHAPTER I.
u W e are fearfully and wonderfully made!”
Among the mental and physical wonders for whicfi the present age is
distinguished, not the least wonderful is Mesmerism, so called from its
supposed original discoverer. The phenomena it presents, have aston­
ished the wise as well as the simple, and, in many instances, brought
down men of profound learning, acute perceptions, and commanding
intellect, as humble worshippers at the shrine of Mystery. The cry of
«
«humbug,” “ collusion,” and all that, greeted the advent of this psy­
chological wonder, and has continued to accompany it in every step of
its progress, from men who believe in nothing as real but what they can
touch with their hand of flesh and blood, see with their bodily eyes, or
perceive by some physical sense. The file leaders of this class of men
are among the learned, whoSe pride of their, own intelligence has made
them believe that there was nothing in either heaven or earth that had
not been dreamed of in their philosophy. But while they were sneering,
hundreds were opening their eyes and ears, and seeing and hearing things
that left no reasonable doubt of the truth of what they witnessed.
Since the time when Col. Stone gave a history of the startling facts in
mesmerism that fell under his observation, the public have grown more
familiar with the subject, and ceased to be astonished at relations far
more astounding than any thing he made known. Wonders have been
added to wonders, until wonder itself has ceased. Every where professors
of, and experimenters in, this new science have sprung up, and ventured,
like the impious Roman who boldly passed within the veil of the temple,
to encounter influences* of whose origin, nature ai\,d tendency they are
entirely ignorant. Some of these have found it much easier to “ call
spirits from the vasty deep,” than to remand them to their dim abodes ;
especially has this been the case with those who have been insane enough
to submit themselves to the hands of mere experimental « operators,” by
whose influence all that really made them men—viz., rationality and
freedom—was, for a time at least, taken away. Seeing with the eye# of
9
Digitized by G o o g l e
10 AGNES; OR, THE’POSSESSEDl
another, and perceiving by his senses, is not the ftatural and true order
in which man was created, and whenever he departs from the true order
of his being, he sustains an injury that is more or less vital according to
the nature of the perversion. The will of man is that in him which is
inmost—it is that which really makes him a man. Can this he disturbed,
laid quit scent, or be brought under the control of another, as is always
the case in mesmerism, without some injury being sustained ? No truly
reiieciing man can for a moment question this. The thing is self-evident.
To state it, is to cause'it instantly to be perceived.
1
\
CHAPTER II.
Two men were walking leisurely along a shaded road in the less thickly
settled part of a beautifully located New England village. They seemed
to be in earnest conversation, for sometimes their leisure pace would be
broken, and they would move on rapidly, and sometimes they would
pause and face each other, the younger of the two men gesticulating, at
such times, violently.
« Deceived!” said the latter, in one of these pauses, speaking in an
excited voice, « I tell you, Mr. Allen, I cannot be deceived. Of what
use are our eyes and ears, if their evidences are not,to be believed ?”
“ I might ask the same question, Ralph,” replied his companion,
« after leaving one of Mons. Adrien’s exhibitions. But the juggler would
tell me that he had imposed upon my senses. Believe me, you are too
credulous. There is no such power as these men pretend to exercise.
It is a new trick of the mountebank.”
“ No, Mr. Allen,” returned the young man, in an earnest voice; « it
is no new trick of the mountebank, but an undeniable verity. I have
been, night after night, to witness Florien’s experiments, and have tried
in every way to detect collusion between him and his subject, but in
vain. Vigorous as were my first denunciations of the whole thing as an
imposture, I have been compelled to give way under the pressure of an
accumulation of facts, that only a man perversely blind and stubborn
could refuse to admit.”
Mr. Allen shook his head.
« Depend upon it, there is deception somewhere,” he replied. *
«Such
things as you relate are impossible; as, for instance, the transference of
sensation from one body to another. Why, the thing is absurd. You
say that salt was laid upon Mons. Florien’s tongue, and that immediately
Digitized by ¡ L .O O Q l e
A REVELATION OF MESMERISM. II
bis subject tasted it; that she felt a blow upon his person, yet remained
herself altogether insensible to external influences. Why, I wouldn’t
believe this if one rose from the grave and said it was so. I could not;
for it is in violation of natural laws.”
« So you would no doubt have said in regard to the now known power
of electro-magnetism, had you lived fifty years ago, and some one had
then told you that by means of a galvanic battery you could turn a wheel
or set a car in motion,”
« That does not follow, Ralph. I would have known that the battery
possessed the power of communicating a shock by the sudden transmis­
sion of a large volume of electricity; and knowing this, it would not have
been hard for me to have conceived that a more gradual and steady
emission of a current of electricity might act upon some agent that would
steadily react against it, and produce continuous motion. Enough was
known of electricity and the power of the battery fifty years ago, to
demonstrate clearly that it was a material agent, for it produced a shock
when brought in contact with bodies of matter in a peculiar state of fitness
to receive impressions. But this animal magnetism, as it is called, is
altogether a different thing. I cannot, by thinking, knock you down,
let me think ever so hard, because my mind cannot touch your body,
except by means of its own body. I must use my hand to make an
impression upon you. All my bodily senses are my own, and are the
means by which my mind receives impressions from the physical world.
The idea of your perceiving what my tongue tastes, is perfectly absurd.”
« No doubt it seems so to you, Mr. Allen; and so, I confess, does it
seem to me, when I think about it. Nevertheless,” said the young man,
« all, and a great deal more than I have related to you, has come under
ray observation, attended by evidence that no man who pretends to
believe his senses can doubt. I have tried to discredit all I have seen,
but as well might I try to discredit the fact that the sun shines in heaven.
But here comes Mr. Carter. Suppose we talk to him about it. I saw
him at Mons. Florien’s.”
«Carter!” retifrned Mr. Allen, in a slight tone of contempt. «No
doubt he believes it, for he believes in eveiy thing new and wonderful
that comes along. Any thing that he might say wouldn’t strengthen my
faith much.”
« Carter is no fool,” remarked Ralph.
« Though to me, I must confess, he often talks like one,” said Mr.
Allen.
« He has strange notions of things, I will own; and is quite original
and independent in his modes of thinking. And what is more, he never
seems at a loss for a reason to sustain what he professes to believe.”
« Such reasons as they are,” said Mr. Allen.
By this time the .subject of their remarks was so near to them, that it
was no longer prudent to give utterance to their thoughts, lest their
/
Digitized by Google
wtftds should fall upon his ears. Mr. Carter was a man some few years
past the prime of life, of irreproachable character, independent spirit,
benevolent feelings, and great singularity in respect to his modes of
thinking, as compared with those around him—at least such was his
reputation. Sometimes his neighbors spoke very hard of him, especially
those who were rather more puritanical in their notions than the rest,
because, although he professed to have a high regard for religion, he did
not attend worship on the sabbath with any among the various sects
and denominations that flourished around him. But his life, in all that
pertained to his business and social^ intercourse with his neighbors, was
so irreproachable, that even the over-zealous could not fix a condemning
mark upon him, and were forced to be content with saying that if Mr.
Carter were only pious he would be one of the best of men living.
“ Good afternoon, Mr. Carter,” said Ralph Percival, as the individual
to whom we have just alluded came up.
“ Good afternoon, gentlemen,” returned Mr. Carter. “ Taking a walk,
i see, this pleasant afternoon.”
“ Yes,” said Mr. Allen, « Ralph and I have been walking and talking
into the bargain, but, so far as the latter is concerned, to little good pur­
pose, I believe.”
“ A h! what has formed the theme of your unprofitable conversation ?”
« Mons. Florien.”
“ Humph!”
“ You have witnesseh his experiments, I believe, Mr. Carter?” said
Ralph.
“ Yes.”
“ More than once?” asked Mr.. Allen.
“ Yes, several times. Have you attended any of his exhibitions ?”
“ Me ?” speaking with affected surprise. « No, indeed! I never put
myself in the way of being humbugged.”
“ You mean,” said Carter, smiling, “ that, satisfied with yourself as
possessing all truth, you will not put yourself in the way of learning any
thing new, as it is now impossible that there should be any thing new
under the sun.”
“ I don’t say that, friend Carter. But there is certain data in the mind
by which we are able to judge of things as being true or false. By this,
I judge all that animal magnetism presents, as true, to be false.”
“ While by the very rule you apply, I judge all to be true; that is, so
far as its phenomena are concerned.”
“ A strange conclusion, I must affirm.”
“ You have not looked at all into the matter, I understand.”
“ No, not I.”
“ And have judged all to be fraud and collusion, without stooping to
an investigation,” said Mr. Carter.
“ It needs no investigation so far as I am concerned,” replied Mr.
1% " AGNES; OR, THE POSSESSED:
Digitized by Google
A REVELATION OF MESMERISM. 10
Allen. <
<When I read that Baron Munchausen, while going through the
woods on a certain occasion, eating cherries, saw a fat deer near at hand,
and put cherry stones into his gun and fired at the animal wi hout killing
him ; and, moreover, further read, that while passing through thé same
woods on the following season, he met the same deer with a cherry tree,
loaded with ripe cherries, growing out of his head, I take the liberty of
disbelieving the whole story without investigation. Just as absurd and
impossible, to my mind, as this, are all the stories of animal magnetism.
How you. or any other sensible man can accredit them, is more than I
can tell.”
« Do you understand any thing of the laws that relate to the mutual
connection between mind and matter ?” asked Mr. Carter.
« No, I do not ; nor does any body else,” replied Mr. Allen.
“ The first part of your answer is no doubt true ; but of the latter I am
not so certain. As mind acts upon matter, there must be some laws
governing its action. Is not this so?”
« Oh, yes. That is clear. The relation between mind and matter is
so important a one, that there must be fixed laws governing that relation.”
“ Are you prepared to believe that mankind will never understand
these laws ?” #
« I should not like to say that, Mr. Carter ; but I vary much doubt
whether this day and generation will behold their demonstration.”
*
*Why not this day and generation as well as any other?”
“ I don’t think the world is prepared for it yet.”
<
<What is your reason for not thinking so, friend Allen ?”
“ I don’t know that I can give any particular reason, Mr. Carter, but
such is the impression upon my mind.”
« May not your impression be an erroneous one ?”
“ Oh, certainly !”
« Have you no interest in knowing something of the laws that appertain
to the mind and body ?”
“ I suppose I have. But the impossibility of knowing any thing
certain upon the subject, has prevented me from wasting time in fruitless
and bewildering investigations.”
“ Don’t say impossibility, Mr. Allen.”
“ Next to impossibility then. But tell us, neighbour Carter, inasmuch
as you have witnessed these exhibitions and seem to take an interest in
them, what your opinion is in relation to the new science, as it is called ?
I infer that you highly approve of the exercise of this real or pretended
power of one mind over another.”
“ I beg that you will spare me from all such inferences, friend Allen.
I may believe in the fact that a man has committed murder ; but the
approval of that act is another thing,” said Mr. Carter.
« You then believe the whole thing to be bad.”
“ I havn’t said that yet.” *
Digitized by G o o g l e
H
« What isyour opinioa, Mr. Garter ?” asked Ralph with some eag
ness of manner. “ I have been looking on Mens Florien’s experiments
with bewildering astonishment. While the facts compel my belief, the
causes of such astounding phenomena are profoundly hidden from my
eyes. All my psychological theories are driven to the four winds. I
am in a maze of doubt and uncertainty.”
<
<My opinions on the subject are not settled,” replied Mr. Carter;
“ but the more I see and reflect, the more clearly does it seem to my mind
that the power exercised by the mesmeric operator, is a very dangerous
one.”
“ But it is often used, you know, as a means of curing diseases,” said
jRalph. :
« I know. But the question in my mind is whether it is anything
more than casting out devils by the power of Beelzebub. Certainly, as
far as I am concerned, with the light the subject yet affords, I think very
much as the woman did who had the ague and fever.”
“ How was that ?”
, “ She was told that if she would kill a chicken before sunrise, and
without letting any one know what she was going to do, bury the right
foot in a certain spot, and rep^t a form of words that was given to her,
the ague would go away on the second day afterwards, and never return.
After patiently listening to what the friend who advised this course had
to say, she very emphatically declared, that she would rather be afflicted
by the hand of the Lord, than cured by the hand of the devil.”
The two companions of Carter laughed heartily at this anecdote, and
Mr. Allen said,
“ If what is related of Animal Magnetism be really true, I should be
very ready to agree with what you suggest, Mr. Carter, that it has its
origin in an evil source. Satan has many devices, and has the power,
we know, of transforming himself into an angel of light.”
«‘ I hate thought over the subject a great deal,” remarked Carter.
“ At tif5t',c the whole thing puzzles me exceedingly. It is said that by
means of this power, a person tan be rendered entirely insensible to pain;
and that in this state the most difficult and dangerous operations may be
performed without the patient’s experiencing any sufl^ring.”
I saw a tooth drawn from the mouth of a young lady, in the mes­
meric state, by Doctor Elmer,” remarked Ralph.
« Did she exhibit any indication of pain ?” asked his companions.
« Not the slightest.”
« Really, that surpasses my belief,” said Mr. Allen,
Bat I saw it,” returned Ralph, speaking with some warmth.
«1 didn’t doubt that, Ralph,” said ;Mr. Allen. “ What I doubt is
ihe inference you draw, that she did not feel any pain. She must have
felt pain.”
« But she has assured me over and over again, that she had no know-
AGNES;-OR, THE POS8B88ED:
Digitized by Google
ledge of the operation whatever, until she awoke and found that she had
lost a tooth.” :
“ Can you accredit her words ? Is she a person worthy of belief.”
“ I would as soon believe my mother guilty of falsehood, as suspect
an evasion of the truth in her. She stands beyond suspicion in this
respect. It was Agnes Wellmore.”
“ It was!” said Mr. Allen in surprise. “ When was this ? I never
heard anything of it before ?”
“ It took place only yesterday, and I should not have mentioned it,
only the turn conversation has taken seems to require me to do so.
Agnes, you know, is in delicate health. Her nervous system, from one
eause and another, has become highly susceptible of impressions, and,
as a consequence, her sensibility to pain is very great. For months she
has suffered with a distressing tooth-ache, which has often been so bad,
as almost to take away her consciousness. I am intimate, as you are
aware, with both herself and family, and took occasion from this intimacy,
often to urge upon Agnes the propriety pf having the tooth that caused
her so much pain, extracted. But she had such a dread of an operation,
that I never could induce her to submit to have it drawn. During the
past week she suffered greatly from this fcause. I suggested to her to
let Florien magnetize her, if he could, and while in the somnambulic
state, to have the tooth extracted. To this she at first strongly objected,
but I talked to her so much that she at last consented to let him try to
magnetize her. If he was successful in his effort, she would, after that,
seriously take into consideration the propriety of having her tooth drawn
while in the magnetic state. Yesterday I called upon her in company
with Mons. Florien. I could see that she felt a strong repugnance to
have him attempt to magnetize her; but as he had come for that especial
purpose, she could not make any objection.
“ After conversing a short time, Florien drew his seat close opposite
to where Agnes was sitting, took her hands in his and held them for
about a minute, looking steadily into her face all the time. Then he
lifted his hands to a level with her forehead, and commenced making
downward passes, drawing each hand along in the direction of her arms,
but without touching them. All the time he looked her fixedly in the
face, while his mind seemed deeply intent upon accomplishing what he
was trying to do. This was continued for full twenty minutes, before
Agnes showed signs of insensibility. Then her eyes gradually closed,
her muscles became rigid, and her face assumed rather a painful expres­
sion, and was slightly distorted. I did not like to look at her.”
MShe had fainted, or was in a spasm,” said Mr. Allen, giving a long
expiration, that showed him to be deeply interested in the narrative.
“ Wait until I am done, and you will not think so,” replied Ralph.
“ «Is she in a magnetic state V I asked of Florien, in a whisper, for it
seemed to me that she must rouse up if I spoke aloud. <Here is her
A REVELATION OF MESMERISM. 15
Digitized by v ^ o o Q i e
16 . AGNES} OU, THE POSSESSED:
arm,’ he said, reaching it towards me, while he made three or four
passes along it with his hand: <try if you can bend it.’ I was astonished
to find that the whole arm was as rigid as a piece of wood; all my efforts
to bend it were unavailing. <Unclasp her hand,’ he said. I tried to do
so, but the fingers would not yield. <Now bend her arm,’ he continued,
as he made two or three quick upward passes along her arm. I took
hold of the limb, and moved it as easily as I can now move my own
arm!”
“ Incredible!” ejaculated Mr. Allen.
« It does seem so, but it is nevertheless true,” resumed Ralph.
« Florien next stood a little distance from where Agnes was sitting, but
directly in front of her, and looked at her fixedly, with his brows drawn
down, and his whole face and attitude expressive of an intensely-felt pur­
pose. I did not like the look of his face, and as to his eyes, there was
something snaky about them. I turned from him to observe Agnes. In a
little while I noticed slight muscular twitches in various parts of her body;
then she would bend over towards Florien and seem to be listening
intently. At length she rose up from her chair and advanced several
paces towards him; then moved backward and re-seated herself. <She
is perfectly susceptible:’ he now said to me, «and is in a profound mag­
netic sleep. It is a pity her physician is not here ; he could take out
her tooth without her experiencing the slightest pain.’ «How long can
she be kept in this state ?’ I asked. <As long as I please,’ he replied.
<Let her remain as she is then,’ I said, ‘ I will try and find the doctor.’
« I hurried away, and was fortunate enough to meet Doctor Elmer in
the street shortly after leaving the house. I told him what I wanted,
and he immediately accompanied me to the house of Mr. Wellmore. The
aunt of Agnes was, present, having awaited, with Florien, my return.
We now conversed aloud of what was to be done, while the doctor took
eat his instruments and made his preparations for extracting the tooth.
He eut the gqm without causing in his patient the slightest indication of
pain, and then laying hold of the tooth with his forceps, wrenched it out
of her head, not a nerve or muscle quivering!”
“ Without waking her up ?” said Mr. Allen, with a look of astonish­
ment.
“ Not a muscle stirred ! There she sat, her head resting against the ,
hand of Florien, and the bloody tooth in the forceps of the doctor, but
the expression of her face was all unchanged. I could scarcely believe
my senses.” ,
« When she awoke, did she feel no pain ?” asked Allen.
« After the blood had been wiped from her lips, and all evidences of
the operation removed, Florien made half a dozen rapid passes in a
reverse direction to those by which he had put her to sleep, when her
eyes opened naturally, and she looked around upon us with a quiet
•voile. She did not notice, at first, that she had lost a tooth. But in a
Digitized by Google
IT
few moments she looked towards Dr. Elmer, put her hand to her mouth,
and started to her feet as suddenly as if she had felt an electric shock,
while her face became flushed, and then grew pale. We smiled, and
then she understood that her tooth had been drawn while she was asleep.
4Here is the offending member,’ said the doctor, producing a large jaw
tooth. <Did it hurt you, any when I drew it?-
’ 4Hurt me ?’ said Agnes,
with a bewildered air—4I did not feel it.’ 4But you must have felt it,’
said the Doctor. <It would be impossible to tear such a tooth from the
jaw without pain.’ 4I have felt no pain,’ returned Agnes, <and can
now hardly believe my senses when I perceive the cavity in my mouth,
and look at the tooth which you say you have just extracted.’ 4I’ll
believe anything after this,’ said Doctor Elmer, beginning to pace the
floor, and seeming utterly confounded. He has been one of Florien’s
bitterest denouncers, and never spoke of him except as the «Humbug
Florien.’ The drawing of the tooth he fully expected would explode
Florien and his science entirely.”
*
<Are you sure all this is not romance, Ralph ?” said Mr. AUen, as
much confounded as Doctor Elmer was represented to have been.
« Go and ask Doctor Elmer; he will tell whether I have been romanc­
ing or not.”
4
4Well, friend Carter, what do you think of that ?” asked Mr. Allen,
turning to the one he had addressed.
“ I suppose it’s all so,” was the brief reply.
“ As a means of preventing pain, in all operations, would you not
think the use of mesmerism perfectly legitimate ?” asked Ralph. “ In fact,
do you not look upon it, viewed in this light, as a great blessing ?”
4
4That question I am not prepared to answer in the affirmative,”
returned Mr. Carter.
4
4What is your opinion of the matter ?”
4
4That, at present, all prudent people had better let it alone.”
“ Do you think it was wrong to use it in the case of Agnes Wellmore ?’’
<
<I am not prepared to say that it was either right or wrong. But, of
one thing I am certain, I would think a good while before I would let
Mons. Florien put his hands upon a daughter of mine, or bring her
under subjection to his will.”
4
4But think how the health of Agnes whs suffering from her aching
tooth,” said Ralph.
4
4All of us ought to have sufficient strength of mind to bear the pain
to which, in the course of Providence, we may be'subjected. A decayed
and aching tooth, if the pain cannot be allayed, should be removed, and
the pain of its removal ought to be submitted to with fortitude.”
4
4But if Providence places within our reach the means of allaying
pain, ought we not to accept of the boon with gratitude?” asked Mr.
Allen.
44Certainly, if we are sure that in using these means, we are not in-
3
A «BVELATIOff OP MESMERISM.
A Digitized by Google
AGNE8i OH THE' POSSESSED:
dieting upon ourselves some greater iiyurjr. I do not think that we should
use improper means.”
<
<No, of course not. But how are we to determine Animal Magnetism
to be an improper means?” asked Ralph.
“ It were the better way to determine it to be a propel means before
Tising it,” said Mr. Carter. “ This, it seems to me, would only be
acting from the dictates of common prudence. How do you know that
the submitting of Agnes to the influence of Florien, and permitting him
to throw her into so unnatural, and I must say, shocking a state as the
magnetic sleep, may not so disturb the even balance of her mind, as to
destroy, in a great measure, the freedom of her will ? Notwithstanding
her'ill health, and high degree of nervous susceptibility, Agnes has a
strong mind and acute perceptions. To have, with firmness and moral
courage, overcome her natural shrinking from pain, and in this state have
submitted herself to the operation she so much dreaded, would have
elevated and strengthened her whole character, and made her more
capable of bearing any mental pain, the endurance of which might be
necessary for the regeneration and purification of her spirit.”
«1 have never looked at thevsubject in that light,” replied Ralph. “ I
suppose it would be much wiser to determine that a thing is innocent
before using it, than to adopt its use before being certain as to its
quality.”
“ Certainly it would. And this is just the position I hold to Animal
Magnetism. I must know a good deal more about it than I do at present,
before I come within the sphere of its influence, or take within that
sphere any one over whom I have control. And you must permit me to
say, that I think you to blame for inducing Agnes Wellmore, against her
own feelings, to submit herself to the control of a power that may per­
manently disturb the equilibrium of her mind.”
“ Perhaps I have been too hasty. But my motive at least was good,” >
said Ralph.
“ The goodness of your motive cannot save Agnes from injury, if the
influence under whiclf you have brought her be an evil one,” replied
Mr. Carter.
“ Of course n o t b u t I must be permitted to hope, that no evil con­
sequences will result from this simple experiment. Agnes was not half
an hour in the magnetic sleep. I have seen her to-day, and she looks
brighter than she has done fof a long time.”
<
«Freedom from pain would naturally produce this result,” said Mf.
Carter.
« I know. This I bore in mind. But, apart from what might be ex­
pected from entire freedom from pain, I was pleased to notice a firmer
condition of the nerves and a more general feeling of health. It is said,
that the effect of animal magnetism on a person suffering from ‘disease
and nervous debility, is very beneficial; and I have already been led to
is:
Digitized by Google
hope that if Agnes would submit to be magnetized frequently) it -might
restore her to health.”
Mr. Carter shook his bead, but did not remark upon Ralph’s con­
cluding sentence.
“ You seem to stand in a kind of non-committal attitude to this mesmer­
ism,” said Mr. Allen, after Ralph had ceased speaking, his last words
having elicited no reply from Mr. Carter.
««Yes,” returned the last named person, “ I am always in this attitude
towards such things a$ I do not fully understand. I open my eyes and
look at whatever presents itself; never, like you, crying «humbug,’ «col­
lusion,’ or «imposture,’ but examining the new wonder id the length and
breadth of its pretensions. Thus far in life, I have escaped deception,
for the reason that I never adopt any thing because it comes with specious
pretensions; but because I see in it good and true principles, and an
agreement with the laws of order established by God. I have seen enough
in my short life to satisfy me*that we live in an age of wonders, and that
more wonderful things than the world has ever yet seen, are in the womb
of time. All that is true I wish to receive as it flows down to the
earth, and for this reason, I hold my mind in an affirmative state ; that is,
I call nothing false that I do not understand; but Pam at the same time
careful not to call it true. I admit that it may be true, and then examine
it with minuteness and great caution, lest I be deceived by mere appear­
ances. Thus far in my life, I have not been doomed to see any thing
that I received as truth, proved to be false. What I believe is often
called false; but new and undoubted evidences of its truth come daily
and hourly to my mind. I often feel as if I were ascending a mountain;
for the horizon of my mental and moral perceptions is steadily widening,
and I can look back and see points in the way that I have come, where
I stood doubting as to which was the right course to be taken. And
thus, my young friends, it should be with all of us. You are both old
enough to have fixed in your minds certain principles as a groundwork
to your whole characters, upon which a superstructure of correct opinions
on all subjects may be built. You, friend Allen, ’have the fault of bang
too incredulous, while our friend Ralph goes off into the opposite extreme.
You may never be deceived into the belief of some new and false preten­
sion, but you are fated to stand still while the world is advancing, unless
you correct this habit of mind ;—on the other hand, Ralph is in danger
of falling into the error that you are seeking to avoid. To both I would
say—open your eyes and see; but be careful that you are not over wise*
and
* See what is not to be seen.' ”
JVtr. Carter here bade the two friends a good afternoon. They walked
homeward more thoughtful and less inclined to give utterance to their
thoughts than they were before he joined their company.
A REVELATION OF MESMERISM. 19
Digitized by L j O O Le
30 AGNE8; (ft, THE POSSE88ED
CHAPTER HI.
On the evening succeeding the 'day on which our narrative opens, a
young lady sat alone with a book in her band beside her table, on whick
stood a shaded light. The room she occupied was elegantly furnished,
and the walls hung with choice pictures, showing the owner to be a
person of taste, and enough of this world’s goods to gratify it. The
young lady was rather above the middle height, slender, yet symmetrically
formed, with dark glossy hair that fell in a profusion of ringlets upon her
neck, and played about her cheeks, upon*which a soft tinge sweetly
relieved the exquisite purity and whiteness of her skin. Her dark hazel
eyes, from which the long lashes weite occasionally raised, as she lifted
her head and assumed a thoughtful attitude, pondering oa what she read,
had a depth of expression but rarely seen. At such times, brow, eyes,
and mouth presented evidences of bodily or mental suffering that could
not be mistaken. But these, instead of detracting from, seemed to
heighten and give interest to her beauty.
The young lady sat thus alone, now reading and now pausing to reflect
upon what she had read, or, because other thoughts and images forced
themselves upon her mind, and thrust aside the themes upon which she
was endeavoring to fix her attention. While thus engaged, a visiter
was announced. He proved to be a young man about her own age, or,
it might be, a few years older. He was near the middle stature, well
formed, and with a manly air and intelligent countenance. He greeted
the young lady familiarly, and she returned his greeting with an air as
frank and familiar as his own. They were evidently on terms of interest
and confidential intercourse; for their hands lingered in each other’s grasp,
and they looked into each other’s eyes with looks of tenderness and regard.
“ I expected you earlier,” said the maiden. “ What has kept you so
long away ?” /
The young man thought a moment before answering, and then replied,
“ I called in after tea to say a word or two to Mons. Florien, and he
kept me longer than I at first intended to stay.
« Mons. Florien ? Indeed!” The young lady’s countenance bright­
ened. “ What had you of interest to say to him ?”
<
<A good deal. But I wanted to ask him particularly about one point.”
“ What was that ?” asked the young lady.
« How for, in his opinion, the <subject’ of mesmeric influence had his
<
or her freedom of will disturbed.”
<
<A singular question, it strikes me, Ralph,” remarked his companion
“ S.o Mons. Florien said.”
Digitized by Google
« How came such on idea to cross your mind ?”
« It was suggested by Mr. Carter/in a conversation | held with him
this afternoon.” '
« What, Carter? - Old Mr. Carter, the
« Yes, Old Mr« Carter, who is said to have so many pod and singular
notions; but who, to me* always has a very sensible \yay of talking, and
seems to see deeper into things than most people I am in the habit pf
meeting.” (.. i_. , .
« What had he to say on the subject ?” asked the yo mg la^y,., .
. « O h! a good deal. He blamed me for inducing yon fo be magnetised,
in order to have a tooth drawn.” ,
/ « I don’t clearly see what cause of blame he could find in.that,”
«H e seems to think that mesmerism is an evil influence,-and that aU
who have any thing to do with it are in danger of spmcthipg,be hardly
knows what.” ^ ,.»
« I suppose not. How there can bp any thii^evil in that which enables
you to have a paiftful operation performed without suiting,, is more than
I can see. I should call it good, not evil.”
«So Mona. FiorienTsoys. Still, what Mr. Carter suggested.in,the
conversation I had with him to-day, haunts my thoughts all the while.
He spoke so gravely, and seemed so rational in all he set forth« font I
was irresistibly led to the impression that there might be all the danger
he suggested.”
« I have been magnetized,” was the triumphant answer to this, « and
I don’t think my freedom has been at all disturbed. I believe I have
just as much control over my mind asever I had, and a godd deal more
than when I Was half maddened with pain, and every nerve quivering
with excitement.
«You felt a strong repugnance t> being magnetized, I believe?” said
the young man. t
« Yes. I could not bear to have Mons. Florien come, near met When
he came into the room, it Was as much as 1 could do to kpep from dying
from it, overcome with an undefinable dread of his touching me.
«How long did this continue?” asked Ralph, whom the reader has
already recognized. #
« Until I allowed him to take my hands in his, and then it. gradually
subsided, until I felt nothing of it.”
« Do you feel it now, in thinking of him ?”
«No, not in the slightest degree.”
.« If you had another tooth to extract, would you be wiling to let him
magnetize you ?” . .
« Perfectly.”
These answers did not appear to give Ralph very particular pleasure.
He became grave and thoughtful, until rallied by his companion, who
A, REVELATION OF MESMERISM. 3 l
2
Digitized by Gc le
evinced a good deal of interest in knowing wbat had passed between
him and Florien.
«Your conversation with Mont, Florien must have been a very
interesting one,” she said.
«It certainly was. If all he relates of Animal Magnetism be true, we,
as yet, have seen nothing of its real wonders. According to him a book,
a piece of money, or any article may be magnetized, and then sent to a
person to whom it will communicate the influence.”
«Astonishing! But can you really believe this ?”
« I have been forced to believe so much that, at first sight, appeared
equally incredible with this, that I now dare not refuse credence to any
thing that comes along. Just think of one person’s rending a magnetized
article to another, and thus putting his whole consciousness to sleep.
The filing is really frightful!”
« It does look bad,” remarked the young lady, in a tone that showed
her interest and curiosity to be so highly excited that her mind did not
clearly perceive the dangerous tendency of the power declared by Florien
to exist.
« He says,” resumed Ralph, « that it is only necessary for one person
Who has a stronger magnetic quality than another, and therefore able to
magnetize him, to take any article, a piece of coin for instance, and hold
it in his hand long enough for the heat of his body, with its magnetism,
to penetrate it, and then, place that coin in the hand of the other person,
to throw him into the magnetic sleep, or at least sensibly to affect him.”
« Is it possible!”
« Yes; he says he has done it over and over again. He also says
that I have sufficient magnetic power to effect you easily.”
« Indeed!”
«Yes.”
I wish I had known that. You, instead of Florien, should have
magnetized me yesterday.”
« Suppose I try the experiment of which he spoke,” said Ralph,
taking a half dollar from his pocket, The repugnance which the young
man had felt a short time before was now all gone.
« I have no objections,” replied the young lady. « But I don’t be­
lieve your magnetized half dollar will have any effect upon me.”
« Nor I. But we will put Florien’s declaration to the proof.”
Ralph held the half dollar in his hand until it had attained the tern
perature of his body. He then placed it in the open hand of Agnes,
where it lay for a few moments without any effect becoming apparent.
« Just as I sup—.”
Before Ralph had finished the sentence the hand of his companion
closed with a spasmodic jerk upon the coin, and a tremor ran up her
arb, that soon began quivering from the shoulder to the tips of the
22 AGNES; OR THE POSSESSED«
Digitized by G o o g l e
fingers, and agitating the whole body, while hér face exhibited a series
of rapid muscular contortions
« Good Heavens, Agnes !” exclaimed the yoting man in alarm, seizing
her hand and endeavoring to gel the magical half dollar from its grasp.
But 'hie efforts were vain. He could not move a finger.
Alarmed beyond measure, Ralph was about calling the family, when
the spell he had put upon Agnes subsided, the coin dropped upon the
floor, and his companion sat unmoved before him.
<•1 shall not try that again, very soon,’1he said, relieving thé oppres­
sion of his chest by a long breath. “ I was never so much frightened in
my life. How do you feel ?”
«
«0 ! very well,” replied the maiden, with a smile.
««Wasn’t you alarmed ?”
« No : I can’t say that I was.”
« What kind of a sensation was produced ?”
<i l ean hardly tell. It was pleasant enough.”
it Could you not have held your arm still ?”
«*No. I had no power over it.”
«*Astounding ! I almost doubt my own senses. You say the sensa­
tion was dot unpleasant ?” ‘ Si
• ifOh no. It was pleasant.- I seemed in a kind of ecstasy.”
“ Did you experience a similar sensation when Floiien magnetized
you.*”
«
<At first, as I told you, his approach was exceedingly disagreeable.
It seemed as if I could feelhis presence like something pressing aga
and repelling me. It required all my efforts to refrain from rushing from
the room. I never Was so distressed by the presence of any one m my
life. But after he had commenced magnetizing me, I gradually lost this
repugnance, until it entirely left me, and was succeeded by the most
delightful sensations.”
“ Can you not describe their nature ?”
*»I can hardly find words to do so. Of bodily existence, I seemed to
have no perceptiçn. My mind became wonderfully clear, as if seeing in
a new and purer atmosphere. My whole soul was elevated and filled
with an overpowering consciousness of its immortality. But I can recol­
lect nothing that I heard or saw while in (his state.”
f
fH
ave you ever felt a desire to be restored to the state in which you
then were ?” asked Ralph.
“ At times, when I think of the subject, this desire comes over me.”
This declaration made Ralph again thoughtful. But the more he
thought the more bewildered did his mind become.
«
«Why do you look so grave ?” asked the young lady.
“ These things are enough to make any one look grave. Whither are
we tending ? What is to be the result of ail this ? If one person is to
have such entire control over another as mesmerism gives, who knows
A RÉVÉLATION Of MESMERISM. ftg
Digitized by Google
94 A0NB8; CB ?HE POSSESS»©:
far what dreadful end it may be used ? It seems to me th*t no^ne is
safe. A natural repugnance to the thing is nothing. This repUgnanco
may be entirely overcome, a« in your case.”
.Agnes smiled at the young man’s warmth.
« I do not see any tbiogso dreadful in all this as you appear to See/1
, *he sei(k « No one need he magnetized without bis consent.”
«Flofieft says differently. He says, that after he has magnetized a
subject, who is particularly susceptible to the influence, for a few times, ha
opn put him to sleep by merely looking at him, and willing him to go to
sleep. He declares that be has done it often. And be says, moreover,
that bis present subject, a lady whom he has been magnetizing for nearly
a year, for the cure of a complication of diseases under, which she is
laboring, is now so much under his control, that he can put her to skep
if she is in another room, and altogether unapprised of his intention.”
« That I am very much inclined to doubt,” said Agues.
« I doubted, at first, even his ability to put any one into the magnetic
sleep,” returned the young man. “ I called: all mere pretension and
imposture. But I could not long withstand theevidences of tnyown
eyes. I laughed, ns you know, at his declaration, inione of his lectures,
that an .operation might be performed white the patient was imthe magi
netic sleep, without any p$ift being felt* Aid)yet l have seen Dr. Elmer
draw a tooth for you without your being aware of the fact. The
^magnetized coin, I but half credited. All these are wonderful—
*pas£
.human belief; and' yet my eyes have seen them. If I admit these to be
true, it requires but little stretch of credulity to believe any thing that
may be related of this mysterious agency.”
, « N o one need become a regular <subject’ in a magnetizer’s hands,
and thus be brought so completely under his control,” said Agnes.
« Unless anundue and disturbing influence were obtained over thesubje
by a single act of m
e
s
m
e
r
i
s
m
, no entire control would result from rer>
pealed a
c
t
s
. Every stroke of the hammer upon a piece ofiron, bears its
due relation to the rest in the process by which the iron is brought into
its required shape. If the first stroke make no impression whatever, no
■accumulation of such strokes will, at all affect the metal. Is not this
clear?”
« Perfectly. But in the case of mesmerism, a single submission to the
mesmeric influence, cjpes not compel an individual to submit to it again
and again, until he is brought completely under the mesmerizer’h
control.”
“ I am not so sure of that,”' said Ralph, musingly.
«But the thing is absurd, Ralph. I have been magnetized by Mens.
Florien. Do you suppose he could induce me to submit myself again to
bis hands, unless I chose to do so.”
u He could not, certainly, against your will. But the question in my
mind, Agnes, is, how for the person who has once been magnetized
Digitized by Google
A MWELATION OF MESMERISM.
may or may not be willing to have the process repeated. The gist of
the whole matter lies in the effect of magnetism upon the will.”
“ I do not clearly comprehend you, Ralph.”
“ Is it not possible for the feelings to change towards a person who
was at first repugnant ? How often is it that we even form an attach­
ment for an individual whom we could not hear to approach us at first.”
“ W dl?”
. •<This cha »ge is generally gradual.”
v rk n o w .”
<
<Just such a gradual .change may take place in the feelings of a per­
son towards mesmerism. Your first sensation was that of almost uncon­
querable repugnance»”
“ I know it was ”
«That.has already died away, and now you even feel, at times, a
desire to come under the operator's influence. Desire is from the will*
Your will is therefore changed, and this is what leads you. If that is in
favor of mesmerism, what holds you back from all the direful evils it
toay be in its power to entail ?”
«You are a strange being, Ralph,” said the yotfng lady, smiling.
*
<I sometimes hardly know what to make of you.”
Ralph returned the smile of Agnes, but did not, for some time, make
any further remark, and then he changed the subject.
Digitized by G o o g l e
AGNES; OR, THE POSSESSED:
a*
CHAPTER IV.
♦
T he village of M------, where the persons we have introduced to the
reader’s notice resided, was distant from Boston about sixty miles. It
contained a refined and highly intelligent circle, of which Agnes Well-
more was looked upon as a brilliant member. To Ralph Percival she
had been for some time betrothed; but, on accouut of her ill health and
one or two other causes not necessary to mention, the marriage had been
delayed. At the period of which we are now writing, no particular
time had befen fixed for their union, although it was understood that it
would not be put off much longer.
The presence of Mons. Florien, an itinerant lecturer on mesmerism,
had created a good deal of excitement in the village. His experiments
were the first that had been witnessed in M~— , aod of course produced
a marked sensation. Some scouted at the whole thing as an imposture,
while others believed and wondered. Florien himself appeared to be a
man of a good deal of intelligence and much force of mind. His manners
were attractive, and he possessed the.ability to interest nearly all with
whom he came in contact. The success of his lectures and experiments
were of a character to induce him to prolong his stay for several weeks,
during whi& time he became acquainted with many persons in the
village, and at length received invitations to the houses of some of the
first families in the place. During his stay, a large party was given, to
which he received an invitation. This party Miss Wellmore, Ralph, Mr.
Allen, and Mr. Carter attended. The presence of Mons. Florien turned
the attention of all to the subject of magnetism; and the evening had not
advanced very far, before a dense circle was formed around the French­
man, who found himself beset with ten questions to one that it was possible
for him to ai^wer, so thickly were they crowded upon him. At length
£ pale, thin, nervous-looking young man, who had evinced a restless
incredulity in regard to all the mesmerizer had declared in reply to the
questions asked him, said with a confident air:
«1 don’t believe you can mesmerize any one here!”
Florien merely smiled, while his quick eye glanced around the room.
Ralph was near, and observing the direction of bis eye, saw it rest for a
moment upon Agnes. This produced in him a sensation of uneasiness
and repugnance.
“ What do you say to that, Mons. Florien ?” spoke up Mr. Allen,
seeing that the Frenchman did not reply.
« I can do it,” he said briefly, with a shrug, « if I may be allowed to
$boose my subject.”
Digitized by Google
After some slight debate this was agreed to, provided no objection
were made by the person whom he might choose. When this was finally
determined, Florien advanced a few steps towards Agnes, and said—
<
<I choose this young lady.”
No objection being made by Agnes, a murmur of approbation went
through the room, for Agnes was known to be so far above deception,
that the effect upon her would result in a conviction to all present of the
truth or falsity of Florien’s pretensions. This occurred only an evening
or two after Agnes had been mesmerized and her tooth drawn, and before
that fact had become generally known.
Mons. Florien drew,a chair immediately in front of Agnes: before taking
her hands in his, he looked her, for the space of nearly a minute, steadily
in the eyes. He then took hold of her hands and held them a short time.
After this, the downward passes began, which were not continued over
five minutes, before the eyes of Agnes closed. At this point, Ralph called
her name in a quick,, rather loud voice, and Agues partially roused up,
answering to the call, but not opening her eyes. Florien continued his
passes, Ralph every now and then pronouncing the name of Agnes. But
each time this was repeated it made less and less impression upon her ear,
until she ceased to hear altogether.
<
<You may fire off a cannon now if you please, and she will not hear
you,” said Florien, in a triumphant tone, rising up and standing in front
of his subject.
The young man who had challenged the mesmerizer to this proof of
his skill, stepped forward and struck his hands together, producing a
loud noise, close to the ear of Agnes. But she remained as immovable
as stone.
« Try as you will, you cannot waken her,” said Florien, with a smile.
<
<I have locked up her senses, and you cannot open them.”
. Various were the means resorted to by the many who were still incre­
dulous, but all to no effect. Agnes remained statue-like in her chair.
Tests were applied that no one, in whom external consciousness and
sensibility to external impressions remained, could have withstood. After
all these things had been resorted to over and over again, and were at
last abandoned as useless, Florien said to an individual standing near
him:
“ She does not hear you when you speak to her?”
“ No,?* he answered.
« But she will hear me, and answer me, when I address her.”
u I doubt it,” was the reply.
“ Agnes,” said the magnetizer, not moving from where he stood, and
speaking in a tone not the least elevated above that in which he had been
conversing.
Agnes' immediately assumed an air of attention, ana appeared to be
listening. The change in her was noticed by every one.
, A REVELATION OF MESMERISM. 27
Digitized by Google
’ « Lift your right hand,” said Florien.
Agnes slowly lifted hef right hand, and held it in a horizontal position
« Now let it fall.”*
ít sank as slowly upon her lap.
« Do you hear me speak ?”
« Oh, yes,” she said promptly, in a low but very distinct voice.
« I am going to bandage your eyes. Can I have your handkerchief
fór that purpose ?”
« Yes.” And she held her handkerchief towards him.
« Are you all satisfied, or do you wish further proof of the fact that this
young lady is in a mesmeric sleep ?” said Florien, looking round upon
the company.
« Go on, go on,” was uttered by many voices.
Florien then proceeded to bandage the eyes of Agnes very carefully.
« Now,” he said, « I will cause her to tell you the nature of any sub«
stance you may present to me.”
A young lady banded the magnetizer an orange.
« What do I hold in my hand, Agnes ?” he asked.
After a moment’s hesitation Agnes replied—
« It is round—it is fruit.”
« Is it sweet or sour ?” Florien put it to his mouth and extracted some
of the juice.
The lips of Agnes moved as if she were tasting something.
« It is swe^t,” she answered.
T ^ se present soon satisfied themselves that what she had said was trúe.
A k^eat variety of similar experiments were tried, all with a like result.
« I will now show you something more curious still,” said Florien,
removing the bandage from the eyes of Agnes; « or, I should rather say,
I will try to do it. All subjects are not alike susceptible: if I fail in what
I am now about attempting, you must not set the failure against the
science. Other experimenters have done it frequently, but I have never
succeeded for want of a good subject. In the one I now have by the
courtesy of this company, I find a remarkable susceptibility to magnetic
impressions. At the risk of á failure, I will try some experiments that I
am very desirous of succeeding in myself.”
« What are they ?” asked Ralph, evincing some anxiety.
«You shall see in a moment,” replied Florien. «They are very
simple. Will some one hand me a glass of water ?”
The water was brought. After drinking part of it, the magnetizer
handed it to Agnes, saying as he did so—
« Take a glass of water. It will refresh you.”
Agnes drank a part of the water.
•« Now,” said Florien, « let any one of the company whisper m my eat
what he wishes me to will the contents of that tumbler to be, and I will
make this young lady believe that such are its real contents.”
gg AGNES; OR, THE POSSESSED: ‘
Digitized by Google
A REVELATION OP MESMERISM.
• “ Will it to be wine,*’ whispered Mr. Allen. 1
“ Drink some more of that water, Agnes,” said Florien.
“ I don’t wish any more,” she replied.
“ Take a little more. It will do you good,”“he urged.
“ If it will oblige you,” she said, raising the glass, « I will drink more;
but I don*t really want it.”
The moment the tumbler touched her lips she drew it away quickly,
saying, in a voice of surprise— /
“ It is not water.”
“ What is it, then ?”
- “ Why, it is wine.”
“ Wine, indeed! What kind of wine r „
Agnes raised the glass again to her lips, sipped some of its contents,
and, after tasting them for an instant, said, ■ ' _ •
“ I don’t know¿”
“ Will it to be castor oil,” whispered another to the magnetbser.
> « Taste it again,” said Florien; « I am sure you must know what*kind
it is.”
« I am no judge of wine,” returned Agnes.
“ Did you ever drink Madeira?”
“ Yes.”
“ Taste and see if that is not Madeira.”
Agnes raised the glass towards her lips again! and sipped some of the
water, but instantly ejected it from her mouth, shaking her head, distorting
her face, and exhibiting every indication of having tasted some nauseous
substance.
« What ails you, Agnes ?” asked Florien.
“ It isn’t wineL” she replied, with looks and gestures of aver*
»on.
“ Will the contents to be coffee,” said Ralph, whose interest in these
experiments had, for a time, conquered his repugnance to seeing Agnes .
the subject of them.
“ Taste it again,” said Florien. “ You must be mistaken.”
But Agnes shook her head.
“ I am sure you aré. Look into the tumbler and see for yourself.
Is not that wine ?”
Agnes raised the tumbler towards her forehead, and holding it in that
position, appeared carefully examining what it contained.
“ Is not that wine?” repeated Florien.
“ No. It looks like coffee.”
“ Taste it.”
Agnes now put the tumbler to her mouth, but very cautiously.
“ It is coffee, sure enough,” she said, as soon as she had tasted it, and
then drank off die entire contents ef the glassy
“ I will now magnetize any object in the room that may be pointed *
Digitized by Google
out to me,” said Mons. Florien, «and by so doing, make it so heavy
that she cannot lift it. What shall it be ?”
“ Let it be this copy of Cowper’s Poems,” was whispered to the
magnetizer.
Florien took the book and laid it beside another bootc on the piano.
He then made a number of passes over it, and pronounced it magnetized;
“ Agnes,” he now said, “ I wish you would bring me that volume of
Cowper’s Poems that lies on the piano.” .
Agnes arose without hesitation and walked to the piano. She first
picked up the wrong book, but laying that down, she took hold of the
magnetized volume, and made several ineffectual attempts to lift it from
the place where it lay.
“ It is too heavy; I can’t lift it,” she said.
“ Try hard. I want the book.”
But every effort proved vain. The book lay as.immoveable under her
hand as if it had been glued to the spot.
“ I will now,” said Florien, « magnetize the carpet beneath these
folding doors, so that she cannot pass from one room to another.”
This was done, and then Agnes was called by the magnetizer to go
into the front parlor. She attempted to do so, but her steps were
arrested at the folding doors. She could not pass the magic line that
had been drawn by Florien.
w Let her be awakened,” was now the general voice ; for all felt that
Agnes had been long enough in this unnatural state ; and some began
to fear that it might not be a very easy thing to restore her to the full
possession of all her powers.
Florien took her back to the chair where she had been first seated, and *
with a few upward passes of his hands, restored her to consciousness.
Hundreds of questions were asked her by her astonished friends, to all of
whom she gave the simple answer that she knew nothing of the state in
which she had been, and, to herself, appeared just to have awakened
from a pleasant dream.
« I could much more easily believe that I had been in a dream, than
believe all this to be true,” said the young man, whose incredulous
remark had prompted Florien to offer to magnetize some one present.
In a little while after this had been said, Florien came up to him and
asked him if he would permit him to place a quarter of a dollar on his
head. The young man was standing near the centre of the room.
« You may do so if you like,” replied the young man, indifferently.
Florien placed the small piece of money he had named upon the young
man’s head, and then looked him steadily in the face. All eyes were turned
towards the centre of the room. The deepest silence prevailed. Suddenly
the young man’s arms started out from his body and became fixed at an
angle of some thirty degrees; his face* was slightly distorted ; he was as
if riveted to the floor! He tried to cry out, hut his tongue was para*
30 AGNES; OR, THE POSSESSED: ^
Digitized by Google
A REVELATION OF MESMERISM. f
t
l
lyzed! Flonen now removed the coin from hie.head, and the young
man, free from the spell he had placed upon him, Sprang eagerly from
the spot in which he had been standing. The magnetizeddooked at him
and smiled. ■/ «*• * 1
« Would you like me to fasten one’
of your feet so firmly to the floor,
that you cannot remove it except I permit you to do so ?” he said.
«N o,” replied the young man, a good deal excited, «1 have had
enough of your confounded tricks. vI believe you are a wizard.”
“ I a m a magnetizer,” coolly returned Florien.
A laugh went through the rooms at the young man?
s expense, in which
he could not himself help joining.
. «You are certainly not afraid of his fastening your foot to the floor,
Harry,” remarked one of the company.
« If he could fasten down my whole body, as you have just seen has
been done, do you think it would be a very bard matter for him to fasten
my foot to the floor. Humph! You had better let him try you!”
« He may do that in welcome,” was replied to this. « I ’ll give him
my foot if he fastens it to the floor.”
; This challenge Florien did not seem milch inclined to accept. The
young man who made it was much more stoutly built than the magnetizer,
of a bilious sanguine temperament, and in full bealtbt
- « Try him,” said several voices, in the room.:
«1 don’t think it would be of much use,” replied Florien, surveying
the vigorous proportions of this volunteer subject. « He has too much
animal spirit for me.”
i' «Come, then, Harry,” said two or three; «you will have to give
Mons. Florien another chance. We must see him fasten Somebody’s
foot to the floor.”
Urged to do so on all hands, the young man rallied his courage, and,
consented to have the proposed experiment tried on his foot. He took
his stand again in the middle of the floor, and Mons. Florien commenced
magnetizing his leg from the knee downwards, by making the usual
passes. This was continued for several minutes, the Frenchman seeking
to accomplish the object at which he aimed, with his usual earnestness
of purpose. At length he raised himself up, and asked the young,man
tb lift his foot from the floor. The attempt to do this proved unavailing;
the owner of the foot had no power over it! The muscles refused to
obey the behests of his will!
« Are you sure you can’t move from where you are standing ?” asked
one and another.
«Yes. Just as sure as that I am standing here,” replied the young man.
*« My leg is completely paralyzed. Come, Mons. Florien, take your spell
off of me. I am perfectly satisfied, and so are, I presume, the company.”
A few upward passes threw oiT die influence, and the young man
stepped from the spot where he had bean standing.
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
' AONBBi OR, THE POSSESSED ^
-Satisfied of the magnetizer’s power by the proof he had given, no far­
ther exhibition of it was asked, the company gathering in little circle»
for conversatk>ay the subject, in most instances, being the strange things
that had just been witnessed. Ralph Percival now took occasion to
search out Mr. Carter, whom he *had noticed as observing with great
attention all that was passing, without taking any; part in it, or encoiuv
aging by look or word a resort to the experiments which had been tried.
“ What do you think of all thife, Mr. Carter ?” he said, on finding*
him.
. ««I don’t like it, my young friend/’ was the decided reply.
« Nor can I say that I do. But isn’t it all very wonderful ?” *
« Wonderful enough j and so were the works of the Witch of Endor,
and the doings of the old soothsayers, magicians and sorcerers, about
whom we read in the Bible.”
“ Do you think they understood any thing about Animal Magnetism?”
asked Ralph.
“ That is more than I can tell. But I think this man Florien, mast
be acquainted with some of theirarts.” ' i
“ I don’t like the power be seems to have orer Agnes. See ! He is
in earnest conversation with her at this moment.”
“ Nor do I, Ralph. It can do her no possible good. You have*
influence with her. Can- you not awaken her fears as to the conse­
quences that may follow, if die permit herself to be frequently mag­
netized ?”
« I have already made a slight effort to do so ; but without accom«
plishing any good. At first she could not bear this Florien to approach
' her. But her repugnance to him is gone. The thought of bring mes­
merized, when the subject was first mentioned to her, caused her inward
pain; but she how rather desires to come under this strange influence
than to avoid it.”
« Bad ( bad!” said Mr. Carter, shaking his head. «• If you love her,
Ralph, exert all the power you-possess to keep her from going any farther
on that road to ruin.” :
“ What do you mean ?” asked Ralph, with a look of alarm. '
“ I mean this, my young friend. You understand, I suppose, that o ur
life here is given that we may become prepared for a higher, better, and*
purer fife, when we die !”
“ This I fully believe.”
“ And I suppose you are also aware, that we only progress in our
state of preparation for this purer life, while our minds or spirits are in a
perfect state of freedom to do evil or good, and we choose the good
because it is good, and reject the evil because it is evil.”
“ That I suppose is also true,” returned Ralph.
“ It is, most undoubtedly—for only so far as we resist and put away.
evil, because it is sin, and choose good because it is good, do we mako
Digitized by ogle
A REVELATION QF ME3MÇQISM.
any advancement in spiritual life/’ paid Mr. Carter. («And it is also
true, that we never stand still. We must ajways be either advancing ,
.orretrograding. Now, I am deeply impressed with this idea, the.result
of much thought, that no mesmeric subject, while he $r she remain such,
can advance a single step in spiritual fife.”
“ What has led you to this conclusion, Mr. Carter ?”
“ Is not the liberty of such a person interfered with ? Is not the even v
balance of his mind disturbed ? It must be so. The Lord gives man a
rational mind, and a free will, and never interferes with them-—
if he did,
man would be no longer a free agent, hut a machine acted on by a
superior force. Now think closely. Is not the mind of a mesmeric
subject controlled by the xnagnetizer? Is it not, for a time, deprived of
its own organ of sense, by which it acts in the natural plain of its exist*
ence, and forced to see, and bear, and feel, by means of another’s senses?
In such a state is any one free to choose evil or good ? to do right or
wrong? No. For a time he is deprived o£his self-hood. Is no longer
a man, but a machine by which some other mind acts. Ralph!—the
very thought makes me shudder. I would not take the first step in this
downward road for millions of worlds!”
“ By what strange power do these men work?” said Ralph. “ It can­
not be by a Divine power.”
“ They work by the power of evil spirits. No power in heaven would
lend itself to such disturbing action upon the human mind.”
“ Do you then believe that Mons. Florien holds communication with
spirits?”
“ No ; but I believe that he acts by means of spirits, without under­
standing the character of his co-workers, or even suspe<^ing their agency.”
“ And these you believe to be evil spirits?”
« Do you believe an angel would engage in the work of bringing one
mind so into such subjection to another mind, as fp^a time to make tbajt
mind act only from the other’s volitions ? No—I am sure you cannot
think this.’*
“ I certainly cannot. If there be any spirits at work in the matter, they
jare not good spirits.”
.« And must of course be evil, and from hell,” said Mr. Garter, warmly.
<
<I will not attempt an argument against that conclusion. It seems
too clearly deduced.”
<
«My young friend,” said Mj\ Carter, after a few moments of silence,
n«(as you value the well being of that young lady, do all in your power
- to break off the unnatural connexion that has been established between
her and this unknown adventurer. You cannot tell how entire may be
the control which he will establish over her, and not knowing his charac­
ter, you cannot tell how great an injury he may do her, apart from the
.♦ifcct produced upon her mind by magnetism itself.”
A shudder ran through the frame of Ralph, and he turned his eyes,
Digitized by Google
34 AGNES; ÖR, fHË POSSESSED*
with a feeling of concern, towards Agnes. Florien was near her, and
they were engaged in earnest conversation.
“ There was a time,” he remarked to his companion, “ when the pre­
sence of this man was exceedingly repulsive.” *
“ But it is far from being so now.”
<
*Very far. Even the mention of his name Will, at any time,'awaken
her flagging mind into interest.”
“ All very bad.”
“ I feel that it is ; and cost what it will, ihy utmost efforts shal' be
made in order to break the influence he has over her.”
Ralph and Mr. Carter remained in earnest conversation during the rest
of the evening. When they parted, the young man felt a repugnance
to Animal Magnetism almost amounting to horror. His mind was fully
made up to use all the means in his power to prevent-Mons. Florien from
ever again crossing the path of his betrothed.
i
CHAPTER V.
W hen Ralph next met Agnes Wellmore, he found that she took more
interest in the developments of Animal Magnetism than in anything else.
Florien had calle# upon her since the party, and had loaned her two or
three publications on the subject, which she was reading with great avidity.
“ Mons. Florien tells me,” she said, “ that if I will submit myself to be
mesmerized frequently, he has not the least doubt but that my health
will be fully restored.”
“ I don’t believe a word of it,” returned Ralph, speaking with the
warmth he felt.
<
<I am sure,” returned Agnes, “ that I am better since I was mag>-
netized than I have been for a long time. The doctor was here to-day,
and says that my pulse has not been as indicative qf health for months
as it now is.”
“ There may be other causes for this besides magnetism,” replied the^
incredulous lover.
“ What other causes can there be ?” asked Agnes.
«The removal of that aching tooth* from the pain of which you have
sometimes been almost beside yourself, has had much more to do with
your improved health than mesmerism,” was the young man’s reply.
“ Even admitting that,” said Agnes, “ I am indebted to mesmerism
for its removal.”
Digitized by Google
A revelation of mesmerism.
« Although it might have been removed without the aid of this very
questionable agency.”
<
<It would not have been, that I can assure you,” said the lady, iu a
half offended tone.
v “ I don’t know that,” remarked Ralph, appearing not to notice the
slight disturbance of feeling exhibited by Agnes. <
<I am not willing to
believe you so entirely wanting in fortitude. Pain is hard to bear, but
when, from its endurance, some great good is to be obtained, we ought
to have sufficient resolution to submit. Doing so, I am satisfied will
always give strength to the mind as well as health to the body.”
' To this, however, Agnes would not listen. Nothing, she said, could
induce her to have another tooth drawn, unless she was reduced to a
State of insensibility, by means of Animal Magnetism
« If I had a leg to be cut off,” Ralph responded with considerable
Warmth, “ «o mesmerizer should lay his hands upon me. I would keep
my senses and bear the pain like a man.”
“ That would do you no good,” said Agnes.
<
<At least it would do me no harm,” replied her lover.
« Of that I am not sure, remarked Agnes. “ Excessive pain must
disturb the Whole nervous system, and undermine, in some degree, the
health.”
<
<Far sooner would I suffer'the loss of bodily health, than run the risk
of acquiring some form of spiritual disease that might make me forever
unhappy.”
“ I don’t think there can be much danger of that,” said Agnes, more
thoughtfully. “ Why do you think so ?”
Ralph then endeavored to convey to the mind of Agnes as clear an
idea as possible of the conversation that had passed between.him and
Mr. Carter, avoiding, of course, all the references that were particularly
made to herself. But it produced little impression upon her, and led
her to express surprise that her lover should attach so much importance
to the words of « an old dreamer, like Carter.”
Agnes Wellmore was a girl possessing many strong points of character,
not the least of which, and forming the basis of all the rest, was a reso- ,
lute and decided will. She had received a good education, and had
greatly improved her mind by reading and reflection. Her temperament
was ardent, and her imagination vivid. At the age of thirteen she had
lost both her father and mother, and since that time had lived with pn
uncle and aunt, who were strongly attached to her. Mr. Harriden, the
^uncle, was considerably advanced in years, having Very nearly reached
the age of three score and ten. His love for Agnes partook more of the
’'fondness of old age than the intelligent care and vigilance of thoughtful
manhood. He believed her as near perfection as a young woman could
be, and saw nothing wrong in what she approved or did. Her aunt
loved her with the same blind affection. Instead of endeavoring to
Digitizi Go gle
inspire ber with fortitude to bear the pain of a necessary operation, while
she was suffering from toothache and nervous excitement, they sbrunfr
with quite as much of dread from the idea, a? sbe did herself. They
gave her no strength, but rather encouraged her weakness. When *
resort to mesmerism was named as a means of taking away al( sensibility
(o pain, they had nothing to say on the subjeçt—all was left to hei
decision. The result struck them as wonderful,—
-they could never get
done talking about it as one of the grandest discoveries and greatest
blessings the world bad ever seen.
Thus encouraged in her predilections for magnetism» at home, the
mind of Agnes was but little moved by the opposition, and» to her, singu­
lar fears expressed by her lover. The books loaned her by Mops. Florieq
contained much to excite her imagination and blind her judgment* The
details therein given of the curative effects of magnetism» attracted her
more than any thing else ; and this was by no means surprising, for she
had been, for a long time,ta sufferer from ill-health, and naturally enough
felt an interest in any thing that promised a relief from pain. Among
other affections from which she suffered, was a nervous headache, the
attacks of which were becoming more frequent. This headache generally
lasted from one to three days. Pujring its continuance» the pain oftgp
became so intense as almost to deprive her of reason. The appearance
presented by the sufferer at such times was truly distressing. Her face
was pale, sometimes almost livid, the muscles distorted and rigid, and her
eyes drawn upwards in their sockets, giving her the appearance of p
person suffering in convulsions. These attacks generally left her in a low,
nervous state, her spirits depressed, apd her mind temporarily enfeebled.
This malady she described to Florien, and he assured her that she
would find great benefit, apd9
>perhaps, permanent relief from mesmerism«
He had known many cases» very much resembling hers, that had yielded
to this curative agency after $11 other means had; failed. . At.length, after
a good many conversations op the subject with her uncle and aunt, Agnes
made up her mind that she would let Florien magnetize her once a week
during the time he remained in the village, and sea if she would derive
any benefit from it. Ralph opposed the resolution strongly» but without
effect, Florien was sent for. The magnetizer promptly agreed to operate
upon her as often as she desired it, promising to remain a few weeks
longer in the village than he had .at first intended doing, for thé purpose
pf observing the effects of his art on qne who showed in such a remarkable
degree, a susceptibility to magnetic impressions. '
As privately as possible were the experiments upon Agnes conducted,
she submitting herself to them with, an air of satisfaction that was pain­
fully apparent to Ralph, who always made a point to be one pf the'
Witnesses of what was done and said. The first time Florien mesmerized
her, which was previously to her tooth being drawn, it took twenty
minutes to produce insensibility* The second time, which was at thé
3$ A9NB8; Q
A
» THE P08UE98HD*
Digitized by G o o g l e
A REVELATION OF MESMERISM. 37
party, seven or eight minutes were all that were required to shut up all the
ayenues of communication with the external world. On the third occasion,
which was at the beginning of the experiments now alluded to, she was
sound asleep in just four minutes.
It is not our purpose to detail,minutely all the phenomena that were
exhibited by Mons. Florien during the few weeks that his experiments on
Agnes were conducted. It is sufficient to say, that all the most remark­
able results of mesmerism were obtained. Florien declared her to possess
higher powers of Clairvoyance than he had ever witnessed, or read of
except in one or two instances. His own subject was nothing in com­
parison with her. And to such an extent did he acquire an influence
over her, she having finally consented—despite all the arguments, opposi­
tion, and solemn protests of Ralph Percival—to submit to the magnetic
operations once a day, instead of once a week, that she became at last
so susceptible, that Florien could put her to sleep by merely looking
at her.
It cannot be denied, that the health of Agnes visibly improved during
the existence of these experiments, which extended through a period of
nearly six weeks, and were continued some time after Florien had ceased
giving lectures or public exhibitions in the village. Once in this time
she had an attack of headache. A couple of hours after its commence^
ment, and when all the symptoms were becoming aggravated, she requested
to have the magnetizer sent for. Florien came, and with half a dozen
passes and a single determined effort of iris will, threw her into the
magnetic state. In this condition she was kept for half an hour, and then
brought back to consciousness. On awakening, she was entirely free
from pain; and what was more remarkable, the attack of sick headache
was entirely thrown off*, and did not return. *
« It is no use for you to talk toine now, Ralph,” she said, after this.
« As well might you try to convince me that food would do me harm
instead of good, as to make me believe that animal magnetism is evil.
Does a bitter fountain send forth sweet waters ? Can evil produce good}
I will not believe it!”
With no clearly defined idea as to what animal magnetism really was,
and startled and bewildered by its strange and, to him, contradictory'
results, Ralph could do little more than set up a blind opposition to the
enthusiasm which Agnes displayed in the cause of the new science. In
what Mr. Carter had said to him, there appeared some truth, but it was
only a faint glimmer. The alarm his words had excited in his mind was
altogether vague, and, therefore, so much the more oppressive, for it left
him in a painful state of unconsciousness as to the real danger that threaten­
ed the one he loved next to his own life, and ignorant of the precise point
at which he should stand guard in order to repel the advances of evil.
What troubled him most, was the too evident desire felt,by Agnes to be
mesmerized ; a desire that she could not, or cared not to conceal.. Ha
a
3
Digitized by Google
38 AGNES; OK THE POSSESSED;
remembered the repugnance she at first exhibited, and how this gradually
wore off, giving place to indifference, which was now superseded by an
actual desire to come into an abnormal state. Such a state he clearly
saw to be a disorderly one, and being disorderly, he very naturally
inferred that it was governed by evil influences, forgone other could
reign over disorder. Evil influences, he further saw, always lead to
over-action and excess, and tend to destruction. But, to all such modes
of reasoning, the avenues leading to the mind of Agnes were, for the time
being, closed. She could see nothing in the light of her lover’s more
evenly balanced mind.
The more elosely Ralph looked at Mons. Florien, the less he liked
him. This may be accounted for, partly, on the score of his repugnance
to his art, and especially to his influence over the mind of Agnes. But
there was a deeper ground for it than this; although the exact nature of
that ground was unknown even to Ralph himself.
For a week after, by consent of all parties, the experiments upon
Agnes had ceaspd, Florien still remained at M------, and called to see
Miss Wellmore, and talk of animal magnetism daily. His whole mind
wa9 full of the subject; he could talk of nothing else, and think of nothing
eke; and was evidently loath to part from one who possessed, in so
remarkable a degree, the faculties of a sleep-waker.
« If I could only remain here,” he said to her, as they sat together the
day previous to the one he had fixed for his departure, <
<in order to
investigate the higher phenomena of this wonderful art by means of your
remarkable powers, it would give me the greatest pleasure of my life. I
may never again meet with one so gifted as you are. To this science
my whole existence is wedded. The most astounding results will yet be
attained by its means—nothing less, I am satisfied, than a full penetration
into the' invisible world, and a revelation of the causes of all things which
there lie concealed from our eyes. Could any one fix in his mind a
higher object than this? Could your life, my dear young lady, subserve
a higher destiny ? You, if you will, may, I am well assured in my.own
mind, pass up through the thick clouds that darken our grosser vision,
and bring back from the invisible world the intelligence that will gladden
‘and thrill the hearts of all. Long enough has mankind groped on in
their uncertain w ay; the time has come for light to break in upon the
world. Already has the morning star arisen as a gladdening precursor
to the coming dawn, and now a faint aurora may be seen lifting up like
a curtain the darkness which has long hung like a pall over the eastern
horizon. It is in your power, I verily believe, to hasten the coming of
this approaching day. It must come by means of some one. Who
knows but that you may be indeed the heaven-sent 8gent?”
Florien had never before spoken out so plainly to Agnes of what he
thought and felt. His words, as well as his manner, awoke in her mind
an enthusiasm corresponding with his own.
Digitized by G o o g l e
“ To the attainment of such vast results,” she replied, “ I would
willingly devote my whole life. But my duty to others precludes, for the
present, the possibility of my entering upon the high mission you suggest
as the one for which I may be destined.” 1
Florien’s eyes fell to the floor. He sat in a thoughtful attitude for a
long time.
« Do you ever visit Boston ?” he at length asked.
“ Sometimes.”
« Will you be there during the fall ?”
“ I cannot tell. Why do you ask, Mons. Florien ?”
“ Because I expectto spend a part of the fell and winter there. Your
nervous headaches will, I fear, return in a few months. You have not
been long enough subject to magnetic influences to fully remove the
cause of this disease. If it does return, it will probably be with increased
violence. You will need a repetition of the remedy.”
“ I understand,” said Agnes. “ I shall certainly endeavor to make a
visit to Boston during the fall.”
The countenance of Florien brightened.
“ Two ends will be thereby gained,” he said. « Your health will be
improved, and we shall have an opportunity of renewing those interest­
ing experiments which the necessity of my going away has caused to be
broken off. Have you relatives in Boston ?”
“ N o; but I have friends there whom I visit at least once a year.”
*
<We must correspond,” said the Frenchman, after a pause, speaking
as from a sudden conclusion of his mind. “ Have you any objection ?”
“ None. We are both deeply interested in this great subject. Any
light that breaks in upon your mind, I should esteem a favor to have
.«fleeted upon mine.”
<
«Very well. We will correspond.”
With this understanding Mons. Florien parted from Agnes, and the
next morning, much to the satisfaction of Ralph Percival, left the village
of M— -----. The young man knew nothing of what had passed be­
tween the mesmerizer and his betrothed at their last meeting. This she
thought proper to conceal from him.
A REVELATION OF MESMERISM. 30
Digitized by Google
40 AGNES; OR, THE POSSESSED:
CHAPTER VI.
Fob some time after the departure of Mods. Florien from the village
of M--------- , his remarkable experiments formed the theme of general
conversation. Some even doubted the evidence of their own senses,
and went so far as to insinuate that there must have been trick and
imposture. Ralph, from the relation be bore to Agnes, often found
himself placed in a very unpleasant and awkward position; for it not
unfrequently occurred, that some of the incredulous ones, forgetting
bis presence, would intimate, pretty broadly, that collusion had existed
between Agnes and the Frenchman. In more than one instance, his
prompt notice of such remarks reminded those who had made them of
their indiscretion.
Deeply and truly attached to Miss Wellmore, and believing that their
marriage had been already long enough delayed, be now urged Agnes
to appoint an early day in the coming fall for the solemnization of their
nuptial rites. This the maiden, strangely enough, it appeared to him,
did not seem inclined to .do; but rather showed a disposition to post­
pone the wedding until spring. It was in vain that he urged an earlier
union * Agnes was firm. Finally, April was appointed as the month in
which they should be united in the bonds of matrimony.
As Florien had predicted, a very long time did not elapse, before the
nervous headache, from which Agnes had been temporarily relieved,
came back upon her, with accumulated violence. In vain did she urge
upon Ralph, who had shown on a former occasion, that he possessed
magnetic, power over her if he would use it, to attempt relief by mesmer­
izing her. The young man steadily refused to meddle with an art of which
he understood but little, and that little of a nature to make him believe
its origin to be in things evil and disorderly. In the agony she suffered,
Agnes sometimes charged her lover with want of true affection for her.
“ You have the power to relieve me from pain, but you will not,” she
would say. « You don’t love me.”
« No, Agnes,” he would reply upon such occasions. «.It is not that;
I love you too well to do you wrong. You have tried this unknown
power, but it has not cured you. The relief has only been temporary,
and now the disease has returned with added violence.”
« It cannot do me harm,” the sufferer said. «Has it thus far done
me any harm ? Can you point to the injury ?”
« If I were to do so, you are not in the state to see it now.”
« Cruel! cruel!” ejaculated the girl, in an agony of both body and
mind, turning her face away, and burying it beneath the bed clothes.
Digitized by G o o g l e
41
Her aunt and uncle now urged Ralph to try by means of mesmerism,
to give Agnes reKef. But he refused, while his bosom heaved with grief
and anguish at witnessing the intense pain under which the one he most
dearly loved upon earth was suffering.
“ Was I not right in this?” he asked of Mr. Carter, to whose house
he went about an hour afterwards.
“ At first thought I should say you were, my young friend,” replied
Mr. Carter. “ And yet, my mind is not clear on the subject.”
“ Evidently, this power is grounded in something disorderly and
evil,” said Ralph.
“ And is therefore a perversion of something good,” returned Mr
Carter. “ It is doubtless true, that surrounding oUr spirits in an atmos­
phere in which they breathe and move, a9 perfectly suited to their
powers and operations as is the atmosphere to the material body by which
it is surrounded, and that this atmosphere is a medium of communica­
tion between spirits, transmitting their thoughts and affections from one
to the other as perfectly as our air transmits sound or light. By means
of this atmosphere a mesmerizer may, after he has brought his subject so
entirely under his control, as to shut up his external consciousness,
communicate with him directly, or by the aid of spirits, by which we
are all surrounded, and which correspond to the state of our affections.”
“ But the fact of the existence of this means of spiritual communication
does not pre-suppose the right of one spirit to bring another under the
control of his will.”
“ Not at all. That I look upon as a perversion of true order. The
time has no doubt come, when, in the Divine Providence, the laws
which govern in the spiritual world in which we are as to our spirits, are
about to be more fully made known to us, in order that, from this
knowledge, we may be better able to rise above the evils that we have
inherited. Evil and only evil, and lusting for dominion over his fellows
man, as soon as he is let into a knowledge of these laws, or rather of one
of the effects that flow from them, immediately begins to use them for
selfish purposes by bringing the minds of others into abject submission to
his will. This I am satisfied is wrong, both in the one who uses the
potoer, and in the one who submits to it.”
“ Even for curative purposes?” said Ralph.
“ On that point, my mind is not now quite so clear as it was,” replied
Mr. Carter, “ Disease is, in itself, a state of disorder, flowing primarily
from spiritual causes. We find that a large portion of the medicines
which we use for the cure, or rather counteraction of diseased conditions
of the body, are poisonous substances, that, if taken into the human
system in large quantities, would occasion death* All poisonous sub­
stances have an evil origin, and yet, they are made to subserve an im­
portant use in curing diseases. The science of medicine seems to be
based upon the law of counteraction of one. evil by the use of another.
A REVELATION OF MESMERISM.
Digitized by Google
49 AGNES; OR, THE POSSESSED*
Not omy lure mercury, arsenic, prussic acid, and rarious other ,*
deadly
substances, made use of by the physician, but he strikes a lancet into
the reins, scarifies the body, applies blisters, cups and leeches, and other
means that, if continued beyond a certain point, would inevitably occa­
sion death. All these things are evil, but they are used as means of
expelling a greater evil. How far spiritual means, that are disorderly in
themselves, may likewise be lawfully used in the cure of diseases, is a
question that I am not able to determine clearly. All my first impressions
are against their use, and I never lightly disregard my first impressions. ”
« Is it not possible,” asked Ralph, « that there may be a power some­
what lower than the spiritual power, so to apeak, that Animal Magnetism
jqpp, by which a relief from pain may be procured ? In fact, is the relief
that evidently does follow an effort on the part of a magnetizer to bring
another under his control, the result entirely of mind acting upon mind ?
May there not be a magnetic fluid pervading the whole body, which ts
nothing more or less than the first principle or receptacle of life; and
may not an undue disturbance of this always result in disease or pain ?
And further, may not one in sound health, or with a superabundance of
this fluid, or animal spirits, be able to restore to a state of equilibrium,
by some mysterious power not yet understood, the disturbed fluid in
one who is suffering from certain forms of disease? And further, may
not all this be done without any disorderly influence being exerted over
the mind of the person who is sick ?”
« You suggest a very important inquiry, certainly,” said Mr. Carter.
« Without doubt, there is some such a fltiid as you suppose.”
« If I could believe that such were the case, and that by making
passes similar to those used by roagnetizers, I would merely restore this
fluid to a state of equilibrium, or add to its diminished quantity in Miss
Welimore, I would fly to her bedside and seek to give her relief.”
After casting his eyes to the floor, and remaining in deep thought for
some time, Mr. Carter said—
«Do you think you could make use of the ordinary forms employed
in mesmerism, and yet keep your mind free from a desire to subject the
mind of Miss Welimore to the control of your will ?”
« Oh, yes. For I would not, under any consideration, voluntarily
bring about such a result.” .
.« The end we have in view will often protect us from evil, provided
we dp not use, knowingly, disorderly means for the attainment of the
end we propose tp ourselves. If there be a, certain magnetic action of
the purer essences and higher principles of one body upon another, and
this action will enable one body to exert a healthy influence upon another
«body that is diseased, such action I should call orderly and legitimate.
Keep steadily in your mind the end of relieving Miss Welimore from
pain, at the same time that you carefully avoid all intention of subjecting
her mind to the control of yours, and I think you need not fear to attempt
Digitized by v ^ o o g L e
A REVELATION OF MESMERISM. 43
giving bar relief, in the mode now under consideration. .What is your
own opinion ?”
«
«There seems to be force in what you say,” returned the young man,
thoughtfully, “ if I can, by simple manipulations, take away the intol­
erable pain she is suiTering, I am sure that.I ought to do it. No harm
could possibly result from the use of such means.”
“ I think not. Among the German settlersiu Pennsylvania, «Pow­
wowing,9 as it is called, has long been used as a means of allaying pain.
It is done by moving the hand over dm injured or painful part, something
after the mode used by magnetizers, accompanied by the utterance of
some mysterious form of words. The pain of bruised or broken limbs,
rheumatism, burns, &c., are said to be mitigated or entirely relieved by
the ‘ Pow-wowers.’ They do not pretend to any power over the mind, •
nor do they exercise any. They simply aim at the cure of certain dis­
eases, or to give relief in pain; and Asm credibly informed that they are
often very successful.”
, «
*I will try it,” said Ralph, after dunking for a.few moments, tunring
away as he spoke, and leaving the house of Mr. Carter. He proceeded
direct to the dwelling of Mr. Hamden. Agnes was still suffering most
terribly.
« Are you no better?” he asked tenderly.
^.gnes looked at him reproachfully, and merely murmured—««No.”
“ 1 am willing to make an effort to relieve you,” he said.
*
« By magnetism ?” she asked quickly.
“ Yes, if you wish it.”
“ Any thing for relief,” said the almost distracted girl, rising up in
the bed, and clasping her hands across her forehead. ««I shall go wild
if it does not come soon.”
Ralph proceeded at once to make use of the means he had proposed
to himself. He took the bends of Agnes in his, and held them for some­
time. Then he commenced making the usual passes, keeping his mind
all the time fixed up^n the disease under which she was suffering, and
in the wish and effort to subdue it. This was continued for at least
twenty minutes, when Agnes, who did not become insensible, but only
appeared to sink into a drowsy condition, replying to the oft repeated
question of Ralph, said that she felt no pain. She was then gently laid
hack upon her pillow, and was sound asleep in a moment after. Not
magnetically asleep, but reposing sweetly in natural slumber.
1c was many hours before Agnes awoke; when she did awake, she
was free from pain. Ralph hardly knew what to think of all this. He
had stepped his foot upon unknown ground, and was at a loss whether
he should proceed, remain where he was, or retire, so far as all future
action was concerned, from a position that no observation he could make
would determine the true latitude and longitude.
At intervals of three of four weeks, a return of the headache usually
*
Dig ■ 5
d by Google
44 AGNES; OE, THE POSSESSED:
took place; and then Ralph had to apply the means of relief he had at
first used, which generally proved efficacious. He always did this with
a feeling of reluctance that was generally very hard to overcome.
Anxious and minute observation of the effect produced upon Agnes
by no means favored a continuance of these experiments. At last Ralph
said to her one day, after he had mermerized her—for it was nothing
less’than that in the end—and she had come out of the state of insensi­
bility,
*
*Depend upon it, Agnes, all this is worse than the disease.’9
“ Why so ?” she inquired, evidently disturbed by the remark.
“ Because it is affecting you more vitally than disease even can do.
It is disturbing your free volition.”
But Agnes replied that this was mere fancy.
« I know it is not so,” she said. “ Your old idle fears have come
back to haunt you. That it is all g4od, I ask no other evidence than the
freedom it gives me from pain.”
Argument Ralph found entirely useless, and he gave up, after a tíme,
all attempts at changing her views. But he never again could be per­
vaded upon fo use what he believed to be a deadly power, even at
'the earnest solicitation of one more dearly loved than any thing on earth.
. I
Digitized by G o o g l e
A REVELATION OF MESMERISM. 45
CHAPTER VII.
1 '
About September, Agnes first spoke of her intention to visit Boston,
fixing upon the middle of November as the time at which she would go.
*
<How long do you think of remaining ?” asked Ralph, when this
declaration was first made to him.
“ Until after the first of January,1* she replied. • '
“ So long?” he merely said.
“ Will it appear very long to you ?” she asked, looking earnestly into
the young man*s face, and speaking, he thought, in a saddened tone.
“ Yes,** he said. ««The days will be weeks and the weeks months-
to me. The time will pass wearily enough. But I hope you will enjoy
yourself.*’
Whether the young man meant his last sentence as a rebuke, we know
hot. It was felt as such by Agnes.
« You don’t wish me to go ?” she said.
“ I will not say that.”
“ I am sure you do not. I almost wish that I had not promised to
make this visit.”
« Why do you say so ?”
“ Because it is plain that my absence will make you unhappy,” said
Agnes.
“ I hope I am not so selfish as to wish to deprive you of any pleasure,’•
replied the young man, endeavoring to speak iai*a cheerful voice. “ It
will make me happy to know that you are so,”>
c
“ Then you must let the days be days, ancMhe weeks weeks, Ralph,”
said the young lady, speaking in a tone of earnest cheerfulness. “ We
can see each other’s thoughts daily, on paper, and memory will bear
vividly enough the image of our faces. We shall not really be separated,
for a thought will make us present one with the other. It is the last,
season, probably, that I shall have to spend with my young friends- in
the city.”
“ Say no more, dear Agnes!” replied the young man. <
«I would, on
no account, have you to forego this visit. Our meeting will be sweet,
after die absence, and fully compensate for all.”
- As the time fixed by Agnes for her visit drew near, her friends
observed that she became more than usually thoughtful and abstracted.
She went from home less frequently, and while at home, rather preferred
to be by herself than much with her aunt and uncle. Particularly did
Ralph notice this change. Often while he sat conversing with her
Digitized by G o o g l e
46 AGNES; OR, THE POSSESSED:
would she sink into a state of reverie so complete as to cause her to
forget the presence of her lover, and to be altogether unconscious of
what he was saying. When aroused from this state, she would look
confused, and seemed to be troubled. Sometimes she would make no
remark on the circumstance, whatever, and sometimes merely say—
« I don’t know what is coming over me.” Or—« You must think
me very stupid.” Or—« Pardon m e; my mind strangely wanders to­
night.”
Is these brief allusions to her states of abstraction, Ralph could see
nothing that gave him a clue to the real cause« Doubts and questions
*’ on a subject like this fcould only produce unhappiness; and as doubts
t and questions would arise in the mmd of Ralph, the young man was
constantly in a very anxious and disturbed state. f
The nearer the time for Agnes’s departure came, the more absent-
minded did she grow. To the closely observing eyes of Ralph, there
was apparent something more than dull abstraction. Plainly enough
could he see that some anxious struggle was going on in the bosom of
his betrothed.. There were times when he supposed this might refer to
himself, and be caused by a gradual waning of her love. But the
earnest tenderness evinced for him, both in her words, looks and actions,
would dispel this idea almost as soon as farmed. No change in this
state of mind, other than its increase, took place until the time arrived
at which Agnes was to leave fur Boston.. The tenderness of her-parting
with Ralph, dispelled from his mind every lingering doubt, if any yet
remained. He felt that her love as as pure and unswerving as ever.
' But with this satisfaction was mingled most anxious feelings in regard to
the object of his affections. She was changed and unhappy—that was
too plain ; hut as to the precise nature of the change and cause of
her unhappiness, be could only form vague conjectures.
It happened that no oi\e known to Agnes or her friends was going to
Boston, from M— •, juist at the Aime fixed upon for her journey.
Ralph urged her to put off the period of her departure for a week, when
a merchant of his acquaintance was going down and would take charge
of Wr. But she preferred to go alone rather than wait. She said she
had gone several times without company, and felt now quite indifferent
whether she had any or not.
After his final parting with Agnes, Ralph felt an oppressive weight
upon his bosom. In his mind there was a vague fear of something that
grew into an overpowering impression that evil was hovering over and
ready to fall upon the one he loved. More than onoe did he make his mind
up to lake the next stage* and follow her to Boston, and save her. from
the impending danger« But, as his mind grew calmer, he saw the folly
of aoting from such idle and unfounded impressions.
It was understood that Agnes was to write immediately on her arrival
in the city. This letter was expected by Ralph on the. second morning
Digitized by G o o g l e
after her departure. Before the post-office was open that morning* Ralph
Was at the window.
« Is there a letter for me ?” he asked, as the clerk unlocked the door,
and came out to remove the window shutters.
«1 think not, Mr. Percival,” replied the clerk. “ I don txemerob r,
in ’sorting the mail, to have noticed one for you. But I may have over*
looked it.” . '
“ You must have done so. There certainly is a letter for me from
Boston.”
The clerk* removed the shutters, and then went back into the office
to see if there was a letter for Ralph, who was trembling with impatient
hope.
«N o,” said the clerk, « there is nothing for you, Mr. Percival.”
« You certainly must be mistaken,” returned Ralph.
The clerk ran over the letters again. »
« There is nothing, sir.”
« May you not, by accident, bare filed it up under the wrong letter ?”
“ It is barely possible, but not probable,” answered the clerk.
“ As the letter I expected this morning is one of great importance,”
said Ralph, “ may I ask, as a particular favor, that you will take the
trouble to run over all the letters you have ? It will only take you a
few minutes, and will be conferring a great obligation upon me.1
”
« I will do it with pleasure,” returned the elerk, commencing at A, and
going regularly through to Z, while Ralph waited in almost breathless
expectation. The “ nothing” that the clerk uttered as he turned the last
letter that he held in his hand was felt by Ralph like a blow. He stood
irresolute for a short time, and then said«—
« Is there nothing for Mr. Harriden ?”
“ Nothing,” replied the clerk, after making the required examination.
But,” he added, “ I notice a letter bene for Miss Wellmore, the
mepe of Mr. Harriden.”
“ I will take that,” said Ralph.
The letter was handed to him. It bore the Boston post marie, and
the direction was boldly written-^evidently by the hand of a man.
<
«Do these letters often come to Miss Wellmore ?” inquired Ralph, who
was suddenly impressed with a vague suspicion. He asked the question
in a tone of affected indifference.
« Oh, yes,” said the clerk.
« How often ?”
« At least once a week, and sometimes oftener.”
“ Do they always bear the Boston post mark ?”
<
*No. Sometimes they are from New York, and sometimes from other
places.”
« When did this arrive ?”
« Yesterday.”
A KEVJI.ATION OF MESMJIRISM. 47
Digitized by Google
48 AGNES; OR, THE POSSESSED»
•« Have yau any idea from whom they come ?”
« No. I never think about that. But I now remember to have noticed
several times after seeing Miss Wellmore drop in a letter, that there was
one in the box directed in a lady’s hand to that Mons. Florien, who
flourished here some months ago.”
<
<Good morning,” said Ralph, turning abruptly away, bearing with
him the letter directed to Agnes, which he had, not the least doubt came
from the magnetizer. He paused not until he reached his own room,
when he locked the door inside and threw himself panting upon a chair.
The question next to determine, was bis right to open the letter that had
come into his possession. It was directed to Agnes, and, therefore, he
had no abstract right to break the seal, or to come at a knowledge of its
contents. But, taking into consideration the fact that he was under a
marriage contract with her, and (hat this letter might contain facts that it
was essential to his happiness as well as her own that he should know,
he argued strongly the propriety of reading it. The debate lasted for
nearly half an hour, and was finally settled by his lifting the letter
suddenly and breaking the seal. The first thing that struck his eyes as
he opened the folded paper, was the name of Florien. Eagerly did his
mind devour the contents. They were as follows:
*
*My Dear Young Lady :—I am all impatience to see you, and enter
upon those high ^investigations connected with our sublime science, which
have been so often alluded to in our correspondence. I will meet you
on the arrival of the cars, and conduct you to your friends. Are you
sure they will throw no impediments in the way of our experiments ? I
hope not. They understand, you say, that the principle object you have
in view, in spending some time in Boston this fall and winter, is to ob­
tain the aid of magnetism as a means of curing the diseases from which
you are suffering. I hope they approve of this. But I will not invite
doubts. In a very short time you will be here, when we shall enter
upon a series of experiments from which will come.some of the most
brilliant results ever achieved in this new field of investigation. I am all
impatient to begin. You will not fail to come.
««Yours, &c.,
Florien.”
“ Madness!” exclaimed Ralph, springing to his feet, as he finished the
•letter. “ Still in the power of that arch-fiend of hell!”
- The young man rather stamped than paced the room for some minutes,
his whole mind a perfect,whirl of confusion. Then he sat down and read
the letter again, more deliberately, and with a calmer mind. The wild
turbulence of his feelings gradually subsided, leaving the anguish of his
mind more real and hopeless.
“ She is lost!” he murmured, resting his head upon his hand, with a .
Digitized by Google
A REVELATION OF MESMERISM. 49
feeling of hopelessness. “ The spell by which she is bound, I cannot
break. She is wrapped in a web of enchantment. But shall I leave
her in the entire power of that villain ? N o! To-morrow I will go to
Boston, and, if she will not return with me, put her friends upon th^ir
guard. Heaven only knows where this will all end! Well do I now under
stand the cause of her recent strange state of mind, and the pain she
felt in parting with one whom she had bepn so cruelly deceiving.”
CHAPTER VIII.
On the next day Ralph started, as he had proposed, for Boston. The
journey occupied but a few hours, as most of it was by raidroad. But
to him it seemed nearly an age. After leaving his trunk at a hotel, he
went immediately to the residence of thé friend at whose house Agnes
always staid when in the city.
“ Is Miss Wellmore in?” he asked of the domestic, who came to the
door.
“ Miss Wellmore ?” said the domestic. “ No such lady lives here.”
“ I mean the young lady from the country.”
“ Oh, yes ! But she hasn’t come yet. We are expecting her every.
day.”
“ Not come yet !” ejaculated Ralph, turning pale, and leaning against,
one of the door posts. “ She left home day before yesterday.”
“ But she hasn’t come yet,” said the girl, innocently.
“ Is Mr. A------in ?” Ralph now asked.
“ No, but Mrs. A------is at home.”
« I will see her. Tell her that a friend of Miss Wellmore’s has called
and would like to speak to her for a moment.”
Ralph went into the parlor, and in a few minutes Mrs. A------enter d
the room.
“ I have this moment learned that Miss Wellmore is not with you,”
be said, without ceremony.
His anxious looks and agitated manner startled the lady.
« No, she is not here,” she replied. “ We have been expecting her
every day; but she has not yet arrived.”
“ She left M------day before yesterday.”
“ For Boston?”
“ Yes, ma’am. I put her in the stage myself.’
“ Day before yesterday, did you say ?”
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
50 * AGXES; OR, THE FOB*E8SSDl
“ Yes, ma’am.”
“ Where in (he world can she be ?” said Mrs. A— , looking bow
almost as much alarmed a R ph.
“ Heaven only knows!” ret ned the young man, with a half distracted
100k. “ Where can I find M . A------?”
“ At his store,” replied the lady.
“ I will see him at once. Some means must be taken to find her.”
Saying this, Ralph turned abruptly away, and ran, rather than walked,
from the house. He found Mr. A------at his store, and hurriedly re­
lated the object of his visit. After the first expressions of surprise and
pain were over, Ralph asked if Mons. Fiorien were not lecturing in the
city.
“ I have not heard of his being here,” replied Mr. A------. “ Why do
you ask ?”
« Because I am afraid that he has something to do with her strange
absence. He was in M------this Spring, and magnetized Miss Well-
more several times; and I have reason to believe that one cause of her
present visit to your city arose from her desire to be magnetized by him
again.”
% “ She expected to be magnetized by some one, 1 Know,” replied Mr.
A------, “ for so she wrote to my wife. I supposed that her friends were
aware of this. She said, in one of her letters, that she had derived great
benefit from mesmerism, and that she should avail herself of the oppor­
tunity which her visit to Boston would give, to have this curative agent
applied by the hands of a celebrated professor who would spend a part
of the fall and winter in our city.”
« Fiorien, of course.”
, “ It may be so. But I have not heard of his being here.”
Mr. A------then called the clerk, and asked if he had heard any thing.
of Mons. Fiorien being in the.city lately. But the young man replied
that he had not.
“ Strange!” said Ralph, speaking partly aloud and partly to himself.
“ He was here, that I know.”
“ When ?” asked Mr. A------.
“ Read that letter and it will tell you,” replied Ralph, drawing.
Florien’s letter to Agnes from his pocket, and handing it to the merchant.
“ Good heavens! young man, this is a serious affair!” exclaimed Mr.
A------, as he folded up the letter. “ How came this into your hands?”
“ It was received in M------the day after Miss Wellmore left,-and
has been the cause of my visit to Boston. You have no doubt heard
that she is under an engagement of marriage. I am the one with whom
that engagement exists.”
“ Your name then, is Mr. Percival.”
« Yes, sir. That is my name.”
<
<I am happy to make your acquaintance, Mr. Percival,” said the
Digitized by Google
merchant, offering his hand, «'«but I wish it had been tinder circum-
stances of a less embarrassing nature.”
« So do I, from my heart,” responded the young man.
“ There cat» be ¿tile doubt of Miss WelknoiVs having fallen into
the hands of this Florien,” said Mr. A------* after a pause of some
moments. “ He has, in all probability, met her, as he proposed, at (be
cars, and novir has her concealed somewhere in the city, for the purpose
of making upon her the experiments be speaks of in this tetter.”
« Doubtless your suggestion is true. The thought makes me shudder!
We must discover where they are, and rescue her from the power of his
infernal arts.”
What is done must be done quickly,” said Mr. A------. « Let us
go at once to the principal hotels, and see at which of them he is or has
been putting up.”
Acting upon this suggestion, the two visited every hotel in the city,
making at each the most particular inquiries, but without gaining the
slightest intelligence of the individual of ^whora they were in search#
Night came, yet.not.the first clue that would unravel the mystery of the
young girl’s absence could be found. The search was kept up until a
late hour, but with no better result.
On the next day, the matter was communicated to the police,, by whonl
a systematic and thorough search was made for the missing girl, or the
individual who was charged with having abducted her. But this proved
alike ineffectual. All that could be ascertained was, that several letters
had been received at the post-office in the previous two weeks, directed
to Mows. Florien, and delivered to some one who had called for them;
and also, that a young lady, answering to the description of Agnes, bad
come in the cars from M------. This last information was gained from
the conductor of the train ; but he said that he didxnot remember having
noticed her after the arrival of the cars.
This, unsatisfactory as it was, proved to be all the information that
could be gained after a week’s anxious and untiring efforts; and the
search in Boston was abandoned as hopeless. It was plain, the more
the matter was considered, that Florien had contemplated getting pos­
session of the person of Agnes, and in order to make this possession
more secure, had visited Boston under some assumed name, and left it
the moment he secured his prize. What seemed most unaccountable
was, how he could have prevailed upon her to accompany him. This
.jvas suggested by Mr. A------.
“ There is no mystery in that,” said Ralph, in a sad voice. “ By an
effort of his will he can make her his passive slave.”
“ impossible!” said the merchant.
“ I have myself seen him throw her into the magnetic sleep while she
sat at the piano, with her back toward him, and when she could not have
been aware of his intention to do so. It is awful to think of; and makes
A REVELATION OF MESMERISM. 34
Digitized by G o o g l e
my very blood run cold!” The young man shuddered as he uttered the
last sentence.
,“ I dreamed not of this,” said Mrs. A------. « Can it be possible
that such a power can be exercised over one person by another ?”
« It is certainly true in this case. By what agencies he acts, I know
not, unless it be by the power of hell. It maddens me to think of it!”
“ If this be really so,—that is, if Florien is able to put Agnes to sleep
by a mere effort of his will, she is of course a perfect slave in his hands,
and can be used by him for his own ends,” said Mr. A------.
« The thought will drive me mad!” exclaimed Ralph, in an agony,
striking his hand against his forehead.
But all his anxieties and anguish of mind were unavailing. He
remained in Boston for a week, and then returned to M------, in
order to make preparations for a longer absence, and a more extended
search for the absent girl. He found the aunt and uncle of Agnes, td
whom he had communicated his failure to discover her, almost distracted
with grief and alarm. But all this availed not.
An examination of Miss Wellmore’s trunks and drawers, made it very
evident, that she had not contemplated a meeting with Florien for the
purpose of going offwith him. §he had taken none of her little bijouterie,
,
and had left carefully locked in one of her drawers, all the letters she
had received from the magnetizer. These, with other evidences, equally
' conclusive of the fact that she had not contemplated an abandonment of
her home, were found, and satisfied her friends that her absence, be it
from what cause it might, was a compulsory ope.
In a few days after bis return from Boston, Ralph started from the
village of M— , determined to leave no means in his power ^untried,
in order to find the person of Agnes Wellmore.
' ¿2 AGNES; OR, THE POSSESSED
/
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
A REVELATION OF.MESMERISM. 68
CHAPTER IX*
To New York, as the great centre of all that was good and bad, Ralph
Percival first directed his course. There he was strongly inclined to
beliere Florien had retired, and would under some assumed nanfe, seek
to develops the remarkable clairvoyant powers that Agnes had shown
herself to possess., As in Boston, so in New York, the aid of the police
was called in. An officer of great shrewdness and thorough acquaint*
ance with the city, was offered a large sum of .money by Ralph, if he
would successfully aid him in obtaining the object of bis visit. By the '
dQvice of this individual, all bis movements werfe governed. The first
step he took was to call upon a mesmeric lecturer who was then in -the
city named Cheston, and make his acquaintance, carefully concealing
from him, however, the object he bad in view. On his second visit to
this man, at his rooms in Broadway, he found him in conversation with
a person who wore blue glasses, and had his face more than half covered
with hair. This person left almost immediately after he came in. There „
was somethL 3 about the man that caused Ralph to fix his eyes upon
him, and to continue his observation until he withdrew.
Who is that person ?” he asked, as the door dosed after him.
« I think he told me that his name was Armour,” replied Cheston.
« Who or what is he ?”
« That is hard to tell. He has been to my rooms several times, and
appears to be very much interested in mesmerism. He is making, he
says, some very interesting experiments ; and was about relating to me
what they were when you came in.”
« Mesmeric experiments ?”
“ Yes.”
“ Did he say of what character?” •
“ They had reference to clairvoyance”
<
<I should like to witness them,” remarked Ralph, in a half careless
half thoughtful manner.
<
<You seem to be a good deal interested in this subject,” said Mr.
Cbeston.
“ Yes, I take considerable interest in it,” returned Ralph.
« Have you seen many experiments-?”
“ Not a great many. The most curious that came under my observA*
lion were performed by Mons. Florien.”
“ Ah, indeed! I know Florien very well. He is a powerful mag»
netizer.”
<
<Where is he now ?” asked Ralph, endeavoring to appear indifferent;
Digitized by Google
M AGNES; ORTH® POSSESSEDf
but his voice slightly faltered as he spoke The man*looked at his visitor
curiously for a moment, and replied,
“ I do not know. I think he went to Boston not long ago.’
“ When was he last in New York ?” pursued Ralph. *
« He was here and gave lectures four or five weeks ago.”
« So recently ?”
“ Yes. He lectured in this room. His subject was not a very good
one, however, and gave him very little satisfaction. He told me before
he left that be had some prospect of obtaining a much.better one in
Boston, and if he succeeded, he Would astonish the world. Mons. Florien
is a great enthusiast on this subject. He will never .rest satisfied with
ordinary results.”
« Have you learned whether he was successful in obtaining his
subject?”
, “ No. I have heard nothing of him since.” *
“ He is not indie city, then;”
« No. Not unless ,the man you just saw leave this room be he.”
“ Why do you say that Ralph .spoke with a sudden energy, that
made his auditor start. 4
« He had the voice, and all the manners of Florien,” returned Cheston.
“ Then you think this man was Florien in disguise ?” said Ralph, strug­
gling to keep from becoming too apparent the deep excitement he felt.
« I didn’t say so*” replied the man.
« But that is your inference.”
« 1 made no such inference. I only meant to allude to the fact that
this man’s voice, as well as his manners, strongly resembled Florien’s
Nothing more.”
<
<May it not be Florien after all ?” asked Ralph, forgetting; himself and
evincing for more ihterest in the matter than was prudent.
« Why should he come here in disguise ?” asked the magnetizer.
« Perhaps he has got his Boston subject, and wishes to remain quiet
for a time until he goes through with his experiments. You’know this
man professes to be making some interesting experiments.”
<
<Rather an unlikely story that,” said Cheston, laughing. <
<Ob, no !
This is not Florien.”
«Where did Mons. Florien put up while in New York?”
« At the Clinton, I believe!”
« You don’t know where this man stays ?”
« No.”
As soon as he could leave the rooms of Mr. Cheston, without seeming
b go away in too great a hurry, Ralph withdrew, and sought the officer,
under whose direction he had placed himself. After relating what he
had seen and heard, the officer declared it to be his opinion that the man
he had seen was the veritable Florien himself in disguise.
« His complexion was florid, was it not ?” he asked. '
Digitized by G o o g l e
. . . . I . • ■
A REVELATION Of MESMERISM. . ês
«Yes.”
■
f
“ He was stout,—about my size ?”
“ Very near your size.’’ ' , . . ' • , “
“ His glasses were a very dark blue,—
-darker than we usually See
them ?” . ‘ - . < - '
“ Yes.” : >
“ His whiskers ana moustaches were coarse, and gave him a grdss,
sensual look.” * i4
“ You have described him exactly»” >
“ I know the man,” said the officer. “ He has been in New Yorit
about a week.” <
“ Where does be stay ?” asked Ralph.
“ I do not know. But it will be easy to find out. We must put half-
a-dozen sharp fellows on his track immediately. He isn’t about a gteat
cfeal. I have only noticed him on the street twice, and then he seemed
in a great hurry.” - i
« That is the man, without doubt,” said Ralph, trembling with excite­
ment. “ O h! if he should take the ¡Harm and 'escape us« If it is Florien,
he knew m e; and the fact that the man I saw retired as soon as I entered
Cheston’s rooms, satisfies me that he is the very one. we are seeking.”
“ A short time will determine that,” remarked the officer. “ In the
meantime, do you return to your hotel and remain there until you heyj
from me. You may be wanted at any moment in the next twenty-four
hours, and must be on hand.” !
Young Percival and the officdr then separated, the former going to the
hotel where he lodged. Hour after hour passed, until nightfall, without
any word coming from the officer. Ralph was nervous and impatient.
He sat down to the table, when dinner and tea were announced,1but he
could not even force himself to eat. It was ten o’clock before any word
came from the officer. Then he received a message, desiring bis imme­
diate presence at one of the police offices. The young man obeyed the
summons with the utmost alacrity.
. “ Have you found him ?” he eagerly asked, on meeting the officer.
* “ I have found the place where he resides for the present,” was an­
swered.
“ Is he there now ?” . ■
“ That I cannot tell. He was seen entering the house to-day,”
"Where is the house?” ^ 1
“ It is number — Greenwich Street* We will go there at once and
¿ee if he is within.”
• The: two men then proceeded, with rapid steps, towards that part of
the city where the man' for whom tBey Were in search had »been seen to
enter a house. On arriving at the street and number for which they'were
seeking, Ralph went to the door, while the officer remained on the op­
posite side of the street.
Digitized by Google
56 > AGNE8; OR,^HE POSSESSED
«<Is Mr. Armour at home ?” he asked promptly, of the servant who
came to the door.
<
<No, sir,” was the reply, as promptly made.
« How soon will he .be in ?” asked Ralph.
« He has left here, sir,” said the servant.
“ Left!” exclaimed Ralph. « When did he leave ?”
« About two o’clock, 6ir.”
« Are you sure ?” /
“ Oh, yes, sir. I brought down his trunk, and saw him go away in
a'Carriage.”
<
<Did the young lady go with him ?” It was with the utmost difficulty
•that Percival could command his voice sufficiently to ask this question in
a tone not calculated to excite suspicion and put the servant on his guard.
« Yes, sir. She went with him, of course,” replied the servant.
« Did they leave the city ?” pursued Ralph.
“ I believe not, sir. I think they only went to another house.”
“ Do you know the place to which they have gone ?”
“ No, sir. Nothing was said, and I didn’t feel at liberty to ask any
questions. They went away very suddenly.”
« I am very sorry,” said Ralph. “ I wanted to see Mr. Armour very
badly. Don’t you think you could ascertain in some way, where he has
gone ?”
“ I haven’t the least idea, where it is, sir.”
“ Doesn’t any one in the house know ?”
« I believe Doctor T— does; but I don’t think—”
“ Who is Doctor T— •?” eagerly inquired Ralph.
«/He lives here, sir,” replied the man.
« Is he in?”
« Yes, sir.”
« Then I wish to see him.”
« Will you walk in, sir?” and the man gave way for Percival to enter,
who stepped in quickly, and was shown to the parlor. In a few minutes
a man of middle stature and pleasant, rather prepossessing countenance,
wearing an embroidered dressing-gown, and having showy Chinese
slippers on his feet, entered the room.
« Doctor T------, I believe,” said Ralph.
« Yes, sir, that is my name,” replied the doctor.
Ralph felt his presence of mind and assumed calmness leaving, him ;
but he rallied himself with a strong effort.
« Your servant tells me that Mr. Armour has gone atoay,” he said,
with as much apparent ease of manner as it was possible for him to
exhibit. « Can you tell me where I will be likely to find him ?”
« 1 cannot,” the doctor replied, with a bow and a smile. “ He left
my house suddenly while I was out, and told no one where he was
going.”*
Digitized by {j Oo q l e
«D ayou think he has!ldft the city?” '
.« That I cannot tell, sir.” > •
« Then you cam give me no information about him, whatever ?”
« None in the world,” said the doctor.
« Do'you not expect to hear from him ?” asked Ralph.
« Ob, yes. But that will depend upon Mm altogether. At present I
am as ignorant of his whereabouts as you are.”
« He came recently frotn Boston, I believe?” said Ralph.
- « I thipk he did. Are you from Boston ?”
«No, sir.”
Then there was a pause. >
« Is the lady well whom he has in charge ?” This question had been
on Ralph’s tongue three or four times, hut he was afraid to trust himself
to utter it.
« Very well,” replied the doctor.
« Has sh£ had a return of her nervous headaches ?”
Doctor T------ looked at Ralph earnestly, and appeared to think
hurriedly for a few moments. He then said—
« I believe not, sir. She appeared to be very well while in my bouse.”
« She has remarkable power as a c,
” said Ralp
a little farther.
« Very remarkable,” replied the doctor, who was evidently thrown off
his guard, and somewhat mystified b^ this question.
« I presume you take as much interest in this subject as Mr. Armour
himself?”
«Not quite so much,” replied the doctor. «H e is looking at the
subject psychologically, while I am investigating it as a medical man and
a man of science.”
« There is no doubt of its ppssessing curative virtues,” said Ralph.
« Oh, no. It is also valuable as a means of discovering the exact
location and nature of diseases, the symptoms of which do not give us
the information which we seek.”
« Have you ever met with a magnetic subject who could thus indicate
the location of diseases ?”
« Oh, yes!” replied the doctor. « Matilda does this.”
« Matilda ! Who is she ?” asked Ralph, completely thrown off his
guard. But he recovered himself in a moment, and said, « Oh, yes! yesr
I had forgotten her name.”
Doctor T again looked at him earnestly, and with evident suspi­
cion. Ralph tried to renew the conversation, but the doctor evinced a
total indisposition to consent to its renewal. The young man’s direct
questions were evaded,\nd he was made to feel that his visit was con­
sidered obtrusive. Under this aspect of affi^rs, he deemed it best to
retire and confer with the officer who was awaiting him without. On
A REVELATION 0FME8MERI3%i. g*
*. 4
Digitized by L j O O Q le
;AGNES i OR FHE POSSESSED r
joining that individual, and relating;alltthflt he had heard, Ralph was
assured that Armour would be overhauled before noon theoefct day.
« is it not possible to find him to-night?” asked Ralph. « H e may
leave the city by some one of the various lines that, depart in the morning.
He is aware of my presence ift the city, and itill hardly remain.”
« 1 shall take good care to have a man at each of these places, with
authority to arrest hint if he attempts to leave. Four of our best officers
have seen him and know him, and they will take charge of this duty.
In the morning I will send the right kind of a man to.find <out from this
servant, if he can tell, the carriage driver who was employed to-day by
.Armour.”
« But he may not know,” said Ralph.
«N o matter. We have a register of every hackman in the city, and
«can, with proper diligence, ask the required 'question of each one in a few
.hours. This will give us what we want.”
Ralph did not go to bed that night, but walked the floor of his chamber
•until the dawn. . . .
i -
n
58
\
11
Digitized by G o o g l e
A BBfELATlOX OF XBSMSKI9X.
" i ■
CHAPTER X.
It was near twelve o'clock on the succeeding day, before out ytOng
friend had any intelligence from the officer who had taken- his business
in.hand. Ere that time, he was almost beside himself with arixiety and
suspense. At last the officer appeared.
“ Have you found him?” Ralph eagerly asked; '; ' 1
“ Not yet. But I believe we.are close upon his track. He did not
leave the city-this morning, and of course is Some where in i t i f in the
city I can find him. We have the name of the hscktaan who took him
away from Doctor T------’s. He has been engaged all the morning, but
returns to his stable about this time. We shall probably find him there'
now.” ’ * • .
The two men proceeded to the stable of the hackney-coachman, who
had returned as the officer had supposed. .. <
■
“ Your name is Ro^s, I believe,” said tbe officer.
“ Yes, sir; that is the name I answer to for want of a better;” replied
the man, with an air of vulgar familiarity. '
“ You took a gentleman and lady from Doctor T —r-—
’s, in Greenwich
street, at two o'clock yesterday ?”
“ The deuce I d id !”
“ To what part of the city did you take them ?” resiimed the officer«
«I took them where they wanted to go,” Baid the hackman, who
seemed annoyed, either at the questions themselves, or the manner in
which they were put.
“ I asked you a civil question, and I am at least entitled to a civil
answer,” returned the officer, a little warmly. r
“ l a m not so sure that you did ask a civil question. My business is
to drive people any where they may wish to go; after that I have nofbiL^
more to do with them. I never tell tales out of school.” . ■<
'
“ You don’t know me, I presume,” said the officer. ' » *
v “ No, I clo not ; and don't wish to know you. If you want tny hack, I
am at your service”—the man here touched his hat with a respectful air*
—“ I’ll drive you any where you may choose to go, and (forget,the pfece
iri half an hour a f t e r . * J
“ You have a convenient memory, l see,” remarked the officer. <
“ Oh, yes! That is a part of our business;”
“ As I said, I don’t think you know me*” said the officer again.
“ I certainly have not the pleasure of your acquaintance,” replied the
man. < >
“ I thought not.” 1 - '
Digitized by G o o g l e
AGNES; OX, THE :
The officer then said something to him in a low tone. Instantly the
man’s manner changed. He took off his hat involuntarily, remarking a |.
he did so—
« That alters /the case.”
« Of course. You can now remember, without doubt, the place to
which you drove the lady and gentleman you took from Doctor T------’s
yesterday.”
« I can, pretty nearly. But I did not notice the number of the house.
It was in Hudson Street, pretty far up.” *
« You can take us to the place ?” said Ralph.
« I can take you pretty near to it. Within two or three houses! It
Was somewhere about the Middle of a block.”
« Very well,” said the officer—« Come along at once. W e’ll hire
you instead of your hack.”
The driver put on bis coat and went with the officer and Ralph. A
Canal Street omnibus was taken, which soon conveyed them to the
neighborhood they were seeking.
« This is tbe row,” said the hack driver, after they had left the
omnibus and walked a short distance. They stood at one end of a long
row of houses, that a man might live in for a monffi without being able
to find the one to which he belonged, unless he looked at the number
every time he came home, \
« Very well,” replied the officer; « but which is the house ?”
« It is somewhere about the centre of the block.”
««Is it the centre house, do you think ?
« Indeed and fd o got know. It was in this row that I took them ;
but the exact house I cannot tell to save me.”
« Didn’t the man tell you to drive to a certain number?” as^pd the
officer.
« Yes sir. But I disremember what it was. I never can recollect
numbers.”
« Humph! And is this as near as you can come ?”
uUpon my soul it is! I took the gentleman and lady to one of the
houses near the centre of the row, but which it is, I couldn’t tell to
save me.”
« Very well,” said the officer. « You can go. You will probably
hear from me again before night.”
Ralph handed the man a dollar, and he made his bow and left them.
« I ’m not altogether satisfied with that fellow,” remarked the officer.
« He’s a cunning dog. I know him of old, and he knows me. If we
don’t succeed in finding the object of our search here, I will have him up
at one of the police offices, and see if I cart*t make his memory a little
more accurate. But at present, we must make the most of what be has
communicated. The only way of proceeding is for you to begin at
about the third house, and inquire for Mr. Armour at each door until
Digitized by_Google
▲REVELATION Of MES^UBRiSM. €9
you arrive at the third house from the other end. This can be done
without putting any family on its guard, for the inquiries made at one
house will be unknown to the family adjoining.4’
No other more feasible mode of proceeding suggesting itself, the
officer withdrew from«observation, while Ralph commenced the search.
At the third house where he asked the usual question,
« Is Mf. Armour withiir?” he thought he saw a slight hesitation on
the part of the servant before she said—.
« Mr. Armour does not live here, sir.”
« I know; Mr. S------lives here,” replied Ralph, promptly. « Mr.
Armour is only here temporarily. Is he in, or has he stepped out?”
The girl looked confused at this; hesitated a moment, and then said—
« A strange gentleman was here yesterday. I don’t know his name.
But he went away again.”
- « Was there a lady with him ?”
«Yes, sir.”
« Are you sure they have gone away?’
« Oh, yes.”
« Do you know where they have gone?”
« No, sir. They were not in the house over two hours. I tkipk they
left the city. They took their bdggage away with them.’’
« Is this a boarding house ?” asked the young man.
«N o, sir.” *
« Is Mr. S----- - in?”
« No, sir.”
« Is the lady in r”
« Yes, sir.”
« Tell her that I would like to speak to her for a few moments.”
The servant did not ask Ralph to walk in ; but left him standing at
the door while she carried his request for an interview to her mistress.
In a short time the girl returned, and said—
« Mrs. S------ says you will excuse her, she is engaged.”
« When will Mr. S— be in ?” asked Ralph.
« At dinner time,” replied the girl.
« At what time do you dine ?’
« I will see,” and the girl retired again.
«W e will dine at half past three, tb-day,” she said, on returning.
« Where is Mr. S— ’s place of business?” asked Ralph
« I don’t know.”
« Will you inquire, for me?”
The girl again retired. In a little while she came back and said that
it was somewhere in Pearl Street; but Mrs. S — didn’t know the
number. '
;With this unsatisfactory information, Ralph left the door, and rejoioed
the officer, to whom he related his interview with the servant.
Digitized by Google
%
' •»We most fine! Mr. &•— mid the officer. * *«Did you notice the ■
*
initials of his name?”
« Yes; They are 0. T. — ”
'« The Directory will give os the number of hie store. Come! We
must follow up this business more actively.”
« I’m afraid it’s of no use,” said Ralph.
«W hy not?’? •
« What that girl suggested, is doubtless true. They must have left,
the city yesterday by one of the afternoon lines.”
« It may be so. But we shoudln’t take it fbr granted. If we do we
cannot prosecute the search with sufficient vigor, and he may, in conse­
quence, elude oe, if still here.”
On examining the directory, Mr. S------’s place of business was found
to be at No. — Fulton Streetr whither Ralph proceeded alone. Oni
asking for Mr. S------, he was directed to where he was sitting in the
back part of his store. He was a tall man, with dark complexion, and
a strong and rather repulsive cast of features. " ,
« You reside at No. — Hudson Street, I believe ?” said Ralph
« I do,” replied the man.
« Can you tell me whether Mr. Armour is in the city ?”
« Who is Mr. Armour ?” asked the xdhn, knitting his brows and look­
ing sternly at Ralph*
« The man who came to your house, in company with a young lady,
between two and three o’clock yesterday afternoon; and left it again an
hour after, according to the testimony of your servant.”
Ralph spoke in a firm voice, and kept his eyes steadily fixed upon
Mr. S------.
« O h! you mean Monsieur -------.” The man checked himself.
« Florien,” said Ralph—« Yes, that is the man I am inquiring for.
He has assumed the name of Armoun Can you tell me whether he is
in tile city ?”
«The man who left my house yesterday afternoon, had in charge a
young lady for Boston. He started, as I understood, in the evening
line, for that city.”
«For Boston?”
« Yes.” * / 1 *
« Are you certairi ?” asked Ralph, eagerly. ■ . / -
«H e said he was going to Boston. That is all F know. I hare no
reason to doubt his statement.”
Ralph had now more than a dozen questions to ask about Agnes—for
he naturally enough supposed that she was the person who had been at
Mr. S - ’g house on the precedingtday; but Mr. S------was not dis­
posed to answer any more of his questions, and the young man was com­
pelled to leave him»without obtaining any thing more than a repetition of
(S; OR, THB POtMISCV:>
'
Digitized by b o o g i e
the fact that the persons,who had left hri house had taken the evening
line to Boston. ■' i ■
Despite the strongly urged suggestions,of'the officer, that this aright
only be a ruse to get him bufc of the city, Ralph insisted on going to
Boston that night. To him it seemed highly probable that Fiotien, find­
ing himself so closely pursued, had deemed it most prodeat to restore
Agass to her friends either in Boston or M------, and avoid thereby the
risk of serious ¡consequences to himself. Full of this idea, the young1
man left New York that evening in a high state of nervous excitements
He had taken but little food, and had slept none for three or four days.
From New York toStonington, he walked the deck of the steam
incessantly. From thence to Providence and Boston, he sat with his
bead drooped upon his breast, almost as immovable as a statue. It was
eight o’clock on the next morning ¡when the cars arrived at their destitute
tion. Without changing his clothes, sharing, or partaking of food,
Perdval commenced his search for Agnes,; by first going to the principal
hotels and examining the register of arrivals in each. At the second*
house where he called, he found that there had been, on the previous
day, an arrival from New York of a Mr. Armour and young lady.
<
<Is Mr. Armour in ?” he asked of the bar-keeper, with as.much calm­
ness as the high state of nervous excitement and anxkty under which he
was laboring would permit, and then waited in breathless suspense for
his answer. r
“ I believe so,” replied the bar-keeper. >
The bar-keeper spoke indifferently, scarce!/ noticing or thinking of the
person who made the inquiry1 But those indifferent, and, to him, unim­
portant/words, made the knees of Ralph .tremble against each other.
“ I, wish to see him,” said Ralph.
The bar-keeper pulled one of the bell-ropes. To the servant who
came, rather tardily,.at the ssmmons, he Said:
• <
<Go up taN o. 46, and See if the gentleman is in.”
It would have been next toimpossible for Ralph to hfcve waited for.
the servant to go and return, so he followed quickly after him, and stood
with him in front of No. 46, while he'tapped at the door. Theyre was nd'
answer. The servant gave a louder sumfttoos,rhat it produced no Better
effect. (He then look hold of the do«?,; and, opening it,, looked in. i
“ Not in, sir,” he said, carelessly.
‘«'Ar&yoUiSure?’’mid .Ralph the.door from the servant’s Hand
with a vigor that sent it back sharply against the twall, revealing the
whole interior of the chamber at once to hifc eyes; Truly enough said—
the room had no occupant. Ralph almost groaned aloud with (Hsap-
pointmertf*. • . •.» j. • • .
‘«Do you k n o w m a n ? ’’.. k
ta
sked eagerly, laying his hand upoifc
the arm of the servant* : .. • . • . >
« What man ?” The servant disengaged himself front Rerciral’s graspi'
-A KEVELATBD5.QF 09
Digitized by Google
“ Mr. Armour. The man who occupies this room.” )
“ I know him when I see him.”
“ Hare you seen him this morning ?”
“ Yes, sir. I saw him at'the breakfast table.”
“ What is the number of the lady’s room,who came with him.”
“ I don’t know.”
Ralph turned and hurried down to the bar. By the register, he ascer
taiaed the number of the room occupied by the lady who had arrived
with Mr. Armour.
«Show me to No. 10,” he said to a servant, in an agitated manner.
The servant looked at him a moment and then obeyed the direction.
Arriving at No. 10, Ralph gave a hesitating knock at the door, and imme­
diately heard footsteps approaching from within. It was a moment of
agonizing suspense. The door opened—a female stood before him—she
was young and beautiful—but it was not Agues.!
“ Is Miss Wellmore withih?” Ralph asked in a husky, tremulous
whisper. / .
« This is not Miss Wellmare’s room,” replied the young lady;
“ Which is her room ?”
“ I don’t know.”
“ Isn’t this No. 10?”
“ Yes, sir.”
“ Did you arrive from New York yesterday morning?”
“ Yes, sir.”
“ In company with Mr. Armour?”
“ Yes, sir.”
These questions were asked and answered hurriedly; the lady looking
with evident alarm at Ralph, whose excited mannerand wild looks made
her believe his mind to be wandering. The servant who had accom­
panied him to the room, seemed to be under a similar impression, for ho
remained close to Ralph, with his eyes steadily fixed upon him, and his
lips compressed as by some firm resolution.
A moment after the lady had answered the young man’s last question,
she «aid, pointing to a person who was just coming along the passage,
« There is Mr. Armour, sir.”
Ralph turned quickly. Before him stood a tall, well-built man, whose
face he had never seen before.
«
<Is your name Armour ?” he asked, with much excitement of manner.
“ It is,” was replied. « '
From New York ?”
“ Yes.”
Ralph retreated a few paces, stood for a moment, and then walked
dowly away. Those who looked at him observed that his steps were
unequal, and noticed him sometimes to falter and sway from one side to
the other, like a drunken man.
u AGHB8~, OR THE POSSESSED. ,
Digitized by Google
A REVELATION OP MESMERISM.
«Drunk or crazy!” said the man who had answered to the name of
Armour, as he stepped into No. 10, and the door closed upon him and
its fair young inmate.
Some hours afterward, Ralph Percival came to the dwelling of Mr.
A------, to whose family Agnes had proposed making her visit when 6he
left M------, wandering in raitid and incapable of giving any account of
himself. He was immediately placed in the care of a physician, who
found him under a high state of neryous excitement, And in a condition
of great danger. The pressure upon his brain was intense, accompanied
by considerable inflammation. The ordinary modes of depletion used in
such cases were resorted to, and all the skill of the physician called into
requisition to prevent death or some serious organic lesion of the brain.
Even after a suppression of the worst symptoms had been obtained, and
the' mind of the patient restored to something like a healthy action, the
danger was little diminished, for a knowledge of the uncertainty of the
fate of the one who was so dear to him, produced a new excitement, and
well nigh baffled all the physician’s skill. It was nearly three weeks'from
the time he drived in Boston, before he was well enough to be removed
to his friends in M ■
■
■
■ ; and as long a space of time elapsed before he was
in a condition to renew his search after Agnes, of whom no intelligence
had yet been received, although the police of the principal cities in the
Union had been fully advised of the fact, of Miss Wellmore’s mysterious
absence, and were all on the alert.
;
Digitized by G o o g l e
/ AONBS; <^f THE POSSESSED*
r
CHAPTER XI.
- After Agnès Wellmore parted from her lover, and commenced her
journey of a few hours to Boston, she Sank into a state of reVerie as
painful as it was deep. For Ralph Percival she felt not only a pure and
earnest love, but she had a high respect for his character and intelligence.
Her own mind was'one of considerable strength, and she had been in the
habit of reasoning with much accuracy from premises to conclusions and
forming opinions for herself up to the time that her intimacy with Ralph
commenced. After that, she began gradually to look at most subjects
by means of his as well as her own intelligence, and inclined more and
more to the habit of referring things to his judgment before coining to
settled conclusions herself. On Mons. Florien’s arrival, at M -— ,
Ralph became captivated by his wonderful performances; but, in this
instance, neither the feelings nor judgment of Agnes coincided with feisl
She felt a strong repugnance to the whole thing, and, as has been seen,
consented to be mesmerized in order to avoid pain, in opposition to all
the instincts of her nature. But after comingonoe under the mesmerizer’s
influence, notwithstanding the views of Ralph had become changed, and
the young man strove hard to mhke her see the danger he apprehended
from the use of what he now considered disorderly means, Agnes
could see little or no force in any argument he brought forward on the
subject; or, if she did, her leaning towards mesmerism soon entirely
obscured it. The reader has already seen to what extent she came
under that influence before she left M------
For about a month previous to the time of her leaving for Boston,
Agnes found that she could think of little else than mesmerism. She
mused on the subject through the day and dreamed of it at night. There
was a constant influx into her mind of ideas connected with this theme,
against which she often strove to oppose a barrier, but io vain. The
letters from Florien, which she regularly received, constantly furnished
her with new views on the subject, and kept alive her interest. These
letters were written with the skill of one who had an end to gain, and
understood well the character of the individual he was desirous of winning
over to his own purposes. Their effect upon the mind of Agnes was all
he could wish.
As we have just said, Agnes sunk into a deep and painful reverie.
The fact of parting with Ralph, had agitated her heart with the tenderest
emotions. She loved .him deeply, purely, ardently. But she was con­
scious of now acting towards him with duplicity. Her real purpose in
Digitized by b o o g i e
visiting Boston, she had concealed from hiái, because she knew that he
woald object in the strongest terms to her going, were he even to
*imagine the true reason. And ' besides, the act would naturally tend to
awaken unjustisuspicions in'hid mind. Florien, she thought of only as a
man possessing a wonderful and almost supernatural power. What he
said of mesmerism she fully believed ;*and was, moreover, inspired with
an unconquerable desire to place herself in his' bands, in order that she
might become the medium of bringing down from the unknown and
invisible world the knowledge of things more wonderful than any yet
heard of or even imagined. This Florien assured her over and over
again, would be the result, if she would permit her remarkable power
of seeing with the eyes of her spirit, while her natural perceptions were
in a state of quiescence, to come into their highest activity. It was in
order to give the mesmerizer a better opportunity for developing this
faculty, that Agnes went to Boston. No other motive would have been
strong enough to induce her to bear some two months* separation from
Ralph ; not even the hope of relief from the nervous paina she suffered.
To part with her lover, under these circumstances, could not bat produce
sadness. Over and over again did she regret, before she reached the
end of her journey, ever having left her home.
As a natural consequence, this state of mind led her to reflect upon the
nature of her lover’s objections to mesmerism, and to look at them more
seriously than she had ever done. Over and over again had he expressed
to her his belief, that where any one gave himself into the hands of fe
magnetizer, and permitted him to take feway his freedom and his reason,
were it for ever so short a time, his mind would be disturbed from its
évea balance, and he would be more inclined than previously, to let the
' magnetizer try his experiments uppn him and further, that this wil­
lingness would increase in a ratio with the frequency of the experiments,
until be would become little more than a subject of the will of another.
To all this she had bee* in the habit of expressing an unqualified dissent.
But now, from certain inversions of thought, that enabled her to see more
.clearly what was her own true state in regard to mesmerism, she more
than half admitted that there might be the danger he appeared so much
to dread. This admission being made, it formed the plane for an influx
of ideas that she had hitherto entirely shut out from her mind. The
more she thought, the more clearly did the force of Ralph’s arguments,
the conclusions of which were in her memory, present themselves.
Regret for the unadvised step .she had taken* next arose; and these led
her to the wise conclusion not to permit Mons. Florien to magnetize he*r
until she ha*d given the subject.at least a week’» caceful reflection, in
view of the evil results likely to follow a continuance of his^experimentS.
“ Better suffer.a life-time of disease and pain,” she said to herself,
“ than have freedom and reason removed from their empire over the*
mind.” • •
-
A REVELATION OP MESMERISM. 07
Digitized by Google
AGAJES; OR, THE POSSESSED:
This was the state of Aghe« when she arrived in Boston. In the
olindoess of the one purpose she had in view, she had neglected to men*
tiop to any one hut Florien the precisé time at. which qhe would arrive.
She was not certain whether he would meet her, not having received the
letter that declared his intention to do so, and she sincerely hoped be
would not In her then state of tnjnd, she felt as if she would much rather
fifed her way alone to her friend’s house, than be escorted by him. It must
be owned that she had a fear of coming into contact with him, lest bis
presence should dissipate the good resolution she had just formed. But
Florien was too touch interested in the fact of her arrival to forget the
'time. He was at the depot for the cars, and ready to receive her.
“ How glad I am to see you, my dear Miss Wellmore!” he said,
grasping her hand,*
7- “ I have a carriage ready to convey you to your
friends» Come!”
To refuse this civility was out of the question. Even the wish to do
so soon faded from the mind of Agnes. The Baggage was quickly
placed behind the carriage, into which she entered with Florien. The
driver mounted his box, cracked his whip, and away they dashed over
the rattling pavement. The noise made by the sounding wheels was too
great to permit of conversation. Agnes shrunk back in her seat, her
companion Sitting directly opposite, and soon became lost in her own
refactions. These for some time were clear and well defined, embracing
the subject Of her relation and duty to Ralph PercivaL Gradually,
.however, her thoughts became dreamy and obscure, and she was con*
scions of an effort to arouse herself; but it was feebly made. Then a
delicious languor stole over her, while all around hecame lucid as
crystal, and music, more soft and sweet than her ears had ever known,
stole, with its exquisite melody, upon what seemed newly awakened
senses.
When next fully conscious of her existence as a being in the natural
world, Agnes found herself in a room, amid a. crowd of people, with
lights gleaming all around her. She was seated in a large rocking chair,
with her head reclining against the back, and very near to her sat Florien
and a lady, bothwith their eyes fixed earnestly upon hér. Agnes became
immediately sensible of a jarring motion, and also of a heavy laboring,
crashing, and rushing sound.
<t Where am I ?” she eagerly asked, making a motion as if about to
jise. .
, .-«*Do not be alarmed 1 Compose yourself, my dear young lady I’*said
Florien, in a low,earnest .voice.
“ But wheie am. I?” she repeated, an expression of terror settling
upon her face. 1
« You arje safe, and with friends,” returned Florien.
“ Yes, with;friend*,” sakl the lady, his companion, with a winning
smile.
Dig ?ti by G o O ^ l C
Agnes drew hfcr hand before her eyes, and tried to collect her bewil­
dered thoughts. She soon clearly understood that she was on board of
a steamboat—but why she was there, and whither she was bound, were
questions she tried in vain to answer. As she sat thus, she could dis­
tinctly perceive that a languor was again stealing over both her body and
mind. She made a strong effort to throw this off*, but without succeed­
ing. A thought of what it was and whence it proceeded, flashed oyer
her mind, and caused her to make a more resolute attempt to rise above
ft, but it w^s all in vain.
When again fully awake to what was passing around her, the scene
was changed. The jarring, laboring, rushing noise had ceased. Ail
was still, and the daylight came softly in through a shaded window. She
was no longer on board of a steamboat, but in a room, and reclining
upon a bed. Agnes now recollected, distinctly, her arrival in Boston,
and her entering a carriage with Mons. Florien to be conveyed to the
house of the friends she had come to visit. From this point all was a
blank, until she found herself in the cabin of a steamboat. Then came
another blank, and now, here she was, in a strange house in a strange
place.
■ «Gracious Heaven 1 What can it all mean?” she exclaimed, in a
low, deep voice, when she fully understood the strangeness of her posi­
tion, rising up pnd looking around! her with a wild bewildered air.
The instant she spoke she heard a movement in the room. A lady
who had been concealed from her view by the bed curtains, cams
quickly to her side, saying, with a smile, as she approached—
4
4Be calm, my dear young lady! You are with friends.”
4
4But where am I ?”
4
4Do not disturb yourself. In a little while you will know all.”
'<
<Know what ? Heaven help m e! But this must be all a dream.
Oh l that I could awake.”
Agnes covered her face with her hands, as she*said this mournfully,
and sunk back upon the bed. Her attendant remained silent until she
again aroused herself, which she did after the lapse of two or three
minutes.
<
<There has been some strange spell upon me,” Agnes said, rising
up in bed, and looking with an earnest, bewildered air into the face of the
woman who stood at the bed-side. 4
4Something is wrong—wrong-—
wrong! For the love of Heaven! tell me where I am, and why I am
here.”
The anxious expression of the young lady’s face changed into a«look
of alarm—almost to terror, as she eagerly scanned her attendant, aud
waited for bar reply.
4
4Do not give yourself needless anxiety,” replied the stranger, in a
quiet voice, smiling as she spoke. 4‘In a little while all will be ex­
plained to you. You are as safe as iftn your own home.”
* A REVELATION OF ME8*IEMK?»C 0Q
Digitized by G o o g l e
AGNES; OR, THE POSSESSEt)'
« But Whose house is this ?” asked Agnes. 1 ■
««It is my house,” returned her companion. * '
«Your house ?” Agnes dirunk from the woman. « Then I am here
with your consent.”
« Yes. But you are safe from all harm.”
« But why am I here ? TeH me that!”
« Be patient, and in a little while all wiH be explained. Your destiny
‘is a high one, and you have taken your first step in the accomplishment
of that destiny. Do not falter, nor pause, nor go back. You^have a
mission to perform—let me conjure you to perform it well!”
“ You speak to me a strange language, madam!” said Agnes. But as
she said this she remembered that words of similar import had been
uttered in her ears by Florien. A dim light began to break upon hef,
that grew clearer and clearer, until the truth itself was fully revealed.—i
She understood all, but shuddered as the cloud that had obscured her
mind, lifted itself and passed away.
«A destiny! A mission!” she murmured, again closing her eyes and
thinking with all the etiergy she possessed. « Yes—yes—yes. I see it
now. I have lost my freedom! I am enslaved by a power that is won-*
derful in its mysterious potency. A mission! A destiny! God help me!”
And a shudder ran through her frame. For some time she lay silent;
then rousing up, she said, in an earnest, appealing tone, “ O h! save me
from this fearful destiny. You are a Woman, and I will believe that you
have a woman’s heart. I have been wrongfully withdrawn from my
friends. Neither my own consent nor theirs has been obtained by those
who first destroyed my consciousness and then took possession of my
person. Set me free. Let me go back> and my heart will ever bless
you! Oh! lady, let me not plead in vain.” The poor girl clasped her
hands in an agony of supplication. The distress evinced by Agnes
touched the woman’s feelings.
« Do not grieve yourself,” she said, with much tenderness, pressing
her hand upon the white forehead of Agnes as she lay upon the pillow.
“ You have no cause for grief. You have been removed from your
friends, it is true, but, in a little while you will be restored to them un­
harmed ; and the world will be wiser for your brief absence. You know
the wonderful gift you possess. It can now be brought into full and un­
disturbed exercise, which could not have been the case had you remained
with your friends. Be patient—be hopeful—be humble—and fix you,r
eyes upon the high destiny, to accomplish which, God has set you apart.”
A gush of tears was the only reply that Agnes made to this appeal.
For a long time she wept bitterly. After she grew calm, she asked if
Mons. Florien were in the house. On being answered in tbe affirmative,
she expressed a wish to see him.
«He will see you whenever yc\j desire it,” said the woman. « But
first you must have breakfast, and change your dress. You have eateb
til
Digitized
ed by G o O g l C
A EBTELATrottür MESMERISM. 51
/
ffotbingshtce yesterday. 1 wiH order your breakfast to' be sent upiaam*-
diately.” The woman then rang the bell, and to the servant who cam©,
gave the required order.
On rising from the bed, Agnes found that her trunk was in the room.
By the time her breakfast came Up, she had made all needful changes
in her dress, and restored her person to its usual neat appearance. But
she did not attempt to taste {he food that was set before‘her.
“ Eat, my dear young lady!” said her companion, with evident con­
cern rx her indisposition' tò partake of food. “ You have tasted of nothing
since yesterday.”
“ I cannot eat,” returned Agnes, shaking her head. “ I would choke
m the attempt.” f , <
“ But you cannot do without food. You must eat.”
“ Do not urge me. It is useless. Let me see Mon?. Florieù. He
must take me back,1*replied Agne , with energy.
« You shad see him. But he will not take you back now. I am sure
be will not.”
“H&must take me back! What right had he to remove me from my
friends? How dare he do it!” The eyes of Agnes dashed with indig.
Hafion, aml her voice expressed as strongly what she folt.
, fe
eAll this is unworthy of you—o f the high mission upon which you
are sent,” replied the woman, calmly. “ You must rise above it—for
above i t ” >
“ But why need I be removed from my friends ? Why need my liberty
be taken from mè?” asked Agnes. “ jAs Heaven is my witness, Ì will
not submit to it ! J will at once leave this room and this house, and
throw myseif upon the protection of the first perlon I meet! Never will
I submit to an outrage like this*”
‘ Agnes moved towards the door as she spoke, with a determined air *
but the woman sprung before her, and turning thè key in the lock* re­
moved it and thrust it into her pocket.
» « Pardon me,” she said, in the satae quiet voice in which she bad from
the first spoken. « I cannot permit so rash a step. You shall see Mona.
Florien immediately if you desire it.’*
“ In your presence ?” asked Agnes, quickly, as she leaned against the
wall, overcome with the various emotions that were contending in her
mind.
“ Certainly ; if such is your wish,” replied the wòrà&n promptly.
“ This is your house you say ?”
“ It is. Or, rather, my hushand’s hèufce.” ,
“ Your husband’s ! Who is your •husband? What is his name ?”
eagerly asked Agnes.
*That question I canbot answer,” returned the Woman.
“ Am I not to know your n,ame ?”
« No* St would do yon no good*, and might do us harm ! for but few
Digitized by
1
Google
T | AONBS; OB, THB FOSBBMIB: .
/ 1
' coaid understand the high motive we have in view in what we are now
doing.” *
« Where am l ? In what city ?”
Hie woman replied, “ This neither are you to know!”
Agnes drooped herhead and sat lost in deep thought for some minute*.
Then looking up, she said,
« In your own house, you oan do as you please ?” ,
« Yes, if I do right,” was replied.
« Then promise me that Mons. Florien shall never enter this room,
unless you are present all the time he is here.”
« I promise,” was the ready answer.
«For that I thank you!” replied Agnes, gratefully. «Now Jet this
man who has basely violated the confidence I reposed in him, be eafiecL”
« Say not basely, dear lady!”
« Yes, basely. Let me see him, that I may tell him so to his face.”
The woman rung the bell, and to the servant who came to the door,
gave some directions in a low voice. The servant retired, and in a little
while there was a gentle rap without. The door was opened, and Florien
entered. Agnes was standing in the centre of the room. The uesmer-
lzer bowed low and respectfully, and then approaching, offered Agnes his
ftand.. But she shrunk away, at the same time fixing her eyes sternly
upon him.
« Pardon me—” he began, but he was interrupted by Agnes, who
said, in a firm voice—
« No words, Mons. Florien! I want.no words, but aots! Restore
me at once to my friends, and let oblivion cover the past.”
« But, my dear young—” <r
« Silence!” Agnes drew up her tall but slender person majestically;
and stamped her foot upon the floor. «1 will hear nothing! Release
me from this place, or consequences that you would do well to avoid,
may follow. Sir, you have ventured too far!”
' « I will retire,” said Florien, in a low, but calm voice, turning and
walking toward the door.
He had his hand upon the lock, when Agnes cried in an agitated
voice—
« Stay, Mons. Florien!”
The mesmerizer paused, and half turning, looked partly over his
shoulder. Agnes advanced two or three steps.
« Will you do as I wish ?” she said.
« Not now,” was replied. « I cannot.”
«You mush—
you must, Mons. Florien! You had no right to do as
as you have done.”
« I have done you no wrong, Miss WeHmore,” returned Florien—>
wnone whatever.” w
«You have taken away my liberty ! Is that no wrong?” said Agnes.
Digitized by Google
A SETSLATIOK OF MfiSlfBKKM. 73
«‘ This is but'temporary, and, I think, in the end, even you will not
call it a wrong. Think of the object in view. Think of the gpeat results
that are to be the consequence. Do not forget these.”
“ I can remember nothing but that I am a prisoner, and made so by
the use of unlawful means. I was faithfully warned against the power
you possessed, as a disorderly and dangerous one; but I disregarded
those warnings. But now my eyes are opened. I have felt that power.
But you shall exercise it on me no more. I will oppose you with a
resolute will. You shall not again find me a slave to do your behests!”
Agnes spoke with energy, while Florien fixed her eye, and held it in
the steady glance of his own. It was in vain that she tried to remove
it. Like a bird in the charmed circle of its fearful enemy, she soon
began to move to and fro, as if struggling to escape. In a little while
she dropped, slowly, into a chair, which the woman, who remained in
the room, had placed near her; her head sunk upon her bosom, her eyes
closed, and a painfully sad expression settled upon her fair young coun­
tenance. #
“ Poor creature!” said the woman, tenderly, as Agnes sunk into a
profound mesmeric sleep. “ It goes harder with her than I supposed it
would. How wonderfully susceptible she is! Even while she set her
will in strong opposition to yours, by a single act of volition did you
bring her under your entire control.”
“ I am sorry she takes it so hard,” returned Florien. “ But it cannot
be helped now. She is in our power, and we must use her for the im­
portant ends we have in view.”
« Shall I call the Doctor ?” asked the woman.
“ Yes. We must lose no time. We cannot tell the day when we
may be deprived of her wonderful powers.”
The woman again rang for the servant, by whom she sent a message
to her husband. The Doctor, as Florien had called him, soon made his
appearance. He was a pleasant-looking man, of middle stature,, with
rather an intelligent face, but more remarkable for his showy dressingr
gown and slippers than for any thing else.
Meantime, Agnes remained' sitting upon the chair, with every sense
locked up, and for all that was known by those who were presuming to
trifle with a power of whose origin and nature they were profoundly
ignorant, with every sense of her soul likewise asleep, and all her won­
derful organism in the possession of some evil spirit who used it, for a
time, as his own.
Digitized by b o o g i e
74 AGNB*; 0% TW FO SR lV Slfi A
/
CHAPTER XII...................................... j
W e will not detail minutely the singular results tbat were obtained by
Florien during tbe time tbat Agnes remained in tbe magnetic sleep.
They were such as ordinarily attend a state of clmrvoyan e in subjects
whose high susceptibili y' to nervous impressions is the result of chronic
nervous derangement. She not only saw and described minutely what
was in the operator's mind, but went beyond this, and saw and described,
things of which he had no knowledge whatever; besides developing
kindred wonders of her state, bearing a close family likeness to those
detailed at length by Townshend, Deleuze, Leger and others, and also
described in theZoist and other periodicals devoted to ¿his subject.
After Agnes had been retained in tbe magnetic sleep as long as those
who had her under their control chose continue their experiments, a
memorandum of which was kept, Florien restored her to her natural state,
and immediately retired with the- doctor* leaving herein charge of the
doctor’s wife.
A despairing gush of tears evinced her perfect returnto consciousness.
The woman who remained with .her, tried to speak words of comfort, but
Agnes threw her off by saying, indignantly,
(<You, too, are leagued against me in this unholy compact. Your
softly spoken words and smiles are all heartless.”
“ You are a weak and silly young creature,” replied the woman, “ thus
to war with your high destiny* But you will think and feel better soon.
In a few days all this nonsense will leave you, and you will join us with
an ardor equal to our own tin these intensely interesting pursuits. I must
leave you now, and I hope, when alone, you will think more wisely
than you now do. You have yet partaken of no food,—I will send you
some up, and must beg of you, for your own sake, to use it as you need;”
Saying this, the woman retired, locking the door after her. The room '
in which Agnes was confined, had but one window, which was closed
by a Venitlan shutter. This* soori after the woman had retired, sh e;
examined carefully. The shutter proved to be fastened on the inside
with a new spring-bolt, that could not be moved except, by the applica­
tion of a key. The key of course had not been left within her reach.
On looking through the shutter, she perceived that she was in the third
story, and that the room she occupied was back. There was no means
of escape this way, nor of making herself heard by any one.
Food was, after some time, brought to Agnes. Her long fast had now
excited hunger, and she partook of it with a good appetite. She saw
Digitized by b o o g i e
A HBVBtATI&lST W MESMBRM^C.
nothing more Of Florien anti) evening, when he came in accompanied
by the doctor^ wife, satdown and endeavored tp ©liter kto conversation
with hfer 5 but Agnes would hear of notbhigfeut an immediate restoration
to her friends. This he assured her shoutofebe speedily done; but would
not say at what precise time. He tried, but in raih, to reconcile her to;
the circumstances under which she was placed, by representing the great
ose'to society that would result from her wonderful fadtirty for sleep-see­
ing. At length he said—
« You will permit me to magnetize you this evening?”
But she replied, emphatically, <^No! Neverfagain, with my consent,
shall you do it.”
’« I can do it without your consent, Agnes,” he saiid.to this. « But X
wish to hive your full concurrence in what we ate now doing.”
« That you can never have. With my free consent, never will I again
Come under your influence, nor that of any man who practises .your
fnfamous art!” o<,
Florian started, and. looked*with surprise* not unmingled with anger,
upon the high spirited, beautifol girl, he had drawn into his power.
« What do you mean,” he said, by applying such an epithet to mes­
merism.” '
4
«Just* what my words eonvey. Could an angel from heaven thOa
enslave a mind as you, by some agency that you have invoked from the
spiritual world, have enslaved mine ? No. Your agent is not an angel
but a demon. But neither you nor your evil agent shall long have
dominion over me. I will yet be free from your power!”
Finding that all parley was vain, Florien made an attempt to throw
her into the mesmeric sleep, which she perceiving, endeavored, fey simply
opposing the efforts of her own will, to prevent. But she was as power­
less in his hands as before. In a little while, every sensation of body
and mind Was laid asleep, and she once mfire became the passive subject
by which spiritual phenomena were elicited. After this, Agnes seemed
less repugnant than ut first, and was more easily affected. Several times
Florien put her to sleep by sending her books that he had magnetized.
This was done by way of experiment.
After these experiments had been conducted some three or fofcr days,
Florien and the doctor began to speculate upon the results they had
obtained as well as upon the causes that led to them. The theory of
Florien was, that be held the Spirit of his subject in such entire subjec­
tion, that she' Only saw what was in his mind* and obeyed the command
of his will: ‘ But there Was something- beyond this that could noth«
accounted for on Such.a theory. ' She' could see and describe things of
which he had no knowledge.. This he explained by supposing that, in
tome of the higher states, her spirit^Went forth from the body. Tbe
doctor at first agreed With this, but either in reading or from thinking,
he had struck upon fe d iste n t:idea which*;rather fetartled him. Whf#
Digitized by b o o g i e
that idea was, will appear in the following conversation, which took,
place after a series of experiments with Agnes had been made.
<
<I cannot understand it all, on your theory,” said the doctor, in reply
to something that the other bald said. <
«I am strongly inclined to doubt,
in fact, the whole truth of your theory.”
« On what ground asked Florien.
“ You believe the mind of Agnes to be active, while under the control
of your mind.”
“ Id o .”
“ Well, I very much doubt whether her mind acts at all.”
« But it does act. It must act. Does she not describe what I will
her to describe, and do what I will her to do ? In fact is not the action
of her mind perfect ? You question the action of her mind. What can
you mean ?”
« 1 am very much inclined to believe,” said the doctor, « that, by
mesmerism, her mind is put entirely to sleep, and that some spirit, per­
ceiving this, instantly takes possession of her body, and speaks and acts
by its organs under the direction of your mind.”
“ Absurd!”
“ If this is not so, how can you account for the fact, that the person
who has been mesmerized is, after coming of that ‘state, entirely
ignorant of all that has transpired while he was in that state ? If his
mind acted at all9some record of its action must . Selfconscious­
ness is one ofthe attributes ofthe humansoul; but , somnambulists do
not generally possess.”
Florien attempted to argue against this. But be was not able to do
do so with satisfaction to himself.
“ It is little better, then, than mere possession,” he said.
“ It is no better, if what I suggest be true,” replied the doctor. « It
is, to all intents and purpose, the possession, temporarily, of a human
body, during the total unconsciousness of its rightful owner, by some
wandering spirit who delights in—what shall I say—doing good ? J am
afraid not”
“ Does the same thing take place in natural sleep ?”
« Ndfr Sleep, as you have expressed it, is a natural state. But that
state into which the mesmerizee comes, is unnatural, and cannot therefore
be governed by natural laws, or, in other words, the ordinary laws of
order that govern the human mind. We all know that the mind still
retains its lelf-consciotlsness, for it awakes from sleep with a recollection,
more or less distinct, of dreams. But in the mesmerized subject, from
the time the senses become locked up until the spell is removed, all is a
dead blank. Depend upon it, it is mere possession!” *
Florien shook h» head, and replied,
“ No—n o ! It cannot be* The idea is preposterous! How could ?
spirit, as you suggest, take possession of the human body ?”
7ff A6NB8; OX TOE POSSESSED:
Digitized by Google
A REVELATION 07 MESMERISM. W
“ As to the precise mode in which it is done, I cannot say. The faot
that such possession may take place is no harder of belief than the fact
you assume, that you possess the mind of your subject, and control it as
you’wilh Indeed, the more I reflect upon the matter, the more difficult
of belief does your theory seem, when compared with the one I have,
suggested. That which makes a man is freedom and reason. His will
is the inmost principle of his spiritual being, and is where freedom
resides. Touch this—take away his power to think and act in freedom,
and be is no longer a man. Now I can much more easily believe that a
’ man’s whole mind may be laid asleep, and another spirit be permitted to
act, for a time by means his bod)q than I can believe that his mind cap
come under the control of another mind so fully that he shall not be able
to think or act for himself.”
On the day after this discussion took place, Agnes was thrown into
the mesmeric sleep as usual. When she awoke, she became instantly
aware that she was in another place. The room was smaller, and the
furniture entirely different. She was sitting in a chair, and the wife of
Doctor---- - was standing near her.
“ Where am I now ?” she asked, on becoming fully awake.
“ We have given you a new chamber,” said the woman.
« In the same house ?” asked Agnes, looking her steadily in the
face.
There was a slight hesitation, and then the woman answered,
“ No. We have changed for a time, our residence—but we will go
back again.” i
Agues asked no more questions, but sunk into a state of dull abstrac­
tion, from which she did not arouse herself for some hours, and then not
until the appearance of Florien. For some days she had made but
feeble efforts to oppose the magnetizer’s influence ; but the fact of having
been removed from one place to another, without having been in the
smallest degree cognizant of the circumstance, fretted her mind, and
when she saw him, fired her resolution, and caused her to make another
vigorous struggle to be free. Hut it was little more than the fluttering
nf the bird while yet beneath the net. It required a stronger effort on
the part of Florien to lay her excited and struggling spirit ; but was
none the less successful in reducing all into quiet and leaden insen­
sibility.
After the lapse of a couple of weeks, Agnes found herself, on coming
out of her magnetic sleep, one day, back in her old apartmlnt in tbe
house of Doctor — . But as to the city or street in which that house
stood, she yet remained profoundly ignorant. Here, week after week
went by, the poor unhappy creature sinking more and move, every day,
into the condition of a slave to the roesmerizer. All the means of resist­
ance to the mysterious power he had gained over her, that were suggested
to her mind, she bad tried, but in vain. His very presence subdued
Digitized by Google
her, ami undeiMhe power of hi* strange -eye, the sunk kto fmctin-
sciousness. , *
True to her first promise, the wife of Dr. never left her alone,
with Florien. She attended her in ail the experiments that were made,
and did everything in her power to make her condition comfortable.
One day, it was nearly two months from the time Agnes had disap­
peared from the eyes of her friends, she was magnetized by Florien as
usual. After a number of curious results bad been obtained, and all*
the phenomena carefully observed by Doctor — , and the mesmferizers,
with a view to an elucidation and confirmation of tbeir theories, to which1
each seemed to grow more and morebedded ; the two men feál into a
discussion, which grew so warm that Florien forgot his subject,” who
slowly awoke from her unnatural slumber. Something that? fell upon her*
ear, just as her mind began again to act, impressed her with a strong
desire to hear what they were talking about, and caused her to assume
all the external appearances of unconsciousness that had but a few mo-»
merits before been real. 1■ *
“ Depend upon it,” said the Doctor, ‘»it is possession and ndthmg
else. That girPs body, now, I am satisfied, is in the entire possession
of some spirit, with whom and not with her spirit, you have been
conversing.”
This was what fell upon the ear of Agnes, and arrested her
attention.
«‘That, to me, is inconceivable,” returned Florien. “ If her body
be possessed by another spirit, where is her spirit in the meantime? It
must be either in ór oat of her body. If out of her bodjr, where is it ?
If in her body, how can two spirits be in possession of one bodily
organism at the same time ?”
“ I am yet too ignorant of the laws which govern mere spirits,” said
the Doctor, “ to be able to answer such questions either to your satisfaction
orto my own. But it is much easier for me to believe that a spirit
might take possession, temporarily, of a húman body, thart it is for tné
to beKetfe that the self-cdnsciousness of any one could be destroyed.”
“ This is often destroyed in insane persons,” replied Florien. “ How1
very c<Éam6r»a thing is it for a person who has been deranged fbr years,
to come'out of that statu;*with Only the things that transpired previously
to his falling into it, impressed upon his memory. Do you believe insane
persons to be possessed of spirits ?” J
“ I hav£ always believed that,” said the Doctor. ' 5
“ YoühaVe?” ; [ ; • v * f : -• - * •
“ Yes. Andthis was what led me to think of a mesmerized subject
a6'tn a stafé-of possession, somewhat similar.” • * ;
Agnes felb a Cold shudder run through het frame,' at this remark. To
be possessed of spirits! the thought was horrible. i:
“ Nor am I alone in'this'opinion. In an*old and curious document
TO AGNES; OR, THE POSSESSED: *
Digitized by Google
W jnaatoerfero, W ring the date of Stockholm, June 15, 1787,1 find
this passage.” • »
The Doctot then read from a paper which he drew from his- pocket,
the following -
“ Evety magnetizer, after having brought his patient into a state of
sleep talking, may, at pleasure, not only convince himself that the sleep
’talker is a different beingfrom the p
, but also com
ledge of whothat being is,and of a thousand ot
respecting another life, religious truths, and the inward state of man.
A magnetizer, speaking only to the spirit as to another man, and not to
the sleeper, can by rationally directed, and well digested questions,
render it practicable for the spirit to make itself known, as a being
differentfrom him whose tongue he makes use of. This communication
seems not to fall within the sphere of those beings who speak through thé
organsy
qf the s
l
e
e
p
e
r
, before, by the Lord’s permission those present by
their questions, thus arranged* have opened their way. But every <mé
who will institute these experiments, must be careful not to abuse them
by an improper curiosity ; for such an abuse would not fail to provoke
the infliction of well-deserved chastisement. We make this remark after
mature deliberation, and for reasons which have great influence upon our
hearts ; and are prepared to meet every objection or contradiction, and
even, if necessary, that ridicule and mockery which may be heaped
upon us by the unthinking and spiteful rabble-—
who in every thing of this
description, see nothing but an object of scorn and sarcasm ; for these
persons push their talents high, in never investigating a subject, or to see
it in any other, but that distorted and obscure light, which best suits them.”
•* * • • _ # * ' • » .•
“ The state of the somnambulist, during the magnetic sleep, may be
called ecstatic, in order by that epithet to indicate a suspension of the
functions of the will and u
n
d
e
r
s
t
a
n
d
i
n
g
, in the exercise of which, man’s
ordinary being, or esse consists. Such a state plainly demonstrates, that
whatis said or done through the sleeper’s organs, is not the act cf his
soul, but of some other being who has taken possession of his organs.
So long as the magnetized person exhibits painful paroxysms, Such as
convulsions, &c., it is a sign that the spirit of disease, which certainly
cannot be a benevolent being, is still present ; but this spirit has no
power to speak through the organs of the patient, unless he is fully pos­
sessed { a dreadful condition, of which we have seen some' appalling
examples, of which statements have been prepared, to the truthfulness
of which there are many credible witnesses ; this condition is, to a
certain degree, the same with that of those who are deprived of their
reason.” * ! *
f
• * Letter from the « Exegetical ajid Philanthropic Society*” at Stockholm, to the ^ Sooetie
Jcs Amis Réuni*” at Straeburg; June 15, 1787. '
W
A. BSVBLATION OF MESMERISM. 99
* Digitized by Google
90 AQNE8; OR, THE POSSESSEDt
While the doctor tead this extract, Agnes listened with the most
profound and eager interest.
« 1 do not understand that last part,” said Florien. « What is meant
by the spirit of disease ?”
« The idea entertained by the authors of this document, seems to be,
that, in disease, a certain evil spirit is in the body of the diseased person,
keeping up and increasing the morbid action; and that by magnetising
such a person, a more benevolent spirit takes possession of his body,
and drives out the spfrrt of disease. <So soon,’ says this document, <as
the magnetized person begins to talk in his sleep, it is a sure sign that ft
spiritual being and friendly to the person (as being his guardian angel or
good genius, and possessing the same measure of goodness and wisdom
with the patient) has succeeded, if not entirely to remove the disease or
rather the spirit of the disease, has at least in so far rebuked its influence»
that he, who is a benevolent being, is able to speak and act through
means of the patient’s organs, and to give suitable advice to those present
to promote his recovery; as also to impart information on all subjects
which do not transcend his own knowledge.’”
« AH a mere fancy,” Florien replied to this.
“ It may be in regard to the character of the spirit who speaks by
means of the organs of the subject. Certainly, I for one, would be very
unwilling that any spirit should use my body for his own purposes, or to
subserve the will of a magnetizer.”
“ If your theory, or rather the theory of the authors of the document
you have quoted, be true, would you not be willing to have the <spirit
of disease’ cast.out by means of another spirit ?”
“ I am not so sure that I would,” replied the doctor. « Besides, there
is one fact connected with mesmeric cures, Which has often struck me ?”
«<What is that ?”
“ They are rarely, if ever, permanent.”
Florien sat thoughtful for some time, and then said—
« That does seem to be the case.’ . .
“ I have noticed it in all cases that hare fallen under my observation,”
returned the doetor. « As a means of cure, therefore, it is not to Be
depended upon.”
“ As a means of taking away sensibility to pain, it certaiirfy is of great
importance. We hare both witnessed the performance of long and
dangerous operations that occasioned the patient no suffering whatever.”
“ True. And in this particular I esteem it most highly. But I would
esteem it much higher, if I could fully understand from whence its extra-
prdinary influence proceeds, and could he assured that it did not originate
in something disorderly and evil.”
««Your mind seems to have gotten into a doubting mood,” said Florien.
'«You were,as enthusiastic as myself a short time since.”
' ?*The feet is, Mons. Florien,” said the doctor speaking with a good
Di " ’ ^ by G o O ^ l C
A. REVELATION QF MESM£RJ*M. A
deal of emphasis, « I somehow or other, grow less and less satisfied
with our experiments every day, extraordinary as they are. I am afraid
we will do this excellent young lady some serious harm ; and if such
were to be the case, I should never forgive myself. It is no light thing
to take away the self-consciousness of a human being, and give into the
possession of some spirit, we know not of what nature, the wonderful
organism of his body.”
««But I do not believe that, doctor!” Florien interrupted him by
saying.
<«Or worse, then,” resumed the doctor; ««put his mind under the
control of another’s will. But how this can be, is beyond my conception.
Freedom is one of the essential attributes of the mind, and this is always
accompanied by self-consciousness; you cannot take these away, and
yet give to the mindrational activity, such as is possessed by the sota
nambulist. Therefore, it is clear to my mind, that the sleep-talker is a
different being from the subject, and uses a material tongue not rightfully
bis own.”
In this way the discussion was continued for some time, Agnes giving
to all that was said the closest attention. At length Florien asked whether
they should go on with their experiments then, or restore the subject to
her natural state.
« I think we have pursued the matter far enough to-day,” replied the
doctor.
««Perhaps we have,” said Florien, who stepped towards Agnes, and
made a few reverse passes. She lifted her head, and looked around the
room, but said nothing. Both the doctor and the magnetizer now.asked
her various questions, touching her recollection of what had passed during
the continuance of the mesmeric sleep. Her answers were brief, but
conclusive, as to the entire annihilation of selfconsciousness. They then
retired, and, soon afterwards, the doctor’s wife, and Agnes was left alone
with her own thoughts.
%
Digitized by G o o g l e
AGNES: OR, THE POSSESSED
CHAPTER XIII.
“ Dreadful !” wrs the exclamation of Agnes, rising quickly to her
feet, as the door closed upoi> the trio in whose hands she had been for
nearly two months, and beginning to pace the floor of her chamber with
hurried steps. For at least half an hour she continued to move rapidly
to and fro in her chamber; sometimes clasping her hands together; some*
times binding them across her forehead; and sometimes glancing upward
with a look of anguish and despair. At last, she sunk upon her knees
by her bedside, and burying her face in her hands, remained in this atti­
tude for a long time. When she arose, her countenance was more serene
and hopeful/ She again commenced pacing the floor, but more slowly.
Her mind was acting with a healthy vigor that it had not known for
Weeks. ; 1
“ I must, I will throw off this direful influence,” she said aloud, as she
continued to walk the floor of her chamber. « It cannot be according to
the order of God’s laws, that one of his creatures should be thus enslaved
by another. If I cry to Him, will he not deliver me ? I know He will!
Hitherto I have tried by my own strength alone to break these mystic
fetters. Now I will try in his strength. They talk of benevolent spirits
taking possession of a human body. It may be so; but I wish no
benevolent spirits to take possession of mine* Let me be free—free as
God made me and would keep me! Pain! Disease! You are welcome!
thrice welcome! compared with this terrible state. If this is the price of
exemption, I will not pay it: it is too dear!”
The mind of Agnes rose into a temporary enthusiasm: but still, the
exact mode by which she would seek to resist the mesmerizer’s power
was not determined. Some kind of an invocation to Heaven, when he
came into her presence, and a looking to the Lord for aid and protection,
she felt sure must bring around her such a sphere as would resist the
spell he had hitherto been able to place upon her. The more she
thought of this, the more hopeful did she become. When the wife of
Doctor------came in to see her, as she usually did after she had taken
tea, she found her quite cheerful. While they were conversing, Agnes
said to her suddenly—
Were you ever magnetized ?”
* Yes,” was the unhesitating reply.
« By whom ?”
u By my husband.”
Digitized by »ogle
“ Did Mon£ Florien ever ptit you into the magnetic sleep ?’* • i
“ No. I would not permit any one but my husband to do so.”
“ Why?” asked Aghes, struck with the singularity of the reply.
The woman did not answer the question immediately.
« Why?” repeated Agnes, looking earnestly into the woman’s face.
« I prefer that my husband should do it,” she said, evasively.
“ Cannot Mons. Florien, who possesses such remarkably strong mag­
netic power, put you to sleep, as he does me, without your Consent?” 1
‘ “ No.”
“ Why not?”
“ He has never iffegnetized me. You must first consent to let a
person attempt to magnetize you, before he can have any power over
you.” '
“ Then we are free, absolutely, unless we think proper to part with /
our freedom, by first giving our consent to be magnetized.”
* So I understand it; and for this reason nothing could tempt me to
come into the state of somnambulism, except through my husband.”
“ That you are wise in this respect, my own unhappy case testifies,*
said Agnes, sadly.
' “ You will soon be restored to your friends, I hope,” the woman
Ventured to say.
“ How soon ?” asked Agnes, eagerly.
« I cannot tell how soon.”
“ In a week?”
“ I do not know.”
“ In a month ?”
“ I cannot tell.”
“ In a year ?”
«Do not ask me, for I know nothing certain. But both myself and
husband will do all we can to induce Mons. Florien to complete his
investigations as quickly as possible. Already, great results have been
obtained. To a man of his ardent temperament and love of the science
he is prosecuting so eagerly, it is hard to give up the means by which he
is eliciting so many new and strange phenomena. This stands in the
way of your immediate return to your friends. But, bear it patiently; the
time will soon come.”
Many eager questions arose to the lips of Agnes, but, from motive of
prudence, she forbore asking them. They had reference to the means
by which a magnetizer’s influence might be resisted.
Nearly the whole of that night Agnes lay awake, pondering upon the
one subject nearest her heart. She had tried t prevent Florien from
depriving her of consciousness, by fixing her thoughts intently on some
passage from a favorite author, and thus keeping them in a state of
activity, but without effect. She had also tried to attain the.same result,
by keeping her lover’s image in her mind; also by resolutely determining
A REVELATtCfrN OF MK$MER«$M. Igft
Digitized by Google
1 '
that her Will should not be brought into subjection to th? will of another;
with various other expedients, all equally unavailing. But now she
resolved that she would call in the aid of the All-Powerful.
Towards morning, she-came to a distinct conclusion as to how she
should avail herself of Divine aid. She had been taught, in early years,
that the Lord was present in’his Word to all who read or heard.it read,
provided they were in a state of acknowledgment of the Lord, and reve­
renced his Word as holy^ <
<If an evil spirit approaches to take posses­
sion of my body,” she reasoned, “ when Florien commences to magnetize
me, that spirit will perceive the Word of God in my mind, if I think
intently upon a portion of it, and will be driven a*ay.” The final con­
clusion of Agnes was that she would repeat the Lord’s Prayer, as a portion
of the Word of God, mentally, when the magnetizer again approached
her, and fix her mind intently upon it; continuing to do so as long as he
remained near her. After this determination had been formed, she fell
to sleep, and slept till long after daylight. Her breakfast being served,
Agnes parcook lightly of food, and then waited with an anxious spirit for,
Florien to make his appearance. This he did about ten o’clock, accom­
panied by the Doctor and his wife.
To Agnes, this was a time of fearful interest. The moment her eyes
rested upon Florien* that moment did she commence saying the Lord’s
Prayer, slowly, thinking of the words and their import, as she mentally
repeated them, and elevating her affections in sincere and earnest devo­
tion. She did not reply to any question that was directed to her, nor
notice any remark, but with her hands laid across each other and held
tight to her bosom, and her eyes cast upon the floor, she walked with a
slow and measured pace backwards and forwards in her chamber. There
was some change about her that was immediately perceived by those who
had entered.
After waiting for some moments, Florien fixed his eyes keenly upon
Agnes, contracted his brow, and commenced making a strong mental
effort, This was continued for one, two, three, four, five minutes, but
Agnes still walked the floor, her attitude unchanged, and the expression
of her countenance, except that it was more serene and elevated, the
same. From standing in one position, Florien now commenced walkirfg
by the side of Agnes, occasionally making a pass with his hand, at the
same time that he exercised a more intense effort of his will. But it
availed not. The maiden walked with a firmer step ; and now her eyes
were lifted from the floor and cast upward, while tears fell over her
cheeks.
“ Delivered! and by the power of God!” fell audibly from her lips.
But still she walked the floor, and still were her hands held tightly against
her bosom.
“ Agnes, sit in that chair!” said Florien, speaking in a low, calm, yet
jUrm voice. ’
84 AGNES; QR, THE PQSawSEDr
Digitize .Google
But she gave no heed to his words; still walking backwards and for­
wards, her eyes raised to Heaven, and her lips moving.
««Agnes, if you do not sit down, we will place you in that chair by
force.”
‘This was spoken low, but resolutely. The effect was tne same.
Florien now stepped up to her, and grasping one of her arms tightly,
said—
<
«Doctor, take her other arm. If she will not sit down, we must make
her. I am sorry to use force, but it must be done. experiments
must not be arrested at this important stage.”
The doctor seemed disposed to hesitate, and his wife openly demurred.
Agnes stood passive; her eyes now partly closed and b^r,lips moving.;
Florien grasped her other arm, drew her with some force back to a
chair, and seated her in it. .
««Now, sit there!” he said, preparing to make die ordinary mesmerip
passes. But; Agnes arose quickly.
She was again forced down. The doctor now stood behind her, and,,
placing his hands upon her shoulders, held her strongly in the chair,
while Florien commenced a series of manipulations that were vigorously
continued for full a quarter of an hour.
« It is of no use,” spoke out the doctor, at the end of this time, with­
drawing his agency in the matter, and stepping back a few paces.
« No, Mons. Florien,” said Agnes, rising and looking her persecutor
in the face, with a calm dignity and elevation of countenance ; ««your
power over me is at an end. I am free. I had a friend of whom you
knew nothing. I waited long, too long, before I called upon Him ; but,
when I did call, He came instantly to my aid. That friend is God!”
Agnes raised her eyes, and pointed upward. « Magician, I defy you in
the name of God! You cannot stand against Him!”
Florien was confounded. Before the flashing brightness of Miss Well-
more’s eyes, his own fell to the floor. He was subdued and humbled,
for his power over her was gone. Turning quickly away, he left the
room. As he closed the door after him, Agnes sunk upon the chair from
which she had just risen, the tears gushing fron her eyes and falling over
her cheeks like rain.*
" ' A REVELATION OF MESMERISM. &
*
t
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
m AGNES ; Olt THE POSSKSSED»
CHAPTER XIV.i
\
* •
The doctor and his wife followed quickly after Florien, and the weep-
in girl was left lAone. For a long time her tears flowed freely, but they
•were tears ofjoy at her deliverance.
Both the doctor and Florien, as well as the wife of the former, now
Wld a council‘in relation to the unexpected turn affairs had taken.
“ We must get rid of her as speedily and as safely as possible,” said
the doctor. « If she cannot be magnetized,*she is of no use to us; and
every hour she remains in our possession exposes us to danger. If a
search were now to be made, under a police warrant, as was the case
not long since, she could not be so easily disposed of as she was then by
magnetizing her, and depositing her in a chest under the bed. Discovery*
would be inevitable.”
Florien sat thoughtful with his eyes upon the floor, and did not reply
for some minutes. At length he said—
« I am not yet sure that she is beyond my power. The unusual excite­
ment of mind under which she appears to be laboring, was the real cause
of her non-susceptibility. To-moYfow she will be in a calmer state. Then
you will see her yield as readily as before.”
« I doubt it, very much,” said the doctor’s wife. « There was some­
thing more than excitement offu n d about that girl this morning. Her
manner, looks, and tone of voice, had in them something that I cannot
describe. When she spoke in' those deep, emphatic tones, and defied
you in the name of God, I felt awful. There was a superhuman power
in her words. I felt that she uttered the truth, and that she had on her
side the Friend whose aid she had invoked. As the doctor has said, my
opinion is, that we had better get her away as quickly as possible.”
« All that was put on for effect,” replied Florien, with an expressfbn
•f disgust and impatience. “ I will try my skill again to-morrow.” <
“ You may do as you like, Mons. Florien, so far as that goes,” said
the doctor, “ but for me, I shall Remove my furniture to-day, and make
til needful preparations for leaving the city as speedily as possible. With
my wife, I am of opinion, that you cannot again put this girl to sleep ;
and this being the case, t don’t see how she is to be taken back to her
friends, without her perceiving the way by which she goes back; and
being able to give them some clue by which we may be discovered
Already we are under suspicion. Both the young man, her lover, and
the police have their eyesjipon us.”
Digitized by G o o g l e
« You are too easily alarmed, Doctor. I would not think of acting so
precipitately.”
<
<This is a senous business, Mons. Florien. A discovery may cost us
dear. I am for getting into a place of safety while I can. My furniture
I shall at once remove, and have it stored in the warehouse of my friend
S------. Then I shall be ready to leave the city, if necessaiy, at a mo­
ment’» warning.”
“ Do you approve of this course ?” said Florien, turning to the doctor’s
wife.
-« I certainly do,” she replied. A wise man foreseeth the efil and
hideth himself.”
“ Well, I shall not attempt to control your movements. But as for
me, I shall not give up my subject yet. She is by far too valuable.
Having taken so much trouble, and run so much risk, I am not disposed
to yield my advantage now. To-morrow I will make another attempt,
and if I succeed, I’ll have her ia New Orleans before three weeks pass
over our heads.”
*
«As you like,” said the doctor, rising and ending the conference.
“ As for me, I shall at once proceed to do what I have said. Anna,”
addressing his wife, “ make all your arrangements for having the things
moved. I will go down and see S— , and return immediately with
cars.” t
Agnes saw no one until two o’clock, when the doctor’s wife came ia
with her dinner ; but she noticed that there was an unusual bustle, noise
and loud talking through the house. This continued during the day.
Once she heard voices near her door, ancj^istened eagerly. She could
distinctly hear M rs.------saying with some energy,
“ No, no, no! I gave her my promise, at the first, that while here,
*you should not see her, unless' in my presence. This promise I have
religiously kept, and I mean to keep k. She is at least entitled to some
consideration.”
The reply to this Agnes ctuld not distinctly hear. It was made m a
passionate manner. AH she could make out, was that the speaker, who
was Florien, would soon have her beyond her or any body else’s control.
The prisoner shuddered, and leaned against the wall, sick and faint.
Half an hour afterwards she head'd some one approach the door,—the
footsteps were those of a man—and apply a key to the lock. Agnes
stood breathless with alarm. After trying the key for some rinke, without
being able to make it spring the bolt, it was withdrawn and the person-
went away. Three times during the afternoon were similar attempts
made, but none of them proved successful.
That night, to* Agnes, was a sleepless one. At day-dawn she arose,
feverish, anxious, and excited. What she heard Florien say at the door
bad filled her with alarm. The prospect of her release was still remote.
A REVELATION OF MESMERISM. 87
Digitized by G o o g l e
A0NE8; OS THE POSSESSED:
He, it yras evident, was not disposed to let her go. When M rs.------
camp in with her breakfast, looking unusually serious, Agnes asked liet
many -questions; but the woman, while she spo^e kindly, and even
tenderly to her, evaded them all. As she was going out, she said, look­
ing earnestly in her face,
, u Continue to resist,, in Heaven’s name ! It is your only hope.”
«In Heaven’s name I will resist!” Agnes replied, glancing upwards.
In an hour afterwards, Florien, the doctor and his wife came into her
room, when a scene almost precisely like the one we have described as
taking place on the day previous occurred. The magnetizer again com­
pletely failed in his art, and retired discomfitted and angry.
How to get Agnes away, now became a serious question. The doctor
¿proposed to wait until night, and then remove her under cover of the
darkness to the house of a friend ; and from thence take her somewhere
*out of the city. But Florien, whose mind was fretted, became impatient,
and insisted upon her being removed at once, and in order that this might
be done, he went out and procured a carriage. When he returned,
there arose a warm discussion between him and the doctor. The latter
urged that it would be next to madness to attempt to take Agnes away
in broad daylight.
« She has but to cry out, struggle against us, and call for help, the
moment she passes beyond the door, and then we stand at once ex­
posed.”
« Gag her!” returned Florien, angrily.
«That shall not be done,” said the doctor’s wife, with indignant
warmth. « Humanity has some claims. Better deceive her by a promise
of restoration at once to her friends. Say that you are about to take her
to the steamboat, or railroad office, and send her home. If you say this,
there will be no trouble. And in my opinion, you had better do it as •
well as say it. I believe she wquld pledge herself to secrecy if you
were to release her now.”
« I wouldn’t give a snap for all such pledges,” returned Florien.
« But if you can deceive her, and thus make her quiet, you may do so.
.As to going back, really, that is yet out of the question.”
« You will be wise, Mons. Florien,” said’the doctor, «if you abandon
your subject while there is a chahce of doing so. A day—an hour—
,
and it may be too late.”
« N o; I will not,” replied the Frenchman, passionately. « Having
gone this far, I will go to the end.”
« As you like,” said the doctor. « But we will wash our hands clean,
from this time.’*
« Very well. I will take the responsibility. The girl cannot go
bpck.”
« Mons. Florien,” s&jd the doctor’s wife,« Consider.”
*
- Digitized by G o o g l e
A fcEVELATtoif OF M£SSM&Ai8lI.
« I will consider nothing butjhe success of my experiments.”
Just then the street door bell was rung loudly. In a little while it
was rung again with an energy that caused the trio to start and look
with alarm into each other’s faces. Then they heard soite one entering
by way of the basement, and ascending the stairs with the quick heavy
tread of a man upon some exciting errand. Instinctively they retired
with noiseless steps to the nnm occupied by Agnes, and fastened the
door on the inner side. Agnes had heard the loud ringing of the bell,
and also the rapid tread of the person who had entered* There was
something familiar in that step which caused her heart to bound and her
cheek to flush with eager excitement. She was in an attitude of deep
attention when they entered. Without a moment’s hesitation, Flotieit
drew a handkerchief over her mouth and forced her down upon a chair,
saying at the same time, in a low voice to his companions,
«
*Assist me to keep her quiet or all is lost!”
The doctor and his wife gave the required aid, &ndc thus they*
awaited the result. Soon the person who had entered the house, knocked
loudly at the door. Agnes struggled hard to get the bandage from her
mouth, that she might cry out, but Florien teld it firm. There was a
pause, and then, with a loud crash, the door sprung from its hinges and
Ralph Percival stood before them.
, 4
Digitized by b o o g i e
A0NE8; OB, THS P088B88B9 :
CHAPTER XV.
Thc recovery of Ralph Percival from the illness which had been
brought on by. over excitement attending his search for Agnes, was much
slower than it would have been had the cause of excitement not continued
to exist. The absence of the one he loved, and the fearful uncertainty
attending that absence, kept his mind in a constant state of feverishness.
Polly a week before he was in a condition to leave his room, Ralph, in
the face of an earnest protest from his physician, left the village of M----
and proceeded by the most rapid conveyances to New York. From the
moment reason became active, after the violence of his disease bad
abated, Rafph entertained but one idea on the subject of Miss Well-
more’s absence. He believed her to be in the hands of Florien, and a
prisoner in the house of Dr. T------ in Greenwich street, New York.
This belief he had affirmed to those around him before it was possible
for him to leave bis room, and by them it had been conveyed to the
police officer in New York who bad the matter in charge» This officer,
however, Bent back word in a few days, that, under the authority of the
mayor, he had proceeded to the house designated, and searched it care­
fully, but without finding any thing to confirm the suspicions that had
been entertained.
On arriving in New York, Ralph called upon this officer.
“ Have you nothing encouraging yet ?” asked the young man, as be
took the officer’s hand.
“ Nothing, I am sorry to say,” returned the officer. Then be added,
in a changed voice, « But, my dear sir! you are not in a condition to
be here* Your right place is in bed, and under the care of a doctor.
Did your physician consent to your leaving home ?”
“ I came without his consent. I would have died had I remained
longer inactive, while the fate of one in whom I have so deep an interest
is shrouded in such a fearful mystery. I must See Dr. T------myself,
ancf must, myself, go over his house and look in every nook and corner.
Nothing less will satisfy me'.”
«But I have, myself, searched that house, Mr. Percival,” returned
the officer, “ and can assuife you on the very best testimony, that of my
own eyes, that she is not there.”
“ They may have conveyed her away at that time. You went with a
formal process, and gave them warning.”
« How else will you go ?” asked the officer.
, “ I will go unannounced and unattended. I will enter without asking
. i •
* Digitized by Google
permission, and force myself into eveiy chamber in the house! I will
See every thing just as it is.”
« The experiment may prove a c(ang!$ous one, my young friend,”
replied ths officer. «You may be thrown from the house by the out­
raged owner, or handed over to the police,?’
« If the latter should occur, I will call upon you to explain my position,
I shall not be very severely handled by your mayor. But it is no use
for us to talk about this matter • I must see into that house! I care not
for the consequences.”
« When do you purpose going?”
« Immediately.”
“ Defer it for a couple of hours,” said the officer, « when I will go
with you to the neighborhood, and be in attendance with two or three
stout men, who will render you any assistance that may be needed.” •
To this Ralph agreed. But it soon afterwards occurred to him that
the officer might only be going to take steeps to prevent his doing what
that individual evidently looked upon as rash, improper and useless.
The moment this occurred to him, he left his room at the hotel, and
hurried off in the direction of Dr. T— 1
’spouse. 0
By this time Ralph was in a high state of excitement, as might well be
supposed. When he left home he had only walked out three or four
times, and then only for a very short distance. Then it was with slow •
and unequal'steps. But now he walke^ erect, and with a firm tread.
His mind had risen superior to the weakness ¿f his iqfirm, body.
« She is there! I know she is there,?’ he muttered as he strode along.
« If I find Aim—cursed villain!” ,The lips of Ralph parted with a grim
smile, and he made an unconscious gesture, that caused people who
were passing near him, to turn round and follow him with their eyes. On
he went, at a rapid pace, seeing nothing around him but the guiding
forms of the houses that lined* his way. To Ralph, in his feverish state of
mind, the impression that Agnes was in the house of Dr. T------was as
distinct as if he had received undoubted evidence of the fact; and he hur­
ried on towards the place with an eagerness that gave wings to his feet.
« This is the place, surely!” he at length said, stopping in the neigh­
borhood of the house where he remembered to have been when last in
New York. But now he looked from door to door, without seeing the
name of Dr. T------- He tried to recall the number but his memory failed
him, although when he arrived in the city, he recollected jyt distinctly.
A carriage stood in front of the house he supposed to be the one of which
he was in search. At the house adjoining H
fe rang the bell and inquired
where Dr. T—— lived.
“ He did live next door,” was received for an answer.
« Does he not live there now ?” .
« No. The family have moved away.”
“ Do you know where they have gone ?” i
A REVELATION OF MESMERISM. 9J
Digitized by G°ogie
*
' «N o, sir.”
« When did they move ?”
« They moved out yesterday.’’
« There is a carriage before the door,” said Ralph. * •
« That’s for the house above, I reckon,” was replied. And the ser­
vant closed the door in his face.
The young man descended the steps that led up to the door, and now
perceived that the house where Dr. T------had lived, was shut up.
« Is any one in this house ?” he asked of the driver, who sat on the
box of his carriage, immediately in front.
« Yes sir,” was replied.
« Are you sure ?” asked Ralph.
« Oh, yes. I just brought a man here, and am waiting to take him
and some others away.”
« Where are you going to take them ?” ■
k « 1 don’t know. He hasn’t told me yet.”
Ralph eagerly ascended the steps, and pulled the bell. After waiting
fbr half a minute, he rang it again, three or four times, jerking the bell
Dandle violently. But no one answered the call.
« Are you sure there is any one within ?” he said to the driver.
. « Certainly I am ! Didn’t I tell you I just brought a man here ?” ,
replied the driver.
Ralph pulled at the bell again with a vigor that made the tingling
response it gave distinct in the street for half a block or more.
« Try the door. Perhaps it is open,” suggested the driver.
' After waiting for a few moments for an answer to this summons, Per-
cival took hold of the door knob and turned it. But them was no ingress.
Lock or bolt held it fast.
In the bewildered eagerness of the moment, the excited young man
threw himself against the door, in the vain effort to force it open. But it
did not yield to the shock.
« Try the basement,” said the man on the box.
«T ry what
« The basement door. That may be open.”
1 Ralph ran »quickly down into the area, dhd was fortunate enough to
find the door there unlocked. He entered, and passed hurriedly up the.
Stairs. All was still and deserted. The rooms had been stripped of
their furniture, and echoed loudly to his heavy tread. In the parlors he
found no one. Up to the chambers, in the second story, he went, but
all was tenantless there. His heart sunk in bis bosom—he paused a
moment; but a movement overhead caused him to bound wildly up to the
third story. The doors of all the chambers stood open but one, and that,
upon placing his hand upon the lock, be found to be fastened.
He knocked, and waited for a moment, or two. But no one answered,
yet he could distinctly hear the movement of persons within. He
¿2 AGNES; OK, THE POSSESSED f
Digitized by G o o g l e
knocked again, and louder. But there was no reply. Then stepping
back a few paces, he threw himself against the door with his utmost force.
It flew open end he stepped into the room. The sight that met his ejes,
made his br^n, already whirling, perfectly wild. Agnes sat directly in
front of the door, with a bandage over her mouth, which was held by
Florien, while Dr. T------, whom he remembered, and a woman, were
endeavoring to hold her fast. Maddened by the sight, Ralph instantly
<lrew a pistol and fired upon the magnetizer. At the same instant, Agnes,
with a wild scream threw herself into his arms, and both sunk insensible
to the floor.
A REVELATION OF MESMERISM. (ft
%
/
Digitized by
1
Google
94 AQNE8; OR THE POSSESSED!
CHAPTER XVI.
The officer, after leaving Ralph, bad not gone far, before it occurred to
him that the young man might not wait his return,“but go immediate]/
upon his reckless errand. This thought caused him to go back to the
hotel. As he had feared, he found that Ralph had left. The officer
started at once in pursuit of. him, for he did not doubt but that he had
gone to the house of Doctor T ------. On arriving there he found the
door standing open;—and, as the doctor’s sign was down, and the house
seemed to ^ vacant, he entered without ringing.. He had advanced but
a few steps along the passage, when something on the door attracted his
attention. Stooping down he examined it closely, and then said as he
rose up—
«Blood, as I live!”
He could now see, from this point, a dark red trail along the passage
and up the stairs. This h‘
e followed quickly, until be arrived at the third
story, where were several large pools of blood. Still following the marks,
he entered a chamber, and there found the individual for whom he was
in search, lying upon the floor, with a female form beside him—both insen­
sible. A pistol lay near them:
The officer was about turning away to go for assistance, when the
female sighed, uttered a moaning sound and rose up slowly. It was
some moments before she had sufficient command of her senses to under­
stand where she was, and comprehend the reality of her position. As
all this grew clear, she uttered an-exclamation, and stooping down
attempted to raise the insensible form of her companion. The officer,
whom she had not observed, now stepped forward, saying, as he did so,
“ Let me assist you to place him on the bed.”
, Agnes Wellmore started at the sound of his voice, and turning, looked
wildly at the stranger. Her lips moved, but she' could not utter a word.
“ I am a friend,” said the officer, stooping as he said this, and lifting
the body of Ralph, which he laid upon the bed. After a slight exami­
nation he asked if the young man had received a blow.
“ I cannot tell,” returned £.gnes. «
<I only know that he came and
delivered tne out of their hands.”
«
«A pistol has been fired, and there is blood upon the floor. Whose
blood is it ?”
“ Blood!” exclaimed Agnes, shuddering, as her eyes rested upon a
number of little dark pools and large red stains upon the floor.
“ It is blood, but not his blood,” said the officer, seeing the eyes of
Digitized by Go e
A REVELATION OF MESMERISM 95
Agnes glance from the floor to the bed. “ He has béen 111, and over
excitement has paralyzed his brain. I will go for a physician imme­
diately.”
“ Ob, sir, dp not leave me!” exclaimed Agnes, as the officer moved
towards the door. “ I dare not remain here a single moment without a
protector! They will take me away where no one can find me.”
“ Who will take you away ?” #
They who have kept me a prisoner so long. Oh! sir* in pity, ao
not leave me!”
' “ Then I will just go to the street door, and send a messenger,” said
the officer. “ Do not fear. Your persecutors will not return again.”
He then went down and stopped a carriage that happened to be passing.
With the assistance of the driver, Ralph was removed from the chamber
and placed in the vehicle. The trunk of Agnes was lashed on behind,
and then all three were driven to the hotel which the young i^ n had left
but a short time before.
The poor, bewildered, excited captive hardly understood whether she
were free or not, until their arrival at the hotel. Many times, as the
carriage dashed rapidly along, she was on the point of crying aloud to the
passengers in the street; but she restrained herself.
Ralph was still insensible. The officer had him conveyed to his room
and a physician instantly summoned.
“ What is the cause of this condition ?” was his first inquiry on seeing
the patient.
« He has been highly excited,” replied the officer, who was still in
attendance.
“ Has he been sick ?”
. “ Yes. Very ill, and from a sudden prostration like this. Anxiety,
excitement, aqd want of sleep produced fever and delirium. From this
he was but half recovered, when he left home and came on to this city
in search of a friend who had mysteriously disappeared. An hour ago
he found that friend under circumstances calculated to excite the strongest
mind. The agitation it produced was too powerful. And here is the result.”
The doctor asked no more. The officer’» explanation made the cast
clear.
Agnes, with a pale face and lips apart, stood eagerly listening to dVery
word.
“ Is his life in danger ?” she huskily whispered.
The doctor looked at her for a moment, and then, without replying,
resumed the thoughtful attitude he had taken after the officer h&d ceased
speaking. The pulse of the insensible man was in his hand.
«‘ Speak, in the name of heaven, Doctor!” exclaimed Agnes, with a
wild look and gesture. “ Is he in danger ?”
The doctor started in surprise, and glanced first at Agnes and then at
the officer.
Digitized by Google
96 AGNES; OK, THB POSSESSED:
« If there is hope, doctor, say so,” spoke up the latter, in an earnest
voice.
« There is always hope,” was replied, and the physician resumed his
musing air. After determining what was best to be done, he ordered
the necessary treatment, and then retired to have a more particular con­
versation with the officer, who related as much of what had occurred as
he deemed useful for the doctor to know.
The narrative deeply interested the physician, at the same time that it
excited his indignation at the outrage that had been practised upon Agnes.
« She, too, may stand in need of medical treatment,” be said. « The
agitation of the moment, after the long period of excitement through
which she has no doubt passed, may prove too much for her physical
strength Has she no friends in the city ?”
« I do not know.”
<
<She o^ght to have. Her position among strangers is a delicate one.”
« It is, certainly.”
« Had you not better have an interview with her on the subject ?” said
the physician.
« Perhaps it would be better for you, doctor, to have some conversa­
tion with the young lady. I never saw her until an hour ago. Your
profession gives you a right to approach her which I do not possess.”
The doctor reflected a moment or two, and then said he would return
and have some conversation with Agnes.
When he re-entered the apartment, he found the young lady bending
over the insensible form of Ralph, weeping passionately. She arose as
he came in, and made an effort to restrain the outgushing of her feelings.
« Calmness, my dear madam,” said the doctor, « is, at this time, of
all things, most important. You are not, yourself, in a condition to bear
excitement, and, by yielding to your feelings, may put it out of your
power to render that attention to this person which his case needs.”
« I will try and be calm, doctor,” returned Agnes, making an effort to
Control herself. «But, oh! tell me truly, is there any hope?”
“ In my mind there is great hope,” replied the doctor, yet speaking
hi a voice that brought but little hope to the mind of her whose heart
was-so eager for a word of encouragement. <
<Still, I must not conceal
the Act, that the case is a critical one, and will require the most careful
attention, both on the part of nurse and physician.”
« I will be his nurse,” said Agnes, quickly.
« You look more like becoming the tenant of a sick chamber,” replied
the doctor. « You had better let me provide an experienced nurse.”
h Oh, no! no!” quickly answered Agnes. « That office must not be
in any hands but mine. I am not sick.”,
“ Have you friends in the city ?” asked the doctor.
Agnes said no.
« Are you certain ? Think.”
Digitized by G o o g l e
A REVELATION Of MESMERISM.
« l know of none in the city.”
« Is there no one here acquainted with your family ?”
Agnes thought for a little while, and then shook her head.
« Has this young m^tn friends in the city ?”
« I do not know of any.”
« You will write to your friends at home ?”
« Oh, yes ; the moment I canVrite.” :i
Agnes then turned towards the bed upon which Ralph lay, and said—
« How still he lies, doctor! he looks as if he were dying.”
« His vital system acts but feebly. But, in time, I hope to see him
rally. He has been fearfully excited.”
The doctor then asked a question touching her recent strange imprison*
ment; but she seemed to shrink from him, and avoided making any
answer.
<
<I will leave a prescription for you,” said the physician thinking it
best to pursue his inquiries no further at that time,—« you will send
out for it, and be sure to take it, for, unless you do, you may not be able
to bear up under the fatigue of watching in a sick chamber.”
Agnes promised to do as he wished. After repeating some directions
in regard to Ralph, the doctor retired, promising to call again that night.
As soon as the officer saw that the young man had all proper attention,
he started forth, determined if the parties who had acted so foul a part
with Agnes were in New York, that he would ferret them out, and bring
them to justice. The insensible condition of the young man deprived
him of all the information he would otherwise have been able to give,
which might have offered a clue to the certain detection of the guilty
parties.
He first proceeded to the house where Agnes had been found, and
made a careful examination of the premises. It was plain that the pistol
of Ralph had done some execution, for blood had flowed in liberal
quantities. It was most probable, the officer concluded, that some one
had been dangerously wounded.
After remaining here for a short time, he went to the adjoining house.
« Who lived in the house next to you ?” he asked of a servant who
came to the door. *
« I don’t know,” was replied. #
« Did you never see any of them ?”
« Sometimes. Not often.”
« When did they go away ?”
« They moved their things yesterday.”
« Did you see any of them here to-day ?”
«Yes.”
« How long ago ?”
« A couple of hours, I suppose. I saw a sick man taken off nr a
carriage ”
V
Digitized by Google-
A0NE8 ; OR, THE P088B88ED ;
«W ith a lady?”
« Yes.”
* Did you see any one leave before that ?
“ No, I did not; but our*chambermaid says she heard a pistol go oiT
in the house, and directly after it two men and a woman came out and
got into a carriage that was standing before the door, which drove off at
full gallop.” v
<
<Ah, indeed! Is the chambermaid at home ?”
* ‘►She is.”
“ Just ask her to step here, if you please.”
The man hesitated a little, and then went in and called the chamber­
maid.
“ Did you notice what color the carriage was ?’*asked the officer.
The girl thought a little while, and then said, « green.”
“ Are you sure ?”
“ Oh, yes.”
« I suppose you did not know the coachman ?”
<
«Oh, yes. His name is Barney Megan.”
«‘ Thank you,” said the officer, abruptly turning away. He knew
Barney very well, add in ten minutes afterwards found him at his regular
stand.
<
<Well, Barney,” said he, coming up to him.
Barney touched his hat.
« Barney, you took two men and a«woman from a house in Greenwich
street, between two and three ho.urs ago.”
So I did.”
“ Where did you drive them ?”
« To a house in West Broadway.* 1
“ Can you take me there ?”
“ Oh, yes.”
“ One of the men bad been shot, was he much hurt ?”
“ I don't know but I should think he was. He bled a good deal in
the carriage. I had to wash it out.”
“ Which one was hurt ?”
“ The one with the spectacles and big whiskers.”
“ Humph! The ball went right ” «
“ You know who he is ?”
« Perhaps I do. But here ; drive me down to West Broadway, and
let me out half a block from the house;” and the officer entered the
coach.
The driver' did as desired, but the inmates of the house positively
denied the fact stated, and appeared very much astonished at the perti­
nacious officer, who, in spite of protestation, still lingered and insisted
that the persons be sought must be in the house.
At last, however, he bad to retire, completely baffled. Barney was
Digitized by Google
I
positive that he had taken the officer to the right place, and the people at
the house were just as positive that no persons answering the description
given, had ever been there,—and beyond this, not a step could be taken.
It was all in vain that the house was watched, and, finally, entered and
searched. No trace of the fugitives appeared, and the pursuit was, at
last, after new efforts to get upon their track, hopelessly abandoned.
When the doctor called, late in the evening, to see his patient, he
found but little change. He lay in a deep quiet, while the irregular
action of his low pulse showed that, feeble as it was, the vital action was
much disturbed.
Agnes was restless, and exhibited a most nervous state of anxiety.
All that could be said to quiet her was urged by the doctor, but with
little effect. The fears of the unhappy young lady, were too highly
excited. In spite of remonstrance on her part, the doctor insisted upon
the attendance of an experienced nurse, in whose care he placed both of
his patients.
The morning brongbt little change, except that Ralph had become
restless, and muttered and talked in his delirium.
Ten days elapsed before reason again shed its light upon the young
man’s mind. Under the skilful treatment of bis* judicious medical
attendant, his bodily powers slowly recovered from their great prostration,
but his mind still continued to wander. With what tender solicitude did
Agnes now watch over him! How earnestly did she seek to penetrate
with her loving voice the shut door Af his reason, and awaken it from its
long slumber! Every expression oHiis eye, every inflection of his Yoice
was noted, half hoping, half desponding, hour after hour; yet there were
but few signs of returning intelligence.
One day she was sitting near him and looking sadly into his pale face.
His eyes were closed in sleep, and had been s^ for an unusually long
space of time. The physician bad left half an hour before, and pro-
npunced him much better. His sleep was so easy and natural that he
would not have him disturbed. While Agnes sat thus looking at him,
his eyes opened and became fixed upon her with an expression so dif-#
ferent from what they had worn, that she knew, in an instant, that reashn
had returned. After looking at her for some time, without speaking,
Ralph closed his eyes again, but there was an expression of intelligence
upon bis face, and his brow contracted, showing that he was in earnest
thought. When he opened them again, he said, in a low, feeble voice,
while a faint smile played over his features—
“ It is not a dream! You are safe, Agnes?”
“ Yes, safe; and saved by you, Ralph,” replted the maiden, in a low, •
tender voice. « But don’t think of this, now. You have been very ill;
and your physician enjoins quiet and freedom from all excitement.”
« Where am I ?” asked the invalid.
A REVELATION OF MESMERISM. 00
Digitized by Google
no AGXB*; 08, T É E
« In your own room, at the hotel.”
r « In New York?”
“ Yes.” •
« Where is that Florien H
*
“ I do not know.” A shadow fell opon the brow of Agnes.
“ Is he dead?”
*
«I cannot tell. I hare heard nothing of him since the motaing you
delivered me from his power; and hope I will neither see him, nor hear
of, him again. But you must not think of this now. Perfect quiet is
absolutely essential.” 1
. Ralph was about replying, when Agnes placed her fingers upon bis
lips, saying as She did so,
“ Your physioian’s orders are imperative. Yoar life depends upon
yo*r freedom from excitement. In a few days you will be able to con­
verse on this subject freely, but, until then, it must not be alluded to.”
It required apowerful effort on the part of Agnes to maintain an appear­
ance of composure. An impulse that it was almost impossible for her
to control, impelled her to throw,herself id a passionate burst of tears
upon the bosom of her lover, and weep herself there into calmness. But
such an act, she felt, would have perilled his life, and she therefore laid
her hand upon her wildly throbbing heart, and held it down.
For an hour, almost, Ralph lay with his eyes resting upon the face of
Agnes, who sat holding one of his hands. When he attempted to speak,
she would lay her finger upon his li^ and whisper:
« You must not talk now.”
By the next day he was so much better, that Agnes ventured to answer
a few of the eager questions that were on his lips; but her replies sent the
flush of indignation so suddenly to his face, that she found it necessary
to fall back again into sijence.
« Wait, wait,” she said tenderly; « only wait a little while, and you
shall know all. But now you are too weak to think about so exciting a
subject.” v
* “ I know I am,” he said; «but tell me one thing,—have they got
that villain ?”
« No. He escaped the officer, although every effort was made to
arrest him.”
•<
*Perhaps he is dead. Blood, you say, was on the door. I may have
killed him.”
« I do not know. But don’t let us talk of this now.”
“ If living,*he will remember me for life, as I will remember him,”
said Ralph, while a fluslTof angry exultation glanced over his face.
« You must—you must be quiet, Ralph!” exclaimed Agnes, in alarm/
“ Remember, it is ten days since—” ■
«W hen?”
Digitized by Google1
A REVELATION OF MESMERISM. 101
<
<Since you were laid upon this bed; and unless you dismiss this
subject from your mind, and remain composed, it may be ten days longer
before you rise‘from it, if you rise at all.”
« Ten days!” said Ralph, in a surprised voice. « Ten days! so long ?”
« It has been a long sleep, Ralph. But you are awake now; and it
will be your own fault if you sleep again.”
The young man appeared surprised. He gave a long sigh, and then
closed his eyes and lay very still
From this time, the recovery of Ralph was rapid. In a week he was
able to sit up and walk about his chamber. Then he received from
Agnes a full history of all that had trahspired from the time he had parted
with her at M— , until the exciting moment when he burst into her
prison-house, and delivered her from the hands of her tormentors.
Whatever of painful doubt and fear had lingered in the mind of Ralph,
was fully dispelled by this narrative, which was given with all the art
lessness and pathos of truth. The account she gave of the manner in
which she had resisted the magnetizer’s spell, deeply moved him.
« What an infernal power!” exclaimed Percival, after Agnes had con­
cluded her history.
« Thank God; that I am delivered from this power of evil!” fervently
responded the yopng laity. “ There was a time when I despaired. Like
a bird in the charmer’s circle, I could not resist the spell that was on me.
But, in my own utter weakness, there came deliverance from above.”
As soon as Ralph had gained sufficient strength to bear the fatigue of
travel, they left New York and returned home. Up to this time, not a
whisper of intelligence in regard to Florien had reached their ears. It
was plain that the shot fired by, the young man had wounded him
severely, perhaps fatally. He might have died, and the cause of his
death been concealed by his friends; or he might still be suffering from
the injury he had received from the ball. It would have been some
satisfaction to have known his fete.
The return of Agnes to her old home, created almost as much excite­
ment as did her abduction. But there were a few who could not credit
her relation. That was asking too much of their credulity. They had
seen some of the minor wonders of animal magnetism, and doubted, even
while they looked on the evidence of their own senses.
« It is all very well for Ralph Percival to believe her story, if he is
simple enough,” one would remark aside to his friend ; “ but I would
need rather more evidence than any young lady’s simple statement to
make me credit it. Carried off b'y a mesmerizer against her consent, and
kept the slave of his will for a period of weeks! That’s rather too tough
for me.”
“ And for me too,” replies the friend. “ I can believe a good deal,
but that is rather too tough. Miss Wellmore is certainly the last one 1
could have believed guilty of an error such as the circumstances of the
7
Digitized by b o o g i e
:
9ft AOIfBSj OR THÉ PO«969800
*
case presuppose. But I could.bekeve her to have wandered, rather
than credit her statement.” <
y Remarks like these were not of rare occurrence. Some, with less
delicacy of feeling, or with an utter want of thought, would hint their
scepticism in regard to the mesmeric power exercised over Agnes, even
to Ralph himself, much to his annoyance. Occasionally a doubt would
intrude itself upon the young man’s mind, and he would struggle to expel
it, though jiot always wiih success.
The time for the marriage, as determined upon m the fall previous,
drew near, and both Ralph and Agnes made preparation for the nuptial
ceremonies.
One evening, a few weeks previous to the wedding day, Agues, as
soon as Ralph entered, said, with unusual animation—
« I have, at last, intelligence of that Florien.”
«Indeed! From where?W
« Here is a letter from the wife of Doctor T— —. It is witnout date,
but bears the New York post mark. It was sent to that city, she says,
by the hand of a friend.”
Ralph took the letter and read it hastily. The following is a portion
of its contents.
« You doubtless wish to bear what has becoihe of Mons. Florien. He
was wounded in the arm by the person who broke into your room on the
morning when we all separated for the last time in terror and confusion.
vThe bone was badly fractured, and produced inflammation ; this, from
same cause or other, could not be allayed, and mortification ensued.
The consequence was, that the arm had to be amputated, to save his
life. He suffered a great deal of pain. A month ago he returned to
Prance. He often expressed regret at his conduct towards you ; and
now thinks that the end be had in view did not fully justify the means
he made use of. He says that he has enough of magnetism. And so, I
can assure you, have both my husband and myself. For the part we
took, I may at least be permitted to ask your forgiveness. I protected
you as fully as was in my power, and never permitted Florien to see you
except* in my presence. He often desired to do so, but I faithfully
adhered to the pledge I gave you. *It may be but right for me here to
say, that I never left you while you were in the magnetic state, and that
- during these times, your person was held sacred from all unwarrantable
liberties. You returned to your friends as pure as when you left them.
May die God you so successfully invoked in your distress, bless you, and
make your future life happy !”
Percival drew a long breath as he finished reading this letter.
« Punished, but too lightly,” said he. « Well ! let him go, and bear
with him for life the sign of his iniquity. He was in the service of a hard
master, and, verily he has his Tew
ard.”
Whatever of unpleasant doubt had remained on the mind of the young
Digitized by Google
¥
A REVELATION OF MESMERISM. 103
man, as he looked forward to a union with Agnes, was removed by this
letter. In due time the marriage was celebrated, and in the quiet joys
of wedded life they forgot the wild excitement of that brief period in
which a disorderly, and, therefore, evil power, possessed the mind of
Agnes, and destroyed her freedom to will and act from the dictates of
reason.
Let all who wish to retain, undisturbed, the free volition that God has
given them, be warned by this example. Though the history be fictious,
the power of mesmeric agency has not been in the least exaggerated, as
* any one who cares to inform himself may know.
. To all, the writer would say, Beware of mesmerism! Its origin is
in perverted order, and it cannot, therefore, have a good influence.
Digitized by b o o g i e
APPENDIX.
It cannot but prove interesting to the readers of the preceding nar.a*
tive, to have some well authenticated facts educed, touching the mesmera?
. phenomena, from the thousands that are published. In the first extract *
given, it will he seen that we did not in the least exceed the record m
the experiments described as having been made by Florien. Deleuze
relates the following: I
« Dr. C. then requested a tumbler of water to be brought, and after
drinking about half of it himself, he roused Miss B., who had apparently
sunk into a profound and quiet sleep, as she afterwards did repeatedly,
and requested her to drink some of it. She did so, when Mr. H. drew
to a corner of the room, And, after writing on a slip of paper, beckoned
me to him and simply held the paper before me, on which was written,
<Will the contents of the tumbler to be castor oily or words to that effect.
He then beckoned to Dr. C., who went to him, and reading the sentence,
indicated by a nod that he woul4 cheerfully do it, and retaking his seat,
which was placed between two and thr$e feet before Miss. B., he said,
without moving a limb, or uttering a syllable more, <Come, Lurena,
drink a little of this, and you will feel better, I think;’ alluding, as I sup­
posed, to a severe headache, of which she had spoken to us in the course-
of our conversation, before the Doctor’s entrance. She raised the tumbler
to her bps, and suddenly replaced it in her lap, with evident nausea and
aversion. Dr. C. <Come, drink a little of it. It is very good.’ Miss
B .«Good!’ moving her lips,«you know it is not good!’ Dr. C .«Why ?’
Miss B. <Why ? It makes me sick.’ Dr. C .«0, no; drink one mouth­
ful.’ She did so; and had she witnessed the ceremony of taking pure
castor a thousand times, the apparent effect on her could not have been
more true to nature. Mr. H. again summoned the doctor, and whispered
toa low to be heard by any other person in the room, <Willy , that it
is snuff? He returned, and repeated only words resembling those used
in the first experiment. On looking into the tumbler, she seemed to
smile ironically, and said, *Drink this! drink this/ you know I cannot
with an expression of countenance which any one, seeing snuff to be the
contents of a tumbler about to be drank off*, must have assumed. I then
104
Digitized by b o o g i e
APPENDIX. 1«
requested Dr. C., in the samemanner, to ‘will it to bepleasant lemonade.’
After long persuasion, without a word or gesture, however, which could
have indicated the nature of my request, on Dr. C.’s part, she put the
tumbler cautiously to her lips, and tasting, drank the whole of the water
that remained. Drv C. <Well, Lurena, how do you like that?’ Miss
B. ‘ Why, it’s very good, buta little too sour.’ Some one of the strangers
present now requested in a whisper that be would ‘ will the tumbler to be
filled with an ice cream.’ I sat at Miss B.’s elbow, and watched both
her countenance and Dr. C.’s words and motions. Collusion, or any­
thing like secret understanding between them in what followed, l believe
tikkave been impossible. Dr. C. ‘Come, Lurena, drink what I have got
ftr you now. You will find it very good.’ Rousing, she looked into
t^e empty tumbler, and continued silent. On further inquiry, she said,
$ o a know I cannot drink it.’ Dr. C. ‘Why?* Miss B. *Tve been
tbaitingfor a spoon this halfhour.’ -A spoon was then brought and given
her. She raised the tumbler, and imitating to perfection the manner of
a lady taking an ice cream in a fashionable and elegant circle, she finished
it, and replaced the tumbler in her lap, as one waiting for a servant to
tàke it. Dr. C. ‘ Well, is not that good ?’ Miss B. ‘ Yes, it’s very
good, but a little too highly flavored for me.’ I should have mentioned
that while eating it, she put her hand to her face in apparent pain. Dr.
C. ‘ What is the matter with your face ?’ Miss B. ‘ Why, it makes my
teeth a
c
h
e
, it’s so cold.’ I then requested Dr. C. to take the tumbler
from her, and, in a whisper scarcely audible to , to ‘ will a black-
kitten to be in her lap.’ He assented, and, taking his seat before her, as
I did mine at her side, he said, without previously uttering a syllable-
even in whisper to any one, or making the least motion, ‘ Lurena, come,
wake up and see what you have in your lap.’ She seemed gradually
wake. <What have you in your lap ?’ Looking down, she instantly
began to draw her arms up with aversion at the object seen, but remained
silent. Dr. C. ‘ What is the matter ? Is it not pretty ?’ Drawing her
arms still further up, she said, evidently offended, ‘ Pretty ? no. What
have you put that in my lap for? I shan’t take it! I won’t!’ Dr. C;
‘ O, yes, take it.’ Miss B. ‘ I won’t.’ Dr. C. ‘ Well, if you do not like-
it, give it to me.’ Lifting it precisely as one would by the nape of thé
neck, and tossing it, she said, ‘ T
h
e
r
e,take the dirty black
preceding experiments were tried, in consequence of our having heard
that similar ones had been made without failure in any instance ; and' I
am a&jfateih as I am of being able to see or hear any thing directly before
me, i i r l r direction, either by whisper, pause, or gesture, was given
by ihe magnetizer to the magnetized ; and I know1that the directions I
gave Dr. C. could not have been anticipated by him or any one else.**
V A French writer gives these very curious experiments :
• « Rosalia, on whom the following experiments were made, is a young
girl of about eighteen years of age, of a somewhat sanguineous tempera-
Digitized by Google
m APPENDIX,
ihent. Her nervous system does not appear to be too muck developed»
She would enjoy very good heakh, if) from the age of puberty, she did
not suffer, from time to time, rather violent pains in the stomach. Her
education is that of a poor artisan, solely occupied in supporting by the
labor of her hands an aged and feeble mother. To this must be added,
in order to have a physical and moral appreciation of the subject, that
Rosalia never left a province which was very distant from Paris. -
Rosalia being in a state of somnambulism in a separate and well
closed closet, a ball of wool is magnetized by the person who put her to
sleep, and placed in one of the hats of the men, which were (brown care­
lessly in a corner of the room. The somnambulist is then introduced
into the apartment, and invited to seek out an , without giving this
object any other designation. She begins by talking around the room,
touches different pieces of furniture, but stops not; then, at length, after
having carried her examination towards the corner above mentioned, she
discovers the ball of wool, which she brings with her without hesitation.
“ Rosalia is asleep for some minutes. An incredulous doctor, with
the intention of satisfying hknself, as to whether the magnetic action
may be really concentrated on inanimate objects, carries away the
magnetizer out of the room, and proposes to him to operate on a step of
the stairs—the tenth was the one chosen by the doctor. The tenth step,
setting out from the bottom of the stairs, receives the magnetic passes.
At the moment of withdrawing, the magnetize* wishing, in his turn, and
at the same time to make an experiment of his own, declares that he
mentally places a barrier above the tenth step, to prevent Rosalia from
continuing her route. Things thus prepared, the doctor leads back the
magnetizer, whom he no longer quits, to the somnambulist still asleep.
According to his express wish, she is aroused without being touched,
and merely by some gestures made at a distance. J t is only after a
serious examination of the perfectly normal state of the young girl, that,
on the order of the incredulous doctor, Rosalia takes a taper in order to
go to bed. In so doing she must necessarily pass by the stairs to the
magnetized step. After five or six minutes they go in pursuit of her; the
doctor passes first, and what is his astonishment, when, having arrived
at the bottom of the stairs, he perceives the young girl standing up and
immovable on the tenth step. The following dialogue then takes place :
««Rosalia, what, then, are you doing there?’ <I am asleep, sir.’
<And who has put you to sleep ?’ «The step on which I stand : there
escapes from it a hot vapor, which has ascended to me legs, and has put
me to sleep.’ «Well, then, since you are asleep, you are going to bed:’
<
I cannot, sir, because there is a barrier which prevents me from passing.’
« Rosalia, being asleep, was placed at the extremity of a room, with
her. head turned towards the wall. An incredulous person requires that
the magnetizer, placed at the distance of several feet from the somnam­
bulist, should break one of the feet of the chair on which she was sitting.
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX. *07
Scarcely were two or three passes directed towards the object designed,
than Rosalia rises abruptly, and cries out, <My God! I am a going to
fall, my chair has but, three feet.’ Another time, in the absence of
Rosalia, the floor of the room was magnetized/with the intention of
changing it into ploughed land. When the girl, who is fast asleep, was
introduced, she refuses to advance, and pretends that the furrows pre­
vent her from walking, and that she knows not where to place her feet.
The same floor also assumes the appearance of a frozen river, &c., accord­
ing to the demand made on it.
« OfMatter*
—These facts consist in proving that' Magnetism may
give to matter a virtue which it does not possess of itself. Examples -—
Rosalia is in a closet adjoining that in which her magnetizer is, and in a
state of somnambulism. Before a bracket are placed, casually, two
chairs, one of which is very light. This is precisely the one which the
magnetizer is requested to load with a considerable weight, which he
sets about doing by means of numerous passes* The operation being
over, the somnambulist is introduced. After some experiments of another
kind, she is asked to take one of the chairs and sit near the fire. Chance
made her select that one of the two which was really the heavier.
Rosalia brings; it wkh ease up near the fire. A lady being in want of a
seat, Rosalia is asked to go for the other. She goes up to it, takes it
with her two hands, then seems to make a violent effort to raise i t ; the
chair remains immovable. At the request of those around her she tries
again, but still without success; however, her muscles are tense, her
face is flushed; at last, she cries out, with a voice, altered, as it were, by
the violent efforts she had made, «My God ! I never shall be able, it is
too heavy.’ A book was magnetized on the chimney-piece, with the
intention of making it adhere to the marble. At the request made to
Rosalia, she goes to bring it, but her efforts to raise it are unavailing;
only, as the will of the magnetizer had no other end than to affix to the
marble that part of the cover in contact<with it, Rosalia opens the book,
turns over the leaves, but without being any more able to tear it from
the chimney-piece, than if one of the sidesvof the covers were really
affixed'to it. Thus, again, a saucer having been magnetized, Rosalia is
requested to take and carry it. At the moment she presents it, her
finfers were contracted tightly on the china, and she declares that she
cannot let it go. Such was the will of the magnetizer, communicated
through the medium of the object.
« We now come, we might almost say, by an insensible transition, to
a series of facts which still constitute a particular class. For we have
seen that the modifications occasioned in the form O
f objects were such
in the experiments of the ploughed land and of the frozen river, that they
may be well considered as creations completely new. It will be under­
stood then, at least by analogy, that the magnetic action may create
objects entirely imaginary. Here are some examples of it. Rosalia, in
Digitized by G o o g l e
m APPENDIX.
a state of somnambulism, converses with some person?. An incredulous
spectator entreats the magnetizer to place on an unoccupied seat an open
pair of scissors. Some passes are made on the seat pointed at. After
about a quarter of an hour the somnambulist vt made to rise; then, as if
brought by mere chance, she is invited to sit on the seat which has just
been magnetized: Rosalia refuses. «Why, then, will you not sit down ?’
they ask her. <Because I do not wish to hurt myself.’ <Come, now,
do sit down. <No, sir, there are scissors there that would hurt me.’.
<
<Another time, at the request of a person who does not yet believe, a
wooden pillar was raised magnetically in the centre of the room ; there
is attached to it mentally a cord which is to go round the neck of the
somnambulist. Rosalia cries out almost at the instant: «A h! sir, bow
this squeezes my neck.’ «What then ?* «The cord fastened to this
wooden pillar.’ On asking her where this pillar is, after she was freed
from the imaginary tie of which she complained, she gets up and points
with her finger to the very place where the magnetizer had raised his
fantastic pillar.
<
<Rosalia is sleeping her magnetic sleep calmly on the sofa. Her
magnetizer raises her feet, then passes his hand between them and the
floor. This signal, according to the request made of him, is to place a
stóol under the feet of the somnambulist. Actually, from, this moment,
the two feet of RosSAia remain in the air as if they were supported by an
object placed beneath them. When strong pressure is made on them,
they are forced to yield; but then the entire body follows the movement,
and instantly as the action ceases, the two feet rise together in the position
given them by the magnetizer. This is somewhat the effect experienced
by a person jolted in a vehicle; the point of support on which the feet
rest, rises and falls, without, however, the relations of position of the
different parts of the body being sensibly changed. After having remained
a long time in this way without evincing any fatigue, Rosalia is asked
why she keeps her feet raised. <Because,’ says she, <I have placed
them on a stool.’ Without enumerating a greater number of facts of the
same kind, in order to terminate this order of phenomena, here is a case
which it is useful to notice, because we shall have occasion to recur to
it. Rosalia is in a closet adjoining a drawing-room, in a state of som­
nambulism; the communication between these two apartments is closed,
but another door giving egress from the drawing-room to a staircase has
remained open. The magnetizer places a barrier there magnetically
then Rosalia is introduced by a stranger. She is then requested to go
out to the staircase; but she declares that she cannot do so, ‘ because,’
says she,4 this dooris b
a
r
r
e
d
.’ In order that she ma
necessary that the magnetizer should, in a manner, break the charm:
«Not only, as has been just seen by the above examples, can the
magnetic action create for Rosalia objectsrcompletely imaginary, but,
further, at the will of the magnetizer, it deprive» her of the power of see-
Digitized by G o o g l e
' • . ?
apwnddc. 109
ing objects whiph rosily exist/and which are placed in states so as to be
perfectly disiwcj to her in the ordinary state. Thus a simple magnetic
pass is sufficient for a piece of furniture, a person, a portion of a room,
t${lisappear from the eyes of a somnambulist. Question her by surprise,
% fofdteB'all the snares you will, never will she see any of the persons
^things thet-her magnetizer shall have rendered invisible, and what
shouty scarcely leave any apprehension of fraud in this experiment is,
that those Who may be so disposed with respect to.the subject of invisi­
bility will try in vain to call forth in the somnambulist a laugh, astonish-*
ment, fright, &c,, &c., or any other impression whatever.
“ All those who have given their attention to magnetism have remarked,
that one of the characters of somnambulism is not to leave any recollec­
tion on awakening, except, however, the magnetizer may have had the
intention of making an idea survive the cessation of the magnetic effect.
Then the thought conceived under the sway of the agent is continued in
the ordinary state, and almost always produces the expected result. This
observation must necessarily incline one to think, that perhaps it might
be possible to transport into the natural life of somnambulists some other
phenomenon of their magnetic existence. With respect to invisibility,
numerous experiments have left no doubt of this possibility. We shall
content ourselves by quoting merely the following fact. Rosalia is
asleep. A thick layer of carded cotton is applied to her, covered with a
bandage fastened behind her head. In this state she is brought into the
midst of people whom she does not know. Among these they select,
for the purpose of rendering invisible, a strange person whom she never
could have seen. Alter some magnetic passes, this person goes with
ttto others clad in the same manner behind a screen. The bandage is
then taken from Rosalia,-^she is demagnetized. She resumes her habit­
ual countenance, converses as usual with those around her. Suddenly
an arm rises above the screen. Rosalia is one of the first to perceive it;
a second arm then appears,—she sees it again; but when the third is
raised near the others, she persists in saying that she sees but two. The
third arm is really that of the person rendered invisible. This experiment
is repeated ten times, twenty times, always in a different way; never
does Rosalia perceive the person that had been rendered invisible, though
that person changed clothes with those who were placed behind the
screen with him.”
. Townshend, whose facts were elicited under a series experiments
conducted with a sincere desire to find the truth, and who would not,
therefore, wilfully deceive himself, relates enough to satisfy the most con­
firmed doubler in regard to mesmerism. A single extract is taken from
his book:
“ The first time that I mesmerized Anna M------, a work-box, which
she had never seen before, was held before her. She stooped her fore­
head towards it in a manner that struck me, and immediately named
Digitized by b o o g i e
m APPEND!*.
what it was. The box having been opened, the sleepwaker again bent her
forehead till it was nearly parallel with its surface, then rapidly named
the various objects it contained, and, taking them up one by one in her
hand, seemed desirous of examining them more particularly. But, to my
surprise, she waved the articles about before her, as if trying in what point
of view she could best descry them, holding them to various parts of her
face and forehead, and exclaiming, as if perplexed, 4Where, then, are
my eyes ?’ At length she seemed best satisfied when holding objects
before her forehead, at the distance of a few inches, declaring that she
saw them most distinctly there. In order to put her assertions to the
proof, I held my watch before the forehead of the sleepwaker, without
descending it to the level of her eyes. She took it from me, and, not
lowering it in the least, held it so turned as that it formed an acute angle
with her forehead, immediately above her eyebrow. It is to be remarked,
that she thus presented the watch to her forehead, first on the right side,
then on-the left, as if to submit it to the scrutiny of a double organ. After
this she named the exact hour and minute. The hands having been
altered, she found the time with equal correctness.
4
4A poppy being held before her forehead, she said, 41see a red flower,
but I do not exactly know its name.’
4
4Remembering that an experienced mesmerizer had told me that
sleepwakers in general perform most readily any thing which gives them
pleasure in their waking state, and observing, in conformity with this
statement, that Anna M------, who was an expert needle-woman, took
particular interest in the work-box and its appendages, I proposed to her
to proceed with a piece of work which was at hand. She immediately
took the work, and, holding it always on a level with her forehead, went
on methodically with the hem of the piece of muslin I had given her.
When necessary, she turned down a new fold, and in every respect per­
formed her task as well as she could have done awake. The work,
submitted to female judgment, was pronounced to be a capital piece of
sempstress-craft, the stitches being even, and not one of them dropped.
4
4After this we often gave Anna M----- work to do in the mesmeric
state, when parties of ten or twelve persons have been present, to witness
her extraordinary development of vision. She continued to hold every
thing to her forehead ; and with her hands raised to that level, in a posi­
tion which, under ordinary circumstances, would be difficult and painful,
has embroidered delicate flowers upon muslin, and even threaded her
needle, without apparent effort.
4
4As it is my sincere desire to give a correct picture of mesmeric
sleepwaking, I would on no account represent this power of vision as
greater than it really was, or omit the inconsistencies which attended its
exercise. That it was by no means even or constant, cannot but be
acknowledged, though I am by no means prepared to develope the cause
of its caprices. Thus Anna, though giving incontestable proofs of vision
Digitized by Googli
2
APPENDIX. Ill
by the forehead, could not be brought to distinguish printed or written
letters in the mesmeric state, except on one occasion, when she read her
own name, which I had written in a large hand, and held at once before
her forehead. It seemed to me that her new visual faculty was always
in its best condition when spontaneously exerted, and that any effort on
her part, any over-anxiety to fulfil our requisitions, marred it altogether.
I have often asked' her to name an object, which I have allowed her to
examine as she would; but she has not named it, though apparently
striving earnestly to do so. Agaiti, she has indicated other things spom»
taneously, when it was quite impossible for her to have discerned them
in the ordinary manner. It was when she was sitting quietly, and appa­
rently forgetful that she was an object of observation, that she displayed
the most remarkable phenomena of vision. One instance, however, is
better than a thousand assertions. She was sitting with her head so much
bent down as to bring the upper part of her forehead parallel to the wall
of the apartment. In this position, with her eyes closed, it was impossi­
ble for her to have seen, in any usual way, objects that were immediately
fronting her. So placed, I observed her smile, and asked her why she
did so. <I am smiling,9she said, <because I am pleased to see Mrs.
------opposite to me.9 «You see her, then, ^ell ?91 inquired. <Yes;
she has a cup of tea in her hand.9 Upon this the lady in question adroitly
changed the cup of tea for a book, upon which Anna immediately
remarked, <But now she has taken a book.9 The lady then opened the
book, and held k&y the two sides, spread out exactly on a level with
the forehead of the sleepwaker, who said directly, <Qh! she holds the
book quite open by its two ends.9
»
■
; « This experiment, neither suggested nor in any way conducted by
myself, was interesting to me in no trifling degree, and was convincing
to all who witnessed it.
“ Another singular circumstance was, that no one could put on an ugly
mask that lay about the room, and to which Anna, in her mesmeric state,*
had a great aversion, without her testifying, by faces expressive of dis­
like, that she was aware of the circumstance. We have tried this when
the sleepwaker was occupied by other things, and with every precaution
of making no noise, &c., yet the result was always the same.
“ When placed before a looking-glass, she could indicate, more
correctly than at any other time, the gestures of persons standing near
'her, and seen by reflection. I have pulled out her comb, and she has
arranged her hair again perfectly before a mirror, holding her forehead
parallel to its surface. Being asked if she saw herself with her eyes
open or shut, she replied, ‘ Open, to be sure ;9and, when I reasoned with
her on this point, she replied,«I see as if my eyes were open; and so
they appear to me open.9 It is singular that another sleepwaker gave me
exactly the same answers under the same circumstances.
“ A gentleman who was once present during a mesmerization of Anna
Digitized by Google
119
M— -, being placed <en rapport’ with her, laid his hand upon her fore­
head, when she exclaimed, «Why dp you cover my eyes?* He then
touched her eyes, and asked, <What part of your face am I touching now ?’
The sleepwaker seemed perplexed, and at length answered, «It is a part
of my cheek, is it not?’.
«
<When asked to point out where different persons were placed in the
apartment during her sleepwaking, she never failed to do so, however
their respective positions might be changed, leaning her forehead forward
all the time, and presenting it to each individual. At the instant of recog­
nising each person, she always gave one or two convulsive starts, as if
her forehead came in contact with some invisible thing.
«
<The account that she gave of her visual perceptions was sufficiently
confused. These are her own words relative to this subject, taken down
on one odcasioirBy a friend : <It is all clear through my forehead. Some­
times I see soclear! But then, again, there is a sort of light cloud tha
comes over the clearness, and then I can hardly see anything. 1 do not
see as with my tfeo eyeis, but here (passing her hand across her forehead),
with my brain.’
“ Already, in various accounts of experiments, I have mentioned E.
A----- -, a boy aged fifteep, whom I had opportunities of frequently mes­
merizing. This patient, of all whom I have ever seen, manifested in
sleepwaking the most extraordinary development of visual power.
« Though the power of vision was greatest in the forehead, yet at times,
and especially when he was excited, and not in any way called upon to
exhibit, (for such requisitions often seemed to fetter his faculties,) he
seemed to see on every side of him, as if his head were one oigan of
visual perception. This is no exaggeration, as the foliowing instance
will show : He was once sitting on a sofa in the mesmeric state, when
a gentleman with whom he was well acquainted came behind the sofa
and made all kinds of antics. On this the sleepwaker exclaimed, «Ob,
Mr. D------! do not suppose I cannot see you ; you are now doing so and
so’ (describing all Mr. D------’s gestures). «You have now taken a
paper-cutter into your hand, and now a knife. Indeed, you had better
go away, and not make yourself so ridiculous.’ Another time he was
sitting at a table, writing music, with his back to the door, when a servant
entered the apartment : «Oh, Mademoiselle L------! is that you ?* he said.
<How quietly you stand there with your arms folded.’ He was quite
correct m all he said. Directly after this I took up a bottle from a table
behind the patient, and held it up to the back of his head, asking him
if he knew what I held. He instantly replied, «A bottle to be sure.’
«
«I have tried various methods of bandaging the patient’s eyes. I
have tiéd a broad and thick silk handkerchief over them, and then I have
held down with my fingers or the palms of my hands the whole of the
bottom part of the bandage. This ihethod seems to me as perfect as
any; It did npt at all impede the sleepwaker’s vision. In addition to
APPENDIX.
Digitized by G o o g l e
this, (the same result always ensuing,) I have laid strips of wadding over
the eyes before applying the handkerchief, and I have firmly secured
every possible interstice between it and the cheek with cotton. In the
presence of Dr. Foissac, strips of diachylum were added to all the above
apparatus, in order to fasten down the edges of the handkerchief to the
cheek; but the sleepwaker saw as well as ever. On several occasions I
bandaged his eyes, adding the cotton and the wadding before beginning
to mesmerize him, when he assured me that he could not distinguish
day from night. Then, having passed into sleepwaking, he has imme­
diately given proofs of perfect vision, quite as perfect, indeed, as that
enjoyed by persons whose eyes are open and unbound. .Again, on
awaking, (the bandage never having been stirred during the whole
period of his sleepwaking,) he has found himself in perfect darkness.
The transition was marked. One moment, drawn by the strong attrac­
tion of my presence, he was following me about the room, through intri­
cacies of chairs and tables, with perfect ease; the next, he was standing
helpless, not caring to be near me, and if called upon, unable to move,
except with the groping hesitation of a blindfold person. I remarked
that he did not wake so easily with the bandage on as when he had no
bandage. The action of the transverse passes that I used to that effect
seemed modified by the interposing substance. The striking proofs of
vision that the patient gave when properly bandaged were, that he read
in books, and distinguished cards, their colors, suit, &c., often playing
with me at various games upon them. I remarked that in sleepwaking
he was quite adroit at the game of cassino, which I had almost vainly
tried to teach him in the waking state. It will be allowed that for a
person, even bandaged in a slovenly manner, to perceive at a glance the
combinations on the board, would be no easy matter; yet this he did
with rapidity, completely bandaged as he was.
“ Remembering that E. A------, on his father’s testimony, had, in
natural sleepwaking, seemed to perceive objects in total darkness, I was
curious to see whether, in mesmeric sleepwaking, he would manifest a
similar phenomena of sensation. I, therefore, having mesmerized him»
took him with me into a dark press or closet, of which I employed a
friend to hold to the door in such a manner as that no ray of light should
penetrate through the crevice or keyhole. Then, like the hero of <The
Curse of Kehama,’
“ 11 open’d my eyes and I closed them,
And the blackness and blank were the same.’
« My utmost efforts to see my hand only produced those sparks and'
flashes that waver before the eye in complete obscurity. Having thus
ascertained the perfect darkness of the closet, I drew a card at hazard
from a pack with which I had provided myself, and presented it to the
' APPENDIX. , ' 113
Digitized by Google
114 APPENDIX.
sleepwaker. He said it was so and so. 1 repeated this to friend,
whom I then told to open the door. The admission of light established
the correctness of the sleepwaker : it was the card he had named. The
experiment repeated four times gave the same satisfactory result. This
peculiar development of vision was, like the other faculties of the sleep­
waker, capable of improvement through exercise. At first he seemed
unable to read in the dark ; then, like a person learning the alphabet, he
came to distinguish large single letters, which 1 had printed for him on
card, and at length he could make out whole sentences of even small
print. While thus engaged in deciphering letters qr in ascertaining cards,
the patient always held one of my hands, and sometimes laid it on his
brow, affirming that it increased his . He would also beg
offe to breathe upon the objects which he desired to see. He used to
declare that the more complete the darkness was, the better he could
exercise his new mode of perception ; asserting that, when in the dark he
did not come to the knowledge of objects in the same manner as when
he was in the light: «Quand je suis dans l’obscurité/ he said, «il y a
une lumière qui sort de mon cerveau, et qui tappe justement sur l’objet ;
tandis que, dans la lumière, l’impression monte depuis l’objet jusqu’ à
mon cerveau.’ Often, when I could not see a ray of light, he used to
complain that the closet was not dark enough, and, in order to thicken
the obscurity, he would wrap up his head in a ,dressing-gown which
hung in the closet. At other times he would ;thrust his head into the
remotest corner of the press. His perception of colors, when exercised
in obscurity, sustained but little alteration. He has named correctly the
different tints of a set of colored glasses. It was, however, worthy of
remark, that he was apt to mistake between the harmonic colors green
and red, not only when he was in the dark, but when his eyes were
bandaged.
««Many persons can bear testimony to tlje accuracy of the above
experiments. I have sought for witnesses and invited scrutiny, feeling
that such things as I had to narrate could scarcely be credited on the
word of a single person.”
In addition to these extracts, a few more from Townshend are given,
which show the perfect control which, in mesmerism, one mind obtains
over another. They are taken from different parts of the work.
«
<Upon first passing into the mesmeric state, Theodore seemed abso­
lutely insensible to eveiy other than the mesmerizer’s voice. Some of
our party went close to him and shouted his name, but he gave no tokens
of hearing us until Mr. K—— , taking our hands, made us touch those
of Theodore and his own ?t the same time. This he called putting us
«en rapport’ with the patient. After this Theodore seemed to hear our
voices equally with that of the mesmerizer, but by no means to pay an
equal attention to them.”
“ Even after having been placed <en rapport’ with all present, the
Digitized by Google
APPENDIX. 115
patient seemed incapable of bearing any voice but mine, unless the person
who spoke were in actual contact with me and with herself at the same
time. On one occasion, when I was asking her if she knew what some
object was that I held before her, her father told her very loudly that it
was a wine-glass (which it actually was), but the patient did not profit
by the intelligence; for, on being again questioned, she said impatiently,
<1 do not know; I cannot tell.* Her name, shouted dose to her ear
by different members of her family, seemed to make no impression what­
ever upon her organs of hearing; while, on the contrary, she attended to
the slightest word that I addressed to her.”
“ In proportion as persons sink deeper into mesmeric sleepwaking,
0 their external senses seem blunted, one by one, and so far there is cer­
tainly a relation between the mesmeric and the natural sleep. The ey?,
as we have seen, yields first to the slumbrous influence. Long after this
, organ has ceased to act, the hearing retains all its acuteness, and the
sleepwaker is able to indicate what sounds are going on around ; but at
iength the «porches of the ear’ are closed as well as the «curtain of the
eye,’ and the patient, though still alive to feeling, is dead to every sound
save that of the raesmerizer’s voice. I have proved this times innumer­
able ; so frequently, indeed, that it is better to give the general results of
the experiments I have witnessed than to state one in particular. Often
have the members of my family, or visiters, who, perhaps, were but little
inclined to believe in mesmerism, tried to awaken Mademoiselle M------,
or to startle her by sudden noises. Logs of wood have been dashed
against the floor: plates have been suddenly broken; her name has been
shouted out close to her ear, in vain. Other persons present have shown
that they were startled, but not the sleepwaker. Once or twice, indeed,
on such occasions, when asked if she heard any thing, she has replied,
• No, I heard nothing; but I thought, just now, something pushed against
my chair;” a mode of expression which deserves to be remarked, as
analogous to that used by deaf persons to describe the sensations given
them by the concussion of the air produced by great sounds.”
“ The scientific person to whom I have once before alluded, and
whose testimony is valuable, inasmuch as his habits of mind led him
ever to separate illusion from truth, assured me, when in the mesmeric
state, that he could hear no sound whatever except my voice. I made
another person speak who was in the room on that occasion, and the
sleepwaker was unaware that any thing had been said.
“ Another patient (E. A------, to whom I shall have occasion to allude
hereafter) said, when I was singing, «You should ask Mr. V------’ (a
musician who was in the room)«to accompany you.* I did so ; but,
though Mr. V------made a loud accompaniment to my voice, E. A. kept
calling out, <Why does he not play ?’ ”
««I have already remarked that, when the mesraerizer eats, or drinks,
or smells any thing, his patients go through the same motions, as if the
Digitized by v ^ o o Q i e
APPENDIX..
Impact of the substances were on their own nerves. Byt this, it may be
said, might be referred to the simultaneity of motion which I have shown
to exist occasionally between the sleepwaker and the mesmerizer. I have,
however, a very strong proof that the former has really an impression on
the nerves of taste corresponding with that of the latter. Three of my
sleepwakers (on whom alone I tried the experiment) could in no way
distinguish substances when placed in their own mouths, nor discriminate
between a piece of apple and a piece of cheese; but, the moment that 1
was eating, they, seeming to eat also, could tell me what I had in my
mouth. Once I tried this, before many witnesses, on the sister of Theo­
dore, with some pieces of fig which I had carefully concealed, apd the
experiment answered perfectly.
“ Again, Anna M------heard my watch ticking when I held it to my
own ear, though not when she held it to her own. In the former -case*
she assured me that she heard the sound exactly as if the watch were
close to her own ear.”
« The attraction towards the mesmerizer testified by the patient, is of
a nature totally distinct from the promptings of passion. If compared to
any love, it must be likened to self-love ; for it seems to result from the
identification of the vital and nervous system of the two parties.” * * *
“ When we consider these and other proofs displayed by sleepwakers of
sensitive and motive sympathy with their mesmerizer; when we reflect
that they are actually heedless of injuries inflicted on themselves, but
tremblingly alive to all that he is made to suffer, we may well imagine
that he stands to them in a very peculiar and vital relation: nor can it
seem wonderful that, when severed from him, they should acknowledge
a schism in their being, and seem out of all unity with themselves.”
* * * “ Nothing can be more evident than that it is an instinct, not a
passion: the springs of life are touched, and the powerful impulse of self-
preservation is set in play. So, also, the repulsion from all others than
the mesmerizer is but a measure of the attractive force which draws the
patient there, where he exists even more than in himself.”
116
T
H
E E
N
D
.
Digitized by L j O O Q le
