{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1848__ashburner___facts_in_clairvoyance.pdf","mytitle":"Facts In Clairvoyance","mylang":"de"}
FACTS IN CLAIRVOYANCE,
EXTRACTED FROM THE ZOIST.
WITH
OBSERVATIONS ON MESMERISM,
AND ITS
APPLICATION TO THE PHILOSOPHY OF MEDICINE,
AND TO
THE CURE OF DISEASE.
BY
JOHN ASHBURNER, M.D.
LONDON:
H. BAILLIERE, 219, REGENT STREET.
1848.
LONDON :
WALTON AND MITCHELL, PRINTERS, WARDOUR STREET, OXFORD STREET.
FACTS IN CLAIRVOYANCE,
EXTRACTED FROM THE ZOIST.
" Drs. Winslow, Browning, Hodgkin, and other medical gentlemen, were then examined
as to the present state of mind of the alleged lanatics, and agreed that they were insane, and
incapable of managing their affairs. On being cross-examined by Mr. Miller, several ad-
mitted that there was no unsoundness of mind except as to the above-mentioned delusions.
Dr. Hodgkin said, 'A person who believed that any one under the influence of mesmerism
could read a hook in the next room, would be labouring under a delusion, although he might be
able to take care of himself and property.' "—Extract from a Newspaper.
" Mr. Macaulay. You mentioned as a remarkable instance that a person of great rank
in Ihe state was a patron of the mesmeric hospital.
—
Dr. Seymour. Yes. I have seen a pro-
posal going round with his name at the end of it.
" Mr. M. Do you conceive that in patronizing the mesmeric hospital, he shewed a dis-
regard to the College of Physicians?
—
Dr. S. I think he shewed a great disregard to our
acquirements, to common sense, and to everything else !
" Mr. M. Is not the principal of the mesmeric hospital a fellow of the Royal College of
Physicians'?
—
Dr. S. That I cannot help. He became a fellow before he took up his apos-
tolic mission.
" Mr. M. Has he been allowed by the college to make a public appearance upon an
occasion of great interest?*
—
Dr. H. He was not passed over : that was all. 1 think it was a
bad measure, but I cannot help it." (Report from the Select Committee on Medical Registra-
tion ; together with the Minutes of Evidence, pp. 1300—1303.)
" There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in your phi-
losophy."— iS'Aaiespere. 1.
Physicians who know little of metaphysics^—almost nothing
of the physical facts relating to the philosophy of mind ; who
are grossly ignorant of the splendid truths developed by
the brilliant discoveries of Gall,—many of them^ perhaps,
unable to appreciate the knowledge of these from the habits
of illogical reflection in which they indulge, or may be from a
deficiency in the organization of their brains, continue to
chatter before courts of justice, and before committees of the
legislature, on subjects which they do not understand, and
* Dr, Elliotson's delivery of the Harveian Oration.
A
2 FACTS IN CLAIRVOYANCE,
wLich should be studied and comprehended, in some ele-
mentary fashion at least, before they are ventured upon in
public. Dr. Hodgkin cannot be ignorant of the existence
of the quarterly publication issuing from No. 219, Regent
Street, entitled The Zoist. As a physician, he ought not to
be ignorant that many things important to the best interests
of humanity are to be found in that work. No physician
should practice his profession who is ignorant of the facts
contained in Petetin's book on Animal Electricity. The
diflPerent works of Mesmer, De Puysegur, Tardy de Mon-
travel, Foissac, Deleuze, Mialle, Townshend, Colquhoun,
Reichenbach, not to speak of the Harveian Oration of
Elliotson, should have had some attentive consideration,
before a man ventures to commit himself solemnly in a court
of justice, or before an assembly of members of the House
of Commons on the subjects on which these persons have
recorded most important truths. To say, as some physicians
have said, that they will not go to school again, is to ac-
knowledge that having been negligent in learning ;
having
omitted to acquire knowledge, they yet claim to practice on
a par with those who have the knowledge. Being ignorant
themselves, they will brand those as quacks who know more
than they do. What is a quack, in the common acceptation
of the term, but a doctor ignorant of that which he professes
to practice ? And men will pretend to talk of their acquaint-
ance with diseases of the mind, while yet they know nothing
of mesmerism
Before an opinion is hazarded in a solemn court of justice
concerning the views or the belief, on any of the physical
phenomena of nature, entertained by contemporary phy-
sicians, a man should have made himself master, at least, of
the description of evidence they can adduce in favour of
facts apparently improbable to narrow intellects. The pro-
position is quite correct that the truth, having been esta-
blished by consecutive series of facts to the satisfaction
of severely enquiring minds, should be regarded with some
respect by all advanced and philosophical thinkers. It is
quite impossible, without some great deficiency of intellect,
that any man or set of men having, with due philosophic
humility, examined the facts that have been received as truths
by persons with intellectual cerebral organs of more than
average size and activity, can treat them with contempt or
even with want of ordinary attention. When we hear of
men exposing themselves before courts of justice, or before
committees of the House of Commons, by attempting to de-
preciate the intellects of those who study mesmerism, and
WITH OBSERVATIONS ON MESMERISM. 3
who believe in the existence of the occult phenomena known
now to thousands of persons in all quarters of the globe, may
we not pity them for the absence of that self-control which
allows of a silly exhibition of ignorance, conceit, and arro-
gance. Poor Dr. Seymour's large organs of Self-esteem and
Love of Approbation overcame his wisdom, albeit not over-
abundant, if the size of his forehead be examined for intel-
lectual power, when he appeared as a champion for the vast
acquirements of those who despise that knowledge which they
refuse to study. His answer on the " disregard that a person
of great rank in the state (simply by advocating mesmerism)
shewed to the acquirements of the College of Physicians, to
common sense, and to everything else !" evinces the confusion
of intellect,—the impertinent and inordinate vanity that cha-
racterizes low mental power with large posterior parietal deve-
lopment. Dr. Hodgkin's reputation will not be increased,
among reflecting men, by his classing the phenomena of clair-
voyance among delusions. May be, he, like some other
medical practitioners, may assume that it is competent for
him to say what is and what is not in the course of nature,
—
that the Almighty has it not in his power to shew us facts
which may militate against the preconceived, the prejudged
convictions of what is called an accomplished physician, proud
of his own acquirements. Either the phenomena of clairvoy-
ance are in the course of nature,—happen and fall out into
the light of this world by God's permission and will, for they
are truths,—or the physicians who declare them to be against
the course of nature, deny to him the power of bringing to
pass things which are daily existent, and are proved to be
truths by those who humbly and diligently seek for them.
The god of these prejudging physicians is but an idol! and
they are idol-worshippers. They would have God's will bend
to their limited determinations, and are angry at the truth of
clairvoyance, as those sailors were angry with their deity, an
idol whom they whipped and threw overboard because their
prayers to him did not succeed in securing propitious weather.
Their carpenter could make them a new god,—but Dr. Hodg-
kin's carpenter cannot construct for him a deity who shall get
rid of the Almighty's will, that the truths of clairvoyance are
as firmly established—are as fully correct—as the truths re-
lating to the diurnal changes which it has pleased that Being
to ordain.
And whose is the right to declare his brother a lunatic for
believing in such truths ? Is it Dr. Hodgkin's ?
If religion or philosophy can teach him humility, he would
do well to study The Zoist ! He would do well to learn what
A 3
4 FACTS IN CLAIRVOYANCE,
Gall has written ! . He would do well to enquire practically
about mesmerism, which would teach him how valuable was
that knowledge which Gall obtained from the book of nature,
and which that gifted man threw out for the benefit of the
world, before he could be allowed to know through mesmerism
of the almost mathematical demonstration that all he had said
on the functions of , the brain and nerves was absolute truth !
Above all. Dr. Hodgkin would do well to find out that by the
aid of mesmerism he may be enabled to understand far more
than he knows relating to the subject of delusions, and by
God's blessing to a physician, the truly humble mind of the
real philosopher,—to cure mental diseases.
Good heaven ! that men professing to practice among
their fellow-beings afflicted with lunacy should be arrogantly
ignorant of mesmerism ! No man can do justice to his fellow-
man, as a medical practitioner, while he remains ignorant of
mesmeric science ! If he have common powers of reflection,
the facts in The Zoist will teach him that new things are ap-
pearing which must change the whole practice of physic;
that the polarities of crystals lead to reflections on the princi-
ples involved in the modus operandi of all the substances era-
ployed in medical art ; that the analogies between mesmerism
and electricity are so close as to demonstrate the gross igno-
rance and absolute folly of deriding the facts which belong to
these twin-sister sciences. Sneers and boastings of acquire-
ments are not the class of arguments to make converts in these
days, and the votaries of truth fear not the fool's weapon of
ridicule. For myself, notwithstanding the position assigned
to me by Dr. Hodgkin in the category of the " deluded," I
will shew that I am a firm believer in clairvoyance by a
statement of facts, which, I doubt not, will be interesting
to the readers of The Zoist.
On Saturday, 1.2th February, 1848, Major Buckley, well
known as an ardent and powerful mesmeriser, and among
his brother officers as possessing a high character for truth-
fulness and integrity, brought to my house, at half past eight
o'clock in the evening, two young women who had arrived
at Paddington, about three hours before, from Cheltenham.
The one, A. B., aged 26 years, is of a shght figure, above
the middle height, of a nervo-lymphatic temperament, with
dark hair and grey eyes. It appeared that she had been
mesmerised occasionally since the 27th December, 1846.
She works as a dress maker, is a person of excellent cha-
racter, was formerly said to be consumptive and delicate,
but has latterly enjoyed good health, notwithstanding very
WITH OBSERVATIONS ON MESMERISM. 5
assiduous attention to her occupations, which sometimes
obhge her to sit up at her needle till very late in the dark
hours of night.
The other, E. L., is 21 years of age. She is slightly em-
bonpoint, of middle stature, lymphatic temperament, with
dark hair, hazel eyes, of most interesting expression. She
has been mesmerised occasionally for three years. She is a
dress maker, and the intimate friend and companion of A. B.
In her feelings she is more sensitive than her friend. Both
have amiable cerebral developments. A, B. has better Con-
structiveness, Size, Individuality, Music, Time, and Mirth ;
but as a whole, the head of E. L. indicates Causality, Com-
parison, Colour, and other organs of taste and judgment,
better than that of her friend. Her head is larger. Both are
well formed for affection and the social feelings of our nature.
Both have a delicacy of nervous fibre that produces a highly
sensitive condition of mind. Each is susceptible,—both are
impressionable. The phenomena exhibited by these young
women were to me most extraordinary. I had corresponded
with Major Buckley on their cases long before I saw them,
and had proposed that a committee should be appointed
to examine into the facts so often alleged to have been com-
pleted by these young women. The objection to such a
committee exists in the truths, elicited by much experience,
concerning the utter failure of the phenomena in the pre-
sence of severely doubting minds. It would seem as if the
fluid emitted by the brains of persons, who are severely—and
to clairvoyantes—disagreeably sceptical, was sufficient to suf-
focate and to destroy the developing events. It was conse-
quently agreed that on the evening of the arrival in town of
these young women, nobody should be present besides them-
selves, at first, but Major Buckley and myself. We assembled
in my little library. I had provided myself with a dozen
walnut-shells, bought at Grange's, in Piccadilly, containing
carraway comfits, and as I thought a motto each, and two
ounces of hazle nut-shells, containing comfits and printed
mottos. These were in two packets of an ounce each, and
had been purchased by me about two hours before, at Law-
rence's, in Oxford Street, at the corner of Marylebone Lane.
One of the young women was seated at either side of the
fire place. Major Buckley placed himself at the apex of a
triangle, of which they formed the basial angles. He made
a few slow passes from his forehead to the pit of his stomach,
on his own person. The girls said, after he had made eight or
ten of these passes, " that they were sufficient." They saw a
blue light upon him ; and A, B., having taken up one of the
6 FACTS IN CLAIRVOYANCE,
nut-shells provided by me, placed it upon the chimney piece
above her head. E. L. then did the same thing with one of the
nut-shells allotted to her. I was fully aware of the objections
of sceptics, that a possibility existed of changing these shells
by sleight of hand ; I watched the proceedings anxiously and
accurately, to avoid the possibility of being deceived. The
movements of these young women were slow and deliberate,
not like the hocus pocus quick jerk of the conjurer. A. B.
first announced her readiness to read the motto in her nut-
shell. She said that the words were,
" The little sweetmeat here revealed,
Lays, as good deeds should lay, concealed."
I wrote down to her dictation, then I cracked the shell,
emptied out the comfits, and found among them a little strip
of paper, several times folded, on which were printed the very
words she had spoken. Remember, reader, she was not
asleep; both the girls were wide awake, and joined in the
conversation with Major Buckley and myself, in the intervals
of the phenomena which they were exhibiting.
Then E. L. read the motto in her hazle nut-shell. It ran
thus,
"An honest man may talce a knave's advice.
But idiots only will be cheated twice."
After I had written this down, and before I opened the shell
by the aid of the nut-crackers, she said, " At the top above
the first line is part of another motto, it runs thus,
" Who smiles to see me in despair.
The word despair is cut close.'^ When the nut-shell was
opened, and the motto unfolded, the description given by
E. L. was found to be quite correct.
A. B. then took another shell, and in a very short time
read these words, which I wrote down,
" She's little in size
Has bright speaking eyes.
And if you prove true.
Will be happy with you."
The shell was broken open, and the words printed on the
little slip of folded paper found among the sweetmeats within,
were word for word with those written down by me.
E. L. took her turn at reading, the words she read out
were,
" In every beholder a rival I view,
I ne'er can be equalled in loving of you."
Having written down these words, the shell was opened and
it was found that E. L. had read the motto quite correctly.
WITH OBSEllVATIONS ON MESMERISM. 7
The servant announced that Mr. Arnott wished to see me.
He had come on professional business, and with no view of
witnessing these phenomena. I asked Major Buckley's per-
mission to introduce him. He came in and sat down. A. B.
proposed that he should take up a nut-shell from the table,
and she offered to read the motto while he held it in his hand.
He seemed hardly to be aware of what wonder he was to wit-
ness. He took up a nut, held it in his closed hand, and A. B.
read thus,
" The pangs of absence, how severe,
Have they ne'er waked thy bitter tear ?"
Mr. Arnott took the nut-crackers, broke his nut-shell, and
found that A. B. had read quite correctly. His laugh and
look of surprize told enough of the conviction of his mind.
The event had become a fact. How to account for it was
another matter. He could not deny that he had witnessed
the fact.
Major Buckley adjourned our meeting to Tuesday, 15th
of February.
This time he brought the young women by day-light.
They arrived at my house about a quarter past one. I pro-
posed that, as at our last meeting the mottos had been read
in hazle nut-shells, the walnut-shells should now be offered.
A. B. took one, and after a while said there was no printed
paper within, though there were some carraway comfits and
other sugar plums. The nut-shell was cracked, and she was
found to be quite correct.
She took up another walnut and read,
" If you were man, as man you are in shew,
You would not use a gentle lady so."
Above the top line, she added, near the commencement, there
were the two letters. My, clipped, part of another motto that
had been cut by the scissors in separating the mottos for use.
The shell was broken, and it was found that she was quite
right in every particular.
E. L. read her first walnut-shell motto thus,
" Beneath your bounteous smile to live.
Is joy that splendour ne'er can give."
The shell was opened, she was quite correct.
In the next shell she said the slip of paper contained a
conundrum. It began with a capital Q. for question, thus,
" Q. Why is a young swan like a seal ?
A. Because it is a cygnet."
She added that there was another word signet spelled differ-
ently, and placed between brackets, thus, (Signet.) In all
8 FACTS IN CLAIRVOYANCE,
this, upon opening the walnut-shell, she was found to be quite
correct.
A. B. then read her third motto in the walnut-shells. It
was exactly the same as the last, read by E. L., and quite
as accurately described.
A. B. then read from the fourth of her walnut-shells, and
here she made a mistake, attended by some remarkable cir-
cumstances. I wrote down her words, thus,
" 'Tis love, like the sun, that gives light to the year.
The sweetest of blessings that life can endear."
She added, underneath the printing of this motto is the top
part of a capital T, and of two small t's. At the com-
mencing side there appears to be half of an "N and a small e,
belonging to another motto. All this was quite true that she
added, but she had mistaken the motto, which ran thus,
" My love's too great, you may perceive,
And clearly see I don't deceive."
That she should be able to perceive the letters accidentally
clipped by the hasty scissors from another motto, and yet not
be able as usual to read the whole of what was on the printed
slip of paper, is quite unaccountable.
Another walnut-shell was given to E. L., and she said
there was a large sweetmeat in it, but no motto, which on
opening was found to be quite true.
The next taken up by E. L. contained a conundrum. She
said it began with letter Q., thus,
" Q. Why is a person who steals a noted newspaper like Cain ?"
She was rather joyous, laughed, and said, " Do you give it
up ?" and then went on,
" A. Because he takes a Bell's Life."
Abel's life, she added, was in brackets, (AbeFs life.) I opened
the walnut-shell, and found that she was quite correct.
E. L. took up another walnut-shell, and said, "There is
no motto in this which when it was opened, was found to
be quite true.
A. B. had been a little damped in spirits by her mistake,
but was encouraged to take another walnut-shell ; the conun-
drum in which she read perfectly correctly,
" Q. Why was Titian's fat daughter, Mary, like William Cobbett ?
A. Because she was a great Polly Titian."
Quickly A. B. read the next conundrum, inside of a
walnut, thus,
" Q. Why is tea, bought at the corner of Devereux Court
in the Strand, like a rope ?
"A. Because it comqs from Twiniug's."
WITH OBSERVATIONS ON MESMERISM. 9
The walnut-shell on being opened, allowed us to unfold and
read the slip of paper, and it was found that A. B. was quite
correct.
E. L. next read the slip of paper in the walnut-shell, which
fell to her lot.
" Q. When is it dangerous to walk by the side of a river ?
A. When the bull-rush is out."
" Between brackets," she added, " are the words (bull rushes
out)." The accuracy of her clairvoyance was proved by the
opening of the nut-shell.
At two o'clock Mr. Ashhurst Majendie was announced.
All the walnuts were exhausted, but I found the remainder of
my hazle nuts in a drawer, where I had secured them. With
Major Buckley's permission, Mr. Majendie assented to the
proposal of A. B., that he should hold a hazle nut in his hand.
She noticed that on the top of the folded paper slip there
were three capital letters, C. A. L., part of the C. cut off,
the motto running thus,
" Come kiss and forgive,
In love let us live."
Mr. Majendie cracked the nut, and found that all she had
said was quite true.
Then A. B. proposed to read a motto while the nut was
held in my hand. She said,
" In spite of your indifference,
I still have hopes of your compliance."
She proved to be quite right.
E. L. took up the cue, and read from a nut on the chimney
piece,
" Trifling presents preserve friendship."
On opening the hazle nut it was found that she was quite
right.
She next read a motto in another nut,
" Love is the greatest blessing given
To pilgrim man by pitying heaven."
She first read under heaven, and then corrected herself, the
unfolding proved that the words were, " by pitying heaven."
E. L. had not read a motto from a nut held in a person's
hand ; Mr. Majendie wished her to try and read one in his
hand, and he took one from the table. She read.
" How few like you possess a mind.
Where all the virtues are combined."
Mr. Majendie on opening the nut-shell, found that she was
quite correct.
10 FACTS IN CLAIEVOYANCE,
Major Buckley, having an appointment, was obliged to
break up our seance.
On Wednesday, 16tli February, at about one o'clock, my
friends, Mr. and Mrs. Gutch, were with me, when Major
Buckley arrived with his clairvoyantes. The sight of strangers
produced a little nervousness, and Mr. Gutch went for a while
into another room. A. B. read her first motto,
*' Make much of precious time while in your power,
Care full well and husband every hour."
The shell being opened, it was found that her reading
had been quite correct.
Finding that the girls were reassured, I asked permission
to bring back Mr. Gutch. When he came in E. L. read a
motto in a hazle nut-shell,
" Banish care, and welcome glee.
Accept this motto, love, from me."
A. B. then read,
" Believe me, in good as well as ill,
Woman is a contradiction still."
She said that on the slip of paper containing these lines there
were a capital T. and some parts of letters not legible. Mr.
Gutch opened the shell and found that she had given a per-
fectly correct account of the matter.
The next motto in a hazle nut-sheU was read correctly by
E. L., as Mr. Gutch, who opened the shell, has testified.
" Breath for life I less require.
Than you, the object of my heart's desire."
The fifth was read by E. L.,—
" My heart ordains this,
All women to kiss."
Mr. Gutch opened the shell, and found that the lines had
been read correctly.
The sixth was read by E. L.,
" Beauty and modesty combine.
To make my heart entirely thine."
Found by Mr. Gutch to have been read accurately.
The seventh was read by A. B.
" If I feared not to offend,
A thousand vows of love I'd send."
Mr. Gutch opened this shell and found that what I had written
down corresponded accurately with the words read by A. B.
On Thursday, 24th February, Lord Adare came by ap-
pointment at half-past three to witness the clairvoyance of
these young women. Major Buckley having made the passes
WITH OBSERVATIONS ON MESMERISM. 11
down his own face, the girls said they saw a blue light on his
forehead and cheeks. They were nervous at the presence of
Lord Adare, and it was a long time before either of them
felt able to read. A. B. trembled and could not read at all.
E. L. at last said she could see the last line of the motto iu
her nut, and she read thus,
—
" He seeks for thorns and finds his share."
I had written a for his, and when I read out before the nut
was cracked, she corrected me. Lord Adare opened the
shell and read,
—
" Man blindly follows grief and carej
He seeks for thorns and finds his share."
The last line was just as E. L. had seen it before the shell
was opened.
In conversing with Dr. Elliotson on the subject of these
experiments, he suggested to me that notwithstanding the
conviction I had of the nut-shells being identical with those
I had bought myself, there might be a possibility of some
jugglery. It was possible that each nut might be changed
for one the motto of which was well known. It was not
right to be content with probabilities.
Lord Adare presented a nut, the motto of which had been
previously taken out and marked. E. L. said there was some-
thing in that nut-sheU which gave her a severe head-ache.
She was sure it was marked, and the very suspicion of her
being guilty of fraud made her feel very ill. She began to
read,
—
" Thy charms, my love, can make,"
but could not proceed. She went away, and both girls passed
a restless night, so keenly hurt were they from having failed,
and from having been thought capable of trick and deceit.
The next day, they came again, and Lord Adare, Major
Buckley, and I were the only persons present. The first
part of the motto read yesterday proved to be correct. I had
procured some nuts at M. Coeuret's in Drury Lane, and had
taken out the mottos, cut them carefuUy with scissors so that
I should know them again, and had moreover written my
initials on each slip of paper before I refolded and replaced it
in the nut-shell. I ought to observe that I put back the
sugar-plums and closed the shells so carefully with chocolate,
I am certain no person could detect, the day after, that they
had been opened. The number I treated in this manner
prevented my remembering the lines of the mottos, so that
the phenomena could not be dependant on thought-reading.
E. L. laboured under a head-ache, and said she was too con-
13 FACTS IN CLAIllVOYANCE,
fused, she feared; to read accurately. At last she said, " I see
J. A. at one end of the motto wi-itten in ink—that's a marked
nut I know then she proceeded,
" Love not governed by sense or reason,
Is like a chance bird out of season."
Lord Adare broke the shell, and on examining the paper
found the letters J. A. I recognized my marks. The words
printed were,
" Love not guided still by reason,
Is the chance bird of a season."
So that the clairvoyante had been confused in her reading.
A. B. then tried to read a marked nut,
" Fair maiden, hear my loving vow."
She remarked that the sugar-plums were all white, instead
of being of several colours. She was quite correct. The
illness of the clairvoyantes prevented our going on with the
experiments.
Major Buckley asked me to go to the Opera on Tuesday,
the 29th February, and he said a young lady would be in his
box who was able to read in nut-shells while she was wide
awake, quite as well as the two clairvoyantes he had exhibited
to me. Accordingly, I accepted his invitation, and had the
good fortune to pass a very agreeable evening. Clairvoyance
is always witnessed to greater perfection if the subject be not
agitated or depressed. M. Marcillet often said that Alexis
Didier exhibited the phenomena best when the " entourage'^
was favourable :
" 9a va mieux en riant," he said ; and his
observation was just. The young lady at the Opera could
see no motto until she felt relieved of her first embarrassment
at seeing a stranger. She read a motto in a nut-shell, which
I held in my hand, accurately. Then I presented one, the
motto in which was marked with my initials. She detected
the mark in ink, which was blotted, and she read the lines in
print quite correctly.
On Friday, the 3rd March, this lady was at Major
Buckley's, when I called ; the two clairvoyantes from Chel-
tenham were there too. I had some marked nut-shells with
me. I had marked the shells as well as the mottos. The
lady said of the first motto that she could see it was very
dirty, it appeared stained all over ; it was notched in two or
more places. This was all true. It was stained with choco-
late, notched with a pair of scissors in two places, and torn
in another. She read the motto,
" Oh ! whate'er my fate may be,
I will ever think of thee."
WITH OBSERVATIONS ON MESMEllISM. IS
AVlieu I opened this shell I found she was quite correct. I
asked this lady to give me an account of how she managed
to read the words on a piece of paper folded up, as these
mottos are known to be in the shell. She said the paper ap-
peared before her in space unfolded, and she had only to read
on as in a book. The two girls, A. B. and J. L., had pre-
viously told me the same thing, before they knew this lady.
E. L. volunteered to read a motto in any shell marked or
otherwise. I produced one from my pocket, marked by my-
self. " I see," she said, " the capital letter A. written in ink,
now I see J., J. A." Then she read the motto before the
shell was opened,
—
" Her eye discourses,
I will answer it."
When I cracked the shell, I found this was correct, except
in the word Her, which was read for Your, and this error was
attributed to haste and carelessness. I believe that I have
tested the clairvoyance of these subjects as carefully, as watch-
fully, and as severely as the nature of the subject will warrant.
If the greatest delicacy be not observed in these experiments,
they fail. The human brain is not to be examined harshly,
and he who wishes to arrive at the truth must not here tor-
ture nature. She will yield to positive persuasion, but nega-
tive violence has no charms for her. Address may gain her
affections, but a doubt that she possesses the virtues of her
sex aflPronts her sense of propriety. In chemistry and in
electricity, nature is often in a delicate mood, and the arrival
at truth is by arts of great nicety. But in the examination
of clairvoyance, the tenderest management, most extreme
delicacy of investigation, is absolutely necessary.
Figurative language is hardly allowable in severe science,
but, in the present retarded state of our civilization, it is
difficult to avoid the vvdgar errors of the society in which we
move, and to refrain from adopting the most unphilosophic
tendency to explain ourselves by personifications and figures
that are not quite warranted by the rules of severe analysis.
New points on the functions of the brain and nerves are daily
brought into notice, and we must leave those who come after
us to chasten our expressions, and to sift the evidences we
offer for those truths which will remain long after our labours,
anxieties, and names are forgotten. We say that in the
operations of the mind a fluid emanates from the brain, be-
cause the phenomena of thought and mutual interchange of
ideas between individuals are accompanied by rays of colours,
visible to persons who, asleep or awake, happen to be in an
14 PACTS IN CLAIRVOYANCE,
exalted condition of clairvoyance. Analogies are our only
warrants for calling these rays fluids. We have strong evi-
dence of their presence being attended by an attractive force.
Some of Major Buckley's subjects require occasionally, in
addition to the blue colour perceived on his countenance, a
few passes on the nut-shells, to enable them to read the
mottos, and these passes are described as being accompanied
by the emission from his fingers of a blue stream that en-
lightens the objects within the shells. These passes, however
attractive, fail to produce clairvoyance in subjects who happen
to be in an agitated condition of mind, or who are placed in
circumstances where their feelings are not agreeably affected.
Very careful observations have led rae to coincide with other
experienced students of mesmerism in this conviction. To
say that these facts are not truths, because they do not tally
with the preconceptions of those religionists who personify
their deity and construct an idol of their false imaginations,
to represent a being of whom we limited mortals can form
no notion, is to say that the progress of philosophy shall be
arrested until these arrogant idol worshippers shall control
and comprehend the Power which pervades time, space, and
eternity.*
Dr. Hodgkin is at perfect liberty to say now that I am
under a delusion. I forgive him. I pity him. I had hoped
better things of the philosophic power of his brain. If he
really, sincerely, humbly, loyally, piously, wishes^ to study
* Eminent physicians, with whom I have conversed on these points, remind
me of a passage in Lardner's Manual of Electricity, in the Cabinet Cyclopedia,
vol. i., p. 47. I wish the following extract could lead them to reflect on their
weak and silly want of candour ; on their most unphUosophical desire to cling by
their rooted prejudices.—" When these and other papers (proposing that an iron
rod should be raised to a great height in the air, to convey electricity from the
clouds to the earth) by Franklin, illustrating similar views, were sent to London,
and read before the Royal Society, they are said to have been considered so wild
and absurd, that they were received with laughter, and were not considered
worthy of so much notice as to be admitted into the ' Philosophical TVansac-
tions.' They were, however, shewn to Dr. Fothergill, who considered them of
too much value to be thus stifled : and he wrote a preface to them and published
them in London. They subsequently ivent through five editions. After the
publication of these remarkable letters, and when pubUc opinion in all parts of
Europe had been expressed upon them, an abridgment or abstract of them was
read to the Society on the 6th of June, 1751. It is a remarkable circumstance
that, in this notice, no mention whatever occurs of Franklin's project of drawing
lightning from the clouds. Possibly that was the part which before excited
laughter, and was omitted to avoid ridicule."—Lardner's Cabinet Cyclopedia: a
manual of Electricity, 8fc., vol. i., p. 47.
t If the doctor has any desire to read the lucubrations of a non sequitur phi-
losopher, who, like other men that slip away from sound logic, commit themselves,
let him turn to pages 143, 144 of the third volume of The Zoist, and, having
studied the text, he may possibly gain some improvement by the lesson on pre-
judice, in the note by the translator of Dr. J. B. Mege's discourse.
I
WITH OBSERVATIONS ON MESMERISM. 15
the subject of hallucinations, let him turn to the third, or
1845 volume of The Zoist, where, at pages 365 and 471, he
will find some most valuable facts and observations by Dr.
EUiotson. If Dr. Hodgkin be capable of large views, and
have the faculty of philosophical reflection, he may learn by
the aid of mesmerism to do that which has already been done
by this holy power, to cure hallucinations, instead of talking
nonsense about them.
The number of The Zoist for April, 1848, the first of the
sixth volume of that important work, contains the preceding
notice of facts in Clairvoyance. A set has been made against
this quarterly periodical, and one meets with observations
against it by persons who, on most subjects, entertain just
and liberal ideas. I am told it is a great pity that some
writers in it advocate the cause of materialism, and folks
mean thereby that this word is synonymous with irreligion.
I say it is a pity men do not so study the philosophy of the
mind, as to understand clearly the meaning of terms. Their
intellects would be then in a more favourable state to appre-
hend the value of justice between man and man, and as we
all love fair dealing, injurious motives and opinions would not
be attributed to our neighbours without ample cause. The
meaning of the word irreligious is applicable, I trust, strictly
to few in the civilized portions of a Christian land. The bonds
of civil society would soon be rent asunder, if many refused
a faith in things sacred. But whatever may be the creed of
our brother, above all is charity ;
—and I should hold it to be
very immaterial what were the speculative,—metaphysical views
of an honourable man on the subjects of materialism or spirit-
ualism. To quarrel about the husk and to neglect the essential
kernel of the fruit is folly : but alas ! it is folly too common
in this world. Instead of attending to the practice of pure
religion,—the adoption of sincere humility,—the hearty libe-
ration to Christian charity, we find men blaming each other,
shy of each other, or hating each other for slight difi^er-
ences of opinion on questions of, at best, shallow metaphysics.
Perhaps, could they biit see the truth in the same point
of view, for both intend to be in the right, they would
agree perfectly ; and it is a fact, that their perfect agreement
would shew to each that he was originally in the right. The
difiference is only whether spiritual essence or ethereal un-
particled matter be an entity. Both mean, whatever the
limited imaginative capacity of the one may be, that there is
16 FACTS IN CLAIRVOYANCE,
a Being, pure, holy, and perfect. But however metaphysical
writers may differ on the doctrines of matter and no matter,
one looks not into The Zoist for the relations between meta-
physics and theology. What is sought for in that work is a
record of most curious facts relating to the highest subjects
of philosophy. No such facts can possibly injure the cause of
religion.*
Religion is a holy subject. It has its own place ; it governs
the highest aspirations of mortal men. From persons of
well-constituted minds, its sacred impressions receive the
profoundest attention, and it ought not to be lightly, unrea-
soningly, irreverently introduced into questions of ordinary
science. It can stand its own ground by its own strength.
The organ of Veneration is placed on the highest part of the
human head ;
Benevolence, Hope, Firmness, Conscientiousness
belong to the federal compact over which it presides, and the
organs of the reasoning faculties direct the laws by which the
truly religious, the really humble character holds sacred the
principles of humility, justice, and universal charity. True
religion reposes on an intellectual basis, and nothing which
is abhorrent to reason can belong to it. It would be well,
if instead of being taught by many to become the nurse of
bigotry, and the agent for debilitating the understanding, by
impressing thoughts and convictions at variance with common
sense,—by introducing the worship of fanciful idols of the
imagination, it could be used as a means for the cultivation
* An excellent note has appeared in the last page of the April Number of
The Zoist, which is added here, as it applies with much force to the above obser-
vations. " So uninformed are most persons, that we every day hear men spoken
of with horror as materialists. Now a man may be not only most conscientious,
but most devout ;
nay, be a sincere and fervent Christian, aye, and a trinitarian
Christian too, and most evangelical, and yet be a materialist. That is, a man
who believes that the matter of bis organized and living brain is endowed with
such properties that it wills, feels, and thinks, and that these by nature decay
and cease for ever with the brain at its decay, death and disintegration, may also
believe that, by the will of God, by an additional and miraculous grant, they will
exist again with a brain reproduced but, however glorified, still matter ;
according
to the Fourth Article of the Church of England, which asserts that Christ, the first
fruits of them that slept, sits at the right hand of the Father, with ' his body,
with flesh, bones, and all things appertaining to the perfection of man's nature.'
We urge this, because we know that many excellent persons who take such a view
of a future state are vilified and called atheists, infidels, sceptics, and cruelly
injured, from the total ignorance of the majority of people, even of the higher
ranks, that, though the term materiaUst is sometimes used to signify an atheist,
it has another and most innocent signification, relating, not to supernatural things,
but to an innocent opinion on a natural thing. Yes ; a man may be a true Chris-
tian, of any protestant denomination, though not of the Roman Catholic per-
suasion, and yet be a materialist. We beg those who have not reflected much on
this subject, but think, as parrots talk, by imitation, to read Bishop Law's
Theory of Religion, Bishop Sherlock's Discourses, Bishop Watson's Anecdotes
of his own Life, and Archbishop Tillotson."
WITH OBSERVATIONS ON MESMERISM. 17
and expansion of those organs which establish a just estimate
of things holy and sacred the practice of a piety which
eschews cant and all hypocrisy. What parent would delibe-
rately wish to educate a child to become an idiot ? and yet
the course of education which leads to a weakening of the
reasoning faculties is the race-course to the goal of idiocy.
Thanks to that great Power which has so arranged the human
brain as to decree the natural alliance between Religion^ Con-
science, Benevolence, Sympathy for our fellow beings, and
the Reasoning Faculties,—the race for the intoxicating cup has
not been won, and the world is awakening from the compli-
cated frauds by which it has been jockeyed. The plea of
« irreligion as against good, sincere, and honest men for inves-
tigating the phenomena of natural science, has been raised
in all times by fraudulent persons for their base ends. There
have always existed men who have found it their interest to
assume the cloak of righteousness in order to blind weak
people dishonestly, and to take advantage of ignorant preju-
dices for the unworthy purpose of some selfish advantage, or
to divert attention from their own cunning arts.
The duty of The Zoist is to pursue the line indicated by
Gall, and to cultivate the knowledge of that science which
has verified his splendid discoveries.
Read the concluding sentence of Gall's great work, and
let any one ask himself if the pursuits of such a philosopher,
or of those who are proud to tread in his steps, can be irre-
ligious. " Finally," he says, " Man, that inextricable being,
is made known ; organology composes and decomposes, piece
by piece, his propensities and talents ; it has fixed our ideas of
his destiny and the sphere of his activit}^ and it has become
a fruitful source of the most important applications to medicine,
philosophy, jurisprudence, education, history, &c. Surely these
are so many guarantees of the truth of the physiology of the
brain,
—
so many titles of gratitude towards Him, who has
made them known to me."
He who is afraid of the bad influences of a work like The
Zoist, should give up the power of reasoning and of judging
for himself, and then be content to sneer at God's choicest
gift of reason,—pinning his faith to the sleeve of some human
master, and conclude all men to be wicked and unholy, who,
in any way, differ from his standard of belief.
Clairvoyance is said by weak, or by cunning and canting
persons, to be the work of Satan. Brutal and barbarous
ignorance could be the only excuse for thus treating mental
philosophy. The phenomena either are or are not true. If
not true, there is an end of the matter. If true, the subject
B
18 FACTS IN CLAIRVOYANCE,
should be investigated. To deny belief to well-authenticated
facts is silly,—to attribute the cause to the devil is worse than
foolish. It is calling in question the attributes of all that men
hold sacred : it is allowing the bad part of humanity to master
the better. The stupid pretender to religion, who calls the
pure and honest philosopher an ally of the devil, decides
against the further cultivation of science. He would arrest
the progress of knowledge in order to pander to the jjrejudices
and wilful blindness of those who are benighted in fear and
ignorance,—of those by whom the blessings of science, in-
tended for the alleviation of human suffering, are received in
a spirit of real infidelity—a want of trust in the mercies of a
benevolent Being,—and a bigotted determination to reject
truth, although it arrives in the shape of a benefit. Such a
wicked advocate of sham piety would appear to be typified by
the almost monster, which the human being resembles when
labouring under a form of mania, that presents, to the visitor
of an asylum, a picture of brutal expression with pouting
lips, spasmodically closed eyelids, the furious firmness of un-
reasoning obstinacy, portrayed in a countenance swollen
with the vain anger and determination of " I won't," against
an imaginary evil that, in reality, is an approaching good.
So do many of those who would be considered religious,
receive God's blessing of mesmerism !
I study the truths of clairvoyance, because I believe them
to be important to ray pursuits as a physician. I, through a
knowledge of them, obtain a clearer insight into the pheno-
mena of the human mind. I know there is nothing in mes-
merism which does not exist in nature. The discovery of
artificial modes of producing natural phenomena is not a
wickedness, or all our ingenious devices in the art of cookery,
said, by an ingenious philosopher, to be imitative of the com-
position of milk, would be supremely flagitious. If I were
at liberty, I could state cases in which remarkable natural
clairvoyance has occurred in ladies, who have been under my
care for insanity, some of whom have been completely cured
by mesmerism. Unobserving, unreasoning medical men have
overlooked the fact, in instances where this phenomenon con-
stituted a prominent symptom of disordered health. I have
repeatedly met with clairvoyance in insanity, and it had been
previously stupidly confounded with fancy and hallucination.
So little have eminent physicians studied this part of their
profession, that I lately witnessed two cases in which doctors
spoke of horsewhipping and of throwing buckets of water over
females, who were absolutely insane. Could they but lend
their attention to be convinced of the blessings conferred by
WITH OBSERVATIONS ON MESMERISM. 19
the mild practice of mesmerism on such afflicted beings, their
better feelings, as gentlemen, would yield to the touching
appeal of humanity. No time is ill spent—no patience is
too great which promises relief to mental disease. Some phy-
sicians have been low enough in feeling to ascribe to me
unworthy motives for practising mesmerism. I pity them
for that which they cannot help ; and I could sometimes wish
that, notwithstanding the wearying, extreme patience which
is required, it were my lot to do that which I have repeat-
edly effected,—the cure of mania, in cases that had been
shockingly aggravated by opium and other poisons adminis-
tered by pig-headed physicians, who contemptuously sneer at
the truths of clairvoyance. If there were no higher object in
investigating these facts, there is a deep interest attached to
all truths connected with mental philosophy. I consider the
world much indebted to Major Buckley for the mass of facts
he has collected. There is no knowing where these discoveries
may lead. Nothing which can produce material for reflection
can be justly considered as trifling. The nut-shell experiments
illustrate a curious and most remarkable condition of brain j
that which gives the power of shedding light into dark recesses
protected by apparently opaque media.
Do they not, by analogy, give us some idea of the flash
with which the poet's genius illuminates a hidden truth ?
May they not at some future period, teach how the distri-
bution of nervous fluid can, in an exquisite organization, im-
plying a highly sensible condition of nervous arrangements,
account for the charms of delicacy of sentiment and of natu-
rally refined taste ! The extent and the limits of the power
of producing the phenomena of clairvoyance are interesting
subjects of enquiry. They must lead to a more just appre-
ciation of the difficulties in the treatment of affections of the
nervous system generally, and consequently of the mind in
particular. Since my paper was communicated to The Zoisf,
Major Buckley has favoured me with the letter I subjoin. It
is an important document, communicating much interesting
information.
"Dear Dr. Ashburner.—I rejoice to find that I have con-
vinced you and those of your friends who believe on the evi-
dence of their own senses, that it is possible to produce a
waking state of clairvoyance, enabling those placed in it to
state correctly the words of a motto, while rolled up within a
nutshell. Thirteen persons have done this ; three of them in
your presence. I tried the experiment, for the first time, in
a private box at the Lyceum, on the 16th of last August, when
B 2
20 FACTS IN CLAIRVOYANCE,
the mottos in ten shells were correctly stated by three young
ladies. On the following night, at the Opera, they told me
the mottos in seven more. On this occasion, the shells were
purchased while on my way to the Opera ; each shell was held
in my own hand,—each opened by me, the motto taken out,
unrolled, read, proved to be correct, and then (and not until
then) touched by the party. Up to this date the mottos in
1512 shells (the words amount to 22,195) have been read.
In many cases, (some of which you have witnessed), the shells
have not only been brought by strangers, but held in their
hands, and never touched by me, nor by the clau'voyantes.
I have mesmerised 319 persons, of whom 115 have been
clairvoyant : out of this number 13 have read words placed on
the head, back, under the foot,* &c., &c., and 96 in boxes.
42 persons have thus read while awake. This includes three
ladies and one young gentleman, who were never put into
the mesmeric sleep, and two ladies who first read in the
waking state, and were subsequently mesmerised. Even to
you, who have admitted the efficacy of my passes in removing
pain, I fear to state how many I have thus relieved. You are
practically aware, in your own person, of the truth of the exist-
ence of this power in me, and know full well that different
persons possess this faculty in very various degrees. A. B.
and E. L., during their stay in town, read the mottos in 223
shells in presence of 26 strangers, some of them marked by,
as well as opened by 16 others. The young lady you saw with
me at the Opera has, during the same time, read the mottos
in 22 shells in the hands of, or marked by, several strangers.
WhOe I have the satisfaction of knowing that one at least
among my cases, whose life was despaired of, has returned
thanks to her Maker for her restoration through mesmerism.
* My friends, Captain James and Mr. Topham, being at Cheltenham, had the
opportunity of seeing a young gentleman, who at the request of Mr. Topham, read
a word placed under his foot with the writing towards the carpet. The eyes had
been bandaged carefully. Strict precautions were taken that there could be no
possibility of seeing by the ordinary organs of vision. The word was M^'olf, it
was written by Mr. Topham, and the somnambule described with the aid of his
finger the peculiarities in the form of the W. This same clairvoyant had re-
peatedly read words carefully concealed from him and placed under a thick cushioned
foot stool upon which his feet rested.
t The case alluded to by the worthy Major is one of a poor woman in Chel-
tenham, who was afflicted with severe epileptic fits. Her name is Elizabeth
Hookham ; she had been subject to fits for three years. These at first occurred
about twice, and latterly they came on every other day. In August, 1845, she
became so ill that her life was considered in danger. On the '29th of that month
Major Buckley first visited her, and made passes down her back, which strength-
ened her greatly ; he saw her again in a week, and found her much improved.
On Wednesday, 10th September, and four following days, he mesmerised her.
On Sunday she drank a glass of water which had been mesmerised on the pre-
WITH OBSERVATIONS ON MESMEllISM.
The ridicule of sceptics shall never deter me from using it.
You, I know, have made the same resolution ;
and, with greater
skill, have been more useful to your suffering fellow creatures.
" Wishing you continued success in the cause of truth
and humanity,
" Believe me, very sincerely yours,
"W. Buckley.
''London, April 13th, 1848."
Mesmerism is full of these wonders. But let not people
be led away to gape like fools at things which astonish the
ceding day, and fell asleep immediately ; she was mesmerised on the three fol-
lowing days. Since that time she gained strength, and was able to attend to her
usual occupations. On the 1st September she had a very sUght fit, which was
her last. She has written at the conclusion of the statement, from which this
account is extracted, " I know that this is true. I returned thanks to God in
the Church, 29th October. Elizabeth Hookham." Up to the 1st of March,
1848;, she has contmued in good health. Major Buckley, not being a medical
man, would not have undertaken the ti-eatment of so serious a case as this, had
he not been assured of success by a clairvoyante, of whose powers of inti-ovision
and prevision he had had most ample experience.
To corroborate such statements, I select from among my own cases a striking
instance of a cure of epilejjsy.
William Skinner, aged 16, tall, brown hair, a swarthy complexion, large
prominent hazel eyes, smaU-sized head ; is the son of a time-keeper, attached
to an omnibus establishment in Portman Place, Edgware Road. He was brought
to me by his mother on Friday, 19th January, 1844. This lad was a melancholy
object ; he was paralyzed on the whole of his left side, and was very oflfensive,
from utter inability, to control any of his excretions. He had been afflicted
with severe epileptic fits for about eight years. Sometimes he had ten or eleven
of these in the course of four days, and then he might have an interval of seven
or eight weeks ; more commonly they occurred about once in ten days or a fort-
night. Any sudden impression upon his mind was apt to produce an epileptic
attack; a dog unexpectedly running past him would occasion a paroxysm. A
widening of the face and a sense of choking or ball in the throat were observed
to precede the insensibility and convulsion. The fits varied in intensity, occa-
sionally accompanied by much foaming at the mouth,—sometimes without any :
occurred often during sleep, and he was found on the floor, having in his struggles
fallen out of bed. Fits terminated in a heavy deep sleep. My notes were made
for a medical study ;
they contain details that bring to my mind so much want of
philosophical judgment in many cases of epilepsy treated by medical men, that
the reflection upon them is sickening. Epilepsy is a disease occasionally, but
very seldom, cured, and the pretension and quackery displayed by men who
ought to behave better is lamentable. Epilepsy is sometimes relieved by very
strict attention to the digestive functions.
I pointed out in 1834, that an abnormal course of dentition was a fre-
quent source of this disease, and many cases have since then been success-
fully treated, by either cutting freely the gums, or by extracting the wise teetli.
Cure is the object of the honest physician. Mesmerism has cured many cases, as
remarkable pages of five volumes of The Zoist testify. I completely cured
William Sldnner by the patient and persevering use of this power. It is not
magic. It is not collusion with the devil ! Let him who diabolically asserts this
falsehood, for the devil is the father of lies, ask himself if the alarming gentleman
in black ever sanctioned the patience and the perseverance of 238 and 327 sittings
of one hour each, devoted to the successful treatment of two patients, afflicted
22 FACTS IN CLAIRVOYANCE,
weak in mind. The phenomena of nature are for reflexion
and for use, to be recorded, noted for the good of our fellow
beings, not to be played with only,—to be regarded as toys,
—or to be looked upon as objects merely to excite the senses
for the passing moment. Too many have regarded this sub-
ject in an idle, unphilosophic spirit, and an attempt is now
made to force more steady and more serious attention to con-
siderations too important for the levity or the unreasonable
scepticism with which they have hitherto been met. It is
remarkable that mesmerism should have been so received by
even deep-thinking philosophers. The wide ramifications of
this science into the depths of the most occult phenomena,
with epilepsy ? Did Satan ever spend so much time in endeavours to do good ?
The Spirit of Evil may have often prompted patients and their relatives to halt
in their course of mesmerism. Tired of reiterated sittings, they judge, without
experience, of what is called a fair trial. In the effort to cure disease of a serious
character, patience ought never to flag. The question is one of confidence in
the honesty of the medical man. The nature of medical opposition to mesmerism,
the history of the treatment its honest advocates have met with, have inflicted a
severe blow on the character of our profession. Patient, unwearying, philoso-
phical investigstion have characterized the study of this subject. It is sickenuig
to reflect on the flood of wickedness which has been poured out on the simple
desire to elucidate most important phenomena of nature. The honest truth
is scouted. Interested knaves are found to invent and give circulation, by the
most cunning arts, to most atrocious calumnies. Mesmerism requires an amount
of perseverance that few will, in these days, bestow upon it ; but when the
requisite time has been given, the reward to the sufferer is abundant. The truth
on this matter must prevail. A cunning dodge of the medical men who try to
oppose the progress of that which an honest sense of duty should impel them to
study, is, that they decline the responsibility of having mesmeric practice admi-
nistered to their patients ; and so they work on the timidity of the public ! This
may be mistaken for honesty, but in my mind it is ignorance fraudulently taking
advantage of position, to operate upon the most pitiable passion of our nature
fear. Responsibility, forsooth, from which the same knave will not shrink when
the question is of administering a poison, of the principle of whose action he is
profoundly ignorant. Another mode of operating on the fears of women is to
assert that mesmerism excites to ungovernable sexual passion. An ignorance of
phrenology encourages this gross mis-statement ; so disgustingly libellous and
offensively insulting to the moral capabilities of self-control among the females
of our country. Afew are found with undue developments of the organ of Ama-
tiveness, and the opposers of mesmerism would insinuate that our proverbially
delicate-minded women are all too large in the lower back part of the head, and
that they necessarily forget the functions of those other organs of their brains whose
duties are to encourage the purest thoughts, and to check improper amatory feel-
ings. If their averment were true, no woman should take a glass of wine or
of any exciting drink, for they induce a state of brain that encourages passion,
and an abandonment to such ideas as are most apt to prevail with the presence
of large posterior cerebral organs. Far more immoral mischief may be done,
and has been done, with intoxicating liquors—chloroform and other drugs, than
with mesmerism. The real and, perhaps, instinctive fear of the bad spirits of
this world, is, that mesmerism of a necessity leads on to a philosophy of the
mind which must ensure the establishment of true instead of false Christianity !
a consummation hated by a far larger jjroportion of mankind than in their
greedy selfishness would choose to confess it.
WITH OBSERVATIONS ON MESMERISM. 23
the power of knowing events passing in another hemisphere of
this planet, second sight, the prevision of disease, the faculty
of introvision and of seeing into the earth for minerals and
springs of water, the will, the interchange of thought be-
tween man and man, the relations between wakefulness
and sleep, the power of suspending ordinary sensibility to
alleviate and to cure the most agonizing pain, the cure of
diseases, even those involving alteration of structure, the
establishment of the truth of GalFs organology of the brain,
and all the consequent numerous considerations of mental
philosophy. These, and more, form a subject as important
to investigate as some portions are magnificent and sublime
to contemplate.
I propose to take an early opportunity of laying before the
pubhc a sketch of some of my ideas on the philosophy of
medicine, and the relation which mesmerism bears to it. In
The Zoist,* I have already, in detailing curious and striking
phenomena, endeavoured to shew that the views of those
who had about seventy years ago written of an imponderable
coloured fluid, emanating from the nerves of living beings,
were quite correct. Whatever we may deduce from the facts
that have been placed before us, it is quite certain that these
facts have been observed by different persons^ in different
places, and at different periods of time. Numbers of persons
have, in all the quarters of the globe, put patients into a
state of somnambulism numbers of these patients have exhi-
bited the phenomena of clairvoyance : some in a low degree,
others to a more exalted extent. Some have seen the room
in which they happened to be, enlightened as if by the rays
of the sun ; others as if by all the colours of the rainbow.
Others have been able to see through media, commonly known
as opaque, into an adjoining room, or even to a great distance.
The varieties in the degree of this phenomenon are very remark-
able, I have testified that I have been present where persons,
in sleep, have declared to events passing in other places, which
have been found, on investigation, to have been most accu-
rately recounted. Often have I witnessed most accurate and
minute descriptions given by somnambules of the furniture
and inhabitants of rooms, into which they had never in their
lives set their feet. The visual sensibility of these clairvoy-
antes must have been extraordinarily augmented, as it enabled
them to see light through media, which to us, in an ordinary
state of sensibility, would be considered quite opaque. The
degree of augmentation of visual sensibility must vary exceed-
* Zoist, Vol. IV., p. 124 and p. 254.
24. FACTS IN CLAIRVOYANCE,
ingly. 1 have met with several persons who could, in their
ordinary state, see flames, not visible to most, in broad day-
light ; and I have, in the papers in The Zoist, mentioned that
some patients, in their ordinary state, could see blue light,
or grey, emanating from the ends of my fingers when I was
engaged in the act of mesmerising. I could enumerate
twenty persons, who, in their ordinary waking state, could
see these emanations from my fingers, and some of them
from my eyes and my forehead. I have known many more
who could see these coloured emanations when they have
been in a mesmeric sleep. To my mind the fact is sufficiently
established, that from the functional extremities of the nerves
of living beings, a fluid bearing some analogies to the mag-
netic fluid, emanates ; the more abundant, as thought and
will are more intensified. I think I have adduced facts enough
to lead to the conclusion that this fluid is either attractive or
repulsive, according to phrenological conditions ; that it can
be accumulated in water or on other bodies, and that the
phenomena produced by its reiterated impingement on sus-
ceptible living bodies are analogous to those produced by
magnetic currents received by the same bodies, under the
same or similar circumstances. I have said that I had myself,
after having continuously exercised my will upon an obstinate
subject, seen " lier covered with a violet-coloured halo.^^ Since
that time, I have frequently observed modifications of the
same thing. In mesmerising with the exertion of intense
will, I have seen portions of the face of the patient covered
with a violet, and sometimes with a blue cloudy atmosphere,
which has vanished upon my having recourse to dispersing
passes. The philosophical researches of Baron Von Reichen-
bach have established concurrent truths, and the logical dis-
tinctions which he has introduced into the examination of
the facts connected with the emission of light from magnets
and from crystals, render it highly probable that the impon-
derable agent he has indicated, however analogous to the
electric or magnetic fluid, has characters that entitle him to
place it under a new category. The instruments, in common
use for testing the presence of the electric or magnetic
agencies, do not enable us to be aware of the mesmeric fluid,
or to measure its quantity or intensity. The human frame
in a highly susceptible condition, is at present our only
mesmerometer, and the series of phenomena, with identical
characters, exhibited by various crystalline bodies on several
subjects, leave no doubt that laws exist which, notwith-
standing the varieties ofliered by individual idiosyncracies,
may, by continued investigation, be traced to their source.
WITH OBSERVATIONS ON MESMEllISM. 25
The appearance of Vori Reiehenbach's work is an era in the
history of mesmerism ; for the existence of an agency with
two poles, residing in the principal axis of all crystals, has
enabled ns to draw important inferences on the nature of sleep
and of vigilance. My attempt at a theory of sleep is grounded
on these, together with other facts ; and much experience has
coiToborated the accuracy of my views. One pole of a crystal
is found to encourage sleep, the opposite pole has the effect
of producing wakefulness. A current from the positive pole
of Mr. Noad's Electro Dynamic Coil, in a direct course from
the head to the feet, has a tendency to induce sleep ; a cur-
rent in the inverse course from the feet to the head, or from
the pit of the stomach to the head, immediately awakens the
person put to sleep. The direct mesmeric passes produce
sleep,—the inverse passes produce vigilance : all attractive
currents or agencies produce sleep,—all repulsive agencies
awaken. The human will exercised intensely upon a suscep-
tible subject, if with attractive feeling, causes a tendency to
sleep : if with repulsive characteristics, the opposite effect.*
These, with numerous other facts, establish the correctness
of the general proposition I have adduced. It was an object
then in view, to ascertain the condition of the nervous system
under the two opposite states of sleep and vigilance. I knew
—^for I had seen in animals, and by observations in cases
where I had removed portions of the bone of the skull—that
the human brain was more compact dimng sleep, than when
the patient was awake. Boerhaave had recorded this fact
;
and when I have opened the head, in cases where persons had
recently died of hypertone, the brain and spinal cord have
been observed to be extraordinarily firm, and were hard and
compact, if a dog or a rabbit be killed by inducing too deep
a sleep—a hypertonic state—by a strong current of magnetism
from the positive pole of an electro dynamic coil, the brain
and spinal cord are found in a state of compact integration,
so that all the facts concur in establishing the idea that the
nervous fibre is more compact in sleep and in tonic spasm,
and less so in vigilance and in clonic spasm. Now if we
enquire into the nature of spasm, we shall find that it is
merely a condition of muscle actuated to contract regularly
* Nothing so strikingly illustrates the protective power of self-control derived
from a good education, as the facts connected with the exercise of intense will
on somnambules with different moral habits. A somnambulc, with a very strict
sense of propriety, may be commanded by the silent will to do an act repulsive
to her feelings ; to kiss one on the cheek, for instance. She resists tlio mandate,
although the resistance produces severe head-ache. In some cases I liave known
the patient to waken up suddenly. A woman with facile morals, is attracted by
the same order, and performs the bidding.
26 FACTS IN CLAIRVOYANCE,
or steadily under tone, and irregularly or unsteadily, with
intermissions, under clone. Tonic and clonic spasm may be
considered the types of all the various forms of disease. The
degrees of depth in healthy sleep are but degrees of tone.
The degrees of vigilance, from the opening of the eyes in
the morning to the full activity of healthy exercise, are degrees
of clone, with alternations of tone. When clone prepon-
derates, a disease supervenes. These two conditions may be
compared to the conditions of polarity, and it will be found
that the analogies have closer relations to the phenomena of
poles than appear at first sight. Common sleep in one^s bed
at night is the more refreshing in proportion to the degree to
which the system is toned. A healthy sailor, when he turns
in to his berth, often packs his sleep of four hours with so
much tone, that he obtains the refreshment of a mesmeric
sleep, which is in fact only common sleep multiplied by itself,
if the expression be allowable. The sailor having had strong
exercise, feels the fatigue that brings on a reversal of polarity.
The clonic state of nerve yields to the tonic, and he sleeps
with an intensity in a ratio to his previous fatigue. The
mesmeric sleep, a multiple of common sleep, is the more
refreshing to the patient, as it is more intense. If no modi-
fying circumstances intervene, the mesmeric sleep may be
further multiplied, the brain and nerves being rendered more
compact. In some cases, the continuance of downward passes
will effect this ; in others, the application, to the nape of the
neck, of gold, or of platinum, of rhodium, of nickel, but
above all, of cobalt, will have a striking effect in producing
this state. It is the presence of a more profound sleep with
a rigid condition of the whole voluntary muscular system.
When the patient returns to the waking state, he finds him-
self amazingly refreshed by his deep nap. No tonic medicine
can be compared to this power ; it induces healthy, vigorous,
buoyant sensations ; but if, instead of waking up the patient,
a sufficiently powerful positive magnetic current were passed
in a direct course down the spinal cord, the effect would
probably be hypertone and death. Ether and chloroform,
which are well known to produce some of the phenomena of
mesmerism, when they produce death do not kill by means
of hypertone. The two opposite poles of magnets and of
crystals, and the opposite effects produced by them on the
living system, lead us to inferences relating to the operation
of narcotic poisons, that explain much of the obscurity of
their modus operandi. The pointed extremity of a crystal,
say of nitrate of potass, being offered to the face of a
highly susceptible patient, sleep instantly ensues. Reverse
WITH OBSERVATIONS ON MESMERISM. 37
the polarity—offer the other extremity of the crystal—the
patient immediately wakens. If we could so dispose the
crystals of morphia as to be able to present to the face only
the extremities that produce the hypnotic effect, we should,
in all probability, have a delicious, refreshing sleep ; —but in
administering this drug, we put into the stomach the poi-
sonous, as well as the Ijenignant pole, and thus defeat the
object we have in view. It is the recoupe,—the contrecoup,
—
the blow with the bit, that is the inevitable consequence of
a simultaneous exhibition of both poles ; and so it is with
all narcotics that act on the nerves. We have not suf-
ficiently studied mesmerism. We have not arrived at the
art of separating the two poles. Ether and chloroform in
excess exemplify the pernicious agency of the repulsive pole,
that of clone, and kill by inducing a condition of brain and
lungs amounting to disease,—asphyxia, with a venous con-
gestion, like that produced by a beastly dead-drunkenness,
—
the opposite of the effects attendant on temperance, and its
health-giving influence, a prerogative of the mild positive pole
of mesmerism.
It is to be hoped that these views may tend to remove
some of the confusion that embarrasses the minds of medical
men on the subjects of spasms,—of the influence of narcotics
and of the distinctions between health and disease. Those
who talk glibly on hysteria and its Protean forms, should learn
the use of terms. If they have reflective power, they will
strive to wash out of their minds the confused ideas of hys-
teric diseases of parts that have no relation to the womb.
The study of the phenomena of mesmerism would clear away
the mist which envelopes the minds of many medical men,
not only on so called nervous diseases, but would open up
more correct principles of pathological reasoning in general
;
for whatever relates to the better comprehension of innerva-
tion, must be confessed to be very important. The two oppo-
site kinds of delirium ;
—the two opposite kinds of fever ;
the hot and cold stages of which are so strikingly and
wonderfully coincident with full or the reverse states of the
arterial or venous systems, those phenomena which were so
elaborately shewn by the late Professor Macartney to illus-
trate the opposite conditions of inflammation and congestion,
will appear to be closely connected with the tonic and clonic
polarities of the nerves; in fact, with the distribution of
nervous influence
;
—innervation
;
—mesmerism !
All maladies in which nerves are in a clonic condition
are successfully treated by restoring these organs to a tonic
state. Here is the great secret of the astounding cures by
FACTS IN CLAIRVOYANCE,
the agency of mesmerism, of which The Zoist offers so many
instances. Consumption arrested ! —cancer cured ! If no
other boon had been vouchsafed to man by this discovery,
here is a sufficient plea for the gratitude of mankind. But the
simple induction of sleep rather deeper—more intense than
that which we covet as a blessing when we lay the head on a
pillow for the night, after a humble aspiration towards per-
fection,—is a cure for a long list of diseases, many of which
have baffled the experience and the ingenuity of the best
practitioners. Dr. EUiotson, who has cured cancer, and
whose experience has been most extensive, is a man of no or-
dinary talent ; he could never have imagined that it would be
his destiny to lead on to such wonderful results as he has ob-
tained ; and I, who have from my boyhood enjoyed the most
extensive opportunities of hospital practice, know that men
do not ordinarily cure what it has been my lot to eradicate
by mesmerism. Disbelief in these statements becomes a folly.
I assert that I have repeatedly arrested the progress of tuber-
cular consumption : I assert that, by mesmeric agency, I have
cured insanity repeatedly in cases unsuccessfully treated, nay,
much aggravated by the exhibition of the ordinary so-called
remedies. Hysteria, grave cases of epilepsy, chorea or St.
Vitus's dance,—all examples of clonic spasm, have yielded, in
several cases, to the deep mesmeric sleep I have induced in
the patients. Paralysis has often been treated unsuccess-
fully by a hit or miss application of electricity, adopted with-
out any scientific principle ; the analogies to mesmeric treat-
ment aff'orded by Mr. Noad^s electro-dynamic coil, have en-
abled Mr. Bagshaw and Mr. Tylee of Bath to perform some
really wonderful cures ; and my own success with the more
powerful agency of mesmerism itself, entitles me to urge its
claims for efficacy on the serious attention of the medical
community not only as a curative agent in hemiplegia, but
in all varieties of this intractable malady. Extraordinary
beneficial changes have taken place in cases of paraplegia
where medical opinions had decided that the cause was a
softening of the spinal cord. In organic diseases of the
kidneys and of the bladder, marvellous relief has been ob-
tained through mesmerism. I was called some months ago
to a case which was described to me by the physician in
attendance as one of saccharine diabetes, with softening of
the spinal marrow and paraplegia. This was his view of it,
and he said it was impossible the patient could survive eight
days. M. Laurent has continued to act as the mesmeriser,
and notwithstanding very many untoward events, calculated
to thwart the practice, large sloughs and deep ulcers on the
WITH OBSERVATIONS ON MESMERISM. 29
sacrum and close to each trochanter have healed under the
influence of mesmerised water dressing, and the gentleman
is better in every respect.
When a disease of the spine advances to a point at which
an experienced physician declares that the patient is in a con-
dition without hope, and mesmeric practice snatches him from
the grave, persons will no doubt be found to declare that the
fact is not at all extraordinary !
In ordinary cases of lateral curvature of the spine, and
in wry neck, this agency has been attended with the most
marked efficacy. Lateral curvature is a spasmodic disease.
It is in fact a disorder of the brain and spinal cord, and the
attractive force of mesmerism is its most philosophical, its
surest and best cure. I need hardly allude to the success of
mesmerism in the treatment of various organic as well as
functional diseases of females. In some malignant cases,
where, by the experienced physician, all idea of relief by ordi-
nary means has been abandoned, it has eflPected a complete cure.
Physicians, who now sneer at mesmerism, will soon be
found taking advantage of the discoveries which this science
has suggested, and which it has enabled its cultivators to in-
troduce to the notice of the public. Acting on the knowledge
obtained from the abstract, by Dr. Gregory, of the Baron Von
Reichenbach's researches, I have long been in the habit of
using the benignant pole of the crystals of nitrate of potass,
as a powerful and very harmless agent in communicating tone
to the system in numerous cases of chronic disorder, as well
as in those of serious organic disease. Mr. Rouse, of 1,
Wigmore Street, and Mr. Garden, of 372, Oxford Street,
make up bundles of crystals, which are used by placing them
with their pointed ends within half an inch of the face. The
patient should be seated, either on a couch or easy chair,
and a table or convenient stand should be placed in such a
manner as to allow of the crystals being approximated to the
face. This process should be continued for half an hour or an
hour twice a day : and care should be taken not to use the
crystals too soon after a meal. In cases of obstinate dys-
pepsia, I have, with great advantage, recommended an ad-
ditional bunch of crystals to be placed with the points near
the pit of the stomach. I have been glad to find that Mr.
Chandler, of Rotherhithe, has been adopting the practice as
well as myself. If I mistake not, he will, in the course of
time, discover that the sulphates, the muriates, and the car-
bonates are not nearly so agreeable to patients, especially to
very susceptible persons, as the nitrates. The great objection
to the nitrate of potass is the ready friability of its crystals.
30 PACTS IN CLAIRVOYANCE^
Another application of mesmeric theory to medical art,
consists in the application of the electric current through
bodies of water, in which certain saline ingredients have been
dissolved. If a bath of this kind be used, I must give the
warning that great care should be taken not to develope the
Reichenbachod from chlorides or oxides that are poisonous. I
have known very pernicious results from oxides of mercury
and of copper, and I should infer that compounds of arsenic
or of cobalt might prove fatal.
My experiments were contrived with a view to the develop-
ment of the new imponderable agent, by means of the de-
composition of an innocent saline fluid, the patient being
placed in a warm bath with the head to the lode and the feet
to the Cathode. I have, in so many cases, induced sleep by
introducing the fingers of patients into finger glasses contain-
ing a solution of either Nitre, Epsom salt, Glauber^s salt,
Salpolychrest, Common Salt, Carbonate of Soda, or Carbonate
of Potass, through which I have passed currents of electricity,
that I feel assured of the development of an attractive force,
during the process ; and I believe that in due time, with a
sufiiciently powerful galvanic arrangement, any person might
thus be put to sleep. If this be so, then the views I have
given of the application of the philosophy of sleep to the
cure of disease, may be more extensively adopted than the
physicians of the slow-coach school would approve of. I have,
by mesmerism alone, unaided by the mesmerism given out
by the drugs which medical men administer,* cured large
ovarian tumors, and a case of anasarcous dropsy, complicated
with ascites resulting from renal disease, in which the patient,
who now measures 32 inches, had an abdominal girth of 48
inches. I trust that the hints I am now communicating may
lead to further successful treatment of similar cases. If the
stupid, not to say the wicked, prejudice against mesmerism
be destined to continue, I care not under what inferior agency
of the same power, the cure of serious, hitherto intractable
diseases is eflFected. People who oppose mesmerism, reflect
not that the Being, who allows them to exist, has impressed
upon them a law, by which, at every instant of their lives,
they are shedding forth mesmeric fluid from all their surfaces,
and that they cannot speak, think, or act in any way withoiit
the aid of mesmerism ;
—that the various functions of their
bodies are carried on by mesmeric agency. Time must ensure
the victory for Truth. That which is now opposed by folly as
* Ignorant physicians are not aware that they administer mesmerism with
every dose they get their patients to swallow.
WITH OBSERVATIONS ON MESMERISM. 31
theoretical, will, at some future date, be inevitably adopted
as practical.
Notwithstanding the stupid parrot notes of ignorant men
on the value of practical knowledge as contradistinguished
from theory, I mean to uphold the proposition, that no man
can be a good practical physician who is not well versed in
physiological theory. He who despises theory, should be con-
tent with his station as an empiric. Where mind is deficient,
where reasoning power is weak, men contemn theory, and
babble about practice. Nearly forty years of famOiarity with
practice in hospitals, have taught me that the want of theo-
retical knowledge has led many a man into awful blunders, I
exemplify this when I say that in a public infirmary, where I
for some years acted as a physician, I have been obliged to
interfere in the case of an amputation of the leg,—where the
operation had been done for more than an hour,—in order to
take up and tie every artery myself, the practical man, par
excellence, surrounded by assistants and pupils, having failed
in the attempt to complete his duty. I have reduced a dislo-
cation of the shoulder of eight day's standing, in a case where
some practical men, abhorring theory, would have left the
patient without the use of his right arm for the rest of his life.
I have known great boasters about their own superiority of
practical knowledge, as well as of their attendance on patients
of high rank, talk absurd nonsense about contagion and in-
fection, whose confusion of intellect and want of judgment,
—
while they sneered at theories and abhorred mesmerism,
—
have produced havoc among their cases of fever. I have
known accoucheurs, who are by themselves and their puffing
friends considered eminent, such dunderhead impostors, pre-
tending to practical knowledge, yet so ignorant of theoretical
principle, as to blunder egregiously and most maladroitly in
their application of instruments, leaving some of their patients
miserable objects for life, while other victims of their ignorance
have not lived long enough to tell much of their sufferings.*
* Poor women ! Are there in this world any professional men who have a
just and honourable pity for you : who would rather stir up the foulest prejudices
of ignorance than that you should be subjected to the practice of mesmerism ;
who would rather that you should be protected by the dead drunkenness of chlo-
roform, than by the tonic and health-giving sleep of mesmerism, from knowing
the injuries that are to be inflicted upon you in order that wiseacres, without clear
principles in their heads, may learn practice ! Poor women ! Your real per-
manent sufferings find no pity, but let innovations, intended for your benefit, be
introduced, then how the lovers of cant pour forth their floods of spurious charity
to prevent your being cured 1 Poor women ! If you should happen to be torn
incurably by the clumsy application of instruments ;—if you should be bled by
some fool, when a rapid decline was hastening you in a few hours to an inevitable
death, there might be contrived ways and means of concealing the matter so that
the world should not be shocked, but the thought of mesmerism for you would
32 FACTS IN CLAIRVOYANCE, ETC.
These are the folks who belong to a class, that, in public insti-
tutions, abet falsehood and dishonourable conduct. These are
they, who spread slanders of their competitors, and fear the
publicity of their own proceedings. Being themselves below
par in knowledge, talent, ingenuity, judgment, they would
exert their influence among governors to keep up a system
of favoritism and of nepotism, to the detriment of science,
and to the most unjust exclusion of the best medical advice
for the poor. Partisan subscribers to medical charities are
sometimes found to be such gowks that there are not want-
ing instances in which they have come down to board rooms
to vote, at the instigation of friends, without due enquiry,
and become the tools of a system of humbug, of which,
could they guess the object, the concealment of the real cir-
cumstances attendant on fatal stupidity, they would perhaps
gape at their own gullibility. And mesmerism, the science
through which alone can physicians and physiologists obtain
a correct knowledge of the actions of the nervous system,
is to be defended not only against wiser and more accom-
plished men, banded together they best know why,—but
against the prejudices,—the ignorance,—the arrogance,—the
blackguard slander and calumny,—the low cunning of such
opponents.
be so atrocious, that should a qualified physician think of the practice, your
champions would invoke the portentous thunders of the Royal College to crush
him. Immortality should be the lot of that briUiant genius who could propound
so noble and wise a quietus for mesmerism ! Science to be smothered by order
of a Royal College ! !
FINIS.
Wallon aud Mitchell, Priulcis, 34, Wardour-street.
