{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1848__combe___answer_to_attack_on_the_constitution_of_man.pdf","mytitle":"Answer To Attack On The Constitution Of Man","mylang":"de"}
ANSWER BY GEORGE COMBE
TO THE
ATTACK ON "THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN,"
CONTAINED IN
" NATURE AND REVELATION HARMONIOUS: A DEFENCE 'F
SCRIPTURE TRUTHS ASSAILED IN MR GEORGE COMBE'S WORK
ON THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN, &o., BY THE REV. C. J. KEN·
NEDY, PAISLEY; PUBLISHED UNDER THE SANCTION OF THE
SCOTTISH ASSOCIATION FOR OPPOSING PREVALENT ERRORS."
•• Why beholdest thou the mote that ia in thy brother's eye, but conaidere11t not the
beam that is in thine own eye?"-M.a.TTREW viii. 3.
EDINBURGH:
MACLACHLAN, STEWART, & CO.
LONDON: SIMPKIN, MARSHALL, & CO.
DUBLIN: JAMES M'GLASHAN.
MDCCCXLVIII.
Price Threepence.
NOTE.-Tlte following pages first appeared in th.e Plu·enological Jour-
nal, No. 93, for October 1847 ; but as Mr Kennedy's work may have
reached individuals who do not read that Periodical, the article has been
revised, and is now presented to the Public in its present form. Its origin
will explain the use of the plural number, a.nd of the third person, in sp~ak-
ing of the author and his book. G. C.
EDI:'\DUJ,Gil:
PRISTED llY NEILL A!IID COMPANY .
1
i
'
1
~
~
I
t
I
j
ANSWER, &c.
In 1845 an association was f01•med in Edinburgh by "a
number of friends of evangelical truth," for " opposing pre-
valent errors." James Douglas, Esq. of Cavers, is, or was,
the chairman, and the Rev. William Thomson, the Secession
minister of Slateford, a small village near Edinburgh, is the
secretary. The "prevalent errors" which the Society con-
siders itself called upon to oppose, are, " Popery," "Pusey-
ism," " Pantheism," " Anti-Supernaturalism," " Socialism,"
" Combe's Constitution of Man,'' and the '\ Vestiges of tlte Na-
tural History of Creation." Mr Kennedy's work, mentioned
in the title page, has been published under its sanction, and
is the best of the books that have been written against "The
Constitution of Man."
The secretary of the Association, i~ his official circular,
acknowledges, that" there is little in the piety or principle
ofthe mass ofthe.population to which we can confidently look
as a barrier to this tide of superstition." This is an ominous
avowal, and one which-taken in connection with Dr Chal-
mers's declaration in the North British Review for February
1847, that, "as things stand at present, our creeds and con-
fessions have become effete"-looks uncommonly like an
avowal of failure by men who lHtve been engaged in a vain
attempt to maintain '' prevalent errors." It forms a strange
prelude to the announcement, that, notwithstanding this
failure, they consider themselves qualified to undertake the
gigantic task here presented in outline.
Since the Revolution in 1688, the clergy of Scotland have
enjoyed the privilege of governing parish schools, and in-
structing the people in religion ; and if, in the year 1847, they
are constrained to acknowledge that their " creeds and cate-
chisms have become effete,'' and that they have been able to
infuse so " little piety or principle into the mass of the popu-
lation,'' that they cannot resist Popery and Puseyism, and the
variou~ other "isms'' before enumerated, they should really
look into their own standards and tenets, and see if there be
not in them some "vestiges'' of error which have been the
\causes of so great a failure. Strength, solidity, and endur-
'ance, are the characteristics of truth; instability, feeble-
ness, and decay, those of error. When, therefore, they ac-
knowledge, that, after so long period of teaching, the latter
91fi5ZO
DIQI!Ized by Goog[e
=---=-~ ~- -- .
4 Kennedy's" Nature and Revelation Harmonious."
characteristics attach to their own tenets, they should be
modest in their condemnation of those of other men. It is,
perhaps, a consciousness of this fact that has led them to add
that they " feel the need of prudence and caution." These,
certainly, are becoming principles of action in men who are
meditating assaults upon the opinions of their neighbours,
while their own positions are exposed to danger. We shall,
however, endeavour to shew that they stand in need of even
more of these virtues than they have exhibited in the present
publication.
At the same time, we have great pleasure in making one
acknowledgment in favour of Mr Kennedy's work. It is free
from vulgar vituperation and denunciation. It is, moreover,
well written, and, ~n some instances, ingeniously argued; and
it is altogether superior to any thing we have seen produced
on that side of the question. Unfortunately, we cannot carry
our commendations farther. It assumes throughout that the
Scotch Calvinistic interpretations of the Bible are the Scrip-
tures, and that no different interpretations have ever been
heard of; or at least none that are deserving even of men-
tion. In The Constitution of Man, Mr Combe bas quoted the
following words of Dr Whately. "If we really are con-
vinced of the truth of Scripture, and consequently of the fal-
sity of any theory (of the earth for instance) which is really
at variance with it, we must needs believe that that theory is
also at variance with observable phenomena; and we ought
not, therefore, to shrink from trying the question by an ap-
peal to these." Mr Kennedy answers-
" With all due deference to this high authority, we maintain.that, ifMr
Combe's doctrines are really at variance with Scripture, and if we are
really convinced of the truth of Scripture, we must conclude that Mr
Combe's doctrines are false. The reasoning is so obviously fair, that we ·
have no fear to exhibit it, either to Mr Combe or to the great logician whom
he quotes. It stands thus :-
What is really at variance with Scripture cannot be true ;
Mr Combe's theory of the world is really at variance with Scri:gture ;
Therefore, Mr Combe's theory of the world cannot be true." ·
With all deference to Mr Kennedy, the Archbishop of Dub-
lin is in the right. The record of nature is beyond all ques-
tion Divine ; and whatever we read correctly in it is Divine
revelation. Hence it follows, to use the Archbishop's words,
that " a pretended revelation would be proved not to be a true
one, ifit were atvariance with the laws by which the Maker of
the universe governs it." (Essay on Christian Selj.denial.) Mr
Kennedy, therefore, and his Society, and all other persons
who assail expositions of scientific truths, by arguing that
tl
t:
e
c
t
]
t
(
l
J
~
i'
I
I
•
Kennedy's" Nature and Revelation Harmonious.'' 5
they are at variance with the doctrines of Scripture, mistake
the way to accomplish their own ends. Their true duty is to
expound the laws of nature themselves, directly from the re-
cords of creation, and then to shew that their own interpre-
tations of Scripture are in harmony with them. The title of
Mr Kennedy's work would lead us to expect that he had done
this; but his leading object has been only to at.tack Mr
Combe's doctrines.
Dr Chalmers was called upon, In the Bridgewater Treatise
assigned to him, to present a view of the moral government
of the world by natural laws, if such exists ; and had he given
a sounder and more practically useful exposition of them than
that contained in " The Constitution of Man," and afterwards
reconciled Calvinism with it, he would not subsequently have
been under the necessity of acknowledging that men "can
speak, and with a truth the most humiliating, of our inert and
unproductive orthodoxy." Calvinism, proved by an appeal to
scientific facts to be a correct interpretation of nature, so far
as its doctrines touch the beings and interests of this world,
would exhibit none of the symptoms of weakness and decay
before referred to ; and a people instructed in the firm alliance
between it and nature, would possess not a " little," but much
" of the piety or principle to which we can confidently look
as a barrier to the tide of superstition."
The Society of which we speak will do well to take this hint
into consideration. "The Constitution of Man" is a body of
alleged facts, and deductions from them. Mr Kennedy's work
cannot take its place, because it contains no systematic ex-
position of the scheme of God's works and natural providence,
which it is the aim of Mr Combe's treatise to exhibit. The
human mind will not relinquish a positive for a negative,
when that positive is acknowledged by Mr Kennedy himself
to be "characterized by great ability,'' " its deleterious prin-
ciples" being "mixed up with a large body of sound, and
valuable, and interesting instruction." In the "Remarks on
National Education," and in the essay on" The Relation be-
tween Religion and Science," Mr Combe has presented addi-
tional materials for the Society's operations. If they really
design to make an impression on the public mind, let them
grapple with the questions there ·proposed. For example,
let them answer the following questions in substantive pro-
positions, and prove the answers, viz.:-Isthe world governed
by natural laws, or is it not 1 If it is not, are physical and
moral events still caused by special supernatural exertions
of Divine power 1 If these have ceased, and no natural laws
exist, is not this world necessarily a theatre of anarchy, and,
DIQI!Ized by Goog[e
6 J{enned!J's "Nature and Revelation Ifarmonious.''
consequently, of atheism ? If, on the other hand, natural
laws do exist, are they not ofDivine institution and authority!
And if they possess this character, where is any intelligible
and practical exposition of them, as guides to human con-
duct, challenging our reverence and obedience, to be found,
emanating from " ministers and laymen connected with va-
rious denominations holding evangelical opinions P If no
such expositions of them by these persons are published, is
not the neglect of teaching them, true and practical infi-
delity to God's law written in the book of creation, on the
part of these " ministers and laymen ?"
Farther : Are the practical precepts of Christianity regard-
ing human conduct in this life in harmony with and sup-
ported by the order of God's providence in the natural world,
or are they not? If they are not, how can man conform his
conduct to the order of nature and to these precepts? If the
precepts and God's order of providence in the natural world
are in harmony,-as science proclaims,-why have these
" ministers and laymen" failed to discover this fact ? and, if
they have discovered it, why have they omitted to teach it?
These are the questions which the "ministers and laymen"
must fairly encounter and satisfactorily answer, before their
lost strength will return to them; and in giving them this
advice, we are acting, we hope, as their sincere friends, and
certainly as their wellwishers. If they had practised the
" prudence and caution'' of which tliey feel the need, they
would have considered these questions maturely, before com-
mencing their present crusade ; and perhaps saved them-
selves from the risk of a public exhibition of their own weak-
ness, errors, and inconsistencies, while they are endeavour-
ing to demonstrate those of their neighbours.
· Chapter I. is entitled, "Mr Combe's hypothesis concern-
ing the progressive development of elements of improvement
in the physical and organic departments of the world con-
sidered ;" and the same subject is continued through the two
subsequent chapters. The point at issue is, whether " the
world contains within itself the elements of improvement?"
In the edition of 1835, Mr Combe had added to this sentence
these words,-" which time will evolve and bring to maturity.''
Some persons had supposed these last expressions (unwarrant-
ably, we think, when the context was taken into account) to
imply a denial of the government of the world by Divine
wisdom and power. In consequence of this misunderstand-
ing, the expressions were altered in the next edition, that of
1841, and the words used were, "The world, including both
the physical and moral departments, is, in itself, well and
DIQI!Ized by Goog[e
.1.
J
)
I
I
I
Kennedy's" Nature and Revelation Harmonious." 7
wisely constructed on the principle of a progressive system,
and, therefore, capable of improvement.'' Mr Kennedy founds
his arguments exclusively on the edition of 1835, and never
mentions the existence ofany alterations in that of 1841. We
have no doubt that this was unintentional on his part ; but as
the rule among honourable controversialists is to cite the
latest, as the most carefully considered edition of a work as-
sailed, we, while acquitting him of intentional injustice, regret
the oversight, for his own sake.
Chapter IV. is on the "Harmony between Geology .and
Scripture ;" which we leave in Mr Kennedy's hands, having
neither interest nor space to enter into any controversy with
him on the subject.
Chapter V. treats of the question, " Does the history of
mankind establish Mr Combe's theory regarding progressive
development?'' Mr Kennedy's opening sentence admits that·
" mankind are, on the whole, making advancement in know-
ledge and civilization.'' "This advancement, however,'' he
adds, •• is not owing to the mere development of inherent
elements of improvement in human nature. For this ad-
vancement. of mankind, we must assign a very different cause.
That cause is Divine mercy. Our world, though fallen, is not
forsaken. It is marred ; but there are agencies working to
effect its restoration to order, beauty, and blessedness. Apos-
tate man is the object of redeeming love, and the subjectof re-
newing grace.'' This is fighting with a shadow. The real
question, is, Whether the world be now governed through
special supernatural interferences of God's power, or accord-
ing to natural laws ? Mr Kennedy has not shewn the former
to be the case, and until he do so, we are entitled to hold by
the latter, as the hypothesis which is supported by science
and daily experience. But if the order of God's providence
be now characterized by the regularity of natural laws, " re-
deeming love" and " renewing grace" cannot be anta!}onistic
influences to these laws. Mr Kennedy would have better
served his cause if be had fairly grappled with the merits of
the question, and developed a view of the natural laws
adapted to these influences, instead of harping on the words
which Mr Combe bad altered six years before the "Defence"
was published, and which are no longer to be found in the
"prevalent" editions of his work.
Chapter VI. is entitled,"Was Man originally mortal?" Mr
Kennedy concedes that " there may have been death among
the lower animals prior to the time when man sinned." Mr
Combe added, that if man is now the same being that he was
when created, he must then, as now, have possessed organs
of Amativeness, Philoprogenitiveness, Combativeness, De-
DIQI!Ized by Goog[e
8 Kennedy's" Nature and Revelation Harmonious.''
structiveness, Secretiveness, and Cautiousness, and that these
seemed to him to indicate the adaptation of man to a world
in which the old were to be removed by death, to make room
for the young, and in which there was to be danger and dif-
ficulty, rendering the faculties before named useful and
necessary. Mr Kennedy maintains that, notwithstanding
these faculties, man may have been created sinless apd im-
mortal. The arguments by means of which he supports these
propositions are,-first, that the old, like Enoch and Elijah,
might have been " removed" to another sphere without dy-
ing; and, secondly, that Mr Combe has himself shewn that
all the faculties have a legitimate sphere of action, and may,
therefore, have been adapted to a world without death, dan-
ger, and sin. The question-Whether man was originally
mortal-lies beyond the limits of science, and Mr Combe has
not discussed it in "The Constitution of Man.'' He has only
asserted that the human mind and body, as now constituted,
are de facto adapted to the world in which we find them;
that, apparently, the world was not changed in its constitu-
tion and arrangements at the time of man's appearance; and
that it bas not been substantially altered since. Our readers,
therefore, will judge for themselves concerning man's condi-
tion prior to his entering upon his present state of exist-
ence.
Chapter VII. is on" Man's Fallen Condition.'' We leave
this also to Mr Kennedy, as one belonging to theology.
Chapter VIII. considers " Mr Combe's Exposition and
Application of the Natural Laws.'' In this chapter Mr Ken-
nedy invents difficulties in order to combat them. By way
of correcting Mr Combe, he says-
" But it is not true ; 1st, That any mode of action of a
pl;lysical object is otherwise inherent in it, than as it is
the will of God that that object should now present that
mode of action. Nor is it true; 2d, That it is beyond the
power of God to vary when he pleases, either temporarily
or permanently, the constitution of physical objects." This
is trifling with the subject : Mr Combe has nowhere as-
cribed the inherent modes of action of any object, either
physical or moral, to any cause except the will and power of
God ; and he has never maintained " that it is beyond the
po1Ver of God to vary, when he pleases, either temporarily
or permanently, the constitution" of these objects. The real
practical question is, Does it de facto appear, from what we
see passing around us, that it does please God, no1/J to vary,
either temporarily or permanently, the constitution and modes
of action of physical or moral objects? Mr Combe affirms
..____
_ Q I
DIQI!Ized by uOU~Lt:
t '
Kennedy'a" Nature and Revelation Harmonioua." 9
that according to his observation ofthe present order ofnature,
it doea not please God to vary these constitutions and modes
of action ; and Mr Kennedy, instead of shewing by clear and
unequivocal facts, now ohaervable, that God doea in our own
day please to vary these, enters into a ·general disquisition
to prove that God can vary them, if he pleases, and that un-
der the miraculous dispensations of the Old and New Testa-
ments, he did vary them. But not one word of this argu-
ment applies to the case in hand. We ask Mr Kennedy,
Were not the miraculous dispensations confined to the Jews
and the Scripture times 1 Is the world now under the same
special supernatural administration which is recorded to have
characterized it then? Does not Mr Kennedy know that
during the long rei~ of ignorance in the dark ages, the
Roman Catholic priesthood pretended that a miraculous
dispensation still continued, and that they were the appoint,.
ed instruments for evoking special supernatural acts of Di-
vine administration ; and that one of the boasts of Protest-
antism bas been the demonstration that these pretensions
were presumptuous and fraudulent 1 With strange incon-
sistency, however, some Protestants have retained a portion
of that superstition, and have not only taught it, but acted
under its. influence themselves. (See " Relation between Reli-
!Jion and Science," pages 2, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12.
Chapter IX. is on " The Efficacy of Prayer." The ques-
tion here again at issue is, Whether we have evidence from
observation and experience, that in our day God pleases to
vary the constitution and modes of action which he has be-
stowed on physical and moral objects, in consequence of being
requested to do so by men in prayer. Mr Kennedy quotes
numerous instances from the Old Testament where this is
recorded to have been done. " Take, for example," says be,
'' Elijah's prayer for rain. That prayer, in itself, could have
no effect whatever on the atmosphere." On this point we
beg to refer to the pjl.ssage quoted from Archbishop Whately's
address on the famine in Ireland, on pages 9 and 10 of " Re-
ligion and Science," which is strictly applicable to the pre-
sent question; and to assure Mr Kennedy that if be will ad-
duce a sufficient number of well authenticated instances of
men in our day bringing rain or sunshine, or removing the
potato blight, or staying fever, or accomplishing any similar
physical result, by means of prayer, without bringing into
operation, by natural means, the natural causes of these re-
sults, we shall abandon all .belief in the natural laws, and
renounce at once all the "prevalent errors" of Mr Combe's
" Constitution of Man." But it is in vain to adduce examples
DIQI!Ized by Goog[e
~~~-~ - -~~
•
10 Kennedy's '' Natut·e and Revelation Harmonious."
of supernatural power wielded or evoked by the personages
of the Old and New Testaments, as evidence that the same
gifts have descended.to the men of our generation. If they
have so descended, why do we accuse the Roman Catholic
priesthood of fraud and hypocrisy in having pretended to
enjoy them? The man who, by prayer, could, in our day, in-
duce God to send rain, or stay a pestilence, by special acts of
Divine administration, would really be able to work miracles;
and if we do not seriously believe that this can be done, why
should we mock God and deceive ourselves by pretending to
beliEWe that it can be accomplished?
Chapter X. is on " Changes in Moral and Religious Cha-
racter." It is not necessary to discuss the topics involved in
this chapter, because the question constantly occurs-Are
the changes referred to effected through the instrumentality
of God's providence operating by means of the natural con-
stitution conferred by Him· on moral beings ? or are they
effected by influences lying beyond these, and not acknow-
ledging alliance with them? If such influences exist and con-
tradict the natural order of God's providence, Mr Kennedy is
called on to prove this : If he admits that they act in con-
formity with it, and supplement it, he allows all that Mr
Combe has contended for, which is simply this-that until the
natural conditions on which an event or result depends are
brought into existence, we have no warrant from our own
experience (whatever may have been the experience of the
Jews in scripture times), to expect that that result will be
accomplished.
Chapters XI. and XII. are " On Affiiction as a means of
Moral Discipline," and contain a strange mixt.ure of truth
and error. Mr Kennedy here arrives at the discovery that
the natural laws are inconsistent. " The very same act,"
says he, "is required by one law, and forbidden by another
law"-both laws being Divine. "We sometimes cannot obey
both the organic and the moral laws." He adds, very truly,
"Now this view of matters involves gross absurdity." It
really does so ; but on whose side does the absurdity lie ~ By
the natural laws, of course, he means God's natural laws;
and his proposition amounts to this-that God's creation
is not systematic and self-consistent; that the natural con-
quences which God has attached to the actions of moral beings
are not aln•ays adapted to serve as guides to their conduct ;
but that man may, in certain cases, shew forth a wisdom
superior to that of God, a~d legitimately disregard them.
Mr Kennedy teaches us, that man by following the dictates of
his own wisdom, in opposition to that of God, may reach
more excellent and beneficial ends than by following submis-
DIQI!Ized by Goog[e
..
,,
Kennedy's" Nature and lle-celation Harmonious." 11
sively in the track of God's providence ! This doctrine, be
it observed, proceeds from an evangelical Society associated
to oppose " prevalent errors.'' This, although a strong state-
ment of Mr Kennedy's doctrine, is no misrepresentation or
perversion of it : for he assumes that the law which he says
may be legitimately and' beneficially transgressed or disre-
garded is God's law ; and the proposition which he is combat·
ing is Mr Combe's doctrine that the Divine laws, in allcases,
and n•itlwttt any exception, are entitled t.o command the re-
spect and obedience of God's rational creatures. But let him
speak for himself.
After citing, and partially approving of Mr Combe's repre-
sentation of the advantages of obeying the natural laws, he
proceeds thus: "Now, it is only the moral laws that impe-
ratively regulate our conduct. Obedience to the first two
classes (the physical and organic laws), is only prudential,
and often has nothing moral in it. Moral laws should be
obeyed at all times, and in all circumstances. Pltysical laws
1ve may evade or disobey in multiplied instances, quite unblame-
ably. That we may fully obey the moral laws, we frequently
must, to some extent, disregard tlte pltysicallams." " Physi-
cal laws ought not to be confounded with laws of human con-
duct. These we always must obey; those we may often, with-
out dese1•ving blame, boldly disregard." "The same remarks,
to some extent, apply also to the organic laws. These we
may <iften, to a large extent, properly disregard." p. 132. Does
not this plainly teach that c1•eation is not systematic and
self-consistent ; that God has so framed the physical and or-
ganic worlds and the moral law, that there is often open
contradiction between them ; that the natural consequences
which He has attached to infringements of the physical and
organic laws are not intended, or at least, not calc1dated, in
all cases, to instruct us and to serve as guides to our con-
duct 1 All this seems to be implied in the doctrine, that we
may "often," "properly," "unblameably," and "boldly,"
" disregard" those laws.
The view insisted on by Mr Kennedy, that'' it is only the
moral laws that imperatively regulate our conduct;" and that
" obedience to the physical and organic laws is only pruden-
tial, and often has not!ting moral in it," is unsound in prin-
ciple and highly injurious to human welfare. That it should
be boldly proclaimed by an " association " " holding evange-
lical sentiments,'' appears to us to be explicable only by the
suppositions that they do not comprehend what is implied in
a law of·nature ; or that their own moral and religious senti-
ments have been so misdirected by education, that they l'ecog-
Dlg•llzed by Goog[e
,
12 Kennedy's" Nature and Revelation Harmonious.''
nize no sacredness in the order of God's Providence embodied
in, and manifested through, the instrumentality of these laws.
In Mr Kennedy's case, ignorance cannot be imputed; for he
appreciates, to a considerable extent, the Divine origin and
practical importance of the laws ; but at the same time, and
apparently from his Veneration and Conscientiousness never
having been trained to reverence them, and to feel a moral and
religious duty in obeying them, he openly proclaims that there
is often'' nothing moral" in that obedience. If the intellect
were correctly instructed in the order of God's Providence, as
embodied in the physical and organic systems of the world,
and if the moral and religious sentiments were trained from
infancy to reverence that order and the lessons which it is
ever addressing to man for the regulation of his conduct,
these lessons would be felt to imply a moral and religious
obligation. Many persons, for example, consider it a. sin to
enter into a matrimonial compact for life without the bene-
diction of a. clergyman, but consider it no sin, and only an
imprudence, to form, under the sanction of that benediction,
an alliance which, according to the organic laws, will entail
misery on their offspring. Such conduct appears to us to be
explicable only by supposing either that they ignorantly dis-
believe in the consequences of their own act, or that they
entertain a most irreverent contempt for God's authority as
manifested in the organic laws. Let us see, however, by
what evidence Mr Kennedy supports his extraordinary pro-
position.
He appeals to the case of Grace Darling, " who,'' says l1e,
" was rendered illustrious by nobly braving the surges of the
tempestuous ocean, endangering her own life to rescue others
from a. watery grave. She scorned to be withheld from her ge-
nerous exertions by the regard due to the well-known or-
ganic law, that a human body submerged beneath the
waves, must soon be bereft of life." (P. 127.) This is a mis-
take. Grace Darling, by using a boat, which, by the phy-
sical law, floats on the surface of the water, preserved her
own body out of the water; by obeying the physical law, she
obeyed also the organic law, and thus saved herself and her
fellow-creatures from drowning. Surely the Society's "pru-
dence and caution," as well as their common sense, were asleep
when they allowed Mr Kennedy to publish such an example
as evidence of the advantages of disobeying a natural law.
He adds another instance in which Mr Holgrove rushed on
a railway and rescued two poor women from destruction by
an advancing train, but was himself struck down by the
engine.
DIQI!Ized by Goog[e
"
\
,
Kennerly's" Nature and Revelation Harmonious.'' 13
The argument founded on this case, has been already an-
swered in Mr Combe's Pamphlet on "Religion and Science,"
pages 17 and 18. The argument itself affords an additional
evidence of the thorough confusion which reigns in the minds
of evangelical men on the subject of the natural laws, and
the low estimate which they form of Divine wisdom mani-
fested in the order of nature. It does not admit of doubt
that Mr Holgrove suffered from an error in calculating the
position in which his own body and the train would stand
relatively to each other at the time when he made the effort.
He reckoned on accomplishing his object, and on moving off
the rail, before the train should come up ; in other words, he
intended to obey the natural law, and not to set it at de-
fiance. It is because we give him credit for this intention,
and sympathize with his miscalculation (which in his place
we likewise might have made), that we yield to him the tri-
bute of our admiration. If we believed that be meant to sur-
render his own life.to save the lives of the old women (which
he must have done, if he intended to disobey the physical law
under which the advancing train was moving), we could not
approve of his conduct. He was not the proper judge of the
relative values of the lives. If he had left a bereaved widow
and destitute children, they would have viewed the deliberate
sacrifice of his own life for those of the old women as un-
called for by the claims of duty. .Again, if he had intended
to throw away his own life, and merely availed himself of the
opportunity of the old women being on the rail, to kill himself
with ecldt, our judgment of his act would be one of unequi-
vocal condemnation.
Mr Kennedy speaks of " evading'' the natural laws. The
thing is impossible. God has connected the consequences with
the antecedents; and man cannot separate or evade them. If
Mr Kennedy had said, that by obeying one law we may
shelter ourselves from the injurious effects of another, we
could have understood what he meant; although, even in
this case, there would have been an error in the form of ex-
pressing the fact. For example, when a man rises in a bal-
loon, he does not triumph over the law of gravitation by set-
ting it at defiance, but by acting in accordance with it. That
law causes the heavier gases of the atmosphere to gravitate
more forcibly than the light hydrogen gas in the balloon;
and the former, gravitating downwards, lift the balloon up.
.A physician who, before visiting a case of malignant and in-
fectious fever, takes a good breakfast, whereby he produces
in his own organism an internal resisting power calculated to
ward off external influences, and who orders the door and
DIQI!Ized by Goog[e
.....
14 Kennedy's" Nature and Revelation Harmonious."
windows of the patient's chamber to be opened, and the room
to be ventilated, before he enters it, and by these mean!!
escapes infection, does not triumph over the organic law by
defying it at the call of duty, but finds his safety in obeying
it. If he enters that same apartment feeble, fasting, and
exhausted, and encounters its concentrated contaminated at-
mosphere, unmodified by ventilation, the supposed calls of
moral duty will not protect him from the consequences. Ac-
cording to the ordinary course of God's providence, he will
be infected himself, and he may die. We should be glad to ·
know whether the clergymen and lay inspectors of the poor
who have recently fallen victims to their duty in fever hospi-
tals, have acted on Mr Kennedy's view of the order of God's
providence, or on ours. We luwe a suspicion that they have
gone into the fever wards in a state of mental and physical
exhaustion, and neglected the means of diminishing by ven-
tilation the noxious influence of the efiluvia from the bodies
of the patients. Be this as it may, the patural tendency of
Mr Kennedy's doctrine, backed by all the influence of the
evangelical Society, is to encourage men, at the supposed
call of moral or religious duty, to set the organic laws at de-
fiance; whereas our earnest exhortation to them is to obey
them in allcases to the very utmost of their ability. We leave
it to the reader to judge which party is here propounding
"dangerous error and gross absurdity ;'' and whether a So-
ciety which forms such an humble estimate of the self-con-
sistency and instructive character of God's natural provi-
dence, and such an exalted view of its own discrimination, is
more likely to "oppose" or to propagate "prevalent errors.''
Chapter XIV. is" On the Alleged Possibility of Deducing
a System of Morality merely from the Natural Laws.'' ·we
at once concede to Mr Kennedy, that if God's natural laws
be, as he argues, so worthless that "we may often, to a large
extent, properly disregard them," and" evade or disobey them
in multiplied instances, quite unblameably,'' they cannot be
the fountain of a" system of morality.'' If he should ever
have his eyes opened to higher views of the Divine Wisdom
embodied in the order of nature, perhaps he may differ less
from Mr Combe on this subject than he does at present.
Chapter XV. is "On the use of Science as a guide to the
Interpretation of Scripture.'' True science is merely a cor-
rect record of the order of God's providence revealed to the
human mind in the constitution and modes of action of physical
and moral beings; and while Mr Kennedy forms his present
humble estimate of its character, he is not in a condition to
judge of its use and importance as a guide to the interpreta-
tion of Scripture.
-
- DIQI!Ized by Goog[e
Kenned!J's "J.Vature and Revelation Harmonious." 15
To conclude : we are not sorry that this Society has been
formed. When Mr Kennedy, ~s its organ, acknowledges
that the natural laws are God s laws, aud yet proclaims,
with its sanction, that we may often "unblameably" and
"boldly" disregard them,.it exposes itself to the imputation
of proclaiming war against the sacred and inviolable charac-
ter of God's providence embodied in the order of nature.
While, however, we acquit its members of this intention, we
cannot help repeating that such works as Mr Kennedy's be-
tray an extraordinary confusion reigning in the minds of
some religious men on the connection between religion and
the order of God's secular providence, as disclosed by science.
This confusion appears to be general among the Calvinistic
sects; for " The Free Church Magazine" has not hesitated
to adopt M1• Kennedy's views, 'to recommend his work, and,
in American phraseology, to endorse all his doctrines. The
education of the people, and social progress generally, are
seriously retarded by such errors prevailing in such influen-
tial quarters.
CHEAP REPRINTS OF AMERICAN WORKS.
ESSAYS ON HUMAN RIGHTS AND THEIR POLITI-
CAL GUARANTIES. By E. P. HURLBUT, one of the Judges in the Su-
preme Court of the State of New York. With a PREFACE and NOTES by
GEORGE Co~tnE. Royal 8vo. Price 2s.
CONTENTS :-Origin of Human Rights-True Function of Government-Con·
stitution of Government-Constitutional Limitations and Prohibitions-Elec-
tive Franchise-Rights Emanating from the Sentiments and Affections-Rights
of Woman-Right of Property, and its Moral Relations-Intellectual Property
-Appendix of Notes by George Combe.
THOUGHTS ON PHYSICAL EDUCATION, and the TRUE
MODE OF IMPROVING ~HE CONDITION OF ~IAN. By CHAitLEs
CALDWELL, l\!.D., Professor of the Institutes of Medicine and Medical J urispru-
dence, Louisville, Kentucky. 'With a Preface by GEOUGE COMBE. Second
British Edition, royal Svo. Price ls.
"Dr Caldwell's 'Thoughts on Physical Education' contains facts nnd principles of
great interest to cYcry pnrent nntl teacher, and is calculated to be highly useful in nd-
vnncing the cause of rational education."-Dr A. Combe's Physiology applied to Health
and Education.
MENTAL HYGIENE : or an EXAMINATION of the IN-
TELLECT and PASSIONS, designed to illustrate their INFLUENCE on
HEALTH and the DURATION OF LIFE. By WILLIAM SwEETSEU, M.D., .late
Professor of the Theory and Practice of Physic, and Fellow of tho Amertcan
Academy of Arts and Sciences. Royal Svo. Price ls. 6d.
MACJ,ACHL AN, STEWART, & Co., Edinburgh; SIMPKIN, MARSHALL, & Co.,
London; D. ROBERTSON, Glasgow.
DIQI!Ized b~ Ggog[e
WORKS BY GEORGE COMBE.
I. REMARKS ON NATIONAL EDUCATION. FourthEdi- '
tion. 8vo, pp. 38. Price 4d.
II. THE UELATION between RELIGION and SCIENCE.
8vo, pp. 46. Third Edition. Price 6d.
IlL ON THE PUNISHMENT OF DEATH. 8vo, pp. 16.
Price 3d.
IV. ANSWER TO THE ATTACK ON THE" CONSTI-
TUTION OF 1\lAN," by the Rev. C. J . KENNEDY, sanctioned by the" Asso.
CIATION FOR OPPOSING PREVALENT ERRORS." 8vo. Price 3d,
V. PEOPLE'S EDITION-MORAL PHILOSOPHY; or,
The DUTIES OF MAN in his INDIVIDUAL, DOMESTIC, and SoCIAL CAPACITIES.
Royal 8vo, pp. 116. Price 2&.
The same Work in 12mo, pp. 440. Price 7s. 6d. Second Edition.
VI. POPULAR EDUCATION ; its Objects and Principles
Elucidated. Second Edition. 8vo, pp. 126. Price Is. 6d.
VII. A SYSTEM OF PHRENOLOGY. Fifth Edition. With
Fonr Plates, and above Seventy Illustrations on Wood. 2 vola. 8vo, pp.1037.
Price 21s.
VIII. ELEMENTS OF PHRENOLOGY. Sixth Edition, im-
provedand enlarged. 12mo, pp. 223. With Plates and Woodcuts. Price 3s. 6d.
IX. OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOGY. Eighth Edition. 8vo,
pp. 33. Illustrated with Engravings on Wood. Price 1s.
X. NOTES (Moral, Religious, Political, Economical, Educa-
tional, and Phrenological) on the UNITED STATES of AMERICA. 3 vols.
post 8vo, L.1: 11:6, bds.
XI. THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN Considered in Rela-
tion to External Objects. In post 8vo, pp. 507, price, clot' and gold-lettered,
8s., the Etighth EdltiOtt; and also in royal 8vo, pp. 111, double columns, price
ls. 6d., "Tile Peop"k'• EdUUm."
Of this work 80,000 copies have been sold in the United Kingdom, and it
has been translated into French, German, and Swedish.
XII. THE SCHOOL EDITION of THE CONSTITUTION
OF MAN. In 1 vol. 18mo, price Is. 6d. This Edition has been translated
Into German.
XIII. THE FUNCTIONS OF THE CEREBELLUM. By
Drs GALL, VlllONT,and BROUSSAIS. TranslatedfromtheFrenchbyGEO. CollBE.
In 1 vol. 8vo, pp. 390, price Ss.
XIV. NOTES ON THE NEW REFORMATION IN GER-
MANY, and on NATIONAL EDUCATION and the COMMON SCHOOLS of
MASSACHUSETTS. 8vo, pp. 37. Price 6d.
Als,.. ...~ ~ ~r ::,:'"..tblished,
PHRENOLOGY in the FAMILY; or, the Utility ofPhrenology
in early Domestic Education. By the Rev. JosEPH A. WARNE, A.M., late
Pastor of the Baptist Church at Brookline, near Boston, U.S. Reprinted from
the American Edition. With a Preface by A CHRISTIAN 1\foTBBR. Royal 8vo,
Price 1s.
EDINBURGH: PUBLISHED BY MACLACHLAN, STEWART, & CO.
LONDON: LONGMAN & CO.; SIMPKIN, MARSHALL, & CO. .
DUBLIN: JAMES M'GLASHAN. GLASGOW: D. ROBERTSON.
- ··- --- -·
j:::-- - - ~ o,g,ozedbyGoog1e_ _ _
