{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1848__crowe___night_side_of_nature.pdf","mytitle":"Night Side Of Nature","mylang":"de"}
THE
NIGHT SIDE OF NATURI~ ;
OR,
GHOSTS AND GHOST SEERS.
BY
CATHERINE CRO,VE.
AUTHORESS OF
"SUS AN HOPLEY," "LILLY DAWSON,"
" ARISTODE1IUS," &c. &c.
" Thou c6m'st in such a questionable shape,
'fllat I will speak to thee!"
HAMLET·
IN TWO VOL U~lES.
VOL. I.
LONDON:
T. C. NEWBY, 72, l\IORTHIER ST., CAVENDISH SQ.
1848.
LO:SDO:S:
li.\Rl'IN AND STEl'IIENS, PRINTERS, i, GREl~:S STREET,
THEOBALD'S ROAII.
INDEX.
VOL. I.
I.-Introduction
H.-The Dweller in the Temple
Page
I
24
III.-'Vaking and Sleeping, and how the Dweller
in the Temple sometimes looks abroad 41
IV.-Allegorical Dreams, Presentiments, &c. 9.5
V.-,Yarnings l Oi
VI.-Double Dreaming and Trance, 'Vraiths, &c. l 6.'i
VII.-,Vraiths 222
VIII.-Doppelgangers, or Doubles 258
IX.-Apparitions 300
X.-The Future that awaits us
•
• • 361
\
I
PRE FA c ·E.
I~ my late novel of "Lilly Dawson," I an-
nounced my intention of publishing a work
to be called ~'The Night Side of Nature ;"
this is it.
The term "Night Side of Nature " I borrow
from the Germans, who derive it from the
astronomers, the latter denominating that side
of a planet which is turned from the sun, its
nigltt side. We are in this condition for a
certain number of hours out of every twenty-
four; and as, during this interval, external
objects loom upon us hut strangely and im-
perfectly, the Germans draw a parallel betwixt
PHEFACE.
If I could only induce a few eapatJle persons,
instead of laughing at these things, to lou]\ at
them, my object would be attained, and I
should think my time well spent.
THE
NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE.
CHAPTER I.
I:'\TRODUCTION.
"Know ye not that ye are the Temple of God, and that
the Spirit of God dwclleth in you ?"
1. Cor., 3 c., 16 Y.
1\iosT persons are aware that the Greeks and
Romans entertained certain notions regarding
the state of the sonl, or the immortal part of
man. after the death of the body, which have
heen generally held to be purely mytho-
logical. ~1any of them, doubtless, are so;
and of these I am not about to treat ; lmt
amongst their conceptions, there are some
which, as they coincide with the opinions of
many of the most enlightened persons of the
VoL. I. R
I~TRODL"C TI O X .
present age, it may be desirable to consider
more closely. I allude here particularly to
their belief in the tripartite kingdom of the
dead. According to this system, there were
the Elysian fields, a region in which a certain
sort of happiness was enJoyed; and Tartarus,
the place of punishment for the wicked ; each
of which were, comparatively, but thinly in-
habited. But there was, also, a mid-region,
peopled with innumerable hosts of wandering
and mournful spirits, 'vho, although under-
going no torments, are represented as inces-
santly bewailing their condition, pining for
the life they once enjoyed in the body,longing
:ifter the things of the earth, and occupying
themsehes with the same pursuits and objects,
as had formerly constituted their business or
their pleasure. Old habits are still dear to
them, and they cannot snap the link that
hinds them to the earth.
Now, although we cannot belie\·e in the
existence of Charon, the three-headed dog, or
Alecto, the serpent-haired fury, it may be
worth while to consider ·whether the per-
xuasion of the ancients with regard to that
which concerns us all so nearly, namely, the
rlestiny that awaits us when we have shaken
off this mortal coil, may not have some foun-
INTRODUCTION. 3
dation in truth: whether it might not he a
remnant of a tradition transmitted from the
earliest inhabitants of the earth, wrested by
observation from nature, if not communicated
from a higher source: and, also, whether cir-
cumstances of constant recurrence in all ages
and in all nations, frequently observed and I'e-
corded by persons utterly ignorant of classical
lore, and unacquainted, indeed, with the
dogmas of any creed but their own, do not,
as well as various passages in the Scriptures,
afford a striking confirmation of this theory of
a future life; whilst it, on the other hand, offers
a natural and convenient explanation of their
mystery.
To minds which can admit nothing but what
can be explained and demonstrated, an investi-
gation of this sort must appear perfectly idle;
for whilst, on the one hand, the most acute
intellect or the most powerful logic can throw
little light on the subject, it is, at the same
time-though I have a confident hope that this
will not always be the case-equally irreducible
within the present bounds of science; mean-
while, experience, observation, and intuition,
must be our principal, if not our only guides.
Because, in the seventeenth century, credulity
outran reason and discretion; the eighteenth
INTRODUCTIOX.
century, by a natural re-action, threw itself
into an opposite extreme. 'Vhoever closely
observes the signs of the times, will he aware
that anothe1· chang_
e is approaching. The
contemptuous scepticism of the last age is
yielding to a more humble spirit of enquiry ;
and there is a large class of persons amongst
the most enlightened of the present, who are
beginning to believe, that much which they
had been taught to reject as fable, has been, in
reality, ill-understood truth. Somewhat of the
mystery of our own being, and of the mysteries
that compass us about, are beginning to loom
upon us-as yet, it is true, but obscurely; and,in
the endeavour to follow out the clue they offer,
we have hut a feeble light to guide us. 'Ve
must grope our way through the dim path
before us, ever in danger of being led into error,
whilst we may confidently reckon on being
pursued by the shafts of ridicule-that weapon
so easy to wield, so potent to the weak, so
weak to the wise-which has delayP-d the
births of so many truths, but never stifled one.
The pharisaical scepticism which denies with-
out investigation, is quite as perilous, and
much more contemptible than the blind cre-
dulity which accepts all that it is taught
without enquiry; it is, indeed, but anothei·
I ~TRODUCTI0!-1 .
form of ignorance assuming to be knowledge.
And by i1westigation, I do not mean the hasty,
captious, angry notice of an unwelcome fact,
that too frequently claims the right of pro-
nouncing on a question; but the slow, modest,
pains-taking examination, that is content to
wait upon nature, and humbly follow out her
disclosures, however opposed to pre-conceived
theories or mortifying to human pride. If
scientific men could but comprehend how they ·
discredit the science, they really profess, by
their despotic arrogance, and exclusive scep-
ticism, they would surely, for the sake of that
very science they love, affect more liberality
and candour. This reflection, however, natu-
rally suggests another, namely, do they reall)'
love science, or is it not too frequently with
them but the means to an end? "\Vere the love
of science genuine, I suspect it would produce
very different fruits to that which we see borne
by the tree of knowledge, as it flourishes at
present; and this suspicion is exceedingly
strengthened by the recollection, that among:st
the numerous students and professors of
science I have at different times encountered,
the real worshippers and genuine lovers of it,
for its own sake, have all been men of the most
single, candid, unprejudiced, and enqui1ing
B .5
G. I~TRODUCTIOX.
minds, willing to listen to all new suggestions,
and investigate all new facts; not bold and
self-sufficient, but humble and reverent suitors,
a\vare oftheir own ignoranceand unworthiness,
and that theyare yet butin theprimerofnature's
works, they do not permit themselves to pro-
nounce upon her disclosures, ·or set li111its to
her decrees. They are content to admit that
things newand unsuspected.may yetbe true; that
their own knowledge of facts being extremely
circumscribed, the systems attempted to be
established on sueh. uncertain data,-must needs
be very imperfect, and frequently altogether
en-oneous; and that it is therefore their duty,
as it ought to be'theii· pleasure, to ~velcome as
a ~tranger every gleam of light that appears in
the horizon, let it loom from whatever quarte~
it may.
But, alas! Poor science has few such lovers !
Les beq-ux y eux de sa cassette, I fear, are much
more frequently the objects .of attraction than
her own fair face.
The belief in a God, and in the immortality
of what we call the soul, is common to all
.nations; but our own intellect does not enable
us to form any conception of either one or the
other. All the information we have on these
suhject~ is comprised in such hints as the Scrip-
l~TROD UCT lO:\T . 7
tures here and there give us; whatever other
conclusions we draw, must be the result of ob-
servation and experience. Unless founded
upon these, the opinion of the most learned
theologian, or the most profound student of
science· that ever lived, is worth no more than
that of any other person. They know nothing
whatever about these mysteries; and all (t
p~·iori reasoning on them is utterly valueless.
The only way, therefore, of attaining any
glimpses of the truth in au enquiry of this
nature, w·liere our intellect can serve us so
little, is to enter,on it with the conviction that,
knowi~g nothing, we are not entitled to reject
any evidence that may be offered to us, till it
1
has been thoroughly sifted, and proved to be
fallacious. That the facts presented to our
notice appear to us absurd, and altogether
. inconsistent with th~ notions our intellects
would have enabled us to form, should have
no weight whatever in the investigation. Our
intellects are no measure of God Almighty's
designs; and, I must say, that I do think one
of the most irreverent, dangerous, and sinful
things man or woman can be guilty of, is
to reject with scorn and laughter any intim~-
·tion which, however strangely it may strike
upon our minds, and however adverse it may
8 I~TRODUCTION.
be to our opinions, may possibly be showing
us the way to one ofGod's truths.. Not know-
ing all the conditions, and wanting so many
links of the chain, it is impossible for us to
pronounce on what is probable and consistent,
and what is not;. and, this being the case, I
think the time is ripe for drawing attention to
certain phenomena, which, under whatever
aspect we may consider them, are, beyond
doubt, exceedingly interesting and curious ;
whilst, if the view many persons are disposed
to take of them be the correct one, they are
much more than this. I wish, also, to make
the .English public acquainted with the ideas
entertained on these subjeets by a large pro-
portion of German minds of the highest order.
It i~ a distinctive characteristic of the thinkers
of that country, that, in the first place, they do
think independently and courageously; and,
in the seeond, that they never shrink from
promulgating the opinions they have been led
to form, however new, strange, heterodox, or
even absurd, they may appear to others. They
c;lo not succumb, as people do in this country,
to the fear of ridicule ; nor are they in danger
. of the odium .that here pursues those who
deviate from established notions ; and, the con-
sequence is, that, though many fallacious
I~THODCCTIOX. 9
theories and untenable propositions may be
advanced, a great deal of new truth is struck
out from the collision ; and in the result, as
must always be the case, what is true lives and
is established, and what is false dies and is
forgotten. But here, in Britain, om· critics and
colleges are in such haste to strangle and
put down every new discovery that does not
emanate from themselves, or which is not a ful-
filling of the ideas of the day, but which, being
somewhat opposed to them, promises to be
troublesome from requiring new thought to
render it intelligible that one might be in-
duced to suppose them divested of all confi-
dence in this inviolable law; whilst the more
important, and the higher the results involved
may be, the more angry they are with tho~e
who advocate them. They do not quarrel
with a new metal or a new plant, and even a
new comet or a new island, stands a fair chance
of being well received; the introduction of a
planet appears, from late events,to be more diffi-
cult; w~ilst phrenology and mesmerism testify,
thatanydi8coverytending to throw lighton what
most. deeply concerns us, namely, our own
being, must be prepared to encounter a storm
of angry persecution. And one of the evils of
this hasty and ~recipitate. opposition is, that
10 INT RO DUCTIO~ .
the passions and intcrests of the opposers be-
come involved in the dispute; instead of in-
vestigators, they become partisans; having
declared against it in the outset, it is important
to their petty interests that the thing shall
not be true ; and they determine that it shalL
not, if they can help it. Hence, these hasty,
angry investigations of new facts, and the
triumph with which failures are recorded ;
and hence the wilful overlooking of the
axiom, that a thousand negatives cannot over-
throw the evidence of one affirmative ex-
periment. I always distrust those who have
declared themselves strongly in the beginning
of a controversy. Opinions which however
1·ashly avowec.l, may have been honest at first,
may have been changed for many a long day
before they are retracted. In the mean time,
the march of truth is obstructed, and its
triumph is delayed; timid minds are alarmed;
those who dare not, or cannot, think for
themselves, are subdued; there is much need-
less suffering incurred, and much go<?d lost ;
but the truth goes quietly on its way, and
reaches the goal at last.
)Vith respect to the subjects I am here going
to treat of, it is not simply the result of my
own reflections and convictions that I am about
INTRODUCTION. ll
to offer. On the contrary, I intel'ld to fortify
my position by the opinions of many other
writers; the chiefof whom will, for the reasons
above given, namely, that it is they who ha,·e
principally attended to the question, he
Germans. I am fully aware that in this country
a ,·ery considerable number of persons lean to
some of these opinions, and I think I might
venture to assert that I ha,·e the majority on
my side, as far as regards ghosts-for it is
beyond a doubt that many more are disposed
to believe than to confess-and those who do
confess, are not few. The deep interest with
which any narration of spiritual appearances
hearing the stamp,or apparentstamp,ofauthen-
ticty is listened to in every society, is one proof
that, though the fear of ridicule may suppress,
it cannotextinguish thatintuitivcpersua.sion, of
whichalmosteveryone is moreor less conscious.
I al"ow that, in writing this book, I have a
higher aim than merely to afford amusement.
I wish to engage the earnest attention of my
readers; because I am satisfied that the.
opinions I am about to advocate, seriously en-
tertained, would produce very beneficial results.
\Ve are all educated in the belief of a future
state, but how vague and ineffective this belief
is with the majority of persons, we too well
12 I~T HOilrl~TIO ~ .
know; for although, as I have said above, the
numberof those who are what is called belie,·ers
in ghosts, and similar phenomena,is very large;
it is a belief that tlwy allow to sit extremely
lightly on their minds. Although they feel
that the evidence from within and from with-
out is too strong to be altogether set aside,
they have never permitted themseh·es to weigh
the significance of the facts. They are afraid of
that bugbear, Superstition-a title of oppro-
brium which it is ''ery convenient to attach to
whatever we do not believe ourseh·es. They
forget that nobody has a right to call any be-
~ief superstitious, till he ean prove tt1at it is
unfounded. Now, no one that liYes can assert
that the re-appearance of the dead is impos-
sible; all -
he has a right to say is, that he does
not believe it; and the interrogation that
should immediately follow this declaration is,
" Have you devoted your life.to sifting all the
evidence that has been adduced on the other
side, from the earliest periods of history and
tradition?" and even though the answer were
in the affirmative, and that the investigation
had been conscientiously pursued, it would be
still a bold enquirer that would think himself
entitled to say, the question was no longer
open. But the rashness and levity with which
IXTRODUCTIOX. 13
mankind make professions of believing and
disbelieving, are, all things considered, pheno-
mena much more extraordinary than the most
extraordinary ghost-story that was ever related.
The truth is, that not one person in a thousand,
in the proper sense of the word, believes any-
thing; they only fancy they believe, because
they have never seriously considered the mean-
ing of the word and all that it involves. That
which thehuman mindcannot conceive of, is apt
to slip from its grasp like water from the hand;
and life out of the flesh falls under this category.
The observation of any phenomena, therefore,
which enabled us to master the idea, must
necessarilybe extremely beneficial; and it must
he remembered, that one single thoroughly
well-established instance of the re-appearance
of a deceased person, would not only have this
effect, but that it would afford a demonstrative
proof of the deepest of all our intuitions,
namely, that a future life awaits us.
Not to mention the modem Germans of emi-
nence, who ha,·e devoted themselo/eS to this
investigation, there have been men 1·emarkable
for intellect in all countries, who have con-
sidered the subject \vorthy of enquiry.
Amongst the rest, Plato, Pliny, and Lucien;
and in our own country, that good old divine,
VOL. I. c
14 INTRODUCTION.
Dr. Henry l\Ioore, Dr. Johnson, Addison, Isaac
~'aylor, and many others. It may he objected
that the eternally quoted case of Nicolai, the
hooksell~r at Berlin, and Dr. Ferriar's "Theory
of Apparitions," had not then settled the
question; but nobody doubts that Nicolai's
'vas a case of disease; and he was 'vell aware
of it himself, as it appears to me, everybody so
affiicted, is. I was acquainted with a poor
woman, in Edinhorough, who suffered from
this malady, brought on, I believe, bydrinking;
but she was perfectly conscious of the nature
of the illusions ; and that temperance and a
doctor were the proper exorcists to lay the
S}Jirits. With respect to Dr. Ferriar's book, a
more shallow one 'vas assuredly never allowed
to settle any question; and his own theory
cannot, without the most violent straining, and
the assistance of what he calls coincidences,
meet even half the cases he himself adduces.
That such a disease, as he describes, exists,
nobody doubts; but I maintain that there are
hundreds of cases on record, for v;hich the
explanation does not suffice; and if they have
been instances of spectral illusion, all that
. ~·emains to be said, is, that a. fundamental re-
construction of the theory olVthut subject 1s
demanded.
IXTR0DUCTION. 15
La Place says, in his " Essay on Proba-
bilities," that "any case, howe\·er apparently
incredible, if it be a recurrent case, is as
much entitled under the laws of induction, to
a fair valuation, as if it had been more pro-
bable before hand." Now, no one will deny
that the case in question possesses this claim to
investigation. Determined scepticsmay,indeed,
deny that there exists any well-authenticated
instance of an apparition; but that, at present,
can only be a mere matter of opinion ; since
many persons as competent to judge as them-
selves, maintain the contrary; and in the mean
time, I anaign their right to make this objec-
tion till they have qualified themselves to do
so, by a long course of patient and honest
enquiry; always remembering that every
instance of enor or imposition discovered and
adduced, has no positive value whatever in the
argument, but as regards that single instance ;
though it may enforce upon us the necessity of
strong evidence and careful investigation.
With respect to the evidence, past and present,
I must be allowed here to remark on the
extreme difficulty of producing it. Not to
mention the acknowledged carelessness of
observers and the alleged incapacity of per-
sons to distinguish betwixt reality and illusion,
16 INTRO!>CCTI0 3l'.
there is an exceeding shyness in most people,
who, either have seen, or fancied they have
seen, an apparition, to speak of it at all, except
to some intimate friend; so that one gets most
of the stories second-hand; whilst even those
who are less chary of theil· communications,
are imperative against their name and autho-
rity being given to the public. Besides this,
there is a great tendency in most people, after
the impression is over, to think they may have
been deceived; and where there is no commu-
nication or other circumstance rendering this
conviction impossible, it is not difficult to
acquire it, ot· at least so much of it as leaves
the case valueless. The seer is glad to find
this refuge from the unpleasant feelings engen..
dered; whilst surrounding friends, sometimes
from genuine scepticism, and sometimes from
good-nature, almost invariably lean to this
explanatiQu of the mystery. In consequence
of these difi.iculties and those attending the
very nature of the phenomena, I freely admit
that the facts I shall adduce, as they now
stand, can have no scientific value; they can-
not in short enter into the region of science at
all, still less into that of philosophy. 'Vhatever
conclusions we may be led to form, cannot be
founded on pure induction. 'Ve must confine
INTRODUCTION. 17
ourselves wholly within the region of opinion .
'
if we venture beyond which, we shall
assuredly founder. In the beginning, all
sciences have been but a collection of facts,
afterwards to be examined, compa1·ed, and
weighed by intelligent minds. To the vulgar,
who do not see the universal law which
governs the universe, everything out of the
ordinary course of events, is a prodigy; but to
the enlightened mind there are no progidies ;
for it perceives that both in the moral and the
physical world, there is a chain of uninter-
rupted connexion; and that the most strange
and even apparently contradictory or super-
natural fact or event will be found, on due
investigation, to be strictly dependant on its
antecedents. It is possible, that there may be
a link wanting, and that our· investigations
may, consequently, be fruitless; but the link
is assureclly there, although our imperfect
knowledge and limited vision cannot find it
And it is here the proper place to observe,
that, in undertaking to treat of the phenomena
in question, I do not propose to consider them
as supernatural; .on the contraTy, I am per-
suaded that the time will come, when they will
be reduced strictly 'Within the bounds of
science. It was the tendency of the last age
c 5
18 I~TRODUCTIO-:-;.
to reject and deny every thing they did not
understand; I hope it is the growing tendency
of the present one, to examine what we do not
understand. Equally disposed with our pre-
decessors of the eighteenth century to reject
the supernatural, and to believe the order of
nature inviolable, we are disposed to extend the
bounds of nature and science, till they com-
prise within their limits all the phenomena,
ordinary and extraordinary, by which we are
surrounded. Scarcely a month passes, that
we do not hear of some new and important
discovery in science; it is a domain in which
nothing is stable; and every year overthrows
some of the hasty and premature theories of
the preceding ones; and this will continue
to be the case as long as scientific men occupy
themselves each wit~ his own subject, with-
out studying the great and primal truths--
what the French call Les verites meres-which
link the whole together. ·Meantime, there is
a continual . unsettling. Truth, if it do not
emanate from an acknowledged authority, is
generally rejected; and error, if it do, is as-
often accepted; whilst, whoever disputes the
received theory, whatever it be- we mean
especially that adopted by the professors of
colleges-does it at his peril. But there is
1NTRODUCT10N. 19
a day yet brooding in the bosom of time, when
the sciences will be no longer isolated ; when
we shall no longer deny, but he able to
account for phenomena apparently prodigious;
or have the modesty, Iif we cannot explain
them, to admit that the difficulty arises solely
from our own incapacity. The system of cen~
tralization in statistics, seems to be of doubtful
advantage; but a greater degree of centraliza-
tion appears to be very much needed in the
domain of science. Some improvement in
this respect might do wonders, particularly if
reinforced with a slight infusion of patience
and humility into the minds of scientific meu ;
together with the recollection that facts and
phenomena which do not depend on our will,
must be waited for-that we must be at their
command, for they will not be at ours.
But to retm·n once more to our own subject.
If we do believe that a future life awaits us,
there can be nothing more natural than the
desire to obtain some information as to what
manner of life that is to be for w~ich any one
of us may, before this time to-morrow, have
exchanged his present mode of being. That
there does not exist a greater interest with
regard to this question in the mind of man,
m·ises, partlv,from the vague intangible kind of
20 INTRODUCTION.
belief he entertains of the fact; partly, from
his absorption in worldly affairs, and the hard
and indigestible food upon which his clerical
shepherds pasture him-for, under dogmatic
theology, religion seems to have withered away
to the mere husk of spiritualism-and partly,
also from the apparent impossibility of pur-
suing the enquiry to any purpose. As I said
before, observation and experience can alone
guide us in such an enquiry; fo1· though most
people have a more or less intuitive sense of
their own immortality, intuition is silent as to
the mode of it; and the question I am anxious
here to discuss with my readers, is, whether
we have any facts to observe, or any ex-
perience from which, on this most interesting
of all subjects, a conclusion may be drawn.
Great as the difficulty is of producing evi-
dence, it will, I think, be pretty generally ad-
mitted, that, although each individual case, as
it stands alone, may be comparatively value-
less, the amount of recun-ent cases forms a
body of evidence, that on any other subJeCt
would scarcely be rejected ; and since, if the
facts a1·e accepted, they imperatively demand
an explanation-for, assuredly, the present
theory of spectral illusions cannot comprise
them-our enquiry, let it terminate in what-
INTRODUCTION, 21
ever conclusion it may, cannot be useless or
uninteresting. Various views of the pheno-
mena in question may be taken ; and although
I shall offer my own opinions and the theories
and opinions of others, I insist upon none ; I
do not write to dogmatise, but to suggest re-
flection and enquiry. The books of Dr.
Ferriar, Dr. Hibbert, and Dr. Thatcher, the
American, are all written to support one
exclusive theory ; and they only give such
cases as serve to sustain it. They maintain
that the whole phenomena are referrible to
nervous or sanguineous derangement, and are
mere subjective illusions; and whatever in-
stance cannot be covered by this theory, they
reject as false, or treat as a case of extra-
ordinary coincidence. In short, they arrange
the facts to their theory, not their theory to the
facts. Their books cannot, therefore, claim to
be considered as anything more than essays on
a special disease; they have no pretence what-
ever to the character of investigations. The
question, consequently, remains as much an
open one as before they treated it; whilst we
have the advantage of their experience and
information, with regard to the peculiar
malady that forms the subject of their works.
22 INTRODUCTION.
On that subject it is not my intention to
enter; it is a strictly medical one, and e~ery
information may be obtained respecting it in
the above-named treatises, and others, ema-
nating from the faculty.
The subjects I do intend to treat of are the
.various kinds of prophetic dreams, presen-
timents, second-sight, and apparitions; and,
in short, all that class of phenomena, which
appears to throw some light on our physical
nature, and on the probable state of the soul
after death. In this discussion I shall make
free use of my German authorities, Doctors
Kerner, Stilling, Wen1er, Eschenmayer, Enne-
~oser, Passavent, Schubert, Von lVIeyer, &c.
&c. ; and I here make a g-eneral acknowledge-
ment to that effect, because it would embarrass
my book too much to be constantly giving
names and references ; although when I quote
their words literally, I shall make a point of
doing so; and because, also, that as I have
been both thinking and reading much on these
subjects for a considerable time past, I am, in
fact, no longer in a condition to appropriate
either to them or to myself, each his own.
This, however, is a matter of very little con-
sequence, as I am not desirous of claiming
INTRODUCTION. 23
any ideas as mine that can be found else~
where. It is enough for me, if I succeed in
making a tolerably clear exposition of the
subject, and can induce other people to reflect
upon it.
CHAPTER II.
THE DWELLER IN THE TEMPLE.
IT is almost needless to observe, that the
Scriptures repeatedly speak of man as a
tripartite being, consisting of spirit, soul, and
body; and that, according to St. Paul, we ha,·e
two bodies-a natural body, and a spiritual
body; the former being designedas our meansof
communication with the external world-an
instrument to be used and controlled by our
nobler parts. It is this view of it, carried to a
fanaticism, which has led to the various and ex-
traordinarymortifications recorded of ascetics.
As is remarked by the Rev. Hare Townshend,
THE DWELLER I:-1 THE TE~IPLE. 2b
in a late edition of his book on l\Iesmerism, in
this fleshly body consists our organic life; in
the body which we are to retain through
eternity, consists our fundamental life. l\Iay
not the first, he says, " be a temporary de-
velopment of the last, just as leaves, flowers
and fruits, are the temporary developments of
a tree. And in the same manner that these
pass and drop away, yet leave the principle of
reproduction behind, so may our present
organs be detached from us by death, and yet
the ground of our existence be spared to us
continuously."
'Vithout entering into the subtle disputes of
philosophers, with regard to the spirit, a :suh-
)ect on which there is a standing controversy
betwixt the disciples of Hegel, and those of
other teachers, I need only observe that the
Scriptures seem to indicate what some of the
heathen sages taught, that t,he spirit that
dwells within us is the spirit of God, incorpo-
rated in us for a period, for certain ends of his
own, to be thereby wrought out. What those
ends are, it does not belong to my present
subject to consider. In this spirit so imparted
to us, dwells, says Eschenmayer, the con-
science, which keeps watch over the body and
the soul, saying, ''Thus shalt thou do !''
VoL. I. n
26 THE DWELLER
And it is to this Christ addresses himself when
he bids his disciples become perfect, like their
Father in Heaf'en. The soul is subject to the
spirit; and its functions are, to will, or choose,
to think, and to feel, and to become thereby
cognizant of the true, the bPautiful, and the
good; comprehending the highest principle,
the highest ideal, and the most perfect happi-
ness. The Ego, or I. is the resultant of the
three forces, Pneuma, Psyche, Soma-spirit,
soul, and body.
In the sptrit or soul, or rather in both con-
joined, dwells, also, the power of spiritual
seeing, or intuitit·e knowing; for, as there is a
spiritual body, there is a spiritual eye, and a
spiritual ear, and so forth; or, to speak more
correctly, all these sensuous functions are com-
·prised in one universal sense, which does not
need the aid of the bodily organs; but, on the
contrary, is .•most efficient when most freed
from them. It remains to be seen v;hether,
or in what degree, such separation can take
place during life; complete it cannot be till
death; but whoever believes sincerely that
the divine spirit dwells within him, can, I
should think, find no difficulty in conceiving
that, although from the temporary conditions
towhich pt trahiti.s is subjected, this universal
ttvJ-J;.t.--~r
I~ THE TE:MPLE. 27
faculty is limited and obscured, it must still
retain its indefeisible attribute.
We may naturally conclude that the most
perfect state of man on earth consists in the
most perfect unity of the spirit and the soul;
and to those who in this life have attained
the nearest to that unity, will the entire assi-
milation of the two, after they are separated
from the body, be the easiest; whilst to those
who have lived only their intellectual and
external life, this union must be extremely
difficult, the soul having chosen its part with
the body and divorced itself, as much as in it
lay, from the spirit. The voice of conscience
is then scarcely heard; and the soul, degraded
and debased, can no longer perform its func-
tious of discerning the true, the beautiful, and
the gocd.
On these distinct functions of the soul and
spirit, however, it is not my intention to in-
sist; since, it appears to me, a subject on
which we are not yet in a condition to dog-
matise. We know rather more about our
bodies, by means of which the soul and spirit
are united and brought into contact with the
material world, and which are constructed
wholly with a view to the conditions of that
world; such as time, space, solidity, extension,
28 THE DWELLER
&c. &c. But we must conceive of God as
necessarily independent of these conditions.
To Him, all times and all places must be
for ever present; and it is thus that he is
omniscient and omnipresent; and since we are
placed by the spirit in immediate relation 'vith
God and the spiritual world, just as we are
placed by thP body in immediate relation 'vith
the material world, we may, in the first place,
form a notion of the possibility that some faint
gleams of these inherent attributes may, at
times, shoot up through the clay in which the
spirit has taken up its temporary abode; and
we may also admit, that through the connexion
which exists betwixt us and the spiritual
wor1d, it is not impossible but that we may, at
times, and under certain conditions, become
cognizant of, and enter into more immediate
relation with it. This is the only postulate I
ask ; for, as I said before, I do not wish to
enforce opinions, but to suggest probabilities,
or at least possibilities, aud thus arouse
1·eflection and enquiry.
'Vith respect to the term invisible world, I
beg to remind my readers, that what we call
seeing, is merely the function of an organ con-
structed for that purpose, in relation to the
external world ; and so limited are its powers,
that we are suno,Inded by many things in that
IN THE TEMPLE. 29
world which we cannot see without the aid of
artificial appliances, and many other things
whic.h we cannot see even with them; the
atmosphere in which \Ve live, for example,
which, although its weight and mechanical
forces are the subjects of accurate calculation,
is entirely imperceptible to our visual organs.
Thus, the fact that we do not commonly see
them, forms no legitimate objection to the
hypothesis of our being surrounded by a world
of spirits, or of that world being inter-diffused
amongst us. Supposing the question to be
decided, that we do sometimes become cog-
nizant of them, which, however, I admit it is
not ;- since, whether the apparitions are sub-
jective or objective, that is, whether they are
the mere phenomena of disease, or real out-
standing appearances, is the enquiry I desire
to promote-but, I say, supposing that ques-
tion were decided in the affirmative, the next
that arises is, how, or by what means do we
see them ; or, if they add.ress us, hear them ?
If that universal sense which appears to me to
be inseparable from the idea of spirit, be once
admitted, I think there can be no difficulty
in answering this question; and if it be ob-
jected that we are conscious of no such sense,
I answer that, both in dreams and in certain
D ~
30 THE DWELLER
•
abnormal states of the body, it is frequently
manifested. In order to render this more clear,
and, at the same time, to give an interesting
instance of this sort of phenomenon, I will
tr:Jnscribe a passage from a letter of St. Au-
gustiue to his friend Evadius (Epistola 159.
Antwerp edition.)
" I will relate to you a circumstance," he
writes, "which will furnish you matter for
1·eflection. Our brother Sennadius, well known
to us all as an eminent physician, and whom
we especially love, who is now at Carthage,
after having distinguished himselfat Rome,and
with whose piety and active benevolence you
are well acquainted, could yet, nevertheless,
as he has lately narrated to us, by any means
bring himself to believe in a life after death.
Now, God, doubtless, not willing Lhat his soul
should perish, there appeared to him, one night
-in a dream, a radiant youth of noble aspect,
who bade him follow him; and as Sennadius
obeyed, they came to a city where, on the right
side, he heard a chorus of the most heavenly
voices. As he desired to know whence this
divine harmony proceeded, the youth told him
that what he l1eard were the songs of the
l)lessed; whereupon he awoke, and thought
no more of his dream than people usually do.
IN THE TEMPLE. 31
On another night, however, behold! the youth
appears to him again and asks if he knows
him ; and Sennadius related to him all the
particulars of his former dream, which he well
remembered. 'Then,' said the youth, '\Tas it
whilst sleeping or waking that you saw these
things?' ' I was sleeping,' answered Sennadius.
'"Yon are right,' returned the youth, 'it was in
your sleep that yon saw these things; and
know, oh Senuadius, that what you see now
is also in your sleep. But if this be so, tell
me where then is your hody ?' 'In my bed-
chamber,' answered Sennadius. 'But know
you not,' continued the stranger, ' that your
eyes, which form a part of your body, are
closed and inactive?' 'I know it,' answered
he. 'Then,' said the youth, 'with what eyes
see you th~se things?' And Sennadius could
not answer him; and as he hesitated the youth
spoke again, and explained to him the motive
of his questions. 'As the eyes of your body,'
said he, 'which lies now on your bed and
sleeps, are inactive and useless, and yet you
have eyes where,Yith you see me and these
things I have shown unto you, so after death
. '
when these bodily organs fail you, you wil
have a vital power, whereby you will live; and
a sensitive faculty, whereby you will perceive.
32 THE D'WELLER
Doubt, therefore, no longer that there is a life
after death.' And thus," said this excellent
man, "was I convinced, and all doubts re-
moved.''
I confess there appears to me a beauty and
a logical truth in this dream, that I think
might convince more than the dreamer.
It is by the hypothesis of this universal
sense, latent within us; au hypothesis which,
whoever believes that we are immortal spirits,
incorporated for a season in a material body,
can scarcely reject, that I seek to explain those
perceptions which are not comprised within
the functions of our bodily organs. It seems
to me to be the key to all, or nearly all, of
them, as far as our own part in the phenomena
extends. But, supposing this admitted, there
would then remain the difficulty or'accounting
for the partial and capricious glimpses we get
of it; whilst that department of the mystery
which regards appadtions, except such as are
the pure result of disease, we must grope our
way, with very little light to guide us, as to
the conditions and motives which might pos-
sibly bring them into any immediate relation
with us.
To any one who has been fortunate enough
to witness one genuine case of clairvoyance
I~ THE TE~JPLE. 33
I think the conception of this universal sense
will not be difficult ; howtower, the mode of its
exercise may remain utterly incomprehensible.
As I have said above-to the great spirit and
fountain of life, all things, both in space and
time, must be present. However impossible
it is to our finite minds to conceive this, we
must believe it. It may, in some slight
degree, facilitate the conception to remember,
that action, once begun, never ceases-an im-
pulse given is transmitted on for ever; a sound
breathed reverberates in eternity; and thus
the past is always present, although for the
purpose of fitting us for this mortal life, our
ordinary senses are so constituted as to be
unp-
erceptive of these phenomena. With
respect to what we call the future, it is more
difficult still for us to conceive it as present;
nor, as far ar I know, can we borrow from the
sciences the same assistance as mechanical
discoveries have just furnished me with in re-
gard to the past. How a spirit sees that which
has not yet, to our senses; taken place, seems,
certainly, inexplicable. Foreseeing it is not
inexplicable; we foresee many things by argu-
ing on given premises, although, from our own
finite views, we are always liable to be mis-
taken. Louis Lambert says, "Such events
34 THE DWELLER
as are the product of humanity, and the resuTt
of its intelligence, have their own causes, in
which they lie latent, just as our actions are
accomplished in our thoughts previous to any
outward demonstration of them; presentiments
and prophecies consist in the intuitive percep-
tion of tlu~se causes." This Pxplanation!which
is quite conformable with that of Cicero, may
aid us in some degree, as regards a certain
smap class of phenomena ; but there is some-
thing involved in the question much more
subtle than this. Our dreams can give us the
only idea of it; for there we do actually see
and hear, not only tl1at which never was,
but that which never will be. Actions
and events, words and sounds, persons
and places, are as clearly and vividly pre-
sent to us, as if they were actually what
they seem; and I should think that most
people must be somewhat puzzled to decide
in regard to certain scenes and circumstances
that live in their memory, whether the images
are the result of their waking or sleeping
~xperience. Although by no means a dreamer,
and without the most remote approximation to
any faculty of presentiment, I know this is the
case with myself. I remember, also, a very
curious effect being produced upon me, when
IN THE TEMPLE. 35
I was abroad, soms years ago, from eating the
unwhol~some bread to which we were reduced,
in consequence of a scarcity. Some five or six
times a day I was seized with a sort of
vertigo, during which I seemed to pass through
certaiu scenes, and was conscious of certain
words, which appeared to me to have a strange
connexion, either with some former period of
my life, or else some previous state of existence;
the words and the scenes were on each occasion
precisely the same. I was always aware of
that ; and I always made the strongest efforts
to grasp and retain them in my memory ; but
I could not. I only knew that the thing had
been; the words and the scenes were gone. I
seemed to pass momentarily into another sphere
and back again. This was purely the result
of disorder; but, like a dream, it shows how
we may be perceptive of that which is not,
and which never may be; rendering it, there-
fore, possible to conceive that a spirit may be
equally perceptive of that which shall be.
I am very far from meaning to imply that these
examples remove the diffieulty ; they do not
explain the thing; they only show somewhat
the mode of it. But it must be remembered
that when physiologists pretend to settle the
whole question of apparitions by the theory of
3G THE DWELLER
spectral illusions, they are exactly in the same
predicament. They can supply examples of
similar phenomena ; but how a person, per-
fectly in his senses, should receive the spectral
visits, not only of friends, but strangers, when
he is thinking of no such matter; or, by what
process, mental or optical, the figures are con-
jured up, remains as much a mystery as before
a line was written on the subject.
All people and all ages have believed, more
or less, in prophetic dreams, presentiments,
and apparitions; and all histories have fur-
nished examples of them. That the truths
may be frequently distorted and mingled with
fable, is no argument against those traditions;
if it were, all history must be rejected on the
same plea. Both the Old and New Testament
furnish numerous examples of these pheno-
mena; and although Christ and tl1e Apostles
reproved all the superstitions of the age, these
persuasions are not included in their repre-
hensions.
Neither is the comparitive rarity of these
phenomena any argument against their possi-
bility. There are many strange things which
occur still more rarely, but which we do not
look upon as supernatural or miraculous. Of
nature's ordinary laws, we yet know but little;
I~ THE TE~IPLE. 37
of their aberrations and perturbations still less.
How should we, when the world is a miracle
and life a dream, of which we know neither
the begiiming nor the end! 'Ve do not even
kuow that we see anything as it is; or rather,
we know that we do not. We see things but
as our visual organs represent them to us; and
were those organs differently constructed, the
aspect of the world, would to us, be changed.
How, then, can we pretend to decide uvon
what is and what is not?
. Nothing could be more perplexing to any one
who read them with attention, than the trials
for witchcraft of the se,·enteenth century
l\Iany of the feats of the ancient thaumatur-
gists and wonder-workers of the temples,
might have been nearly as much so; hut these
were got rid of by the easy expedient of pro-
nouncing them fables and impostures; but,
during the \Yitch mania, so many persons
praYed their faith in their own miraculous
powers by the sacrifice of their liYes, that it
was scarcely possible to doubt their havi11g
some foundation for their own persuasion,
though what that foundation could be, till
the late discoveries in animal magnetism,
it was difficult to conceiYe; but here we have
a new page opened to us, which concerns both
YOL. I E
38 THE DWELLER
the history of the world and the history of
man, as an individual; and we begin to see,
that that which the ignorant thought super-
natural, and the wise impossible, has been
both natural and true. "\Vhilst the scientific
men of Great Britain, and several of o,lr
journalists, have been denying and ridiculing
the reports of these phenomena, the most
eminent physicians of Germany have been
quietly studying and investigating them; and
giving to the world, in their works, the results
of their experience. Amongst the rest, Dr.
Joseph Ennemoser, of Berlin, has presented
to .us in his two books on "l\Iagic,'' and on
"The Connexion of l\iagnetism with Nature
and Religion," the fruits of his thirty years'
study of this subject; during the course of
which he has had repeated opportunities of
investigating all the phenomena, and ofmaking
himself perfectly familiar with even the most
rare and perplexing. To any one who has
studied these works, the mysteries of the
temples and of the witch trials, are mysteries
uo longer; and he writes with the professed
design, not to make science mystical, but to
bring the mysterious within the bounds of
science. The phenomena, as he justly says,
are as old as the human race. Animal mag-
1::'1 THE TEMPLE. 39
netism is no new development, no new dis-
covery. Inseparable from life, although, like
many other vital phenomena, so subtle in its
influences, that only in abnormal cases it
attracts attention, it has exhibited itself more
or less in all ages, and in all countries. But
its value as a medical agent is only now be-
ginning to dawn on the civilized world, whilst
its importance, in a higher point of view, is yet
perceived hut by few.. Every human being
who has ever withdrawn himself from the
strife, and the turmoil, and the distraction, of
the world without, in order to look within,
must have found himself perplexed by a thou-
sand questions with regard to his own being,
which he would find no one able to solve.
In the study of animal magnetism, he will
first obtain some gleams of a light which will
show him that he is indeed the child of God !
and that, though a dweller on the earth, and
fallen, some traces of his divine descent, and
of his unbroken connexion with a higher order
of being, still remain to comfort and encourage
him. He will find that there exists in his
species the germs of faculties that are never
fully unfolded here on earth, and which have
no reference to this state of being. They exist
in all men; but in most cases are so faintly
40 THI<; DWELLER IX TilE TE::\IPLE.
elicited as not to be observable; and wheu the~·
do shoot up here and there, they are denied,
disowned, misinterpreted, and maligned. It
is true, that their development is often the
symptom and efl'ect of disease, which seems to
change the relations of our material and im-
material parts. It is true, that some of the
phenomena resulting from these faculties are
simulated by disease, as in the case of spectral
illusions ; and it is true, that imposture and
folly intrude their unhallowed footsteps into
this domain of science, as into that of all
others ; but there is a deep and holy well
of· truth to be discovered in this neglected
bye-path of nature, by those who seek it,
from which they may draw the purest con-
solations for the present, the most ennobling
hopes for the future, and the most valuable
aid in penetrating through the letter, into
the spirit of the Scriptures.
I confess it makes me sonowful when I
hear men laughing, scorning, and denying this
their brithright; and I cannot hut grie,·e to
think how closely and heavily their clay must
be wrapt alwut them, and how the external
and sensuous life must have pre,•ailed over the
internal, when no gleam from within breaks
through to show them that these thiuge arc
true.
CHAPTER III.
WAKING AND SLEEPING;
AND HOW THE DWELLER 1!11 THE TE~lPLE
SO~IETIMES LOOKS ABROAD.
To begin with the most simple-or rather, I
should say, the most ordina1·y, class of phe-
nomena-for we can scarcely call that simple,
the mystery of which we have never been able
to penetrate-! mean dreaming-everybody's
experience will suffice to satisfy them, tltat
their ordinary dreams take place in a state of
imperfect sleep; and that this imperfect sleep
may be caused by any bodily or mental
derangement whatever; or even from an ill-
made bed, or too much or too little covering;
and it is not difficult to conceive that the
strange, confused, and disjointed visions we
a.re subject to on these occasions, may proceed
E5
42 WAKI~G A~D SLEEPI~G, ETC.
from some parts of the brain beillg less at rest
than the others; so that, assuming phrenology
to be fact, one organ is not in a ~tate to correct
the impressions of another. Of surh vain
and insignificant visions, I need scarcely say
it is not my intention to ti'eat; but, at the same
time, I must observe, that when we have
admitted the above explanation, as far as it
goes, we have not, even in regard to them,
made much progress towards removing the
uifficulty. If dreaming resembled thinking
the explanations might be quite sati~factory;
but the truth is, that dreaming is not thinking,
~s we think in our 'yaking state; but is more
analogous to thinking in delirium or acute
mania, or in that chronic condition which gives
rise to sensuous illusions. In our ordinary
normal state, conceiving of places or persons
does not enable us to see them or hold com-
munion with them; nor do we fancy that we
do either. It is true that I have heart! some
painters say, that by closing their eyes and
concentrating their thoughts on an object,they
can bring it more or less vividly before them;
and Blake professed actually to see his sitters
when they where not present; but whatever
interpretations we may put upou this curious
faculty, his case was clearly abnormal, and con-
WAKING AND SLEEPING, ETC. 43
nected with some personal peculiarity, either
physical or psychical; and, after making the
most of it, it must be admitted that it can
en~er into no sort of comparison with that we
possess in sleep, when·. in our most ordinary
dreams, untrammelled by time or space, we
visit the uttermost ends of the earth, fly in the
air, swim in the sea, listen to beautiful music
and eloquent orations, behold the most charm-
ing, as well as the most loathsome objects;
and not on)y see, but converse with our
fi·iends, absent or present, dead or alive.
Every one, I think, will grant that there is the
widest possible difference betwixt conceiving
of these things when awake, and dreaming
them. When we dream, we do, we see, we
say, we hear, &c. &c., that is, we believe at the
time that we do so; and what more can be
said of us when we are awake, than that we
believe we are doing, seeing, saying, hearing,
&c. It is by external circumstances, and the
results of our actions, that we are able to
decide whether we have actually done a thing
m· seen a place, or only dreamt that we have
done so; and as I have said above, after some
lapse of time, we are not always able to dis-
tinguish betw'een the two. Whilst dreaming,
we frequently ask ourselves whether we are
44 WAKING AND SLEEPING, ETC.
awake or asleep; and nothing is more common
than to hear people say, '' Well, I think I did,
or heard, so and so ; but I am not sure
whether it was so, or whether I dreamt it."
Thus, therefore, the very lowest order of
dreaming, the most disjointed and perplexed,
is far removed from the most vivid presen-
tations of our waking thoughts ; and it is in
this respect, I think, that the explanations of
the phenomena hitherto offered by phrenolo-
gists, and the metaphysicians of this country,
are inadequate and unsatisfactory; whilst, as
regards the analogybetwixt the visions of sleep
and delirium, whatever similarity there may be
in the effects, we cannot suppose the cause to
be identical : since, in delirium, the images
and delusions are the result of excessive action
of the brain, which we must conclude to be the
very reverse of its condition in sleep. Pinel
certainly has hazarded an opinion that sleep
ts occasioned by an efilux of blood to the head,
and consequent compression of the brain-a
theory which would have greater weight were
sleep more strictly periodical than it is; .but
which, at present, it seems impossible to recon-
cile with many established facts.
Some of the German physiologists and
psychologists have taken a deeper view of this
WAKING A~D SLEEPI~G, ETC. 45
question of dreamingfrom considering it in con-
nex.ion with the phenomena of animal magnet-
ism.; and although their theories differ in some
respects, they all unite in looking towards that
department of nature for instruction. Whilst
one section of these enquirers, the Exegetical
Society of Stockholm included, calls in the aid
of supernatural agency, another, tlmongst
whom Dr. Joseph Ennemoser, of Berlin,
appears to be one of the most eminent, main-
tains that the explanation of the mystery is to
be chiefly sought in the great and universal
law of polarity, which extends not only
beyond the limits of this earth, but beyond
the limits of this system, which must neces-
sarily be iu connexion with all others; so that
there is thus an eternal and never-ceasing
inter-action, of which, from the multiplicity
and contrariety of the influences we are insen-
sible,just as we are insensible of the pressure
of the atmoshere, from its impinging on ug
equally on all sides.
Waking and sleeping are the day and night
sides of organic life, during which alterna-
tions an animal is placed in different relations
to the external worlu, and to these alternations
all organisms are subject. The completeness
and independence of each individual organism,
46 WAKING AND SLEEPI~G, ETC.
is in exact ratio to the number and complete-
ness of the organs it developes; nnd thus the
locomotive animal has the advantage of the
plant or the zoophyte, whilst, of the auimal
kingdom, man is the most complete and inde-
pendent; and, although still a member of the
universal whole, and therefore incapable of
isolating himself, yet better able than any
other organism to ward off external influences,
and comprise his world within himself. But,
according to Dr. Ennemoser, one of the conse-
quences of this very completeness, is a weak
and insignificant development of instinct; and
thus the heahhy, waking, conscious man, is, of
all organisms,.the least sensible to the impres·
sions of this universal intercommunication and
polarity; although, at the same time, par·
taking of the nature of the plant and the
animal, he is subject, like the first, to all man··
ner of atmospheric, telluric, and periodic in-
fluences; and frequently exhibits, like the
second, peculiar instinctive appetites and de-
sires, and, in some individual organizations,
Yery marked antipathies and susceptibilities
with regard to certain objects and influences,
even when not placed in any evident relation
with them.
According to this theory, sleep is a retro-
WAKING AND SLEEPING, ETC. 47
grade step-a retreating into a lower sphere;
in .which condition, the sensuous functions
being in abeyance, the instincts somewhat
t·esume their sway. "In sleep and in sick-
ness," he says, " the higher animals and man
fall in a physico-organical point of view, from
their individual independence, or power of
self-sustainment; and their polar 1·elation, that
is, their relation ~ to the healthy and waking
man, becomes changed from a positive to a
negative one; all men, in regard to each other,
as well as all nature, being the subjects of this
polarity. It is to be remembered, that this
theory of Dr. Ennemoser's was promulgatPd
before the discoveries of Baron von Reichen-
back in magnetism were made public, and the
susceptibility to magnetic influences in thP.
animal organism, which the experiments of
the latter go to establish, is certainly in its
favour; but whilst it pretends to explain the
condition of the sleepers, and may possibly be
of some service in our investigations into the
mystery of dreaming, it leaves us as much in
the dark as ever, with respect to the cause of
our falling into this negative state ; an enquiry
in which little progress seems to have been
hitherto made.
\Vith respect to dreaming, Dr. Eunemoser
48 WAKT~G AXD SLg£pi~G, ETC.
rejects the physiological theory, which mam-
tains, that in sleep, magnetic or otherwise, the
activity of the brain is transferred to the gan-
glionic system, and that the former falls into
a subordinate relation. '' Dreaming-," he says,
"is the gradual awakening of activity in the
organs of imagination, whereby the presenta-
tion of sensuous objects to the spirit, which
had been discontinued in profound sleep; is
resumed. Dreaming," he adds, "also arises
from the secret activity of the spirit in the
innermost sensuous organs of the brain, busy-
ing the fancy with subjective sensuous images,
the objective conscious day-life giving place to
the creative dominion of the poetical genius,
io which night becomes day, and universal
nature its theatre of action; and thus the su-
persensuous or transcendent nature of the
spirit becomes more manifest in dreaming
than in the waking state. But, in considering
these phenomena, man must be viewed both
in his psychical and physical relations, and as
equally subject to spiritual as to natural opera-
tions and influences; since, during the con-
tinuance of life, neither soul nor body can act
quite independently of the other; for, although
it be the immortal spirit which percei,·es, it is
through the instrumentality of the sensuous
WAKING AND SLEEPING, ETC. 4 9
organs that it does so; for of absolute spirit
without body, we can form no conception."
What is here meant seems to be, that the,
brain becomes the world to the spirit, before
the impressions from the external world, do
actually come streaming through by means of
the external sensuous organs. The inner
spiritual light illumines, till the outward,
physical light overpowers and extinguishes it.
But in this state, the brain, which is the store-
house of acquired knowledge, is not in a con-
dition to apply its acquisitions effectively;
t'
·whilst the intuitive knowledge of the spirit, if
the sleep be imperfect, is clouded by its
interference.
Other physiologists, however, believe, from
the numerous and well attested cases of the
transference of the senses, in disease, to the
pit of the stomach, that the activity of the
brain in sleep is transferred to the epigastric
region. The instances of this phenomenon,
,as related by Dr. Petetin and others, having
been frequently published, I need not here
quote. But, as Dr. Passavant observes, it is
well known that the functions of the nerves
difl'er in some animals ; and that one set can
supply the place of another; as in those cases
VoL. 1. F
50 WAKING AND SLEEPING, ETC.
where th€r~ is a great susceptibility to light,
though no eyes can be discovered.
These physiologists believe, that,even during
the most profouud sleep, the spirit retains
its activity, a proposition which, indeed, we
eannot doubt; "it wakes, though the senses
sleep, retreating into its infinite depths, like
the sun at. night; living on its spiritual life
undisturbed, whilst the body sinks into a. state
of vegetative tranquillity. Nor does it follow
that the soul is unconscious in sleep, because
in waking we have frequently lost all memory
of its consciousness; since, by the repose of
the sensuous organs, the bridge betwixtwaking
and sleeping is removed, and the recol-
lections of one state are not carried into the
other."
It will occur here to every one, how often
in the instant of waking we are not only con-
scious that we have been dreaming, but are
also conscious of the subject of the dream,
which we try in vain to grasp, but which
eludes us, and is gone for ever the moment
we have passed into a state of complete
wakefulness.
Now, with respect to this so called dreaming
in profound sleep, it is a thing no one can well
doubt, who thoroughly believes that his body
WAKING AND SLEEPING, ETC. 51
is a temple built for the dwelling of an im-
mortal spirit; for we cannot conceive of spirit
sleeping, or needing that restoration which we
know to be the condition of earthly organisms.
If, therefore, the spirit wakes, may we not
suppose that the more it is disentangled from
the obstructions of the bt>dy, the more clear
will be its perceptions ; and that, therefore,
in the protounJ natural sleep of the sensuous
organs we may be in a state of clear-seeing.
All who have attended to the subject are aware,
that the clear-seeing of magnetic patients
depends on the depth of their sleep; whatever
circumstance, internal or external, tends to in-
terrupt this profound repose of the sensuous
organs, inevitably obscures their perception$.
Again, with respect to the not carrying
with us the recollections of one state into the
other, should not this lead us to suspect, that
sleeping and waking are two different spheres
of existence; partaking of the nature of that
double life, of which the records of human
physiology have presented us with various in-
stances, wherein a patient finds himself utterly
divested of all recollection of past events and
acquired knowledge, and has to begin life
and education anew, till another transition
takes place, wherein he recovers what he had
52 DRE.DHXG, ETC.
lost, whilst he at the same time loses all he
had lately gained, which he only recoYers,
once mon~, hy another transition, restoring to
him his lately acquired kndwledge, but again
pbliterating his original stock, thus alternately
pa~sing from one state to the other, and dis-
closing a double life; an educated man in one
condition, a child learning his alphabet in
the next.
Where the transition from one state to
another is complete, memory is entirely lost;
lnlt there are cases in which the change, being
either gradnal m· modified, the recollections of
one life are carried more or less into the other.
'Ve know this to be the case with magnetic
s\eepers, as it is with ordinary dreamers; and
most persons have met with instances of the
dream of one night bring continued in the
next. Treviranus mentions the case of a stu-
dent who regularly began to talk the moment
he fell asleep, the subject of l1is discourse
being a drram, which he always took up at
the exact point at which he had left it the
previous morning. Of this dream he had
never the slighte~t recollection in his waking
state. A daughter of Sir George Mackenzie's,
who died at an early. age, was endowed with
a remarkable genius for music, and '~as an
DREA:\IING, ETC. 53
accomplished organist. This young lady
dreamt, during an illness, that she was at a
party, where she had heard a new piece of
tnusic, which made so great an impression on
her by its novelty and beauty, that, on awaking,
she besought her attentlants to bring her some
paper, that she might write it down before
she had forgotten it, an indulgence which,
apprehensive of excitement, her medical
attendant unfortunately forbad; for, apart from
the additional psychological interest thatwould
have been attached to the fact, the effects of
compliance, judging from what ensued, would
probablyhave _been soothing, rather than other-
wise. About ten days afterwards, she had a
second dream, wherein she again found herself
at a party, where she descried on the desk
of a pianoforte, in a corner of the room, an
open book, in which, with astonished delight,
she recognised the same piece of music, which
she immediately proceeded to play, and then
awoke. The piece was notof a short or fugi-
tive character, but in the style of an overture.
The question, of course, remains, as to whether
she was composing the mu~ic in her sleep, or
by an act of clairvoyance, was perceiving some
that actually existed. Either is possible, for,
although she might have been incapable of
F 5
54 DREA~JI~G, ETC.
composing so elaborate a piece in her waking
state, there are many instances ou record of
persons performing intellectual feats in dreams,
to which they were unequal when awake. A
very eminent person assured me, that he had
once composed some lines in his sleep, I think it
was a sonnet, which far exceeded any of his
waking performances of that description.
Somewhat analagous to this sort of double
life, is the case of the young girl mentioned by
Dr. Abercrombie and others, whose employ-
ment was keeping cattle, and who slept for
~orne time, much to her own annoyance, in the
I'Ciom adjoining one occupied by an itinerant
musiCian. The man, who played exceedingly
well, being an enthusiast in his art, fre-
quently practised the greater part of the
night, performing on his violin very compli-
cated, aiifl difficult compositions,whilstthe girl,
so far from discovering any pleasure in his
performances, complained bitterly of heing
kept awake by the noise. Some time after
this, she fell ill and was removed to the house
of a charitable lady, who undertook the charge
of her; and here, by and by, the family were
amazed by frequently hearing the most exqui-
site music in the night, which they at length
discov-ered to proceed fi·om the girl. The
DREAMING, ETC. 55
sounds were those of a violin, and the tuning
and other preliminary processes were accu-
rately imitated. She went through long and
elaborate pieces, and afterwards was heard imi-
tating, in the same way, the sounds of a piano·
forte that was in the house. She also talked
very cleverly on the subjects of Teligion and
politics, and discussed, with great judgment,
the characters and conduct of persons, public
and private. Awake, she knew nothing of these
things; but was, on the contrary, stupid, heavy,
and had no taste whatever for music. Phreno-
logy would probably interpret this phenomenon
by saying, that the lower elements of the
cerebral spinal axis, as organs of sensation,
&c. &c., being asleep, the cluster of the higher
organs requisite for the above combinations,
were not only awake, but rendered more active
from the repose of the others: but to me it
appears, that we here see the inherent faculties
of the spirit manifesting themselves, whilst
the body slept. The same faculties must have
existed when it was in a waking state; but the
impressions and manifestations were then
dependant on the activity and perfection of the
sensuous organs, which seem to have been of
an inferior order; and, consequently, no rays
56 DREAl\IING, ETC.
of this in-dwelling genius could pierce the
coarse integument in which it was lodged.
Similar unexpected faculties have been not
unfrequently manifested by the dying; and we
may conclude to a certain degree from the
same cause; namely, that the incipient death
of the body is leaving the spirit more unob-
structed. Dr. Steinbech mentions the case of
a clergyman, who, being summoned to ad-
minister the last sacraments to a dying
peasant, found him, to his surprise, praying
aloud in Greek and Hebrew, a mystery which
could be no otherwise explained, than by the
circumstance of his having, when a child, fre-
quently heard the then minister of the parish
praying in those languages. He had, how-
ever, never understood the prayers, nor indeed
paid any attention to them ; still less had he
been aware that they lived in his memory. It
would give much additional interest to this
story had Dr. Steinbech mentioned how far
the man, now, whilst uttering the words,
understood their meaning; whether he was
aware of what he was saying, or was only re-
peating the words by rote.
With rP-gard to the extraordinary faculty of
memory manifested in these and similarcases, I
DRE.Dli:\'G, ETC. 57
shall have some obervations to make in asub-
sequent part of this book.
Parallel instances are those of idiots, who,
either in a somnambulic state, or immediately
previous to death, have spoken as if inspired.
At St. Jean de Maurienne, in Savoy, there
was a dumb Cretin, who, having fallen into
a natural state of somnambulism, not only was
found to speak with ease, but also to the pur-
pose; a faculty which disappeared, however,
whenever he awoke. Dumb persons have like-
wise been known to speak when at the point
of death.
The possibility of suggesting dreams to
some sleepers by whispering in the ear, is a
well known fact; but this can, doubtless, only
be practicable where the sensuous organs are
partly awake. Then, as with magnetic
patients in a state of incomplete sleep, we have
only reverie and imagination in place of clear-
seeing.
The next class of dreams are those which
partake of the nature of second sight, or pro-
phecy, and of these there are various kinds;
some being plain and literal in their premo-
nitions, others allegorical and obscur~ ; whilst
some also regard the most unimportant, and
others the most grave events of our lives. A
58 DH.EAMING, ETC.
gentleman engaged in business m the south
of Scotland, for example, dreams that on en-
tering his office in the morning, he sees seated
on a certain stool, a person formerly in hisser-
''ice as clerk, of whom he had neither heard
or thought for some time. He enquires the
motive of the visit, and is told that such and
such circumstances having brpught the
stranger to that part of the country, he could
not forbear visiting his old quarters, express-
ing, at the same time, a wish to spend a few
days in his former occupation, &c. &c. The
gentleman, being struck with the vividness of
the illusion, relates his dream at breakfast, and,
to his surprise, on going to his office, there sits
the man, and the dialogue that ensues is pre-
cisely that of the dream. I have heard of
numerous instances of this kind of dream,
where no previous expectation nor excitement
of mind could be found to account for them,
and where the fulfilment was too exact and
literal, in all particulars, to admit of their
being explained away by the ready resource
of '' an extraordinary coincidence.'' There
<U'P, also, on record, both in this country and
others, many perfectly well authenticated cases
of people obtaining prizes in the lottery,
through having dreamt of the fortunate num-
DREAl\IING, ETC. .59
hers. As many numbers, however, may have
been dreamt of that were not drawn prizes, we
can derive no conclusion from this circumstance.
A very remarkable iustance of this kind of
dreaming occurred a few years since to lVlr.
A. F., au eminent Scotch advocate, whilst
staying in the neighbourhood of Lock Fyne,
who dreamt one night that he saw a number
of people in the street following a man to the
scaffold. He discovered the features of the
criminal in the cart distinctly ; and, for some
reason or other, which he could not account
for, felt an extraordinary interest in his fate;
insomuch that he joined the throng, and ac-
c0mpanied him to the place that was to ter-
minate his earthly career. This interest was
the more unaccountable, that the man had an
exceedingly unprepossessing countenance, but
it was, nevertheless, so vivid, as to induce the
dreamer to asceud the scaffold, and address
him, with a view to enable him to escape the
impending catastrophe. Suddenly, however,
whilst he was talking to him, the whole scene
dissolved away, and the sleeper awoke. Being
a good deal struck with the life-like reality of
tlle vision, and the impression made on his
mil~d by the features of this man, he related
the circumstance to his friends, at breakfast,
60 DREAl\liXG, ETC.
adding that he should know him anywhere, if
he saw him. A few jests being made on the
subject, the thing was forgotten.
On the afternoon of the same day, the adYo-
cate was informed that two men wanted to
speak to him, and, on going into the hall, he
was struck with amazement at perceiving that
one ofthem was the hero of his dream !
" We are accused of a murder," said they,
'' and we wish to consult you. Three of us
went out last night, in a boat; an accidP.nt
has happened ; our comrade is drowned, and
they want to make us aceountable for him."
The advocate then put some interrogations to
them, and the result produced in his mind,
by their answers, was a conviction of their
guilt. Probably the recollection of his dream
rendered the effects of this conYiction more
palpable; for, one addressing the other, said,
in Gaelic," We have come to the wrong man;
he is against us."
''There is a higher power than I against
you,'' returned the gentleman; " and the only
advice I can give you is, if you are guilty, fly
immediately." Upon this, they ~vent away;
and the next thing he heard was, that they
were taken into custody, on suspicion of the
murder.
DREAMING, ETC. 61
The account of the affair was, that, as they
said, the three had gone out together on the
preceding evening, and that in the morning,
the body of one of them had been found on
the shore, with a cut across his forehead. The
father and friend of the victim had waited on
the banks of the lake till the boat came in, and
then demanded their companion ; of whom,
however, they professed themselves unable to
give any account. Upon this, the old man led
them to his cottage for the purpose of showing
them the body of his son. One entered, and,
at the sight of it, burst into a passion of tears:
the other refused to do so, saying his business
called him immediately home, and went sulkily
away. This last was the man seen in the
dream.
After a fortnight's incarceration, the former
of these was liberated ; and he then declared
to the advocate his intention of bringing an
action of damages for false imprisonment.
He was advised not to do it. "Leave well
alone," said the lawyer; "and if you'll take
my advice, make off while you can.'' The man,
however, refused to fly : he declared that he
really did not know what had occasioned the
death of his comrade. The latter had been at
one end of the boat, and he at the other; when
VoL. 1. G
62 DRBAl\IING. ETC.
he looked round, he was gone; but whether
he had fallen overboard, and cut his head as he
fell, or whether he had been struck and pu~hed
into the water, he did not know. The advocate
became fiually satisfied of this man's inno-
cence; but the authorities, thinking it absurd
to try one and not.the other, again laid hands
on him; and it fell to Mr. A. F. to be the
defender of both. The difficulty was, not to
separate their cases in his pleading; for, how-
ever morally convinced of the different ground
on which they stood, his duty, professionally,
was to obtain the acquittal of both; in which
he finally succeeded, as regarded the charge of
murder. They were, therefore, sentenced to
two years' imprisonment; and, so far as the
dream is concerned, here ends the story.
There remains, however, a curious sequel to it.
A few years afterwards, the same gentleman
being in a boat on Loch Fyne, in company
with Sir T. D. L., happened to be mentioning
these curious circumstances, when one of the
lwatmcn said, that he "knew well about those
two men; and that a very strange thing had
occuned in regard to one of them." This one,
on enquiry, prm·ed to be the subject of the
dream ; and the ~trange thing was this : On
being Iiberated, he had quitted that part of the
DREAMING, ETC.
country, and, in process of time, had gone to
Greenock, and thence embarked in a vessel
for Cork. But the vessel seemed fated never
to t·each its destination; one misfortune hap-
pened after another, till at length the sailors
said, " This won't do; there must be a mur-
derer on board with us." As is usual, when
such a persuasion exists, they drew lots three
times, and each time it fell on that man. He
was,consequendy, put on shore,and the vessel
went on its way without him. What had
become of him afterwards, was not known.
A friend of mine, being in London, dreamt
that she saw her little boy playing on the
ten-ace of her house in Northumbedand,
that he fell and hurt his arm, and she saw him
lying apparently dead. The dream recurred
two or tht·ee times, on the same night, and
she awoke her husband, saying, she " feared
something must have happened to Henry."
In due course of post, a letter arrived from the
governess, saying, that she was sorry to have
to commuicate that, whilst playing on the ter-
l·ace that morning, l\iaster Henry bad fallen
over a heap of stones, and broken his arm ;
adding, that he had fainted after the accident,
and had l~in for some time insensible. The
lady to whom this dream occurred, is not aware
DREAMING, ETC.
having ever ·manifested this faculty before or
since.
~Irs. W. rlreamt that she saw people ascend-
ing by a ladder to the chamber of her step-son,
John ; wakes, and says she is afraid he is
dead, and that there was something odd in
her dream about a watch and a candle. In
the morning, a messenger is sent to enquire for
the gentleman, and they find people ascending
to his chamber window by a ladder, the door
of the room being locked. They discover him
dead on the floor, with his watch in his hand,
and the candle between his feet. The same
lady dreamt that she saw a friend in great
ag·ony; and that she heard him say, they were
tearing his flesh from his bones. He was
some time afterwards seized with inflamma-
tion, lay as she had seen him, and made use
of those exact words.
A fri~::nd of mine dreamt, lately, that some-
body said, her nephew must not be bled, as
it would be dangerous. The young man was
quite well, and there had been no design of
bleeding him ; but, on the following morning
he had a tooth drawn, and an effusion of blood
ensued, which lasted some days, and caused a
good deal of uneasiness.
A fanner, in Worcestershire, dreamt that
DREAl\fi~G, ETC. 65
his little boy, of twelve years old, had fallen
from the waggon and was killed. The dream
recurred three times in one night; but,unwilling
to yield to superstitious fears, he allowed the
child to accompany the waggoner to Kidder-
minster Fair. The drive1· was very fond of
the boy, and he felt assured would take care of
him; but, having occasion to go a little out of
theroad to.leave a parcel, the man bade thechild
walk on with the waggon, and he would meet
-l1im at a certain spot. On arriving there, the
horses were coming quietly forward, but the
boy was not with them; and on retracing the
road, he was found dead; having, apparently,
fallen from the shafts and been c1ushed by the
wheels.
A gentleman, who resided near one of the
Scottish lakes, dreamt that he saw a number
of persons surrounding a body, which had just
been drawn out of the water. On approaching
the spot, he perceives that it is himself, and
the assistants are his own friends and retainers.
Alarmed at the life-like reality of the visiou,
he resolved to elude the threatened destiny by
never venturing on the lake again. On one
occasion, however, it became quite indispen-
sable that he should do so ; and, as the day was
quite calm, he yielded to the necessity, on con-
G :)
66 DREAMI~G, ETC.
clition that he should he put ashore at once on
the opposite side, whilst the rest of the party
proceeded to their destinations, where he would
meet them. This was accordingly done : the
boat skimmed gaily over the smooth waters,
and arrived safely at the rendezvous, the gen-
tlemen laughing at the superstition of their
companion; whilst he stood smiling on the
bank to t·eccive them. But, alas! "the fates·I
wen~ inexorable: the little promontory that
supported him had been undermined by the
water: it gave way beneath his feet, and life
was extinct before he could be rescued. This ·
circumstance was l'elated to me by a friend of
the family.
Mr. S. was the son of an Irish bishop, who
set somewhat more value on the things of
this world than became his function. He
had always told his son that there was but one
thing he could not forgive, and that was a bad
marriage : meaning, by a bad marriage, a poor
one. As cautions of this sort do not, by any
means, prevent young people falling in love,
Mr. S. fixed his affections on Lady 0., a fair
young widow, without any fortune; and, aware
that it would be useless to apply for his father's
consent, he married her without asking it.
They \vere, consequently, exceedingly poor;
DREAMING, ETC. 67
• 0
and, indeed, nearly all they had to live on was
a small sinecure of forty pounds per annum,
which Dean Swift procured for him. Whilst
in this situation, Mr. S. dreamt one night
that he was in the cathedral in which he had
formerly been accustomed to attend service;
that he saw a stranger, habited as a bishop,
occupying his father's throne ; and that, on
-applying to the verger for an explanation, the
man said, that the bishop w·as dead, and that
he had expired just as he was adding a codicil
to his will in his son's favour. The impression
0
made by the dream.was so strong, that Mr. S.
felt that he should have no repose till he had
obtained news from home ; and as the most
speedy way of doing so, was to go there him-
self, he started on horseback, much against the
advice of his wife, who attached no importance
whatever to the circumstance. He had
scarcely accomplished half his journey, when
he met a coui·rier, ·bearing the intelligence of
his father's death; and when he reached
home, he found that there was a codicil
attached to the will of the greatest importance
to his own future prospects; but the old gen-
tleman had expired, with the pen in his hand,
just as.he was about t() sign it.
In this unhappy position, reduced to hope-
68 DREA~U~G, ETC.
less indigence, the friends of the young man
proposed that he should present himself at
the Vice-regal Palace, on the next levee day,
in hopes that some interest might be excited
in his favour; to which, with reluctance, he
consented. As he was ascending the stairs,
he was met by a gentleman whose dress
indicated that he belonged to the Church.
"Good Heavens!'' said he, to the friend who
accompanied him, "Who is that?"
. "That is Mr. --, of so and so.''
"Then he will be Bishop of L-- !" re-
turned l\1r. 8. ; " For that is the man I saw
ot;cupying my father's throne!"
" Impossible !" replied the other ; "he has
no interest whatever, and has no more chance
of being a bishop than I have.''
~'You will see,'' replied 1\:Ir. S., "I am
certain he will.
They had made their obeisance ahoYe, and
were returing; when there was a great cry
without, and everybody rushed to the doors
and windows to enquire what had happened.
The horses attached to the carriage of a young
nobleman had become 1·estive, and were
endangering the life of their master, when
.Mr.-- rushed forward, and, at the peril of
his own, seized their heads, and afforded Lord
DREAMING, ETC. 69
C. time to descend before they broke through
all restraint, and dashed away. Through the
interest of this nobleman and his friends, to
whom :Mr. --had been previously quite
unknown, he obtained the s~e of L. These
circumstances were related to me by a
member of the family.
It would be tedious to relate all the
instances of this sort of dreaming which have
come to my knowledge, but were thPy even
much more rare than they are, and were there
none of a graver and more mysterious kind,
it might certainly occasion some surprise that
they should have excited so little attention.
When stories of this sort are narrated, they
are listened to with wonder for the moment,
and then forgotten, and few people reflect on
the deep significance of the facts, nor the
important consequences to us involved in the
question, of ho..,·, with our limited faculties,
which cannot foretel the events of the next
moment, we should suddenly become prophets
and seers.
The following dream, as it regards the fate
of a very interesting person, and is, I believe,
very little known, I will relate, though the
story is of somewhat an old date :-Major
Andre, the circumstances of whose lamented
70 DREA~Il~G, ETC.
death are too well known to make it neces-
sary for me to detail them here, was a friend
of :Miss Seward's, and, previously to his em-
barkation for America, he made a journey
into Derbyshire, to pay her a visit, and it
was arranged that they should ride over to see
the wonders of the Peak, and introduce Andre
to Newton, her minstrel, as she called ~im,
and to l\Ir. Cunningham, the curate, who was
also a poet.
'Vhilst these two gentlemen were awaiting
the arrival of their guests, of whose intentions
they had been apprised, l\Ir. Cunningham
~nentioned to Newton that, on the preceding
night, he had had a very extraordinary dream,
which he could not get out of his head. He
had fancied himself in a forest ; the place was
strange to him; and, whilst looking about, he
perceived a horseman approaching at great
speed, who had scarcely reached the spot
where the dreamer stood, when three men
rushed out of the thicket, and, seizing his
bridle, hurried him away, after closely search-
ing his person. The countenance of the
stranger being very interesting, the sympathy
felt by the sleeper for his apparent misfortune
awoke him; but he presently fell asleep again,
and dreamt that he was standing near a great
DREAMING, ETC. 71
city, amongst thousands of people, and th~it
he saw the same person he had seen seized
in the wood brought out and suspended to a
gallows. vVhen Andre and Miss Seward
arrived, he was horror-struck to percei~:e that
his new acquaintance was the antitype of the
man in the dream.
Mr. C., a friend of miue, told me, the other
day, that he had dreamt he had gone to see
a lady of his acquaintance, and that she had
presented him with a purse. In the morning
he mentioned the circumstance to his wife,
adding that he wondered what should have
.made him dream of a person he had not been
in any way led to think of; and, above all,
that she should give him a purse. On that
same day, a letter arrived from that lady to
Mrs. C., containing a purse, of which she
begged her acceptance. Here was the imper-
fect foreshadowing of the fact, probably from
unsound sleep.
Another friend lately dreamt, one Thursday
night, that he saw an acquaintance of his
thrown from his horse; and that he wab lying
on the ground with the blood streaming from
his face, which was much cut. He mentioned
his dream in the morning, and being- an entire
d:sbeliever in such pheno~nena, he cou.ld not
72 DREAMING, ETC.
account for the impression made on his mind.
This was so strong, that, on Saturday, he could
not forbear calling at his friend's house; who,
he was told, was in bed, having been thrown
from his horse on the previous day, and much
injured about the face.
Relations of this description having been
more or less familiar to the world in all times
and places ; and the recurrence of the pheno-
mena too frequent to admit of their reality
being disputed, various theories were promul-
gated to account for them; and, indeed, there
scarcely seems to be a philosopher or historian
amongst the Greeks and Romans who does no~
make some allusion to this ill-understood de-
partment of nature; whilst, amongst the
eastern nations, the faith in such mysterious
revelations remains even yet undiminished.
Spirits, good and evil, or the divinities of the
heathen mythology, were generally called in
to remove the difficulty; though some philo-
sophers, rejecting this supernatural inter-
ference, sought the explanation in merely
physical causes.
In the Druidical rites of the northern na-
tions, women bore a considerable pm·t: there
were pristesses, who gave forth oracl~s and
prophecies, much after the manner of tl~e Py_
WitCHES; ETC.
thonesses of the Grecian temples, and, no
doubt, drawing their inspiration from the
same sources ; namely, from the influences of
magnetism, and from narcotics. 'Vhen the
pure rites of Christianity superseded the
Heathen forms of worship; tradition kept alive
the memory of these vaticinations, together
with some of the arcana of the Druidical
groves; and hence, in the middle ages, arose
a race of so·ca1led witches and soreerers, who
were partly imposters, and partly self-deluded.
Nobody thought of seeking the explanation
of the facts they witnessed in natural causes;
what had formerly been attributed to the in ~
fluence of the GoJs, was now attributed to the
influence of the Devil; and a league with
Satan was the universal solvent of all diffi-
culties.
Persecution followed, of course ; and men,
women, and children, were offered up to the
demon of superstition, till the candid and
rational part of mankind, taking fright at the
holocaust, began to put in their protest, and
lead out a reaction, which, like all reactions,
ran t·ight into the oppo~ite extreme. From
believing everything, they ceased to believe
anything; and, after swallowing unhesitatingly
the most monstrous absurdities, they relieved
VoL. I. H
7-1 WITCHES, ETC.
themselves of the whole difficulty, by denying
the plainest facts; whilst, what it was found
impossible to deny, was referred to 'imagina-
tion-that most abused word, which ex-
plained nothing, but left the matter as obscure
as it was before. Man's spiritual nature was
forgotten ; and what the senses could not
apprehend, nor the understanding account
for, was pronounced to be impossible. Thank
God! we have lived through that age, and,
in spite of the struggles of the materialistic
school, we are fast advancing to a better.
The traditions of the saints who suffered the
most appalling tortures, and slept or smiled
the while, can scarcely be rejected now, when
we are daily hearing of people undergoing
frightful operations, eithet· in a state of insen-
sibility, or whilst they believe themselves re-
ve1ling in delight; nor can the psychological
intimations which these facts offer, be much
longer overlooked. One revelation must lead
to another; and the wise men of the world
will, ere long, be obliged to gi,·e in their ad-
herence to Shakspere's much quoted axiom,
and confess that " there are more thing~ in
H eaven and earth than are dreamt of in their
philosophy !"
CHAPTER IV.
ALLEGORICAL DRE.OIS, PRESE~TDIENT, ETC.
IT has been the opinion of many philosophers,
both ancient and modern, that, in the original
state of man, as he came forth from the hands
of his Creator, that knowledge which is now
acquired by pains and labour, was intuitive.
His material body was given him for the
purpose of placing him in relation with the
material world, and his sensuous organs for
the perception of material objects , but his -
soul was a mirror of the universe, in which
everything was reflected, and, probably, is so
still, but that the spirit is no longer in a con-
dition to perceive it. Degraded in his nature,
76 ALLEGORICAL DRE.GIS,
and distracted by the multiplicity of the ob-
jects and interests that snrround him, man has
lost his faculty of spiritual seeing; but in
sleep, when the body is in a state of passi\'ity,
and external objects are excluded from us hy
the shutting up of the senses through which
we percei\'e them, the spirit, to a certain
degree, freed from its impediments, may enjoy
~omewhat of its orit,rinal privilege. "The
soul, which is designed as the mirror of a
superior spiritual order" (to which it belong~),
still 1·eceives, in dreams, some ntys hom
above, and enjoys a foretaste of its future con~
dition; and, whatever interpretation may be
put upon the history of the Fall, few will
doubt that, before it, man must have stood in
a much more intimate relation to his Creator
than he has done since. Ii we admit this~ and
that, for the above hinted reasons, the soul
in sleep may be able to exercise somewhat of
its origiual endowment, the possibility of what
is called prophetic dreaming may be better
understood,
" Seeing in drean1s," says Euncmose1·, "is a
self-illumining of thiugs, places, and times;"'
tor relations of time and space form no ob,
struction to the dreamer: things, near and f'tu,
~\\·c alike seen in the mirror ?f the sntl, ac-
PRESENTDIENT, ETC. 77
cording to the connexion in which they stand
to each other; and, as the futurP. is but au
unfolding of the present, as the present is of
the past, one, being necessarily involved in
the other, it is not more difficult to the un-
trammelled spirit to perceive what is to
happe~, than what has already happened.
Under what peculiar circumstances it is that
the body and soul fall into this particular
relative c6ndition, we do not know; but that
certain families and constitutions are more
prone to these conditions than others, all ex-
perience goes to establish. According to the
theory of Dr. Ennemoser, we ~hould conclude
that they are more susceptible to magnetic
influences, and that the body falls into a more
complete state of negative polaiity.
In the histories of the Old Testament, we
constantly find instances of prophetic dream-
ing, and the voice of God was chiefly heard
by the prophets in sleep ; seeming to establish
that man is, in that state, more susceptible of
spiritual communion, although the being thus
made the special organ of the divine will, is
altogether a different thing from the mere
disfranchisement 9f the embodied spirit in
ordinary cases of clear seeing in sleep. Pro-
fane history, also, furnishes us with various.
H 5
78 ALLEGOIUCAL DHEA)IS,
instances of prophetic dreaming·, which it ·is
unnecessary for me to 1·efer to here. Hut
there is one thing very worthy of remark,
uamely, that the allegorical character of many
of the dreams 1·ecorded in the Old T estmnent,
occasionally pervades those of the present day.
1 have heard of several of this nature, and
Oberlin, the good pastor of Ban de la Roche,
was so subject to them, that he fancied he had
acqni1·ed the art of interpreting the symbols.
This characte1·istic of dreaming is in strict con-
fmmity with the language of the Old Testa-
ment, and of the most ancient nations. }>oets
and prophets, heathen and Christian, alike
express themselves symbolically, and, if we
believe that this language prevailed in the
cady ages of the world, before the external
and intellectual life had predominated over
the instinctive and emotional, we must con-
clude it to be the natural language of mm1,
who must, therefore, have been gifted with a
conformable faculty, of comprehending these
hieroglyphics; and hence it arose that the
interpreting of dreams became a legitimate
art. Long after these instinctive faculties
were lost, or rathPr obscured, by the turmoil
and distractions of sensuous life, the memories
and tmditious of them remained, and hence
PR£SE~TUIE~T, ETC. iO
the superstructure of jugglery and imposture
that ensued, of which the gipsies form a
signal example, in whom, however, there can
he no doubt, that some occasional gleams of
this original endowment may still be found,
as is the case, though more rarely, in indi-
viduals of all races and conditions. The whole
of nature is one large book of symbols, which,
because we have lost the key to it, we cannot
decipher. "To the first man,'' says Hamann,
''whatever his ear heard, his eye saw, or his
hand touched, was a living word; with this
word in his heart and in his mouth, the forma-
tion of language was easy. l\1an saw things
in . their essence and properties, and named
them accordingly.
There can he no doubt that the heathen
forms of worship and systems of religion were
but the external symbols of some deep
meanings, and not the idle fables that they
have been too frequently considered; and it is
absurd to suppose that the theology which
satisfied so many great minds, had no better
foundation than a child~s fairy tale.
A maid servant, who resided many years in
a distinguished family in Edinburgh, was re-
peatedly warned of the approaching death of
certain members of that family, by dreaming
that one of the walls of the house had fallen=
80 ALT.EGORICAL DRE.BIS,
Shortly before the head of the family sickened
and died, she said she had dreamt that the
main wall had fallen.
A singular circumstance which occurred in
this same family, from a member of whom I
heard it, is mentioned by Dr. Abercrombie.
On this occasion the dream was not only pro-
phetic, but the symbol was actually translated
into fact.
One of the sons being indisposed with a sore
throat, a sister dreamt that a watch, of con-
siderable value, which she had borrowed from
a friend, had stopt; that she had awakened
another sister and mentioned the circum-
stance, who answered that,, something much
worse had hapvened, for Charles's breath had
stopt.'' She then awoke, in extreme alarm,
and mentioned the dream to her sister, who, to
tranquillize her mind, arose and went to the
brother's room, where she found him asleep
and the watch going. The next night, the same
dream recurred, and the brotherwasagain found
asleep and th~ watch going. On the following
morning, however, this lady was writing a note
in the drawing-room, with the watch beside her,
when, on taking it up, she perceived it had
stopt; and she was just on the point of calling
her sister to mention the circumstance, when
she heard a scream from her brother's room,
PRESENTIME:'\T, ETC. 81
and the sister rushed in with the tidings that
he had just expired. The malady had not
been thought serious; but a sudden fit of
suffocation had unexpectedly proved fatal.
This case, which is established beyond all
controversy, is extremely curious in many
points of view : the acting out of the symbol,
especially. Symbolical events of this descrip-
tion have been often related, and as often
laughed at. It is easy to laugh at what we
do not understand; and it gives us the advan-
tage of making the timid narrator ashamed of
his fact, so that if he do not wholly suppress
it, he at least ensures himself by laughing, too,
the uext time he relates it. It is said that
Goethe's clock stopt at the moment he died;
and I haYe heard repeated instances of
this strange kind of synchronism, or mag-
netism, if it be by magnetism that we are
to account for the mystery. One was told
me very lately by a gentleman to whom
the circumstance occurred.
On the 16th of August, 1769, Frederick
II. of IJrussia is said to have dreamt, that
a star fell from heaven, and occasioned such an
extraordinary glare that he could with great
difficulty find his way through it. He men-
tioned the dream to his attendants, aud it was
.-\LLEGORICAL DRE.DIS,
afterwarus observed that it was on that day
Napoleon was born.
A lady, not long since, related to me the fol-
lowing circumstance :-Her mother, who was
at the time residing in Edinburgh, in a house,
one side of which looked into a wynd, whilst
the door was in the High-street, dreamt
that, it being Sunday morning, she had heard a
sound, which had attracted her to the window;
and, whilst looking out, had dropt a ring from
her finger into the wynd below. That she
had, thereupon, gone down in her night clothes
f.o seek it; but when she reached the spot, it
was not to be found. Returuing, extremely
vexed at her loss, as she re-entered her own
door she met a respectable looking young man,
carrying some loaves of bread. On expressing
her astonishment at finding a stranger then~
at so unseasonable an hour, he answered, by
expressing his at seeing her in such a sittlation.
She said she had dropt her ring, and had been
round the corner to seek it; whereupon, to her
delighted surprise, he presented her with her
lost treasure. Some months afterwards, being
at a party, ~he recognised the young man seen
in her dream, and learnt that he was a baker.
He took no particular notice of her on that
occasion; an:l, I think, two years elapsed be
PRESEXTDIENT, ETC, 83
fore she met him again. This second meeting,
however, led to an acquaintance, which ter-
minated in marriage.
Here the ring and the bread are curiously
emblPmatic of the marriage, and the occu-
pation of the future husband.
Miss L., residing at Dalkeith, dreamt
that her brother, who was ill, called her to
his bedside, and gave her a letter, which he
desired her to carry to their aunt, Mrs. H.,
with the request that she would deliver it to
John," (John was another brother, who had
di~d previously, and Mrs. H. was at the time
ill.) He added that," he himself w:ts going·
there also, but that Mrs. H. would be there
before him." Accordingly, Miss L. went, in
her dream, with the letter to Mrs. H., whom
she found dressed in white, and looking quite
radiant and happy. She took the letter,
saying she was going there directly, and
would deliver it.
On the following mon1ing, Miss L. learnt
that her aunt had died in the night. The
brother died some little time afterwards.
A gentleman who had been a short time
visiting Edinburgh, was troubled with a
cough, which, though it occasioned him no
alarm, he resolved to go home to nurse. On
84 ALLEGORICAL DREA'IS,
the first night of his arrival, he dreamt that
one half of the house was blown away. His
bailiff, who re~ided at a distance, dreamt the
same dream on the same night. The gentle.
man died within a few weeks.
"This symbolical language which the
Deity appears to ha\'e used" (witness Peter's
dream, Acts ii., and others,) '' in all his reye...
lations to man, is iu the highest degree,. what
poetry is ina lower; and thelanguage ofdreams,
in the lowest. namely, the original natural
languag-e of man ; and we may fairly ask
whether this language, which here plays an
inferior part, be not, possibly, the proper lan-
guage of a higher sphere, whilst we, who
vainly think ourselves awake, are, in reality,
buried in a deep, deep sleep, in which, like
dreamers who imperfectly hear the voices of
those around them, we occa~ionally apprehend,
though obscurely, a few words of this DiYine
tongue.'' (Vide Scltubert.)
This subject of sleeping and waking is a
very curious one, and might give rise to
strange questionings. In the case of those
patients above mentioned, who seem to have
two different spheres of existence, who shall
say which is the waking one, or whether
either of them be so? The speculations of
DREAMS AND PRESENTIMENTS. ~5
1\fr. Dove on thi~ suhject merited more atten-
tion, I think, than they met with, when he
lectured in Edinhurg-11. He maintained that,
long before he had paid any attention to mag-
netism, he had arri,·ed at the condusion that
there are as many states or conditions of mind
beyond sleep, as there are on this side of it;
passing through the different stages of dream-
ing, reverie, contemplation, &c., up to perfect
vigilance. However this he, in this world of
appearance, where we see nothing as it is, ~and
where, hoth as regards our moral and physical
relations, we live in a state of continual de-
lusion, it is impossible for us to pnmonnce
on this question. It is a common remark, that
some people seem to live in a dream, and
never to be quite awake; and the most cur:.
sory observer canuot fail to ha,·e heen struck
with examples of persons in this condition,
especially in the aged.
\Vith respect to this alleg-orical language,
Ennemoser observes that, ":-;ince no dreamer
learn.s it of another, and still less from those
who are awake, it must be natural to all men.''
How different, too, is its comprehensiveness
and ·rapidity, to our ordinary language! "\Ve
are accustomed, and with justice, to wonder
at the admirable mechanism hy which, with-
VoL. I.
86 DREAMS A~D PRESE~Tll\IENTS.
out fatigue or exertion, we communicate with
our fellow beings ; but how slow and ineffec-
tive is human speech, compared to this
~piritual picture-language, where a whole
history is understood at a glance ! and scenes
that seem to occupy days and weeks, are ·
acted out in ten minutes. It is remarkable
that this hieroglyphic language appears to be
the same amongst all people ; and that the
dream interpreters of all countries construe the
signs alike. Thus, the dreaming of deep
water denotes trouble, and pearls are a sign
of tears.
I have heard of a lady, who, whenev-er a
misfortune was impending, dreamt that she
~aw a large fish. One night, she dreamt that
this fish had bitten two of her little boy's
fingers. Immediately afterwards, a school-
fellow of the child's injured those two very
fingers, by striking him with a hatchet; and
I have met with several persons who haxe
learnt, by experience, to consider one particular
dream as the certain prog·nostic of misfortune.
A lady, who had left the 'Vest Indies when
six years old, came one night, fourteen years
afterwm~ds, to her sister's bed-side, a~d said,
"I know uncle is dead. I have dreamt that I
saw a number of slaves in the large store-
DEEA~IS A~D PRESENTDIENTS. 87
Toom at Bm·badoes, with long brooms sweep-
ing down immense cobwebs. I complained to
my aunt, and she covered her face and said,
" Yes, he is no sooner gone than they disobey
him." It was afterwards ascertained, that
l\ir~ P.had died on that night; and that he had
never permitted the cobwebs in this room to
be swept away, of which, however, the lady
assures me she knew nothing ; nor could she
or her friends conceive what was meant by
the ·symbol of the cobwebs, till they received
the explanation subsequently, from a member
of the family.
The following very curious allegorical dream
~give, not. in the words of the dreamer, bnt
in those of her son, who bears a name des-
tined, I trust, to a long immortality:-
"Wooer's Abbey-Cottage,
"Dunfermiline-in-the \Voods,
"l\1onday Morning, 3lst· l\iay, 1847.
"Dear l\irs. Crowe,
"That dream of my mother's was as fol-
lows :-She stood in a long, dark, empty
gallery : on her one side was my father, and
·on the other my eldest sister Amelia; then
myself, and the rest of the family, according to
their ages. At the foot of the hall stood my
88 DREAMS A~D PRESE~TDIEXTS.
youngest sister Alexes, and above her my sister
Catherine-a creature, hy the way, in person
and mind more like an m~gel of heaven than
an inhabitant of earth. 'Ve all stood silent
and motionless. At last It entered-the
unimagined somelltin,q that, casting its grim
shadow before, had enveloped all the trhialties
()f the preceding dream in the stifling atmo-
sphere of terror. It entered, stealthily de-
scending the three steps that led from the
entrance down into the chamher of horror: and
my mother felt It was Death. He was
dwarfish, bent, and shri,·elled. He carried on
his shoulder a heaYy axe; and hacl come, she
thought, to destroy 'all her little ones at one
fell swoop.' On the entrauce of the shape
my sister Alexes leapt out of the rank, inter-
posing herself between him and my mother.
He raised his axe and ainu~d a blow at
Catherine: a bhw which, to her horror, my
mother cmdd not intercept; though she had
snatched up a three-legged stool, the sole fur-
niture of the apartment, for that })m·pose.
She could uot, she felt, fling the stool at the
figure without destroying Alexes, who kept
shooting out and in between her and the
ghastly thing. She tried, in vain, to scream;
she besought my father, in agony, to avert the
DREAMS AND PRESENTDIENTS. 89
impendingstroke; but he didnothear,ordidnot
heed her; and stood motionless, as in a trance.
Down came the axe, and poor Catherine fell
in her blood, cloven to 'the white halse
bane.' Again the axe was lifted, by the in-
exorable shadow, over the head of my brother,
who stood next in the line. Alexes had some-
where disappeared behind the ghastly visitant;
and, with a scream, my mother flung the foot-
·stool at his head. He vanished, and she
awoke. This dream left on my mother's mind
a fearful apprehensionofimpending misfortune,
'which would not pass away.' It was murder
she feared·; and hm: suspicions were not allayed
by the discovery that a man-some time before
discarded by my father for bad conduct, and
with whom she had, somehow, associated the
Death of her dream-had been lurking about
the place, and sleeping in an adjoining out-
house on the night it occurred, and for some
nights previous and subsequent to it. Her
t~rror increased. Sleep forsook her; and every
night, when the house was still, she arose and
stole, sometimes with a candle, sometimes in
the dark, from room to room, listening, in a
sort of wal(ing night-mare, for the breathin.:;-
?f the assassin, who, she imagined, was lurking
I 5
9{) DREA:\IS AXD PRESE~TDIE~Ts.
in some one of them. This could not last.
She reasoned with herself; IJut her terror be-
came intolerable, and she related her dream to
my father, who, of course, called her a fool for
her pains-whate,·er might be his real opinion
of the matter. Three months had elapsed, when
we, children, were all of us seized vdth scarlet
fever. lVly sister Catherine died almost im-
mediately-sacrificed, as my mother, in her
misery, thought, to her (~y mother'sj o\·er-
anxiety for Alexes, whose danger seemed more
imminent. The dream-prophecy was in part
fulfilled. I, also, was at death's door-gi,·en
up by the doctors, but not by my mother: she
was confident of my recovery; but for my
brother, who was scarcely considered in danger
at all, but on whose head she had seen the
,·isionary axe impending, her fears were great;
for she could not recollP.ct whether the hlow
had, or had not, descended when the spectre
vanished. l\Iy brother recO\·ered, but relapsed,
and barely e~caped with life; but Alexes did
uot. :For a year aud ten months the poqr
child lingered; and almost every night I had
to sing her asleep; often, I remember, through
bitter tears; for I knew sl~e was dying, and I
loved her the more as she wasted away. l
DREAMS A~D PRESE~TIME~TS. 91
helL!. her little hand as she died; I followed
her to the grave-the last thing that I have
loved on earth. And the dream wasfuljilled.
'• True and sincerely your's,
"J. NoEL PATON.''
The drf'aming of coffins and funerals,
when a death is impending, must be considered
as examples of this allegorical language.
Instances of this kind are extremely numerous.
Not unfi·equently the dreamer, as in cases of
..second sigl.t, sees either the body in the coffin,
so as to he conscious of who is to die; or else,
is made aware of it from seeing tl1e funeral
procession at a certain house, or from some
other significant circumstance. This faculty
which has heen supposed to belong peculiarly
to the Highlanders of Scotland, appears to be
fully as well known in Wales and on the con-
tinent, especially in Germany.
The language of dreams, however, is not
always symbolical. Occasionally, the scene
that is trausacting at a distance, or that is to
be transacted at some future period, is literally
presented to the sleeper, as things appear to
be presented in many cases of second sight, and
also in clainoyance; and, since we suppose
him, that is, the sleeper, to be in a tempma'rily
92 DREA~IS A~D PRESE~TDIE~TS.
magnetic state, we must conclude that the
degree of perspecuity, or translucency of
the Yision, depends on the degree of that state.
Nevertheless, there are considerable difficulties
attending this theory. A great proportion of
the prophetic dreams we hear of, are connected
with the death of some friend or relative.
Some, it is true, regard unimportant matters
as visits, and so forth; but this is generally,
though not exclusively, the case only with
persons who have a constitutional tendency
to this kind of dreaming, and with whom it is
frequent; but it is not uncommon for those
who have not discovered any such tendency,
to be made aware of a death; and the number
of dreams of this description I meet with, is
,·ery considerable. Now, it is difficult to con-
ceive what the condition is, that causes this
perception of an approaching death ; or why,
supposing, as we have Ruggested above, that,
when the senses sleep, the nntrammelled spirit
sees, the memory of this revelation, if I may
so call it, so much more frequently survives
than an.v other, unh.•s8, indeed, it be the force
of the shock sustained, which shock, it is to be
remarked, always wal\es the sleeper; and this
may be the reason that, if he f'illl asleep again,
the dream is almost invariably repeated.
DREA:\IS A~D PRESE~TIMENTS. 93
I could fill pages with dreams of this de-
Rcription which hare come to my knowledge,
or heen recorded by others.
Mr. H., a gentleman with whom I am
acquainted, a man engaged in acti,·e business,
and apparently as little likely as any one I
ever knew to be troubled with a faculty of
this sort, dreamt that he saw a certain friend
of his dead. The dream was so like reality,
that, although he had no reason whateYer to
suppose his friend ill, he conld not forbear
sending in the morning to enquire for bim.
The answer returned was, that 1\'lr. A. was
out, a;nd was quite well. The impression,
however, was so vivid, that, although he had
nearly three miles to send, Mr. H. felt that
he could not start for Glasgow, whither
business called him, without making another
enquiry. This time his frieud was at home,
and answered for himself, that he was very
well, and that somebody must have been
hoaxing H., and making him believe other-
wise. Mr. H. set out on his journey, won-
dering at his owu anxiety, hut unable to con-
quer it. He was absent but a few days- I
think, three ; and the first news he heard on
his return was, that his friend had been seized
with an nttack of inflammation, and was dead.
9-1 DREA~IS AXD PRESE~TDIE~TS.
A German professor lately related to a
friend of mine, that, being some distance from
home, he dreamt that his father 'vas dying,
and was calling for him. The dream being
repeated, he was so far impressed as to alter
his plans, and return home, where he an·ived
in time to receive his parent's last breath. He
was informed that the dying man had been
calling upon his name repeatedly, in deep
anguish at his absence.
A parallel case to this is that of l\fr. R. E. S.,
an accountant in Edinburgh, and a shrewd
man of business, who relates the following
circumst,ance as occuning to himself. He is
a native of Dalkeith, and was residing there,
when, being about fifteen years of age, he
left home on a Saturday, to spend a few
days with a fliend at Prestonpans. On the
Sunday night, he dreamt that his mother 'vas
extremely ill, and started out of his sleep with
an impression that he must go to her imme-
diately. He even got out of bed with the
intention of doing so, hut, reflecting that he
had left her quite well, and that it was only a
dream, he returned to bed, and again fell asleep.
Hut the dream returned, and, unable longer
to control his anxiety, he arose, dressed himself
in the dark, quitted the house, leaping the
DREAMS AXD PRESE~Tii\IE~TS. 95
railings that surrounded it, and made the best
of his way to Dalkeith. On reaching home,
which he did before daylight, he tapped at
the kitchen window, and, on gaining admit-
tance, was informed that on the Saturday
e,·ening, after he had departed, his mother had
been seized with an attack of British cholera'
and was lying ahove, extremely ill. She hafl
been lamenting his absence extremely, and
had · scarcely ceased crying, "Oh, Ralph,
Ralph ! what a grief that you are away!"
At nine o'clock he was admitted to her room;
but she was no longer in a condition to recog-
nise him, and she died within a day or two.
Instances of this sort are numerous; but it
would be tedious to narrate them, especially as
there is little room fo'r variety in the details.
I shall, therefore, content myself with giving
one or two specime1is of each class, confining
my examples to such as have been communi-
cated to myself, except where any case of par-
ticular interest leads me to deviate from this
plan. The hequency of such phenomena
may be imagined, when I mention that the
instances I shall give, with few exceptions,
have been collected with little trouble, and
without seeking, beyond my own small circle
of acquaintance.
96 DRE.UIS AXD PRESENTL~IE~TS.
In the family of the above-named gentle-
man, l\1 r. R. E. S., there probahly existed a
faculty of presentiment; for, in the year 1810,
his elder brother being Assistant-Surgeon on
board the Gorgon, war-brig, his father dreamt
that he was promoted to the Sparrow-hawK-
- a ship he had then ne,·er heard of;
neither hari the family received any intelligence
of the ~·otmg man for several months. He
told his dream, and was well laughed at for his
pains; hut in a few· weeks a letter arrived an-
nouncing the promotion.
'Vhen Lord Rurghersh was g-iving theatrical
parties at Florence, a lad.r, l\Irs. .i\1., whose
presence was ver.v important, excused herself
one evening, being in great alarm from having
dreamt in the night that her sister, in England,
was dead, which proved to be the fact.
l\lr. )V., a young man at Glasgow College,
not long since dreamt that his aunt in Russia
was dead. He noted the date of his dream on
the window-shutter of his chamher. In a short
time the new~ of the lad.v's death arrived. The
dates, however, did not accord; but, on men-
tioning the c\rcn mstance to a friend, he was
re~pinded that the adherence of the Russians
to the old style reconciled the difference.
A man of busine.:'s, in Glasgow, lately
DREAMS AND PRESENTIMENTS. 97
dreamt that he saw a coffin, on which was
inscribed the name of a friend, with the date of
his death. Some time afterwards he was sum-
moned to att&nd the funeral of that person,
who, at the time of the dream, was in good
'health, and he was struck with surpri!le on
seeing the plate of the coffin bearing the very
date he had seen in his dream.
A French gentleman, Monsieur de V.,dreamt,
s(Hne years since, that he saw a tomb, on
w.hich he read, very distinctly, the following
date-23rd June, 184- ~- there were, also,
some initials, but so much effaced that he
could not make them out. He mentioned the
circumstance to his wife; and, for some time,
they could not help dreading the recurrence
of the ominous month ; hut, as year after year
passed, and nothing happened, they had
ceased to think of it, when,at last, the symbol
was explained. On the 23rd of JunP., 1846,
their only daughter died at the age of
seventeen.
Thus far the instances I have related seem
to resolve themselves into cases of simple
clairvoyance, or second sight, in sleep, although,
in using these words, I am very far from
·meaning to imply that I explain the thing, or
· unveil its mystery. The theory aLo,·e alluded
VOL. I.
98 DREAMS A~ D PRESE~Til\IE!"TS.
to, seems, as yet, the only one applicable to
the facts, namely, that the senses, being placed
in a negative and passive state, the universal
sense of the immortal spirit within, which
sees, and hears, and knows, or rather, in one
word, perceives, without organs, becomes more
or less free to work unclogged. That the
soul is a mirror in which the spirit sees all
things reflected, is a modification of this theory;
hut I confess I find myself unable to attach
any idea to this latter form of expression.
Another view, which I have heard suggested
l)y an eminent person, is, that, if it be true, as
mamtained hy Dr. "\\'igan, and some other
physiologists, that our brains are double, it is
possible that a polarity may exist between
the two sides, by means of which the negative
sidemay, under certian circumstances,become a
mirror to the positive. It seems difficult to
reconcile this notion with the fact, that these
perceptions occur most freqnently when th.e
brain is asleep. How far the sleep is perfect
and general, however, we can ne,·er know ;
and, of course, when the powers of speech and
locomotion continue to be exercised, we are
aware that it is only partial, in a more or le~s
degree. In the case of magnetic sleepers.
observation shows us, that the auditory nenes
·PRESENTUIENT. 99
are aroused by being addressed, and fall asleep
again as soon as they are left undisturbed. In
·most cases of natural sleep, the same process,
if the voice were heard at all, would disperse
·sleep altogether; and it must be remembered
that, as Dr. Holland says,sleep is a fluctuating
condition,varying from one moment to another,
·and this allowance must be made when con-
side1ing magnetic sleep also.
It is by this theory of the duality of the
brain, which seems to have many arguments
~ in its favour, and the alternate sleeping
·I· and waking of the two sides, that Dr.
·\Vigan seeks to account for the state of
double or alternate consciousness above alluded
.to; and also, for that strange sensation which
.most people have experienced, of having wit-
nessed a scene, or heard a conversation, at
·some indefinite period before, or even in some
earlier state of existence. He thinks that one-
half of the b1·ain being in a more active con-
. clition than the other, it takes cognizance of
the scene first; and that thus the perceptions
-~f the second, when they take place, appear to
be a repetition of some former experiences. I
confess this theory, as regards this latter phe-
n,omenon, is .to me eminently unsatisfactory ,
. and it is.especially defective in not accounting
·100 PRESE~TDI E~T.
f(>r one of the most curious particulars con-
.uectet.l with it, namely, thnt on these occasion,
people not only seem to recognise the circum-
stances as having been experienced before;
hut they have, ver.v frequently, an actual fore-
knowledge of what will be next said or done.
Now, the explanation of this mystery, I in-
cline to think, may })Ossibly lie in the hypo-
thesis I have suggested; namely, that in pro-
found, and what appears to us generally to
have been dreamless sleep, we are clear-seers.
The map of coming events lies open before us,
the spirit surveys it; but with the awaking of
the sensuous organs, this dream-life, with its
aerial excursions, passes away; and we are
translated into our other sphere of existence.
But, occasionally, some flash of recollection,
somP ray of light, from this visionary world, in
which we have been living, breaks in upon our
external objective existence, and we recognize
the locality, the ,·oice, the very words, as being
hut a re-acting of some foregone scenes of a
drama.
The faculty ofpresentiment, of which every-
body must have heard instances, seems to ha,"e
some affinity to the phenomenon last referred
to. I am acquainted with a lady, in whom this
faculty is in some degree developed:- who has
PRESENTIMENT. 101
evinced it by a consciousness of the moment
when a death was taking place in her family,
or amongst her connexions, although she does
11ot know who .it is that has departed. I have
heard of several cases of people hurrying home
from a presentiment of fire; and Mr. M. of
Calderwoodwas once, when absent from home,
siezed with such an anxiety about his family,
·that, without being able in any way to account
for it, he felt himself impelled to fly to them
and remove them from the house they were
inhabiting; one wing of which fell down im-
.tpediately afterwards. No notion of such ·a
misfortune had ever before occurred to him,
nor was there any reason whatever to expect it;
~he accident originating from some defect in
-the foundations.
A circumstance, exactly similar to this, is
related by Stilling, of Professm· Bohm, teacher
·of Mathematics at Marbm·g; who being one
evening in company, was suddenly sei?.ed with
a conviction th.at he ought to go home. As,
how,ever, he was very comfortably taki~g his
tea, and had nothing to do at home, he resisted
the admonition; but it returned with such
force that at length he was obliged to yield.
On reaching his house, he found eveJything as
·he had left it; but he now felt himself urged to
K 5
PRESE:STDIE:ST.
remove his bed from the corner in which it l
stood to another; hut as it had always stood ·
there, he resisted this impulsion also. How- •
ever, the resistance was vain, ahsurd as -it
seemed, he felt he must do it; so he summoned
the maid, and, with her aid, d1~ew the bed to the
'•othersideoftheroom; after which he felt quite at
ease and returned to spend the rest of the even-
ing with his friends. At ten o'clock the party
broke up, and he retired home and went to bed·
and to sleep. In the middle of the night, he·
was awakened by a loud crash, and on looking
out, he saw that a large beam had fallen,
bringing part of the ceiling with it, and was
l) ing exactly on the spot his bed had occupied.
A young servant girl in this neighbourhood,
who had been several years in an excellent
situation, where she wa8 much esteemed, was
suJdenly seized with a presentiment that she
was wanted at home ; and, in spite of all repre-
sentations, she resigned her place and set out
on her journey thither; where, when she ar-
ri\'ed, sh~ found her parents extremely ill, one
of them mortally, and in the greatest need of
her services. No intelligence of their illnt-!Ss
had reached her, nor could she herself in any
way account for the impuls~. I ha,·e heard of
numerous well authenticated cases of people
PRF.SE~TDIE~T : 103
escaping drowning from being seized with an
unaccountable presentiment of evil when there
were no external signs whateve1· to justify the
apprehension. The story of Cazotte as.related
by La Harpe is a very remarkable instance of
this·1sort of faculty ; and seems to indicate
a power resembliug that possessed by
Zschokke, who relates of himself, in his auto-
biography, that, frequently whilst conversing
with a stranger, the whole circumstances of
that person's previous life were revealed to
him, ·even comprising details of places and
persons. In the case of Ca.zotte, it was the
future that was laid open to him, and l1e fore-
told, to a company of eminent persons, in the
year 1788, the fate which awaited each indi-
-vidual, himselfincluded, in consequence of the
revolution then commencing. As this story is
already in print; I forbear to relate it.
One of the most remarkable cases of pre-
sentiment I know, is, .that which occurred, not
very long since, on board one of her Majesty's
ships, when lying off Pm·tsmouth. The officers
being one day at the mess-table, a young
Lieutenant P. suddenly laid down his knife
and fork, pushed away his plate, and turned
extremely pale. He then rose from the table,
co~·ering his face with his hands, and 1·etired
104 PRESE~Til\IEXT.
fmm the f(lom The pt·esident of the mess,
supposing him to he ill, sent one of the young
men to enquire what was the matter. At first,
l\Ir. P. was unwilling to speak ; but on being
pressed, he confessed that he had been seized
by a sudden and irresistible impression, that a
brother he had then in India was dead. " He
died,'' said he, "on the 12th of August, at
six o'clock; I am perfectly certain of it !"
No m·guments could overthrow this convic-
tion, which, in due course of post, was verified
to the letter. The young man had died at
Cawnpore, at the precise period mentioned.
When any exhibition of this sort of faculty
occurs in animals, which is by no means un-
freqnent, it is termed instinct; and we-look
· upon it, r.s what it probably is, only another
and more rare development of that intuitive
knowledge which enables them to seek their
food, and pe1·fonn the other functions necessaTy
to the maintenance of their existence, and the
"
continuance of their race. Now, it is remat·k-
. able, that the life of an animal is a sort of"
dream-life; their ganglionic system is more
developed than that of man, and the cerebral,
less;· and since it is doubtless, from the greater
development of the ganglionic system in
women, that they exhibit · more frequent in-
PRESE1\TDJE~T. 105
stances of such abnormal phenomena as I am
treating of~ than men, we may be, perhaps,
justified in considering the faculty of presenti-
·ment in a human being as a suddenly awakened
.instinct; just as in an animal, it is an inten-
sified instinct.
Everybody has either witnessed or heard of
instances of this sort of presentiment, in dogs
especi~lly. For the authenticity of the follow-
ing anecdote I can vouch; the traditions being
very carefully preserved in the f~unily con-
cerned, from whom I have it. In the last
century, Mr. P., a member of this family, who
had involved himself in some of the stonny
affairs of this northern part .of the island,
-was one day surprised by seeing a fa.vourite dog,
.that was lying at his feet, start suddenly ~p
and ~eize him by the knee, which he pulled-
not with violence, but in a manner that indi-
cated a wish that his master should follow him
to the door. The gentleman resisted the invi-
tation fm· some time ; till at length the perse-
verance of the animal arousing his curiosity,
he yielded, and was thus conducted by the dog
·into the most sequestered part of a neighbour-
ing thicket, where, however, he co';lld see no-
thing to account fm· his dumb friend's pro-
-ceeding, who now lay himself down, quite
106 PRESENTlME:XT.
satisfied, and seemed to wish his master to
follow the example; which, determined to
pursue the adventure and find out, if possible,
what was meant, he did. A considerable
time now elapsed before the dog would consent
to his master's going home; but at length he
arose and led the way thither, \Yhen the first
11ews :Mr. P. heard was, that a party of soldiers
had been there in quest of him; and he was
shown the marks of their spikes,which had been
thrust through the bed-clothes in their search.
He fled, and ultimately escaped; his life being
thus preserved by his dog.
Some years ago, at Plymouth, I had a brown
spaniel that regularly, with great delight,
accompanied my son and his nurse in their
morning's walk. One day, she came to com·
plain to me that Tiger would not go out with
them. Nobody could conceive the reason of
so unusual a caprice; and, unfortunately;we
~did not yield to it, but forced him to go. In
less than a quarter of an hour he was brought
back, so torn to pieces, by a savage dog that
had just come ashore from a foreign vessel,
"that it was found necessary to shoot him 1m
mediately.
CHAPTER V .
WARNINGS.
THIS comparison, betwixt the power of pre~
sentiment in a human being and the instincts
of an animal, may be offensive to some people;
but it must be admitted, that, as far as we
can see~ the manifestation is the same, what-
e,·er be the cause. Now, the body of an animal
must be informed by an immaterial principle
.-let us call it soul or spirit, or anything else;
for it is evident that their actions are not the
mere result of organization ; and all I mean
to imply is, that this faculty of fore-seeing
must be inherent in intelligent spirit, let it
108 WAR~INGS.
be lodged in what form of flesh it may;
whilst, with regard to what instinct is, we are,
in the meunwhile, in extreme ignorance.
I.nstinct being a word which, like Imagina-
tion, everybody uses, and nobody understands.
Ennemoser and Schubert believe, that the
instinct by which animals seek their food
consists in polarity, but I have met with only
two modern theories which pretend to .ex-
plain the phenomena of presentiment; the one
is, that the person is in a £emporarily magnetic
state, and that the presentiment is a kind of
clairvoyance. That the faculty, like thai of
ptophetic cheaming, is constitutional, and
chiefly manifested in certain families, is well
established; and the very unimportant events,
such as visits, and so forth, on which it fre-
quently exercises itself, forbid us to seek an
explanation in a higher source. It seems,
also, to be quite independent of the will ofthe
subject, as it was in the case of Zschokke,
who found himself thus let into the secrets of
persons in whom he felt no manner of inter-
est; whilst~ where the knowledge might ha,·e
been of use to him, he could not command it.
The theory of one-half of the brain in a nega-
tive state, serving as a minor to the other
half, if admitted at all, may answer as -,veil,
WAR~INGS. 109
or better, for these waking presentiments,
than for clear-seeing in dreams. Hut, for my
own part, I incline very much to the views of
that school of philosophers who adopt the first
and more spiritual theory, which seems to me,
to ·ofl'er fewer difficulties, whilst, as regards
our present nature, and our future hopes, it
is certainly more satisfactory. Once admitted
that the body is but the ·temporary dwelling
of an immaterial spirit, the machiue through
which, and by which, in its normal states, the
spirit alone can manifest itself, I cannot see
any great difficulty in conceiving that, in cer~
tain conditions of that body, their relations
may be modified, an.-I that the spirit may per'-
ceive, by its own inherent quality, without
the aid of its matninl vehicle; and, as this
condition of the body may arise from causes
purely physical, we see at once why the reve..
lations frequently regard such unimportant
e\'ents.
Plutarch, in his dialogue betwixt Lamprius
anu Ammonius, obsenes, that if the Drernons,
or protecting spirits, that watch over mankind
are disembodied souls, we ought nut to doubt
that those spirits, even when in the flesh, pos-
sessed the faculties they now en~oy, since we
hav~ no reason to suppose that auy new ones
VoL. I. L
110 WARNINGS.
are conferred at the period of dissolution ; for
these faculties must be inherent, although
temporarily obscured, and weak and inefl'ective
in their manifestations. As it is not wheu
the sun breaks from behind the clouds that
he first begins to shine, so it is not when the
soul issues from the body, as from a cloud that
envelopes it, that it first attains the power of
looking into the future.
But the events foreseen are not always unim-
portant, nor is the mode of the communication
always of the same nature. I have mentioned
above, some instances wherein danger was
avoided,and there are many of thesamekind re:-
corded in various works; and it is the number
of instances of this description, corroborated
by the universal agreement of all somnam-
l>ulists of a higher order, which has induced a
considerable section of the German psycho-
logists to adopt the doctrine of guardian
spirits-a docti;ne which has prevailed, more
or less, in all ages ; and has been considered
h~ many theologians to be supported by the
Bible. There is in this country, and I believe
in France, also, though with more exceptions,
such an extreme aversion to admit the possi-
lJility of anything like what is called super-
natural agency, that the mere avowal of such a
WAR~INGS. Ill
persuasion is enough to discredit one's under-
standing with a considerable part of the world;
not excepting those who profess to believe in
the s.criptures. Yet, even apart from this latter
authority, I cannot see anything repugnant to
reason in such a belief. As far as we see of
n·ature; there is a continued series from the
lowe·st to the highest; and what right have we
to conclude that we are the last link of the
chain ? Why m·ay there not be a gamut of
beings? That such should be the case, is cer-
tainly in accordance with all that we see; and
that we do not see them, affords, as I have
said above, not a shadow of argument against
their existence; man, immersed in busiuess
and · pleasure, living only his sensuous life, is
too apt to forget how limited those senses are,
how merely designed for a temporary purpose,
and how much may exist of which they can
take no cognizance.
'~ The possibilityadmitted, the chiefarguments
·against the probability of such a guardianship,
·are the interference it implies with the free-
will of man, on the one hand, and the rarity of
this interference, on the other. With respect
to the first matter of free-will, it is a subject
of acknowledged difficulty, and beyond the
scope of my work. Nobody can honestly look
112 WAR~INGS.
hack upon his pa~t life without feeling per-
plexed by the quel;tion, of how far he was, or
was not able, at the moment, to resist certain
impnbions, which caused him to commit
wrong or imprudent actions ; and it must, I
fear, ever remain a qucvstio ~·e.1:atct how far our.
virtues and vices depend upon our organi-
zation ; an organization whose constitution is
beyond our own power, in the first instan~e,
although we may certainly improve or deteri-
orate it; but which we must admit, at the same
time, to he, iu its present deteriorated forn),
the ill result of the wor]d's corruption, and the
inherited penalty of the vices of our prede-
cessors; whereby the sins of . the fathers are
\'isited upon the children unto the third and
fourth generation.
. There is, as the Scriptures say, but one way
to salvation, though there are many to per-
dition, that is, though ther~ are many wrongs,
there is only one right; for truth is one, and
our true liberty consists ·in being free to follow
jt; for we cannot imagine that anyborly seeks
his own perdition, and nobody, I conceire,
loves vice for its own sake, as others love
virtue, that i~, because it is rice; so that,
when they follow its dictates, we must con-
clude that they are not free, but in bondage,
WARNINGS. 113
whose ever bond-slave they be, whether of an
evil spirit, or of their own organization; and,
I think, every human being who lool\s into
himself will feel, that he is, in effect then
onlyfreewhen he is obeyingthe dictatesofvir-
tue; and that the language of Scripture, which
speaks of sin as a bondage, is not ouly meta-
phmically, butliterally, true.
The warning a person of an impending
danger, or error, implies no constraint; the
subject of the warning is free to take the hint
or not, as he pleases; we receive many cau-
tions, both from other people and from ourown
consciences, which we refuse to benefit by.
'Vith regard to the second objection, it seems
to have greater weight; for although the in-
stances of presentiment are \·ery numerous
taken apart, they are, certainly, as far as we
know, still but exceptional cases. But here
we must reme1nber, that an influence of this
\
sort might be ver.ycontinuously, though some-
what remotely, excercised in favour of an indi-
vidual, without the occurrence of any instance
of so striking a nature, as to render the inter-
ference manifest; and certain it is, that some
people-I have met with several-and verysen-
sible persons, too, have all their lives an intui-
tive persuasion ofsuch a guardianship existing
L5
WARNINGS.
in relation to themselves. That in our normal
states it was not intended we should hold sen-
sible communion with the invisible world,
seems evident; but nature abounds in excep-
tions; and there may be conditions rPgarding
both parties, the incorporated and the unincor-
porated spirit, which may at times bring them
into a more intimate relation. No one who
believes that consciousness is to survive the
death of the body, can doubt that the released
spirit will then hold communion with its con-
geners; it being the fleshly tabernacles we in-
habit which alone disables us from doing so at·
pt;esent; but since the constitutions of bodies
vary exceedingly, not only in different indh·i-
dnals, but in the same individuals at different
times, may we not conceive the possibility of
there existing conditions, which bydiminishing
the obstructions, render this communion prac-
ticable within certa.in limits? For there, cer-;
tainly, are recorded and authentic instances of
presentiments and warnings, that with diffi-
culty admit of any other explanation·; and that
these admonitions are more frequently received
in the state of sleep than of vigilance, rather
furnishes an additional argument in favour of
the last hypothesis ; for if there be any
foundation for the theories above suggested, it
WARNI:\GS. 115
is then, that the sensuous functions being in _,
abeyance, and the external life thereby shut
out from us, the spirit would be most suscep
tible to the operations of spirit, whether of our
deceased friends or of appointed ministers, if
such there be. Jung Stelling is ofopinion that
we must decidefrom the aim and objectof there-
velation, whetheritbe a mere developmentofthe
faculty of presentiment, or a case of spiritual
intervention; but this would surely be a very
erroneous mode of JUdging, since the presenti-
ment that foresees a visit, may foresee a
danger, and show us how to avoid it, as in the
following instance :-
A few years ago, Dr. W., now residing at
Glasgow, dreamt that he received a summons
t.o attend a patient at a place some miles from
where he was living; that he started on
horseback, and that as he was crossing a moor,
he saw a bull making furiously at him, whose
horns he only escaped by taking 1·efuge on a
spot inaccessible to the animal; where he
,waited a long time, till some people, observing
his situation, came to his assistance and re-
leased him. Whilst at breakfast, on the fol-
lowing morning, the summons came; and,
smiling at the odd coincidence, he started on
horseback. He was quite ignorant of the road
116 WAR~DWS.
he had to go; hut, by and by, he arrived at
the moor, which he recognised, and presently
the bull appeared, coming full tilt towards
him. But his dream had shown him the place
of refuge, for which he instantly made ; and
there he spent three or four hours, besieged by
the animal, till the country people set him free.
Dr. W. declares, that but fo1· the dream, he
should .not have known in what direction to
runt for safety.
A Butche1· named Bone, residing at Holy-·
town, d1·eamt a few years since, that l1e was
stopt at a particular spot on his way to market,
whither he was going on the following day to
purchase cattle, by two men in blue clothes,
who cut his throat. He told the dream to his
wife, who laughed at him; but as it was re-
peated two or tnree times, and she saw he was
really alarmed, she advised him to join some-
body who was going the same road. He ac-
cordingly listened till he heard a cart passing
his door, and then went out and joined the
mau, telling him the reason for so doing. 1
\Vheu they came to the spot, there actually
stood the two men in blue clothes, who, seeing
he was not alone, took to their heels and ran.
Now, although the dream was here probably
the meansofsavingBone'slife,thereis no reason
WARNINGS. 117
to suppose this a case of what is called super-
naturttl iuterrention. The phenomenon would
be sufficiently accounted for hy the admission
of the hypothesis I ha.ve suggested ; namely,
~hat he was aware of. the impending
danger in his sleep, and had been able, from
\.
some cause unknown to us, to convey the
l~ecollecti.on into his waking state.
.I know instances in which, for several
mornings rn·e,·ions to the occurrence of a
calamity, persons have a\'vakened with a pain-
ful se1~se of misfortune, for which they could
not account, and which was dispersed as soon
as they had time to reflect that they had no
cause for uneasiness. This is the only kind of
presentiment I ever experienced myself; but
it ~as occurred.to me twice, in a very marked
and unmistakf'able manner. As soon as the
intellectual life, the life of the brain, and the
external world broke in, the instinctive life
1·eceded, and the intuitive knowledge was ob-
scured. Or, according to Dr. Ennemoser's
theory, the polar 1·elations changed, and the
nerves we1·e busied with conveying sensuous
impressions to the brain, their sensibility or
positive state now being transferred from the
internal to the external periphery. It is by
the contrary change that Dr. Enncmoser seeks
118 WARNINGS.
to explain the insensibility to pam of
mesmerised patients.
A circumstance of a similar kind to the
above occurred in a well known family in
Scotland, the Rutherfords of E.- A lady
dreamt that her aunt, who resided at some
distance, \Vas murdered by a black servant.
Impressed with the liveliness of the vision~
she could notresist goingto the house of her re-
lation, where the man she had dreamt of, whom
I think she had never before seen, opened the
door to her. Upon this, she induced a gentle-
man to watch in the adjoining room during
the night; arid towards morning hearing a foot
upon the stairs, he opened the door and dis-
covered the black servant can-ying up a coal
scuttle full of coals,for the purpose, as he said,
of lighting his mistress's fire. As this motive
did not seem very probable, the coals were ex-
nmined and a knife found hidden amongst them,
with which, he afterwards confessed, he in~
tended to have murdered his mistress, provided
she made any resistance to a design he had
formed, of robbing her ofa large sum of money,
which he was aware she had that day received.
The following case has been quoted in se-
veral medical works-at least in works written
WARNINGS. ll9
lJy learned doctors, and on that account I
should not mention it here, but for the pur-
pose of remarking on the extraordinary
facility with which, whilst they do not ques-
tion the fact, they dispose of the mystery.
Mr. D., of Cumberland, when a youth, came
to Edinburgh, for the purpose of attending
College, and was placed under the care of his
-
tmele and aunt, Major and Mrs. Griffiths, who
then resided in the castle. 'Vhen the fine
weather came, the young man was in the habit
of making frequent excursions, with others of
his own age and pursuits; and one afternoon he
mentioned that they had formed a fishing party,
and had bespoken a boat for the ensuing day.
No objections were made to this p1an; but in
the middle of the night, Mrs. Griffiths screamed
out, "The boat is sinking ! Oh, save them !"
Her husband said;-he supposed she had been
~hinking of the fishing party ; hut she declared
she had never thought about it, at all, and
soon fell asleep again. But, ere long, she
awoke a second time, crying out that she "saw
..the boat sinking P' "It must have been ~he
remajns of the impression made by the other
dream," she suggested to her husband, "for I
have no uneasiness, whatever, about the fish-
ing party."-but on going to sleep once more,
120 WAR~IXGS.
her husband was again disturbed hy her cries,
"they are gone ! " she said, "the boat has
sunk !" She now, really, became alarmed,
and, without waiting for morning, she threw
on her dressing gown, and went to l\ir. D.,
who was still in bed, and, whom with much
difficulty, she persuaded to relinquish his pro-
posed excursion. He, consequently, sent his
servant to Leith, with an excuse; and the
party embarked without him. The day was
extremely fine, when they pnt to sea; but
1'-0me hours afterwards, a storm arose, in
which the boat foundered; nor did any one of
the number survive to tell the tale.
"This dream is easily accounted for,'' say
the learned gentlemen above alluded to, "from
the dread all women have of the water, and
the_danger that attends boating on the Frith
of Forth!'' Now, I deny that all women have
a dread of the water, and there Is not the
slightest reason for concluding that l\irs.
Griffiths had. At all events, she affirms that
she felt no uneasiness at all about the party,
and one might take leave to think that her
testimony upon that suhjeet is of more value
than that of persons who never had any ac-
quaintance with her, and who were not so
much as. born at the time the circumstance
WAH:..ri;\'GS. lZl
occurred, which was in the year 17:31. Be-
sides, if Mrs. Griffith's dream arose simply
from" the dread all women have of the water,''
and that its subsequent verification was a mere
.coincidence, since women constantly risk their
persons for voyages, and boating excursions,
such dreams should be extremely frequent;
the fact of there being any accident impend-
ing, or not, having, according to this theory,
no relation whate\'er to the phenomenon.
And as for the danger that attends boating on
the Frith of Forth, we must naturally supp()se
that had it been considered so imminent,
1\iajor Griffiths would have, at least, endea-
voured to dissuade a youth that was placed
under his protection from ri~king his life s~l
imprudently. It would he equally reasonable-
.to explain away Dr. ~~.'s dream, by saying-,
that all gentlemen who have to ride acros~
commons are in great dread of encountering- <l
bull-c<,mmons, in general, being infested by
that animal.
Miss D., a friend of mine, was some time
since invited to join a pic-nic excursion into th.e ·
country. Two nights before the day fixed for
the expedition, she dreamt that the carriage she
was to go in, was overturned down a precipice.
Impressed with her dream,.she declined the ex-
VOL. I
122 WAR~IXGS.
cursion, confessing her reason,and advising the
r~t of the party to relinquish their project. They
laughed at her, and per~isted in their scheme.
'Vhen, subsequently, she went to enquire hm''
theyhad spent the day,she found the ladies con-
fined to their beds, from injuries received; the
carriage haivng been overturned down a preci-
pice. Still, this was only a coincidence !
Another specimen of the haste with which
people are willing to dispose of what they
do not understand, is afforded by a case
tlmt occurred, not many years since, in
the north of Scotland, where a murder
having been committed, a man came forward
saying that he had dreamt that the pack of the
murdered pedlar was hidden in a certain spot ;.
where, on a search being made, it was actual1y
found. Theyatfirstconcluded he washimselfthe
assassin, but the real criminal was afterwards
discovered ; and it being asserted, though I
ha,·e been told elToneously, that the two men
had passed some time together, since the
murder, in a state of intoxication, it was
decided that the crime and the place of con-
'cealment had been communicated to the pre-
tended dreamer; and all who thought other-
wise were laughed at; for why, say the ration-
alists, -should not P1·o,·idence have so ordered
WARNINGS. 123
the dream as to have prevented the murder
altogether?
. 'Vho can answer that question, and whither
would such a discussion leads us ? Moreover.,
if. this faculty of presentiment be a natural
one, though only imperfectly and capriciously
developed, there may have been no design in-
the matter; it is an accident, just in the same
sense as an illness is an accident; that is, not
\Vithout cause, but without a cause that we
can penetrate. If, on the other baud, we have
recourse to the intervention of Rpiritual beings,
it may be answered that we are entirely igno-
rant of the conditions under which any such
communication is possible; and that we can- ·
not therefore come to any conclusions as to
~,·hy so much is done, and no mm·e.
· But there is another circumstance to be
pb~erved in considering the case, which is, that
.the dreamer is said to have passed some days
in a state of intoxication. Now, even Rupposing
this had been true, it is well-known that the
e~citement ofthe brain, caused by intoxication,
has occasionally produced a very 1·emarkable
exaltation of certain faculties. It is by means,
either of intoxicating draughts or vapours,
_,that the soothsayers of Lapland and Siberia
place themselves in a condition to vaticinate ;
124 WAH~I:'-IGS.
and we h~we every reason to belic\·e that rli·ugs,
producing similar etl'ects, were resorted to by
the th~uunaturgists of old, and by the wit<.;hes
of later days, of which I shall have more to say
hereafter. But as a case in point, I may here
allude to the phenomena exhibited in a· late
instance of the application of ether, by Pro-
fessor Simpson, of Edinburgh, to a lady who
:was at the moment under circumstances not
usually found very agreeable. .She said that
she was amusing herself, delightfully by play-
ing o,·er a set of quadrilles, which she had
known in her youth, but had long- forgottP.n;
hut she now perfectly remembered them, and
had played them over several times~ Here was
an instance of the exultation of a faculty from
intoxication, similar to that of the woman who,
ili her delirium, spoke a language which she
.had only heard in her childhood, and of which,
.in her normal state, she had no recollection.
· That the ineffidency of the communication,
' .or presentiment, or whatever it may be, is no
,argument against the fact of such dreams oc·
:eurring, I can safely assert, from cases which
Jmve come under my own knowledge. A pro-
Jessional gentleman, whose name would be a
·warrant for the truth of whatever he relates,
told me the .following circumstance regardiug
WARNINGS, }Q;j
·himself. He was, not very long since, at the
sea-side, with his family, and, amongst the
rest, he had with him one of his sons, a boy
about twelve years of age, who was in the
habit of bathing daily, his father accompany·
· ing him to the water side. This practice had
continued during the whole of their visit, and
no idea of danger or accident had ever occurred
to anybody. On the day preceding the one
appointed for their departure, Mr. H., the
gentleman in ·· question, felt himself, after
breakfast, surprised by an unusual drowsiness,
which he, having vai:'Jly struggled to over-
come,· at length fell asleep in his chair, and
dreamt that he was attending his son to the
bath as usual, when he suddenly·saw the boy
drowning, and that he himself had 1ushed
into the water, dressed as he was, and brought
· him ashore. Though he was quite conscious
of the dream when he awoke, he attached no
importance to it; he considered it merely a
dream, no more; and when, some hours aftel·-
wards, the boy came into the room, and ~aid,
"Now, papa, it's time to go; this will be my
last bath;" his morning's vision did not even
recur to him. They walked down to "
the sea,
as usual, and the boy went into the water,
whilst the father stood composedly watching
:.\1 ~
126 WAR~IXGS.
·him from the beach, when, suddenly, the child
los_t his footing, a wave had caught him, and
the danger of his being carried away was so
·imminent, that, without even waiting to take
off his great coat, hoots, or hat, l\ir. H. rushed
into the water, and was only just in time to
save him.
Here is a case of undoubted authenticity,
which I take to be an instance of clear-seeing,
or second sight, in sleep. The spirit, with its
intuitin~ faculty, saw what was impending;
the sleeper l"emembered his dream, but the
intellect did not accept the warning; and,
whether that warning was me1·ely a subjec-
tive process-the clear-seeing of the spirit-
or whether it was effected by any external
agency, the free will of the person concerned
'vas not interfered '\vith.
I quote the ensuing similar case from the
}.,rankfort Journal, 25th June, 1837 :-"A
singular circumstance is said to be connected
with the late attempt on the life of the Arch-
.bishop of Autun. The two nights preceding
the attack, the prelate dreamt that he saw a
man, who was making repeated efforts to take
away his life, and he awoke in extreme terror
and agitation from the exertions he had made
to escape .the danger. The features and ap-
~YARNI:'WS. 127
·pearance of the man were so clearly imprinted
.on his memory, that he recognized him the
momep.t his eye fell upon.him, which happened
as he was coming out of church. The bishop
,hid his face, and called his attendants, but
' the man had fired before he could make known
his,apprehensions. Facts of this description
are far from uncommon. It appears that the
assassin had entertained designs against the
.lives of the Bishops of Dijon, Burgos, and
Nm.-ers.''
The following case,which occurreda few years
since, in the North of England, and which, I
have from the best authority,is remarkable from
the inexorable fatality which brought about the
fulfilment of the dream :-Mrs. K., a lady of
family and fortune in Yorkshire, said to her
son, one morning, on descending to breakfast,
"Henry, what are you going to do to-day?" .
"I am going to hunt,'' replied the young
man."
''.I am very glad of it," she answered. "· I
'hould not lil.;:e you to go shooting, for I d1·eamt
last night that you did so, and were shot.
The son answered gaily, that he would take,
care not to he shot, and the bunting party
rode away; but, in the middle of the day they
returne~l, not having found any sport. Mr.
WARNI~GS,
B., a visitol' in the house, then proposP,d that.
'tbey should go out with their guns, and try to
.find some woodcocks. "I will go with you,''
·retun1ed the young man, "but I must not
.~shoot to-day, myself, for my mother dreamt
last night I was shot; and, nlthough it is hut
a dream, she would be uneasy."
They went, Mr. B. with his gun, and Mr.
K .. without; but shortly afterwards the beloved
:-son was brought home dead. A charge from
the gun of his companion had struck him In
the eye·~ entered his brain, and killed him on
the spot. ~1r. B., the unfortunate cause of
this accident, and also the narrator of it, died
hut a fen· weeks since.
It is well known that the murder tJf l\Ir.
Percival, by Bellingham, \Vas seen in sleep by
a .gentleman at York, who actually went to
l.~ondou in consequence of his dream, which
was several times repeated. He arrived too
late to prevent the calamity ; neither would he
have been believed, had he arrived earlier.
In the year 1461, a merchant was travelling
towards Rome, by Sienna, when he dreamt that
his throat was cut. He communicated his.
dream to the host of the inn, who did not like it,
and advised him to pray and confess. He did
ISO, and then rode forth, and was present~
W.AR~INGS•· l29
attacked by the priest he had confe~sed to,
w~o had thus learnt his apprehensions. He
killed the merchant, but was betrayed, and
disappointed of his gains, by the horse ~akin.g
fright, and running back to the inn with the
~noney bags.
I have related this story, though unt a new
.one; on account of its singular resemblance to
~he following, which I take from a newspaper
paragraph; but which I find mentioned as a
fitct in a con~inen tal pubhcation :-
·.. "SING.ULAR vERIFIGATION OF A DREAM.- A
Jetter from Hamburgh, contains the fol-
lo.wing curious story, relative to the verifica-
tion of a dream.. It appears that a locksmith's
.apprentice, one morning lately, informed his
master (Claude Soller), that on the previous
night he dreamt that he had been assassinated
on' the road to Bergsd01·ff, a little town at
about two hours' distance from Hamburgh.
;The master laughed at the young man's credu-
.lity, and to prO\'e that he himself had little
-.faith in dreams, insisted upon sending him to
·Bergsdortf, with 140 rix dollars (£22 Ss.),
;Which he owed to his brother-in-law, who re-
sided in ,the town. The apprentice, after· in
vain imploring his master to change his inten-
, tion.; was compelled to set out, a~ about eleven
130 WARNINGS.
o'clock. On arriving at the village of Bill·
waerder, about half-way between Hamburgh
and Bergsdorff, he recollected his dream with
ten-or, but perceiving the baillie of the village
at a little distance, talking to some of his
workmen, he accosted him, and acquainted
him with his singular dream, at the same time
I'equesting, that, as he had money about his
person, one ofhis workmen might be allowed
to accompany him for protection across a
small wood which lay 111 his way. The baillie
smiled, and, in obedience to his orders, one of
his men set out with the young apprentice.
The next day, the corpse of the latter was con-·
veyed by some peasants to the baillie, along
with a reaping-hook, which had been found
by his side, and, with which, the throat of the
murde1·ed youth had been 1
cut. The .baillie
immediately recognised the instrument as one
which he had on the previous day gi,·en to the
workman who had served as the apprentice's
guide, for the purpo:o:;e of pruning some willows.
The workman was apprehended, and, on being
confronted with the body of his victim, made
a full confession of his crime, adding, that the.
recital of the dream had alone prompted him to
commit the horrible act. The assassin, who
is thirty-five years of age, is a native of Bill~
WAR~TNGS. 131
waerder, and) previously to the perpetration
of the murder, had always borne an irreproach-
able character.''
The life of the great Harvey was saved by
the Governor of Dover refusing to allow him
to embark for the Continent,. with his friends;
The vessel was lost, with all on board ; and
the Governor confessed to him, that he had
detained him in consequence of an injunc~ion
he had received in a dream to do so.
There is a very curious circumstance related
by Mr. Ward, in -
his" Illustrations of Human
Life," regarding the late Sir Evan Nepean,
which, I believe is perfectly authentic. I have,
at least been assured, by persons well ac-
quainted with him, that he himself testified to
its truth.
Being. at the time, Secretary to the Admi-
raly, he· found himself one nig-ht unable to
sleep, and urged by an undefinable feeling that
he must rise, though it was then only two
. o'clock. He accordingly did so, and went
into the park, and from that to the Home
Office, which he entered by a private door, of
which he had the key. He had no object in
doing this, and to pass the time, he took up a
newspaper that was lying on the table, and
there read a paragraph to the effect, that are-
132 · WAR~I~Cs .
prie,·e had been dispatched to York, for the
men condemned for coining.
The question occurred to him, was it indeed
dispatched?.. He examined the books aud
foun"d it was not; and it was only by the most
energetic proceeaing-s that the thing was
calTied through, and reached York in time to
save the men.
Is not this like the agency of a. protecting
spirit, urging Sir Evan to this discovery, in
ord'er that these men might be spared; or that
those concerned might c:scape the remorse
they would have suffered for their criminal
neglect?
It is a remarkable fact, that somnambules of
the highest order believe themselves attended
by a protecting spirit. To those who do not
believe, because they ha,·e never witnessed the
phenomena of somnambulism, or who look
upon the disclosures of persons in that state,
as the mere raving of hallucination, this autho-
rity will necessarily ha.,·e uo weight; but even
to such persons, the universal coincidence,
must be considered worthy of observation,
though it be regarded only as a symptom of
disease. I believe I have remarked, else-
where, that many persons, who have not the
least tendency to somnamlmlism, or any proxi-
WAI!XlXGS.
mate malady, ha,·e, all their lh·es, an intuiti,·e
feeling of such a guardianship; and, not to
mention Socrates and the ancients, there are,
besides, numerous recorded cases in modern
times, in which persons, not somnambulic,
have declared themseh·es to have seen and
held communication with their spiritual pro-
tector.
The case of the girl called Ludwiger, who,
in her infancy, had lost her speech, and the
use of her limbs, and wbo was earnestly com-
mitted by her mother, when dying, to the care
of her elder sisters, is known to many. These
young women piously fulfilled their engage-
·ment, till the wedding-day of one of them
caused them to forget their charge. On recol-
lecting it, at length, they hastened home, and
found the girl to_their amazement, sitting up
in her bed, and she told them, that her mother
had been there and given her food. She ne,·er
spoke again, ond soon after died. This cir-
cumstance occurred at Dessau, not many
years since; and is, 3ccording to Schubert, a
perfectly established fact in that neighhour-
ho~d. The girl, at no other period of her life
exh_ibited any similar phenomena, nor had she
~,·er displayed any tendency to spectral illu-
SIOns.
VoL. 1. N
W.\RXDiGS.
The wife of a respectable c1t1zen, named
Arnold, at Heilbronn, held constant communi-
cations with her p1·otecting spirit, who warned
her of impending dangers, approaching ,·i-
sitors, and so forth. He wa5 only once visible
to her, and it was in the form of an old man;
hut his presence was felt by others as well as
herself, and they were sensible that the air
was stirred, as by a breath.
.lung Stilling publishes a similar account,
which was bequeathed to him by a very worthy
and pious minister of the church. The sub-
ject of the guardianship was l1is own wife ;
and the spirit first appeared to her after her
marriage, in the year 1799, as a child, vttired
in a white robe, whilst she was busy in her
l)ed-chamber. She stretched out her hand to
take hold of the figure, but it disappeared.
It frequently visited her afterwards, and in
answer to her enquiries, it said, "I died in my
childhood !" It came to her at all hours,
whether alone or in company, and not only at
l10me, but elsewhere, and even when travelling,
assisting her when in danger; it sometimes
floated in the air, spake to her in its own lan-
guage, which, somehow, she says, she under-
stood, and could speak, too; and it w~s once
~een by another person. He bade her call him
~ WARNINGS.
Immanttel. She earnestly begged him to show
himself to her husband, but he alleged that it
would make him ill, and cause his death. On
asking him wherefore, he answered, " few
persons are able to see such things."
Her tw.o children, one six years old, and the
other younger, saw this figure as well as
herself.
Schubert, in his "Geschichte der Seele,,'
relates that the ecclesiastical councillor
Schwartz, of Heidelberg, when about twelve
years of age, and at a time that he was learning
the Greek language, but knew very little
about it, drevmt that his grandmother, a vPry
pious woman, to whom he had been much
attached, appeared to him, and unfolded a
parchment, inscribed with Greek characters,
which foretold the fortunes of his future life.
He read it off with as much facility as if it had
beenin German; but being dissatisfied with some
particulars of the prediction, he begged they
might be changed. His grandmother answered
him in Greek, whereupon he awoke, remem-
bering the dream, but, in spite of the efforts
to arrest them, he was unable to recall the pmti-
culars the parchment had contained. The
answer of his grandmother, however, he was
able to grasp befm·e it had fled his memory,
1:36
and he wrote down the words; lnit tl1e
meaning of them he could not discover,
without the assistance of his Grammar and
Lexicon. Reing interpreted, they 1n-oved to
he these-..' As it is prophecied to me, so .I
prophecy to thcP !'' He had written the words
in a. volume of Gessner's works, heing the
first thing he laid his hand on ; and he often
philosophized on them in later days, when
they chanced to meet his eye. How, he says,
should he have heen al>le to n~ad and produce
that in his sleep, which, in his waking state·,.
he would have heen quite incapable of?
" Even long after, when I left school,'' he adds,
" I could scarcely have put tog-ether such a
sentence; and it is extremely remat·kahle
that the feminine form was ohsen ed in con-
formity with the sex of the speaker. The
words were these- Trx.u-Tcz Xp'Ylu-p....
cuJus-wro:.
Xp11rrp.wJE'cu cot.
Grotius relates, that when J\'Ir. de Saumaise
was councillor of the Parliament at !>ijon, a
pe1·son who knew not a word of Greek, brought
him a paper, on which was written some words
in that language, hut not in the character.
He said that a voice had uttered them to him
in the night, and that he had written them
down, imitating the sound as well as he could..
WAR~l~GS. 1:37
l\:Ions. de Suumaise made out tlmt the signifi-
cation of the words, was; "Begone! do yon
not see that death imp~nds? '' \Vithout com-
prehending what danger was predicted, the per..
son obeyed the mandate and departed. Ou
that night the house that he had been lodging-
in, fell to the ground.
The difficulty in these two cases i8 equally
great, apply to it whatever explanation we
may; for even if the admonitions proceeded
.ti·01n. some frienuly guardian, as we might be
inclined to concluc
le, it is not easy to cm1ceive
why they should have been commtlnicated in
tt language the persons did not understand.
After the death of Dante, it was discm'el'ed
that the thirteenth canto of the "Paradiso" Wn::J
missing; great ser.rch was made for it, but in
vaiu ; and to the regret of everybody concerned,
it was at length concluded that it had either
never been written, or had been destroyed. The
<I uest was therefore given up, and some months
had elapsed, when Pietro Allighieri, his so11,
dreamt that his father appeared to him and
told him that if he remo\·ed a certain pannel
uear the window of the room, in which he hud
been accustomed to write, the thirteenth canto
would be found. Pietro told his dream and
was h~ughed at, of course; however, as the
N5
.1:)8 WAHXIXGS.
canto did not tum up, it was thonght as well
to examine the spot indicated in the dream.
The pannel was remo\-·ed, and there lay the
missing canto behind it; mueh mildewed, bnt
fortunately, still legible.
If it be true that the dead do return some-·
times to solve our perplexities, here was not an
unworthy occasion fnr the exercise nf such a
power. We can imagine the spirit of the
gTeat poet still clinging to the memory of his
august work, immortal as himsclf:._the t·ecord
of those high thoughts which can never die.
There are numerous curious accounts extant
of persons being awakened by the calling of a
voice which announced some impending
danger to them. Three boys are sleeping in
the wing of a castle, and the eldest is awakened
hy what appears to bim to be the voice of his
father calling him hy name. He rises and
hastens to his parent's chamher, situated in
another part. of the building, where he finds
his father asleep; who, on being awakened,
assures him that he had not culled him, and
the boy returns to bed. Hnt he is scarcely
asleep, before the circumstance recurs, and he
again goes to his father with the :-;arne result.
A.third time he falls asleep, and a third time
he is aroused by the voice, too distinctly heard
WAR~IXGS. 139
for him to doubt his senses; and now, alarmed
at he-knows not what, he rises and takes his
brothers with him to his father's chamber; and
whilst they are discussing the singularity of
the circumstance, a crash is heard, and that
wing of the castle in which the boys slept, falls
to the ground. This iucident excited so much
attention in Germany that it ,yas recorded in a
ballad.
It is related by Amyraldus, that 1\fonsieur
Calignan, Chm1cellor of NaYarre, dreamed
three successive times in one night, at Berne,
that a voice called to him and bade him quit
the place, as the plagtle would soon break out
in that town ; that, in consequence, he removed
his family, and the result justified his flight.
A German physician relates, that a patient
of his told him, that he dreamt repeatedly, one
night, that a voice bade him go to his hop-
garden, as there were thieves there. Here-
sisted the injunction some time, till, at length,
he was told that, if he delayed any longer, he
would lose all his produce. Thus urged, he
went at last, and arrived just in time to see the
thieves, loaded with sacks, making away from
the opposite side of the hop-ground.
,.. A Madame Von l\Iilitz, found herself under
the necessity of parting with a property which
140 WAll::'\l~GS.
lmd long been in her family. \\' hen the bar-
gain was concluded, and she was preparing to
remove, she solicited permission of the new
proprietor to carry away with her some little
relic as a memento of former days-a request
which he unci,·illy denied. On one of the
nights that preceded her departure from the
home of her ancestors, she dreamt that a Yoice
spoke to her, and bade her go to the cellar and
·open a certain part. of the wall, where she
would find something that nobody would dis-
pute with her. Impressed with her dream, she
sent f(H a bricklayer, who, after long seeking,
discu,·ered a place which appeared less solid
·than the rest. A hole was made, and, in a
niche, was found a goblet, which contained
somo:-thing that looked like a pot pourri. On
shaking out the contents, there lay at the bot·
tom a ~mall ring, on which was eng-raven the
name Anna Von ll1ilitz.
A friend of mine, :Mr. Charles Kirkpatrick
Sharpe, has some coins that were found
exactly in the same manner. The child of
a l\1r. Christison, in whose house his father
was lodging, in the year 1781, dreamt that
there was a treasure hid in the cellar. Her
father had no faith in the dream; but l\ir.
\YARXI~GS. 141
S. had the curiosity to have the place dug up,
and a copper pot was found, full of coins.
A very singular circumstance was related to
me lately, by lVIr. J. J., as having occurred
not long since to himself. A tonic had been
prescribed to him by his physician, for some
slight derangement of the system, and, as there
was no good chemist in the ,·illage he in-
habited, he was in the habit of walking to a
town about five miles off, to get the bottle filled
as occa~ion required. One nig·ht, that he had
been to l\L for this purpose, and had obtained
his last supply, for he was now recovered, and
about to discontinue the medicine, a voice
seemed to warn him that some great danger
was impending, his life was in jeopardy; then
he heard, but not \Vith his outward ear, a
beautiful prayer. "It was not myself that
prayed,,' he said, " the prayer was far beyond
anything I am capable of composing-it spoke
of me in the third person, always as he; and
supplicated that for the sake of my widowed
mother this calamity might be a\·erted. 1\-Iy
father had been dead some months. I was
s<;nsible of all this, yet I cannot say whether I
'vas aslt:~ep or awake. When I rose in the
morning, the whole was present to my mind,
although I had slept soundly in the interval;
l-12 WAR~I~GS.
I felt, however, as if there was some mitigation
of the calamity, though what the danger was
with which I was threatened, I had no notion.
'Vhen I was dressed, I prepared to take my
medicine, but, on lifting the bottle, I fancied
that the colour was not the same as usual. I
looked again, and hesitated, and finally, in-
stead of taking two table spoonfuls, which was
my accustomed dose, I took but one. Fortu-
nate it was that I did so ; the apothecary had
made a mistake; the drug was poison ; I was
seized with a violent vomiting, and other
alarming symptoms, from which I with diffi-
culty 1·ecovered. Had I taken the two spoon-
fuls, I should, probably, not have survived to
tell the tale.''
The manner in which I happened to obtain
these particulars is not uninteresting. I was
spending the evening with Mr. \Vordsworth,
at Ridal, when he mentioned to me that a
stranger, who had called on him that morning,
had quoted two lines from his poem of
"Laodamia," which, he said, to him had a
peculiar interest. They were these:-
" The invisible world with thee hath sympathised;
De thy affections raised and solemnised."
·"I do not know what he alludes to," said l\Ir.
'Vordsworth; "but he gave me to understand
WAR~I~GS. 143
that these lines had a deep meaning for him,
and that he had himself been the subject of
such a sympathy."
Upon this, I sought the stranger, whose
address the poet gave me, and thus learnt the
above particulars from himself. Hi~ very
natural persuasion was, that the interceding
spirit was his father. He described the
prayer as one of earnest anguish.
One of the most remarkable instances of
warning that has come to my knowledge, is
that of Mr. M., of Kingsborough. This gen-
tleman, being on a voyage to America, dreamt,
•
one night, that a little old man came into his
cabin and said, "Get up ! Your life is in
danger!" Upon which, l\1r. M. awoke; but
considering it to be only a dream, he soon
composed hims:elf to sleep again. The dream,
ho·wevcr, if such it were, recurred, and the old
man urged him still more strongly to get up
directly; but he still persuaded himself it was
only a dream ; and after listening a few
minutes, and hearing nothing to alarm him,
he turned round and addressed himself once
more to sleep. But now the old man appeared
again, and angrily bade him rise instantly, and
take his gun and ammmutwn with him,
for he had not a moment to lose. The
144 WARXI:XGS.
injunction was now so distinct that .Jlr. ~1.
felt he could no longer resist it; so he hastily
dressed himself, took his gun, and ascended
to the deck, where he had scarcely ani,·ed,
when the ship struck on a rock, which he and
se,·eral others contrived to reach. The place,
however, was uninhabited, and, but for his
gun, they would ne,·er have heen able to pro-
vide themselves with focd till a vessel arrived
to their relief.
Now these can Sl!nrcely be looked upon as
instances of clear seeing, or of second sight in
sleep, whiCh, in Denmark, is called.ftrst-seeing,
I believe ; for in neither case did the sleeper
perceive the danger, much less the nature of it.
If, therefore, we refuse to attribute them to
some external protecting influence, they re-
solve themselves into cases of vague presenti-
ment; but it must then be Ddmitted that the
mode of the manifestation is very extra(lHli-
nary; so extraordinary, indeed, that we fall
into fully as great a difficulty as that offered by
the supposition of a guardian spirit.
An American clergyman told me that an old
woman, with whom he \vas acquainted, \\·ho
had two sons, heard a voice say to l1er in the
night, ''John's dead!" This was her eldest
son. Shortly afterw~i·ds, the news of hi03 death
WARNfNGS. 145
arriving, F'he said to the person who commu-
nicated the intelligence to her," If John's dead,
then I know that David is dead, too, for the
same voice has since told me so ;'' and the event
proved that the information, whenceever it
came, was correct.
Not many years since, Captain S. was pass-
ing a night at the Manse of Strachur, in
Argyleshire, then occupied by a relation of his
own; shortly after he had lain down in bed,
the curtains were opened, and somebody
looked in upon him. Supposing- it to be some
inmate of the house, who was not aware that
the bed was occupied, he took no notice of the
circumstance, till, it being two or thrPe times
1·epeated, he at length said, '' 'Vhat do you ·
'vant? Why do you disturb me in this ·
manner?')
"I come," replied a voice, ''to tell you, that
this day twelvemonth you will be with your
father!''
After this, Captain S. was no more dis-
turbed. In the morning, he re1ated the cir-
cumstance tn his host; but, being an entire
disbelieve1· in all such phenomena, without .
attaching any importance to the warning.
· In the natural course of events, and quite
irrespective of this visitation, on that day
VoL. 1. o
146 WARNINGS.
twelvemonth he was again at the Manse of
Strachur, on his way to the North, for which
purpose it was necessary that he should cross
the ferry to Craigie. The day was, however,
so excee4ingly stormy, that his friend begged
~im not to go; but he pleaded his business,
adding that he was determined not to be
withheld from his intention by the ghost, and,
although the minister delayed his departure,
by engaging him in a game of backgammon,
he at length started up, declaring he could
stay no longer. They, therefore, proceeded
to the water, but they found the boat ·
moored to the side of the lake, and the bo&t-
man assured them that it would be impossible
to cross. Captain S., however, insisted, and,
as the old man was firm in his refusal, he be-
came somewhat irritated, and laid his cane
lightly across his shoulders.
"It ill becomes you, sir," said the ferryman,
'' to strike an old man like me ; but, since you
will have your way, you must; I cannot go
with you, but my son will ; but you will never
reach the other side ; he will be drowned, and
you too.''
The boat was then set afloat, and Captain
S., together with his horse and servant, and
the ferryman's son, embarked in it.
WARNINGS. 147
The distance was not great, but the storm
was tremendous; and, after·having with great
difficulty got half way across the lake, it was
found impossible to proceed. The danger of
· tacking, was, of course, considerable; but,
since they could not advance, there was no
alternative but to turn back, and it was re-
.solved to attempt it. The manreuvre, how-
ever, failed; the boat capsiz~d, and they were
,all precipitated into the water.
" You keep hold of the horse, I can swim,''
said Captain S. to his servant, when he saw
what was about to happen.
Being an excellent swimmer, and the dis-
tance from the shore inconsiderable, he hoped
to save himself, but he had on a heavy top
. coat, with boots and spurs. The coat he con-
trived to take ofl in the water, and then struck
·out with confidence ; but, alas, the coat had
got entangled with one of the spurs, and, as
he swam, it clung to him, getting heavier and
heavier, as it became saturated with water,
ever dragging him beneath the stream. He,
however, reached the shore, where his anxious
.friend s~ill stood watching the event, and, as
the latter bent over him, he was just able to
make a gesture with his hand, which seemed
148 'JARNI:SGS•
.to say, "You see, it was to be!" and then
expired.
The boatman was also drowned; but, by
the aid of the ho:rse, the servant escaped.
As I do not wish to startle my readers nor
draw too suddenly on their faith, I have com-
.menced with this class of phenomena, which
.it must be admitted m·e sufficiently strange,
and, if true, must also be admitted to he well
worthy of attention. No doubt, these case~,
•and still more those to which I shall next pro-
ceed, give a painful shock to the received
notions ofpolished and educated society in gene-
.ral; especially in this country, where the ana-
.lytical orscientifical psychologyofthe eighteenth
century has almost entirely superseded the
.study of synthetic or pl1ilosophical psychology.
It has become a custom to look at all the phe-
nomena regarding man in a purely physi-
~logical point of view; for although it is
admitted that he has a mind, and although
there is such a science as metaphysics, the
.existt:;nce of what we call mind, is uever con-
.sidered but as connected with the body. 'Ve
:know that body can exist without mind; for,
not to speak of certain living conditions, the
body subsists without mind when the spi1it
WARNINGs. 149
has fled; albeit, without the living principle it
can subsist but for a short period, except under
particular circumstances; but we seem to have
forgotten that mind, thoug·h very dependant
upon body as long as the connexion between
them continues, can yet subsist without it.
There have, indeed, been philosophers, pnreli
materialistic, who have denied this; but they
are not many; and not only the whole
Christian world, but all who believe in a
future state, must perforce admit it; for even
those who hold that most unsatisfactory doc-
trin·
e, that there will be neither memory nor
consciousness till a second incorporation takes
place, will not deny that the mind, however
in a state of abeyance and unable to manifest
itself, must still subsist, as an inherent property
of mau's immortal · part. Even if, as some
philosophers believe, the spirit, when freed
from the body by death, returns to the Deity
and is re-absorbed in the being of God, not to
become again a separate entity until re-incor-
porated, still, what we call mind cannot be
disunited from it. And when once we have
begun to conceive of mind, and consequently of
perception, as separated from and independent
of bodily organs, it will not be very difficult to
apprehend that those bodily organs must cir·
0 5
]50 WAR~I~GS.
cumscribe and limit the view of the spiritual
in-dweller, which must otherwise be neces-
sarily perceptive ofspirit like itself, though per-
.haps unperceptive of material objects and
obstructil)ns•
. "It is perfectly evident to me," said Socrates,
in his last moments, "that, to see clearly, we
must detach ourselves from the body, and per-
ceive by the soul alone. Not whilst we live1
but when we die, will that wisdom which we
desire and love, be first revealed to us; it must
be then, or never, that we shall attain to true
understanding and knowledge; since by means
of the body we never can. But if, during
life, we would make the nearest app1·oaches
possible to its possession, it must be by
divorcing ourselves as much as in us lies from
the flesh and its nature.'' In their spiritual
Yiews and apprehension of the nature of man,
how these old heathens shamt! us t
The Scriptm·es teach us that God chose to
reveal himself to his people chiefly in dreams,
and we are entitled to conclude that the reason
of this was, that the spirit was then more free
to the reception of SJ)iritnal influences aud im-
pressions; and the class of dreams to which
I next proceed, seem to be b~st explaiued by
this hypothesis. It is also to be remarked,
that the awe o1· fear which penades a mortal
WAR~I~GS. 151
at the mere conception of being brought into
~·elation with a spirit, has no place in sleep,
whether natural or magnetic. There is no fear
then, no surprise; we seem to meet on an
equality-is it not that \Ve meet spirit ~ to
spirit? Is it not that our spirit being then
~·eleased from the trammels-the dark chamber
of the flesh, it does enjoy a tempol'al'Y equality?
Is not that true, that some German psycho-
logist has said, " Tlte magnetic mnn is a
spirit!"
There are numerous instances to be met
with, of pe1·sons receiving information in their
sleep, which either is, or seems to be, com-
municated by their departed friends. The.
approach of danger, the period of the sleeper's
death, or of that of some persons beloved, has
been frequently made known in this form of
dream.
. Dr. Binns quotes, from Cardanus, the case oi'
Johannes :Maria Ma1uosenus, a Venetian
senator, who, whilst Governor of ·Dalmatia,.
saw in a dream one of hi~ brothe1·s, to whom
he was much attached; the hrothe1; embraced
him and bade him fa1·ewell, because he \vas
going into the othe1· world; lVlanrosenus having
followed him a long way weeping, awoke in
tears and expressed much anxiety respecting
152 WAR~l~Gs.
this brother. Shortly afterwards he received·
tidings fi·mn Venice, that this Domatus, of
whom he had dreamt, had died on the night
and at the hour of the dream, of a pestilental
fevet·, which had carried him off in three days.
On the night of the 21st of June, in the year
1Sl3, a lady residing in the north of England,
dreamt that her brother, who was then with
his regiment in Spain, appeared to her saying,
"l\fary, I die this day at Vittoria.''
Vittoria was a town which, previous to the
famo~s battle, was not generally known even
by name, in this country, and this dreamer,
amongst others, had never heard of it; but,. on
rising, she eagerly resorted to a Gazetteer for
the purpose of ascertaining if such a place
existed. On finding that it was so, she im-
mediately ordered her horses, and drove to the
house of a sister, who resided some eight or
nine miles ofi·, and her first words on entering
the room were,~' Have you heard anything of
John?" "No," replied the second sister," bnt
I know he is dead ! He appeared to me last
night, in a dream, and told me that he was
killed at Vittoria. I have been looking into
the Gazetteer and the Atlas, and I find there
is such a place, and I am sure that he
is dead!" And so it proved; the young man
WAR~I~GS. 153
died that day at Vittoria, and, I belie,·e, on the
field of battle. If so, it is worthy of obser-
. vation, that the communication was not made
till the sisters slept.
A similarcase to this, is that ofMiss D.,ofG.,
who, one night, dreamt that she was walking
about the washing greens, when a figure ap-
proached, which she recognized as that of a be-
loved brother, who was at that time with the
British army, in America. It gradually fade1l
away into a kind of anatomy, holding up its
. hands, through which the light could be per-
•ceived,and asking for clothes to dress a body for
.the grave. The dream recurred more than once
in the ~arne night, and, apprehending· some
misfortune, :Miss D. noted down the date of
.the occurrence. In dne course of post, the
:news arrived that this brother had been killed
.at the battle of Bunker's Hill. Miss D., who
.. died only within the last few years, though
.unwilling to speak of the circumstance, never
.re.fused to tes~ify to it as a fact.
Here, supposing this to be a real apparition,
we see an instance of that de~ire for decent
obsequies so constantly attributed by the
ancients to the souls of ~he dead.•
When the German poet, Collin, died _
at
Vienna, a person named Hartmann, who was
154 WAR:-;ISGS.
his friend, found himself very much distressed
by the loss of a hundred and twenty florins,
which he had paid for the poet, under a pro-
mise of reimbursement. As this sum formed
a large portion of his whole possessions, the
circumstance was occasioning him consider-
able anxiety, when he dreamt, one night, that
his deceased friend appeared to him, and bade
him immediately set two florins on No. 11, on
the first calling of the little lottery, or loto,
then about to be drawn. He was bade to con-
. fine his venture to two florins, neither less nor
more ; and to communicate this iuformation to
nobody. Hartmaun availed himself of the
hint, and obtained a prize of a hundred and
thirty florins.
Since we look upon lotteries,in this country,
as an immoral species of gambling, it may be
raised as an ohjection to this dream, that such
intelligence was an unworthy mission for a
spirit, supposing the communication to have
been actually made by Collin. But, in the
first place, we have only to do with facts, and
not with their propriety, or impropriety, ac-
cording to our notions; and, by and by, I shall
endeavour to show, that such discrepancies
possibly arise from the very erroneous notions
commonly entertained of the state of those
WARNI~GS. 155
who have disappeared . from the terrestrial
life·.
Simonides, the poet, arriving at the sea-
shore with the intention of embarking on
board a vessel on the ensuing day, found an
unburied body, w·hich he immediately desired
should be decently inten-ed. On the same
night, this deceased person appeared to hi.:n
and bade him by no means go to sea, as he
had proposed. Simonides obeyed the in-
junction, and beheld the vessel founder, as he
stood on the shore. He raised a monument on
the spot to the memory of his preserver, which
is said still to exist, on which are engraven
some lines to the effect, that it was dedicated by
Simonides, the poet of Cheos, in gratitude to
the dead who had preserved him from death.
A much esteemed secretary died a few years
since, in the house of Mr. R. von N. About
eight weeks afterwards, Mr. R. himself being
ill, his daughter dreamt that the house-bell
t·ang ; and that on looking out, she perceived
the secretary at the door. Having admitted
him and enquired what he was come for, he
answered, ''to fetch somebody." Upon which,
alarmed for her father, she exclaimed," I hope
not my fatht>r." He shook his head so-
lemnly, in a manner that implied it was not
156 WAR~INGS.
the old man he had co~e for, and turned away
towards a guest chamber, at that time vacant,
and there disappeared at the door. The father
t·ecovered, and . the lady left home for a few
days, on a visit; on her return, she found her
brother had arrived in the interval to pay a
visit to his parents, and'\vas lying sick in that
room, where he died.
I will here mt•ntion a curious circumstance,
t·egarding Mr. H., the gentleman alltaded to in
a former page, who, being at the sea-side, saw,
in a dream, the danger that awaited his son
when he went to bathe. This gentleman has
frequently, Qn waking, felt a consciousness
that he had been conversing with certain per-
sons of his acquaintance-and, indeed, with
some of whom he knew little-and has after-
wards, not without a feeling of awe, learnt
that these persons had died during the hour~
of his sleep.
Do not such circumstances entitle us to en-
tP-rtain the idea that I have above suggested,
namely, that in sleep the spirit is free to see
and to know, and to communicate with spirit,
although the m~m01·y of this knowledge is.
rarely carried into the waking state.
_The story of the two Arcadians, who tra-
Yelled together to l\1egara, though reprinted_
WAHNISGS. 157
in other works, I cannot omit here. One of
these established himself, on the night of their
arrival; at the house of a friend, whilst the
Other sought shelter in a public lodging-house
for strangers. During the night, the latter
appeared to the former, in a dream, and be-
sought him to come to his assistance, as his
villainous host was about to take his life, and
only the most speedy aid could save him. The
dreamer started from his sleep, and his first
movement was to obey the summons, but, re-
flecting that it was only a dream, he presently
lay down, and composed himself again to rest.
But now his friend appeared before him a
second time, disfigured by blood and wounds,
conjuring him, since he had not listened to
his first entreaties, that he would, at least,
avenge ·his death. His host, he said, had mur-
dered him, and was, at that moment, deposit-
ing his body in a dung-cart, for the purpose
of conveying it out of the town. The dreamer
was ·thoroughly alarmed, arose, and hastened
to the gates of the city, where he found, wait-
ing to pass out, exactly such a vehicle as his
friend had described. A search being insti-
tuted, the body was found underneath .the ma-
nure;andthe host was,consequently,seized,and
VoL. r~ P
158 WARNINGS.
d~livered over to the chastisement of the
law.
"Who shall venture to assert," says Dr.
Ennemoser, '"that this communing with the
deadin sleepis merelya subjectivephenomenon,
and that the presence of these apparitions IS a
pure illusion !,
A circumstance fully as remarkable as any
recorded, occulTed at Odessa, in the year 1842.
An old blind man, named Michel, had for many
years, been accustomed to get his living by
seating himself every morning, on a beam, in
one of the timber yards, with a wooden bowl
at his feet, into which the passengers cast
their alms. This long continued practice had
made him well known to the inhabitants, and
as he was believed to have been formerly a
soldier, his blindness was attributed to the
numerous wounds he had received in battle.
For his own part, he spoke little, and never
contradicted this opinion.
One night, Michel, by some accident, fell in
with a little girl, of ten years old, named
Powleska, who was friendless, and on the verge
of perishing with cold and hunger. The old
man took her home, and adopted her; and,
from that time, instead of sitting in the tim-
ber yards, he went about the streets in her
WARNINGS. ]59
company, asking alms at the doors of the
houses. The child called himfather, and they
were extremely happy together. But when
' they had pursued this mode of life for about
five years, a misfortune befell them. A theft
··having been committed in a house which they
bad visited in the morning, Powleska was sus-
pected and arrested, and the blind man was
left once more alone. But, instead of resuming
his former habits, he now disappeared alto-
gether, and this circumstance causing the sus-
picion to extend to him, the girl was brought
before the magistrate to be interrogated with
regard to his probable place of concealment.
" Do yo.u know where Michel is ?" enquired
the magistrate.
·"He is dead!'' replied she, sheddingatorrent
of teat·s.
As the girl had been shut up for three days,
without any means of obtaining informa-
'tion from without, this answer, together with
her unfeigned distress, naturally excited con'-
siderable surprise.
"Who told you he was dead?" they en-
quired.
.~ " Nobody !''
" Then how can you know it?"
160 WAR~I~GS•
. / 'I saw him killed!"
"But you have not been out ofthe prison ?"
''But I saw it, nevertheless!''
''But how wa.~ that possible ? Explain
wh~t ,you_mean !" ·
"I cannot. All I can say is, that I saw
_
him killed."
." 'Vhen was he killed, and how ?"
''It was the night I was arrested.''
"That cannot be; he was alive when you
were seized !"
"Yes, he was; he was killed an hour after
.t!tat. They stabbed him with a knife."
." Where were you then ?',
~'I can't tell; hut I saw it."
Tne confidence with which the girl asserted
what seemed to her hearers impossible and
absurd, disposed them to imagine that she was
either really insane, or pretendi11g to be so ,
;
. so leaving Michel aside, they proceeded to in-
terrogate her al?9ut the robbery, asking her if
t;he was guilty. •
"Oh, no!'' she answered.
" Then how came the property to be found
about you?''
"I don't know: I saw uot~ing but the
murder."
WARNINGS, 161
"But there are no grounds for iUpposing
Michel is dead; his body has not been
found/'
" It is in the aqueduct."
"And do you know who slew him?''
''Yes; it is a woman. Michel was walk·
ing very slowly, after I was taken from him.
A woman came behind him with a large
kitchen-knife; but he heard her, and turned
round ; and then the woman flung a piece of
grey stuff over his head, and struck him re...
peatedly with the knife, the grey stuff was
much stained with the blood. Michel fell at
the eighth blow, and the woman dragged the
body to the aqueduct and let it fall in without
ever lifting the stuff which stuck to his face.''
As it was easy to verify these latter asser..
tions, they dispatched people to the spot; auil
there the body was found with the piece of
st~ff over his head, exactly as she had de..
scribed. But when they asked her how she
knew all this, she could only answer "I don't
know."
" But you know who killed him?"
"Not exactly: it is the same woman that
put out his eyes; but, perhaps, he will tell me
her name to-night; and if he does, I will tell
it to you.''
p 5
-162 WAR:'tiXGS.
"Who do you mean by he ?''
"Why, :Michel, to be sure!"
-During the _
whole of the following night,
without allowing her to suspect their intention,
they watched her ; and it was obsen·ed that
she never lay down, but sat upon the bed in a.
sort of letlmrgic slumher. Her hody was quite
motionless, except at intervals, when thi~ re-
pos~ w-
as inten-upted hy violent nervous shocks,
.which pervaded her whole frame. On the en_
-
_
suiug day, the moment she was brought before
,the. j_udge, she declared that sh~ was now
able to tell them the name of the assassin.
. ''But stay, said the magistrate; "did
:Michel never tell you, when he was alive, how
he lost his :sight ?"
" No ; but the morning llefore I was a.1Tested,
he promised me to do so ; and that was the
-
can5e of his death.''
" How could that be ?''
., Last night 1\Iichel came to me, and he
pointed t'J the man hidden behind the scaffold-
ing on wh-
ich he and I had been sitting. He
showed me· the man listening to us, when -
he
said, ' I'll tell yon all about th~lt to-night;' and
then the man--" ·
" Do you know the name of this man ?"
' ''It is L-uc:k; he went afterw~rds to a hroad
street that leads down to the harbour, and he
entered the third house on the right--"
'' What is the name of the street?"
, .: "I.don't know: but the house is one story
lower than the adjoining ones. Luck told
.Catherine what he had heard, and she pro-
posed to him to assassinate Michel; but he
refused, saying, 'it was bad enough to have
b~mt out his eyes fifteen years before, whilst
he was asleep at your dom·, and to have kid-
napped him into the country.' Then I went
in to ask charity, and Catherine put a piece of
plate into my pocket, that I might be arrested:
then she hid herself behind the aqueduct to
wa~t for Michel, and she killed him."
"But, since you say all this, why did yon
~eep the plate ?-why didn't you give infor-
mation?"
"But I didu't Mee it then. Michel showed
it me last u1g-ht." ·•
''But what should induce Catherine to do
this ?"
"Michel was her husband, and she had for-
saken him to come to Odessa and marry again.
One night, fifteen years ago, she saw Michel,
who had come to seek her. She slipped hastily
into her house, and Michel, who thought she
had not seen him, lay down at her door to
•
164 :WAR~INGS.
watch ; hut he fell asleep, and then Luck
burnt out his eyes, and carried him to a dis-
tance."
" And is it Michel who has told you this ?"
" Yes: he came, very pale and covered with
blood ; and he took me by the hand and
ihowed me all this with his fingt>rs."
Upon this, Luck and Catherine were
aTrested; and it was ascertained that she had
actually been married to Michel in the year
1819, at Kherson. They at first denied the
accusation, but Powleska insisted, and they
iubsequently confessed the crime. 'Vhen they
communicated the circumstances of the con-
fession to Powleska, she said, "I was told it
last night."
This affair naturally excited great interest,
and people all round the neighbourhood has..
tened into the city to learn the sentence•
CHAPTER VI.
DOUBLE DREAMING AND TRA~CE.
AMoNGST the phenomena of the dream-life
which we have to consider, that of double-
dreaming forms a very curious department.
A some\vhat natural introduction to this sub-
ject may be found in the cases above t·ecorde<l
of Professor Herder and Mr. S. of Edinburgh,
who appear in their sleep to have received so
1ively an impression of those earnest wishes
of their dying friends to see them, that they
found themselves irresistably impelled to obey
the spiritual summons. These two cases oe-
curred to men engaged in active daily life, and
166 DOUBLE DREAMING
in normalphysical conditions,on which account
I particularly refer to them here, although
many similar ones might be adduced.
With respect to this subject of double-
dreaming, Dr. Ennemoser thinks that it is not
so difficult to explain as might appear on a
first view, since he considers that there exists
an indisputable sympathy betwixt certain
organisms, especially where connected by re-
lationship, or by affection, which may be
iufficient to account for the supervention of
iimul~neous thoughts, dreams, or presenti-
ments ; and I have met with some cases where
the magnetiser and his patient have been the
subjects oftl1is phenomenon. With respect to
the power asserted to have been frequently
exercised by cau~ing or suggesting dreams by
an operator at a distance from the sleeper,
..Dr. E. considers the two parties to stand in a
positive and negative relation to each other;
the antagonistic power of the sleeper being
= 0, he becomes a petfectly-passive recipient
of the influence exerted by his positive
half, if I may use the expression; for, where
~mch a polarity is established, the two beinws
lieem to be almost blended into one; whilst
Dr. Passavent observes, that we cannot pro-
nounce what may be the limits of the nervoua
AND TRANCE. 167
force, which certainly is not bounded by the
termination of its material conductors.
I have yet myself met with no instance of
dream compelling by a person at a distance;
but Dr. Ennemoser, says, that Agrippa von
Nettesheim asserts that this can assuredly be
done, and also that the Abbot Trithemius, and
others, possessed the power. In modern times,
'\\resermaun, in Dusseldorf, pretended to the
samefaculty,and affirms that he had fi·equently
exercised it.
All such phenomena, Dr. Passavent attri-
butes to the interaction of imponderables-or
of one universal imponderable under different
manifestations-which acts not only within the
organism, but beyond it, independently of all
material obstacles; just as a sympathy appean
betwixt one organ and another, unobstructed
by the intervening ones ; and he instances the
sympathy which exists betwixt the mother
and the fretus, as an example of this sort of
double life, and standing as midway betwixt
the sympathy between two organs in the
same body and that between two separate
bodies; each having its own life, and its life
also in and for another, as parts of one whole.
The sympathy betwixt a bird and the· eggs it
sits upon is of the same kind ; many instance•
168 DOUBLE DREA~II~G
having been observed, wherein eggs taken
from one bird anti placed under another, have
p·roduced a brood feathered like the foster, in-
stead of the real parent.
Thus, this vital force may extend dynami-
cally the circle of its influence, till, under
favourable circumstances, it may act on other
organisms making their organs its own.
I need scarcely remind my 1eaders of the
extraordinary sympathies manifested by the
Siamese twins-Chang aud Eng. I .never saw
them myself; and, for the benefit of others in
the same situation, I quote the following par-
ticulars from Dr. Passavent :-"They were .
united by a membrane which extended from
the breast-bone to the navel~ but, in other re- ·
spects, were not different from their country-
men in general. They were exceedingly alike,
only that Eng was rather the most robust of
the two. Their pulsations were not always co-
incident. They were active and agile, and fond
of bodily exercises; their intellects were well-
developed, and their tones of voice and accent
were precisely the same. As they n~ver con-
'·ersed together, they had nearly forgotten their
native tongue. If one was addressed, they
hoth answered. They played some games of
~kill, but never with each other; as that, they
AND TRANCE. 169
said, would have been like the right hand
playing with the left. They read the same
book at the same time, and sang together in
unison. In America they had a fever, which
ran precisely a similar course with each. Their
hunger, thirst, sleeping and waking, were al-
ways coincident; and their tastes and incli-
nations were identical. Their movements
were so Rimultaneous that it was impossible to
distinguish with which the impulse had ori-
ginated; they appearerl to have but one will.
The idea of being separated by an operation
was abhorrent to them; and they consider
themselves much happier in their duality than
are the individuals who look upon them with
}Jity.
This admirable sympathy, although neces-
sarily in au inferior degree, is generally mani-
fested, more or less, betwixt all persons twin
born. Dr. Passavent, and other authorities,
mention several instances of this kind, in
which, although at some distance from each
other, the same malady appeared simulta-
neously in both, and ran precisely a similar
course. A very affecting instance .of this sort
of sympathy was exhibited, not very long ago,
by a youn~ lady, twin-bmn, who was suddenly
seized with an unaccountable horror, followed.
VoL. 1. Q
170 DOUBLE DREA:\IING
by a strange convulsion, which the doctor, who
was hastily called in, said, exactly resembled
the struggles and sufferings of a person drown-
ing. In process of time, the news arrived,.-
that her twin brother, then abroad, had been
drowned precisely at that period.
It is, probably, a link of the same kind, that
is established betwixt'the magnetise~· and his
patient, of which, besides those recorded .:in
various works on the subject, some curious
instances have come to my knowledge, such
as uncontrollable impulses to go to sleep, or
to perform certain actions, in subserviance to
the will of the distant operator. Mr. W. W.,
a lgentleman well known in the north of
England, 1·elated to me, tl1at he had been
cured, by magnetism, of a very distressing
malady, During part of the process of cure,
after the rapport had been well established,
the operations were carried on whilst he was
.atMalvern, and his magnetiset· at Cheltenham,
under which circumstances the existence of
this extraordinary dependence was frequently
cxltibited in a manner that left no possibility
of doubt. On one occasion, I remember, that
:Mr. 'V. W. being in the magnetic sleep, he
l"nddenly started from his seat, clasping his
ltands as if startled, and, presently aitenvanls,
AND TRANCE. 171
bt.u=
st into a viol~nt fit of laughter. As, on
waking, he could give no account of these im-
pulses, his family wrote to the magnetiser to
enquire if he had sought to excite any par-
ticular manifestations in his patient, as the
sleep had been somewhat disturbed. The
answer was, that no such intention had been
entertained, but that the disturbance might
possibly have arisen from one to which he had
himself been subjected. " Whilst my mind
was concentrated on you," said he, " I was
suddenly so much startled by a violent knock
at the door, that I actually jumped off my seat,
clasping my hands with affright. I had a
hearty laugh at my own folly, but am sorry if
you were made uncomfortable by it."
I have met with some accounts of a sym-
pathy of this kind existing betwixt yourig
children and their parents, so that the forn;ier
have exhibited great distress and terror at the
moment that death or danger have supervened
to the latter; but it would require a great
i1nmber of instances to establish this par-
ticular fact, and separate it from cases of acci-
dental coincidence. Dr. Passavent, however,
admits the phenomena.
I shall return to these mysterious influences
by and by; but to revert, in the meanwhile~
172 DOUBLE HREA!\JI::"JG
to the subject of double dreams, I will relate
one that occurred to two ladies, a mother and
daughter, the latter of whom related it to me.
They 'vere sleeving in the ~Same bed at Chel-
tenham, when the mother, Mrs. C., dreamt
that her brother-in-law, then in Ireland, had
sent for her; that she entered his room, and
saw him in bed, apparently dying. He re-
quested he1· to kiss him, but, owing to hi~
livid appearance, she shrank from doing so;
and awoke with the horror of tl1P- scene upon
her. The daughter awoke at the same mo-
ment, saying, "Ob, I have had such a frightful
dream!" ~' Oh, so have I!'' returned the
mother; '' I have been dreaming of my bro-
ther-in-law !'' "l\iy dream was about him,
too,'' added Miss C. "I thought I was sitting
in the drawing-ro.om, and that he came in
wearing a shroud, trimmed with black rib-
bons, and, approaching me, be said,' My dear
niece, your mother has Ieful:ied to kiss me, but
1 am sure you will not be so unkind ! ' "
As the~e ladies were not in habits of regular
correspondence with their relative, they knew
that the earliest intelligence likely to reach
them, if he were actually dead, would be by
m~ans of the Irish papers;. and they waited
anxiously for the _fqllowing \Vednesday, which
AND TRAXCE. 173
was the d.n.y these journals were received in
Cheltenham. 'Vhen that morning arrived,
1\Iiss C. hastened at an early hour to the read-
ing--room, and there she learnt what the dream~
had led them to expect: their friend was
dead; and they afterwards ascertained that his
decease had taken place on that night. The~'
moreover observed, that neither one or the
other of them had been speaking or thinking
of this gentleman for some time previous to
the occurrence of the dreams ; nor had they
any reason whatever for uneasiness with regard
to him. It is a remarkable peculiarity in this
case, that the dream of the daughter appears
to be a continuation of that of the mother. In
the one, he is seen alive; in the other, the
'shroud and black ribbons seem to indicate that
he is dead; and he complains of the refusal to
,~give him a farewell kiss.
·· One is almost inevitably led here to the con-
clusion that the thoughts arid wishes of the
dying man WPTe iufluencing the sleepers ; or,
that the released spirit was hovering near them.
Pomponius Mela relates, that a certain
people in the interior of Africa.lay themselves
'down to s1eep on the graves of their fore-
fathers, and believe the dreams that ensue to
be the unerring counsel of the dead.
Q 5
174 DOUBLE DRE.BIDlG
The following dream, from St. Austin, i~
quoted by Dr. Binns:-" Prrestantius desired,
from a certain philosopher, the solution of a
doubt, which the latter refused to give him; but
in the following night, the philosopher appeared
at his bed-side and told him what he desired to
know. On being asked, the next day, why he
had chosen that hour for his visit, he answered,
' I came not to you truly, but in my dream I
appeared to you to do so.' In this case, how-
ever, only one of the parties seems to have been
asleep ; for Prrestantim; says that he wus
awake; and it is, perhaps, rather an example
of another kind of phenomena, similar to the
instance recorded of himself by the late Joseph
\\rilkius, a dissenting minister; who says, that
being one night asleep, he dreamed that he
was travelling to London, and that as it would
not be much out of his way, he would go by
Gloucestershire and call upon his friends.
Accordingly he arrived at his father's house,
but finding the front door closed, he went
round to the hack, and there entered. The
family, however, being already in bed, he
ascended the stairs, and entered his father's
bedchamber. Him he found asleep; but to
his moth~r, who was awake, he said, as he
walked round·to her side of the bed, ':Mother,
AND THANCE. 175
I am going a long journey, and am come to bid
you good bye;' to which she answered: 'Oh,
dear sou, thee art dead!' Though struck with
the distinctness of the dream, Mr. Wilkins
attached no importance to it, till, to his surprise,
a letter arri\'ed from his father, addressed to
l1imself, if alive; or, if not, to his surviving
friends, begging earnestly for immediate in-
telligence ; ~ince they were under great appre-
hensions that their son was either dead or in
danger of death; for that on such a night
(naming that on which the above dream had
occurred), he, the father being asleep and Mrs.
W. awake, she had distinctly heard somebody
try to open the fore door, which being fast, the
person had gone round to the back and there
entered. She had perfectly recognised the
footstep to be that of her sou,who had ascended
the stairs, and entering the bedchamber had
said to her, ' Mother, I am going a long jour-
ney, and am come to bid you good bye;'
whereupon, she had answered, 'Oh, dear son,
.thee art dead !' Much alarmed, she had
awakened her hu&band and related what had
occurred, assuring him that it was not a dream,
for that she had not been asleep at all. Mr. W.
mentions that this curious circumstance took
place in the year l 754, ,\·hen he was living at
)76 DOUBLE DREAMI~r., ETC.
Ottery; and that he had frequently discuss~d
the subject with his mother, on whom the im-
pression made was even strong-er than on him-
ielf. Neither death, nor anything else re-
markable ensued."
A somewhat similar instance to this, which I
also quote from Dr. Binns, is that of a gentle-
man who dreamt that he was pushing violentlY,
against the door of a certain room in a house
with which he was well acquainted, whilst the
people in that room were, at the same time,
actually alarmed by a violent pushing against
the door, which it required their utmost force
effectually to resist. As soon as the attempt
·to hurst open the door had ceased, the house
was searched ; but nothing discovered to
account for the disturbance.
These examples are extremely curious; and
they conduct us hy a natural transition to
another 'department of this mysterious subject.
There must be few persons who have not
.heard among~t their friends and acquaintance
instances of what is called a JVraitlt-that i~,
-that in the moment of death, a person is seen
-in a place where bodily he is not. I believe the
Scotch use this term also in the same sense as
the Irish word Felch; which is a person'~
double seen at some indefinite period previon~
WRAITHS. 177
to his death, of which such an appearance is
generally supposed to be a prognostic. The
Germans express the same thing by the word
Doppelganger.
With respect to the appearance of wraiths,
at the moment of death, the instances to hA
met with are so numerous and well authenti-
cated, that I generally find the most sceptical
people unable to deny that some such pheno-
menon exists, although they evade, without, I
think, diminishing the difficulty, by pro-
nouncing it to be of a subjective, and not of an
objective, nature; that is, that the image of the
dying· person is, by some unknown operation,
presented to the imagination of the seer,
without the existence of any real outstanding
figure, fi·mn which it is reHected; which re-
duces such instances so nearly to the class of
mere sensuous illusion, that it seems difficult
to draw the distinction. The distinction these
theorists wish to imply, however, is, that the
latter are p\lrely subjective and self-miginating,
whilst the others have an external cause,
~~~hough not an external 'Tisible object-the
image seen being- protruded by the imagina-
tion ,of the seer, .in consequence of an un-
conscious intuition of the death of the person
whose wraith. is perceived.
·178 WRAITHS.
Instances of this kind of phenomenon have
hcen common in all ages of the world, insomuch
that Lucretius, who did not belie,·e in the
immortality _of the soul, and was yet unable to
rleny the facts, suggested the strange theory
that the superficial surfaces of all bodies were
continually flying off, like the coats of an onion,
which accounted for the appearance of wraiths,
ghosts, doubles, &c.; and a more modern
author, Gaffarillus, suggests that coiTupting
hodies send forth \'apours, which, being com-
pre"sed by the cold night air, appear visible to
the eJe in the forms of men.
· It will not be out of place, here, to mention
the circumstance recorded in Professor Gre-
gory's Abstract of Baron Von Reichenbach's
Researches in Magnetism, regarding a person
called Billing, who acted in the capacity of
amanuensis to the hlind poet Pfeffel, at Col-
mar. Having treated of various experiments~
hy which it was ascertained that certain sensi-
tive persons were not only able to detect
electric influences of which others were un-
conscious, but could a1so perceive, emanating
from the wires and magnets, flames which were
invisible to people in general; "the Baron," ac-
cording to Dr. Gregory," proceeded to a useful
apolication of the ret;ults, which is, says he,
WRAITHS. 179
so much the more welcome, as it utterly eradi-
cates one of the chief foundations of super-
stition, that worst enemy to the development
of human enlightenment and liberty. A
singular occurrence, which took place at Col
mar, in the garden of the poet Pfeffel, has been
made generally known by various writings.
The following are the essential facts. The
poet, being blind, had employed a young cler-
gyman, of the evangelical church, as amanuen-
sis. Pfeffel, when he walked out, was sup-
ported and led by this young man, whose
name was Billing. As they walked in the
garden, at some distance from the town, Pfeffel
observed, that, as often as they passed over a
particular spot,the arm ofBi-llingtrembled,and
he betrayed uneasiness. On being questioned,
the young man reluctantly confessed that, as
often as he passed over that spot, eertain feel-
ings attacked him, which he could not con-
troul, and which he knew well, as he always
experinced the same, in passing over any place
where human bodies lay buried. He added,
that, at night, when he came near such
places, he saw supenmtural appearances.
Pfeffel, with the view of curing the youth of
what he looked on as a fancy, went that night
with him to the garden. As they approached
JSO WRAITHS.
the spot in the dark, Billing percein•d a feeble
light, and when still nearer, he saw a luminous
ghost-like figure floating m·er the spot. This---
he described as a female form, with one arm
laid across the body, the other hanging down,
floating in the upright posture, bnt tranquil,
the.feet only a hand-breadth or two above the
soil. Pfeffel went alone, as the young man
declined to follow him, up to the place where
the figure was said to be, and struck about in
all directions with his stick, besides running
actually through the shadow; but the figure
was not more affected than a flame would have
been: the luminovs form, according to Billing,
always returned to its original position after
these experiments. Many things were tried
during several months, and numerous com-
panies of people were brought to the spot, but
the matter remained the ~arne, and the ghost
seer adhered to his serious assertion, and to the
opinion founded on it, that some individual lay
buried there. At last, IJfeffel had the place
d~g up. At a consider~ble depth was found a
firm layer of white lime, of the length and
breadth of a grave, and of considerable thiC'k-.
ness,and when this had been broken into, there
were found the bones of a human being. It
was evident that some one had been buried in
CHEMICAL EMANATIONS. 181
the place, and covered with a thick layer of
lime (quicklime), as is generally done in times
of pestilence, of earthquakes, and other simi-
lar events. The bones were removed, the ph
filled up, the lime mixed and scattered abroad,
and the surface again made smooth. When
Billing was now brought back to the place, the
phenomena did not return, and the nocturnal
spirit had for ever disappeared.
"It is hardly necessary to point out to the
reader what view the author takes of this
story, which excited much attention in Ger-
many, because it came from the most truthful
man alive, and theologians and psychologists
gave to it sundry terrific meanings. It ob-
viously falls into the province of chemical
action, and thus meets 'vith a simple and clear
explanation from natural and physical causes.
A corpse is a field for abundant chemi-cal
changes, decompositions, fermentation, putre-
faction, gasification, and general play of affi-
nities. A stratum of quicklime, in a narrow
pit, unites its powerful affinities to those of
the organic matters, and gives 1·ise to a long
·continued workiug of the whole. Rain-water
filters through and contributes to the action:
the lime on the outside of the mass first falls
to a fine powder, and afterwards, with more
VoL. 1. R
182 CHEl\ITCAL El\IAX ATIONS.
water, forms lumps which are very slowly
penetrated by the air. Slaked lime prepared
for building, but not used, on account of some
cause connected with a warlike state of society
some centuries since, has been found in sub-
terraneous holes or pits, in the ruins of old
castles; and the mass, except on the outside,
was so unaltered, that it has been used for
modern buildings. It is evideut, therefore,
that in such circumstances there must be a
Tery slow and long continued chemical action,
partly owing to the slow penetration of the
mass of lime by the external carbonic acid,
partly to the changes going on in the remains
of animal·matter, at all events as long as any
is left. In the above case, this must have gpne
on in Pfeffel's garden, and, as we know that
chemical action is invariably associated with
light, visible to the sensitive, this must have
.been the origin of the luminous appearance,
which again must have continued until the
mutual affinities of the organic remains, the
lime, the air, and water, had finally come to a
~tate of chemical rest or equilibrium. As
soon, therefore, as a sensitive person, although
.otherwise quite healthy, came that way, and
entered within the sphere of the force in
action, he ~nst feel, by day, like 1\'Idlle. Maix,
the sensations so often described, and see by
CHEMICAL EMANATIONS. 183
night, li.ke Mdlle. Reichel, the luminous ap-
pearance. Ignorance, fear, and superstition,
would now dress up the feebly shining ,.a-
pourous light into a human form, and furnish
it with human limbs and members; just as
we can at pleasure fancy every cloud 1n the
sky to represent a man or a demon.
" The wish to strike a fatal blow at the
monster superstition, which, at no distant
.period, poured out on European society from a
iimilar source, such inexpressible misery,
when, in trials for witchcraft, not hundreds,
not thousands, but hundreds of thousands of
innocent human bP.ings perished miserably,
either on the scaffold, at the stake, or by the
eff~cts of torture,-this desire induced the
author to try the experiment of bringing, if
possible, a highly sensitive patient, by night,
to a churchyard. It appeared possible that
such a person might see, over graves, in which
mouldering bodies lie, something similar to
that which Billing had seen. Mdlle. Reichel
had the courage, rare in her sex, to gratify thi~
wish of the author. On two very dark nights
i.he allowed herbelf to be taken from the castle
of Reisenherg·, where she was living, with the
author's family, to the neighbouring church-
yard of Grunzing. The result justified his
anticipation in the most beautiful manner.
184 CHEMIACL EMA~ATIONS.
She very soon saw a light, and observed
on one of the gra••es, along its length, a
delicate, breathing flame : she also saw the
same thing, only weaker, on a second
grave.· But she saw neither witches nor
ghosts; she described the fiery appearance as
a shining vapour, one to two spans high, ex-
tending as· far as the grave, and floating near
its surface. Some time afterwards she was
taken to two large cemeteries near Vienna,
where several burials occur daily, and graves
lie about by thousands. Here she saw nume-
rous graves provided with similar lights.
Wherever she looked, she saw luminous
masses scattered about. But this appearance
was most vivid over the newest graves, while
in the oldest it could not be perceived. She
described the appearance less as a cloar flame,
than as a dense vaporous mass. of fire, inter-
mediate between fog and flame. On many
graves the flame was four feet high, so that
when she stood on them, it surrounded her up
to the neck. If she thrust her hand into it,
it was like putting it into a dense fiery cloud.
She betrayed no uneasiness, because she had
all her life been accustomed to such emana-
tions, and had seen the same, in the author's
experiments, often produced by natural causes.
.Many ghost stories will now find their natural
CHEMlCAL EMAXATlONSo 185
explanation. We can also see, that it was not
altogether erroneons, when old women declared
·that all had not the gift to see the departed
wandering about their graves; fur it must
have always been the sensitive alone who were
able .to perceive the light g-hen out by tht!
chemical action going on in the corpse. The
author has thus, he hopes, succeeded in tear-
ing down one of the most impenetrable
barriers·erected by dark ignorance and super~
ititious folly, agai~st the progress of natural
truth.''
" [The reader will at once apply the abo,·e
most remarkable experiments to the explana·
tion of corpse-lights in church-yards, which
·were often visible to the gifted alone, to those
who had the second sight, for example. Many
nervous or hysterical females must often ha,·e
been alarmed by white, faintly luminous ob-
Jects, in dark churchyards, to which objects
fear has given a defined form. In this, as
well as in numerous other points, which will
force themse1Ve3on the attention of the careful
'reader of both works, Baron Reichenbach's
experiments illustrate the experiences of the
Seeress of Prevot·st.-W. G.]'' *
• This very curious work I have translated from the
German. Published by Moore, London.-C. C.
It 0
186 THI<~ l'ALI~GA~ESB.•
That the flames here descrihed may have
origiuated in chemical action, is an opinion I
have no intention of disputing; the fact may
po~!Sibly be so ; such a phenomenon has fre-
,quently been observed hovering over coffins
and decomposing flesh ; but I confess I cannot
perceive the slightest grounds for the assertion
that it was the ignorance, fear, and superstition
of Billing, who was an Evangelical clergy-
man, that caused him to dress up this vaporous
light in a human form and supply it with
members, &c. In the first place, I see no
proof adduced that Billing was either ignoraut
or superstitious, nor even afraid; the feelings
he complained of, appearing to be rather phy-
sical than moral; and it must be a weak per-
son indeed, who, in company with another,
could be excited to such a fn~ak of the imagi-
nation. It is easily comprehensible, that that
which appeared only a luminous vapour by
day, might when 1·eflected ou a darker atmo-
<· t'phere, present a uefined form; and the sug-
' gestion of this possibility might lead to some
curious speculations, with regard to a mystery
callrd the palinganesia, said to ha\·e been prac-
tised by some of the chemists and alchemists
of the sixteenth century.
Gu.f:I"arillus, in his book, entitled" Curiosite$
THE PALINGA~ESIA • 187
.Inouies," published in 1650, when speaking on
the subject of talismans, signatures, &c., ob-
.serves, that since in many instances the plants
used for these purposes were reduced to ashes,
and no longer retained their form, their efficacy
which depended on their figure should in-
evitably be destroyed; but this, he says, is not
the case, since, by an admirable potency exist-
ing in nature, the form, though invisible, is
still retained in the ashes. This, he observes,
may appear strange to those who have never
attended to the subject ; but he asserts that an
accou11t of the experiment will be found in the
works of Mr. Du Chesne. one of the best
chemists of the period, who had been shown,
by a Polish physician, at Cracow,certain phials
containing ashes, which, when duly heated, ex-
hibited the forms of various plants. A small
obscure cloud was first observed, which gradu-
ally took on a defined form, and presented to
the eye a rose, or whatever plant or flower the
ashes consisted of. Mr. Du Chesne, however, ·.,
had ·never been able to repeat the experiment,
though he had made several unsuccessful
attempts to do so; but at length he succeeded,
by accident, in the following manner:-Having
for some purpose extracted the salts from some
burnt nettles, and having- left the lie outside
']88 THE "l'A LlNGANESIA.
_the house, all night, to cool, in the morning he
found it frozen; and, to his surp1;se, the form
·and figure of the nettles were so exactly re-
presented on the ice, that the living plant
'could not lJe more perfect. Delighted at this
·discovery, he summoned l\Ir. De Luynes, par-
liamentary councillor, to behold this cm;osity;
from whence, he says, they both concluded,
•that when a body dies, its form or figure still
resides in its ashes. ·
Kircher, Vallemout, Digby, and others, are
said to have practised this art of 1·e~uscitating
the forms of plants from their ashe~ ; and at
the meeting of naturalists at Stuttg-ard, iu
1834, a Swiss savant seems to have 1:evived
the subject, and given a receipt for the ex-
pei;ment extracted from a work by Oetinger,
called" Thoughts on the Birth and Genera-
tion of Things." "The earthly husk," says
Oetinger, "remains in the retort, whilst the
volatile essence ascends, like a spirit, perfect
in form, but void of substance.''
But Oetinger also records another discovery
of this description, which, he says, he fell upon
unawarrs. A woman ha,·ing brought him a
larg·e bunch ofhalm, he laid it under the tiles,
which were yet warm with the summer's heat,
·where it dried in the shade. But, it being in
THE PALI~GA~ESIAA. 189
the'month of September, the cold soon came,
and contracted the lea\'es, without expelling
the volatile salts. They lay there till the
following J nne, when he chopped up the
.balm, put it into a glass retort, poured rain
water upon it, and placed a receiver above.
He afterwards heated it till the water boiled,
and then increased the heat; whereupon there
·appeared, on the water, a coat of yellow oil,
about the thickness of the back of a knife,
amd this oil shaped it:self into the forms of
innumerahle balm leaves, which did not run
one into another, hut remained perfectly dis-
tinct and defined, and exhibited all the marks
that are seen in the leaves of the plant. Oe-
tinger says he kept the fluid some time, and
showed it to a nmnber of people. At length,
wishing to throw it away, he :shook it, and the
leaves ran into one another with the disturb-
ance of the oil, but 1·esumed their distinct
shape again, as soon as it was at rest, the fluid
form retaining the perfect signature.
Now, how far these experiments are really
practicable, I connot say, their not being re-
peated, or not being repeated successfully, is
no very decided argument against their possi-
hility, as all persons acquainted with the
.annals of chemistry well know; but there is,
!}90 CORPSE CANDLES.
certainly, a curious coincidence betwixt these
details, and the experience of Billing; where
it is to be observed, that, accordiug to his
account-and what right ha\'e we to dispute it
-
-the figure after being disturbed by Pfeffel,
always resumed its original form. The same
peculiatity has heen observed with respect to
iome apparitions, where the spectator has been
bold enough to try the experiment. In a letter
to Dr. Bentley, from the Rev. Thos. \Vilkins,
curate of \Varblington, in Hampshire, written
in the year 1695, wherein he gi\·es an account
of an apparition which haunted the parsonage
house, and which he himself, and several
other persons, had seen ; he particularly men-
tions that, thinking it might be some fellow
hid in the room, he put his arm out to feel it,
and his hand seemingly weut through the
body of it, and felt no manner of substance.
until it reached the wall, " then I drew back
my hand, but toitill the apparition was in the
same place."
Yet this spectre did not appear above, or
near a grave, but moved from place to place,
.and gave considerable annoyance to the
-inhabitants of the rectory.
\Vith respect to the lights over the graves,
iufficing to account for the persuasion re-
CORPSE CANDLES. 191
garding what is called corpse candles, they
certainly, up to a certain point, afford a very
satisfactory explanation, but that explanation
does not comprehend the whole of the mystery,
for most of those persons who have professed
to see corpse candles, have also asserted that
they were not always stationery ove1· the
graves, but sometimes moved from place to
place, as in the following instance, which was
related to me by a gentleman who assured me
he reeeived the account from the person who
witnessed the phenomenon. Now, this last
fact, I mean the locomotion of the lights, wil1,
of course, be disputed; but so was their ex-
istence ; yet they exist, for all that, and may
travel from place to place, for anything we
know to the contrary.
The story related to me, or a similar in-
l§tance, is, I think, mentioned hy Mrs. Grant;
but it was to the effect that a minister, newly
inducted in his cure, was standing one evening
leaning over the wall of the church-yard
which adjoined the manse, when he ob-
served a light hovering over a particular.
spot. Supposing it to be somebody with
a lanthorn, he opened the wiclwt, and went ·
forward to ascertain who it might be ;
but before he 1·eacl.ed the sp.ot the light moved
192 CORP.;;E CA~DLES.
onwards'; and he followed, bnt could see no-
body. It did not 1;se far from tl1e ground, hut
advanced rapidly across the r0ad, entered a
wood, and ascended a hill, till it at length dis-
?1-Ppeared at the door of a farm-house. Unable
to comprehend of what nature this light could
he, the minister was deliberating whether to
make enquiries at the house or return, when
it appeared again, seeming to come out of the
house, accompanied by another, passed him,
and going over the same ground, they both dis-
appeared on the spot where he had first observed
the phenomenon. He left a mark on the grave by
which he might recognise it, and the next day
enquired of the sexton whose it was. The man
said, it belonged to a family tl1at Ii,·ed up the
hill, indicating the house the light had stopped
at, named M'D.-but that it was a consider-
able time since any one had been buried there.
The minister was extremely surprised to learn,
in the course of the day, that a child of that
family had died of scarlet fever on the pre-
ceding eV"ening. With respect to the class of
phenomena accompanied hy this phospho-
rescent light, I shall have more to say hy and
by. The above will appear a very incredible
story to many people, and there was a time that
it would have appeared equally so to myself;
REMARKABLE DREAM. ] 93
but I have met with .so much .sti·ange c'orrobo-
rative evidence, ;that I no longer feel myself
entitled to reject 1t. 1 asked the gentleman
· who told me the story, .whether he believed it;
he said that·he could not ,believe in anything
of the sort. I then .enquired ,if he .would
accept the testimony of that minister ;on any
other question, and ·he answered, " Most as-
suredly." As, however, I shall have occasion
·to recur to this subject in a subsequent chap-
ter, I will leave it aside for the present, and
'relate some of the facts which:led me to the
consideration of the above theories and ex-
periments. ·Dr. S. relates, that a Madame T.,
in Prussia, dreamt, on the 16th Marcl!, l832,that
the door opened, and her godfather, Mr. D., who
was much attached to her, _
entered the room,
dressed as he usually was when prepared for
church on Sundays; and that, knowing him to
· be in bad health, she asked him what he was
doing abroad at such an .early hour, and
whether he was quite well again. Where-
upon, he answered, that he was; and, being
about to undertake ;a very long journey, he
. had come to bid her farewell, .and to intru,;t
' her with a commission, which was, that she
would deliver a letter he had written to l1is
w1fe; but accompanying it .with an injnnction
VoL. I. s
194 REMARKABLE DREAM.
that she, the wife, was not to open it till that
day four years, when he would return himself,
precisely at five o'clock in the morning, to
fetch the answer, till which period he charged
her not to break the seal. He then handed
her a letter, sealed with black, the writing on
which shone through the paper, so that she,
the dreamer, was able to perceive that it con-
tained an announcement to Mrs. D., the wife,
with whom, on account of the levity of her
character,he had long lived unhappily, that she
would die that time four years. At this
moment, the sleeper was awakened by what
appeared to her a pressure of the hand,
and, feeling an entire conviction that this was
bomething more than an ordinary dream, she
was not surprised to learn that her godfather
Tias dead. She related the dream to MP.dame
D., omitting, however, to mention the an-
·1wuncement contained in the letter, which she
thought the d1·eam plainly indicated was not
to be communicated. The widow laughed at
the story, soon resumed he1· gay life, and
,married again. In the winter of 1835-6, how-
ever, she was attacked by an intermittent fever,
on which occasion Dr. S. was summoned to
attend her. After various vicissitudes, she
-<finally sunk; and, on the_16~h of :March, 1836,
REMARKABLE DREAM. 195
exactly at five o'clock in the morning, she sud-
denly started up in her bed, and, fixing her
eyes apparently on some one she saw standin~
at the foot, she exclaimed, ''What are yon
come for ? God be gracious to me ! I never
believed it !" She then sank back, closed her
eyes, which she never opened again, and, in a
quarter of an hour afterwards, expired very
calmly.
A f1iend of mine, Mrs. M., a native of tl1e
West Indies, was at Blair Logie, at the period
()f the death of Dr. Abercrombie, in Edin-
burgh, with whom she was extremely inti-
mate. Dr. A. died quite suddenly, without'
any • previous indisposition, just as .he was
about to go out in his carriage, at eleven
o'clock on a Thursday morning. On the night
between the Thursday and Friday, Mrs. 1\f.
dreamt that sbe saw the family of Dr. A. all
dressed in white, dancing a solemn funereal
dance, upon which she awoke, wondering that
she should have dreamt a thing so incongruous,
!'ince it was contrary to their custom to dance
on any occasion. Immediately afterwards,
whilst speaking to her maid, who had come
to call her, she saw Dr. Abercrombie against '
~he wall, with his jaw fallen, and a livid coun-
tenance, mournfully shaking his head, as he'
Jn6 • aEMARKAULE DREAM.
looked at her. She passed the day in great .
uneasiness, and wrote to enquire for the Doc-
tor, relating what had happened, and express-
it:tg her ce1-tainty- that he was dead; the letter
was seen by several persons in Edinburgh,
on the day of its arrival.
. The two following cases seem rather to be-
long to w~at is called in the East. Second
Hearing. although sympathy was probably the
exciting cause of the phenomena. A lady and
gentlerna'Q, in BP-rwickshire, were awakened
one night by a loud cry, which they both im-
mediately recognised to proceed from· the voice
of their son, who was then absent,. and .at a
considerable distance. Tidings subsequently
reached them that exactly at that period their
son had fallen overboard and was drowned;
a.nd on another occasion, in Perthshire, a person
aronsed .her husband~ one night, saying that
their son was drowned, for she had been
awakened .by the splash. Her presentiment·
also proved too well founded, the young man
having fallen from the mast-head of the ship.
In both cases we may naturally conclude, that
the thoughts of the young men, at the momP-nt
of the accident, would .rush homewards; and,
admitting Dr. Eunemoser's theory of polarity,
the passive sleepers became the recipients of the
OPINION OF PSYCHOLOGISTS. 197
force. I confess, however, that the opinion~
of another section of philosophers appear to
me more germain to the matter; although to
many persons they will doubtless be difficult oi
acceptance, from their appertaining to those
views commonly called mystical.
These psychologists then belieYe, as did
Socrates and Plato, and others of the ancients,
that in certain conditions of the body, which
conditions may arise naturally, or be prodncf'd
artificially, the links which unite it with the
spirit may be more or less loosened; and that
the latter may thus be temporarily disjoined
from the former, and so enjoy a foretaste of its
future destiny. In the lowest, or fir~t degree,
of this disunion, we are awake, though scarcely
conscious, whilst the imagination is vivified to
an extraordinary amount, and our fancy sup-
plies images almost as lively as the realities.
This, probably, is the temporary condition of
inspired poets and eminent discoverers.
Sleep is considered another stage of this dis·
junction, arid the question has even been
raised, whether, when the body is in profound
sletp, the spirit is not altogethe1· free and living
in another woTld, whilst the organic life pro-
ceeds as usual, and sustains the temple till the
return of its inhabitant. Without, at present,
s 5
·)98 OPINION OF PSYCHOLOGISTS.
attempting to support or refute this doctrine'
I wi1I only observe, that once admitting the
possibility of the disunion, all consideration of
time must be set aside as irrelavent to the
question; for spirit, freed from matter, must
move with the rapidity of thought-in short,
a spirit must be w!tere its tlwugllb; and affec-
tions are.
It is the opinion of these psychologists,
however, that in the normal and health~· con-
dition of man, the union of body, soul, ancl
spirit. is most complete; and that all the
degre~s of disunion in the waking state are
degrees of morbid Jerangement. Hence it is,
that somnambulists and clain·oyantes are
chiefly to be found amongst sickly women.
There have been persons who have appeared
to possess a power which they could exert at.
will, whereby they withdrew from their bodies,
these remaining during the absence of the spirit
in a state of catalepsy scarcely, if at all, to be
distinguished from death.
I say withdrew from t!teir bodies, assuming
that to be the explanation of the mystery ; for,
of course, it is but au assumption. ~pimenides
is recorded to have possessed this faculty, and
J!ermotinus, of Clazomenes, is said to ha,·e
v.·ander~d, in spirit, over the world, whilst hia;
CASES OF TIL\~CE. 199
body lny apparently dead. At length, his wife
taking advantage of this absence of his soul,
burnt his body, and thus intercepted its return.
So say Lucien and Pliny, the elder; and Varro
relates, that the. eldest of two brothers, named
Corfidius, being supposed ~o die, his will was-
opened and preparations were made for his
funeral by the other brother, who was declared
his heir. In the mean time, however, Corfidius
t·evived, and told the astonished attendants,
whom he summoned bJ clapping his hand~,
that he had just come from his younger brother,
who had committedhis daughter to his care, and
informed him where he had buried some gold.,
requesting that the funeral preparations l1e had
made might he cmn·erted to his own use. Imme-
diately afterwards, the news arrived that the
younger brothel· was unexpectedly decf'ased,
and the gold wat1 fonwi at the place indicated.
The la8t appear~ to have been a case of natural
trance ; but the two most remarkable instances:
of voluntary trance J. have met with in modern .
times is that of Colonel Townshend, and the.
Denish, who allowed himsP.lf to be buried.
'Vith regard to the former, he could, to all
appearance, die whenever he pleased; his
heart ceased to beat; there was no perceptibh~
respiration; and his whule frame became cold
200 CASES OF THA~CE.
3nd rigid as death itself; the features Leing·
shrunk and colourless, and the eyes glazed and
ghastly. He would continue in this state for
~everal hours, and then gradually revive; but
the revival does not appear to have been an
effort of will; or rather, we are not informed
whether it was so or not. Neither are we told
whether he brought any recollections back with
'him, nor how this strange faculty was first dt!-
veloped or discovered-all very importa.nt
points, and well worthy of investigation•. He
~eems to have made this experiment, however,
once too often ; for, on one of these occasions,
he was found to have actually expired.
With respect to the Dervish or Fakeer, an·
account of his singular faculty, was, I believe;
first presented to the public in the. Calcutta
papers, about nine or ten years ago. He had
then frequently exhibited it for·the satisfaction
of the natives, but subsequently he was put to
the proof by some of the European officers
and residents. Captain Wade, political agent,.
at Loodhiana, was present when he was disin-
terred, ten months after he had been huried by
Gen~al Ventura, in pl'esence of the :Maharajah
and many of his principal Sirdars.
It appears that the man previously prepared
him':lelf by · some prm!esses, which, he says,
CASES OF TR.\~CE. 201 ·
temporarily annihilate the powers of dig-es-
tion, so that milk received into the stomach
undergces no ch<mge. He next forces all the
breath in his body into his hrain, which be-
cpmes very hot, upon which the lnugs collapse,
and the heart ceases to beat. He then stops
up, with wax, every aperture of the body
through which air could entet·, except the
mouth, but the tongue is so turned back as to
close t.he gullet, upon which a state of insensi-
bility ensues. He is then stripped and put
into a linen hag, and, on the occasion in ques-
tion, this bag was sealed with Runjeet Sing's
own seal. It was then placed in a deal box,
which was also locked and sealed, and the box
being huried in a vault, the earth was thrown
over it and trod down, after which a crop of
barley was sown ou the spot, and sentries
placed to watch it. The Mahawjah, however, .
was so sceptical, that, in spite of all these pre-
cautions, he had him, twice iu the course of
the ten months, dug up and examined; and
each time he was found to be exactly in the
same state as when they had shut him up..
When he i,:, disinterred, the first step towards
his recovery is to turn buck his tongue, which
is found quite stiff, and requires for some time
to be retained iu its proper position by thei
CASES OF TRA~CE.
finger; warm water is poured upon him, and
his eyes and lips moistened with ghee, or oil.
'His recovery is much more rapid than might
be expected, and he is soon able to recognise
the bystanders, and converse. He says, that,
during this state of trance, his dreams· arc
ravishing, and that it is very painful to be
a\Yakened, but I do not know that he has ever
disclosed any of his experiences. His only
apprehension seems to be, lest he should be
attacked by insects, to avoid which accident
the box is slung to the ceiling. The interval
seems to be passed in a complete state of Hi-
bernation ; and when he is taken up, no pulse·
-
is perceptible, and his eyes are glazed like
those of a corpse.
He subsequently refused to submit to the
conditions proposed by some English officers,
and thus incurred their suspicions, that the
whole thing was an imposition; but the experi-·
ment has been too often repeated by people
very well capable of judging, and under too
stringent precautions, to allow of this mode of
escaping the difficulty. The man assumes .to
be holy, and is very probably a worthless fel-
low, but that does not affect the question one·
way or the other. Indian princes do not·
Jlermit themselves to be imposed on with im-
CASES OF TRA ~CE. 203
punity; and, as Runjeet Sing would not value
the man's life at a pin's point, he would
neglect no means of debarring him all acces8
to food or air.
In the above quoted cases, except in those of
Corfidius and Hermotinus, the absence of the
spirit is alone suggested to the spectator by
the condition of the body ; since the memory of
one state does not appear to have been carried
into the other-if the spirit wandered into other
regions it brings no tidings back; but we have
many cases recorded where this deficient evi-
dence seems to be supplied. The magicians and
Hoothsayers of the northern countries, by nar-
cotics, and other means, produce a cataleptic
~tate of the body, t·esembling death, when their
prophetic faculty is to be exercised ; and
although we all know that an alloy of impo-
~ition is generally mixed up with these exhi-
bitions, still it is past a doubt, that a state of
what we call clear-seeing is thus induced ; and
that on awaking, they bring tidings from
various parts of the world of actions then per-
fon~ingandevents occurring, which subsequent
investigation have verified.
One of the most remarkable cases of this
kind, is that recorded by Jnng Stilling, of a
man, who, about the year 1740 resided in the
~04 CASES OF TRAXCE.
neighbourlwod of Philaurlphia, in th~ United
Sta es. His habits were retired, and he spoke
little: he wa~ grave, be11e,·olent, aud pious, and
nothing was known agl.linst his character,
except that he had the reputation of possessing
some secrets that were not altog-ether l:rwful.
l\Iany extraordinary stories were told of him,
and amongst the rest, the following :-The
wife of a ship captain, whose husband was on
a voyage to Europe and Africa, and from
whom she had been long without tidings, over-
whelmed with anxiety for his safety, was in-
duced to address herself to this person. Having
listened to her story, he begged h e to excuse
· him for awhile, when he \vould bring her the
intelligence she required. He then passed into
an inner room, and she lii'at herself down to
wait; but his absence continuing longer
than she expected, she became impatient,
thinking he had forgotten her; and so,
. ~oftly approaching the door, she peeped
1 through some aperture, and, to her surprise,
··beheld him lying on a sofa, as motionless as if
he was dead. Shr, of course, did not think it
advisable to disturb him, hut waited his return,
when he told her that her husband had not
been able to write to her for such and su<~h
· reasons; but that he was then in a coffee-hou~
CASES OF TRA~CE. 205
in London, and would very shortly be h~1e
again. Accordingly, he arrived, and as the
lady learnt from him that the causes of his
unusual silence had been precisely those al-
leged by the man, she felt extremely desirous
of ascertaining the truth of the rest of the in-
foi·~ation; and in this she was gratified; for
he no sooner set his eyes on the magician than
he said that he had seen him before, on a cer-
tainday, in a coffee-house in London; and that
he had told him that his wife was extremely
ui1easy about him; and that he, the captain,
had th~reon mentioned how he had been pre-
vented writing; adding that he was on the
eve of embnrking for America. He had then
lo"st sight of the stranger amongst the tluong,
a:nd knew nothing more about him.
I have no m;thority for this story, but that
of J nng Stilling; and if it stood alone, it
might appear very incredible; hut it is sup-
ported hy so many parallel examples of iufor-
m"'ttt.ion given by people in somnamhulic states,
that we·arc not entitled to reject it 011• the
score o.f impossibility.
_
The late Mr. John Holloway, of the Bank
of England, brother to the engraver of that
uame, r~latecl of himself that ~eing on,e ~light
in bed, with his wife, and unable to sleep, he
YOL. I. T
206 CASES OF TR.\XCE.
had fixed his eyes and thoughts with uncom-
mon intensity on a lJeautiful star that was
shining in at the window, when he suddenly
found his spirit released from his body and
soaring into that bright sphere. But, instantly
seized with anxiety for the anguish of his wife,
if she discovered his body apparently dead lJe-
side her, he returned, and re·entered it with
difficulty (hence, perhaps, the violent convul-
sions with which some somnambules of the
highest order are awakened). He described
that returning, was returning to darkness; and
that whilst the spirit was free, he was alter-
uately in the light or lite dark, at.:cordiugly as
his tlwuglds ?cere with !tis wife or u·ith fhe
star. He said that he always avoided any-
thing that could produce a repetition of this
accident, the consequences of it being Yery
distressing.
\Ve know that by intense contemplation of
this sort, the Dervishes produce a state of
extacy, in which they pretend to be transported
to Qther spheres; and not only the Seeress of
Prevorst, but many other persons in a highly
magnetic state, ha,·e asserted the same thing
of themselves; and certn.inly the singular con-
formity of the intelligence they bring is not a
little remarkable.
CASES OF TRANCE. 207
Dr. Kerner relates of his somnambnle,
Frederica Hanffe, that one day, at Weinsberg,
she exclaimed in her sleep, "Oh! God!'' She
immediately a'voke, as if aroused by the ex-
clamation, and said that she seemed to have
l1eard two voices proceeding from herself. At
this time, her father was lying dead in his
coffin, at Oberstenfeld, and Dr. Fohr, the
physician, who had attended him in his illness,
was sitting with another person in an adjoin-
ing room, with the door open; when he heard
the exclamation," Oh,God !',so distinctly, that,
feeling certain there was nobody there, he
hastened to the coffin, from whence the sound
had appeared to proceed, thinking that Mr.
W.'s death had been only apparent, and that
he was reviving. The other person, who was
an unclP. of Frederica's, had heard nothing.
No person was discovered from w·hom the ex-
clamation could have proceeded, and the cir-
cumstance remained a mystery till an expla-
nation ensued. Plutarch relates, that a certain
man, called Thespesius, having fallen from a
great height, was taken up apparently dead
fi'om the shock, although no external wound
was to be discovered. On the third day after
the accident, however, when they were about
to bury him, he unexpectedly revived; and it
208 CASES OF TR\XCE.
was afterwards obserYed, to the surprise of all
who knew him, that, from being a vicious
reprobate, he became one of the most virtuous
of m~n. On being interrogated with respect
to the cause of the change, he related that,
dm·ing the period of his bodily insensibility, it
·appeared to him that he was dead, and that he
had been first plunged into the depths of an
ocean, out ofwhich, however, he soon emerged,
and then, at one view, the whole of space was
disclosed to him. Everything appeared in a
different aspect, and the dimensions of the
])lnnetary bodies, and the intervals betwixt
them, was tremendous ; whilst his spirit
seemed to float in a sea oflight, like a ship in
calm waters. He also described many other
things that he had seen ; he said that the souls
of the dead, on quitting the body, appeared
like a bubble of light, out of which a human
form was quickly evolved. That, of these,
some shot away at once in a direct line, with
great rapidity, whilst others, on the contrary,
seemed unable to find their due course, and
continued to hover about, going hither and
thither, till at length they also darted away in
one direction or another. He recognized few
of these persons he saw' but those whom he
did, 'and sought to address, appeared as if they
CASES OF TRA~CE·.
were stunned and amazed, and avoided him
with terror. Their voices were indistinct, and
seemed to he uttering vague lamentings.
There were others, also, who floated farther
from the earth, who looked bright, and were
gracious; these avoided the approach of the
last. In short, the demeanour and appearance
of these spirits manifested clearly their degrees
of joy or grief. Thespesius was then informed
hy one of them, that he was not dead, but that
he had been permitted to come there by a.
divine decree, and that his soul, which was
yet attached to his body, as by an anchor,
would return to it again. Thespesius then
observed, that he was different to the dead, hy
whom he was surrounded, and this observation
seemed to restore him to his recollection.
1,hey were transparent, and environed by a
1·adiance, but he seemed to trail after him a
dark ray, or line of shadow. These spirits
also presented very different aspects; some
were entirely pervaded by a mild, clear, ra-
diance, like that of the full moon; through
others there appeared faint streaks, that
diminished this splendour; whilst others, on
the contrary, were distinguished by spots, or
stripes of black, or of a dark colour, like the
marks on the skin of a viper.
T 5
~10 CASES OF TRA~CE.
There is a circumstn.nce which I cannot help
here mentioning in connexion with this history
of Thespesius, which on first reading it struck
me very forcibly.
About three years ago, I had several oppor-
tunities of seeing two young girls, then
under the care of a l\Ir. A., of Edinburgh, who
hoped, chiefly by means of magnetism, to re-
store them to sight. One was a maid-servant
affiicted with amaurosis, whom he bad taken
into his house from a charitable desire to he of
use to her; the other, who had been blind
from her childhood, was a young lady in better
circumstances, the daughter of respectable
tradespeople in the north of England. The
girl with amaurosis was restored to sight, and
the other was so far benefitted that she could
distinguish houses, trees, carriages, &c., and,
at length, though obscureJy, the features of a
person near her. At this 1'eriod of the cure
she was unhappily removed, and may possibly
hrtxe relapsed into her former state. l\ly
reason, howe,·er, for alludiug to these young
women on this occasion, is, that they were in
the habit of saying, when in the magnetic
state-for they were both, more.or less, clair-
·t:oyantes-that the people, whom Dr. A. was
ma.gnetising iu the same room, pre::;ented very
CASES OF TRA~CE. 211
different appearances. Some of them they
described as looking bright ; whilst others
were in different degrees, ~treaked with black.
One or two they mentioned over whom there
seemed to hang a sort of cloud, Eke a ragged
veil of darkness. They also said, though this
'~as before any tidings of Baron von Reichen-
bach1s discoveries had reached this conntry,that
they saw light streaming from the fingers of
1\-Ir. A., when he magnetised them; and that
sometimes his whole person seemed to them
radiant. Now, I am positi,·ely certain that
neither Mr. A., nor these girls, had e,·er
heard of this story of Thespesius; neither had
I, at that time; and I coufess, when I did
meet with it, I was a g·ood deal struck by the
c.oincidence. These young ~ople ~aid, that it
was the " goodness or badness," meaning the
moral state, of the persons that was thus incli-
cated. Now, surely this concurrence betwixt
the man,mentioned by Plutarch, and these two
girls-the or.e of whom had no education
whatever, and the other ,·cry little-is worthy
of some regard.
I once asked a young person, in a highly
clairvoyante state, whether s1:e e\·er saw" the
spirits of them that had passetl away;" for so
.-;he designated the dead, ne,·er using the word
212 CASES OF TIL\~CE.
death herself, in any of itsforms. She answered
me, that she did.
"Then where are they?', I enquired.
"Some are waiting, and some are gone on
before."
"Can you speak to them?'' I asked.
"No," she replied, '~there is no meddling nor
no diretion."
In her waking state, she would ha,·e heen
~}uite incapable of these answers; and that
" some arP. waiting and some gone on before,"
seems to he much in 31Ccorda.nce with the
'·ision of Thespesius.
Dr. Passavent mentions a peasant boy, who,
after a short but painful illness, apparently
died, his hody being perfectly stiff. He, how-
e,·er, revived, complaining bitterly of being
called bnck to life. He said he had been in a
delightful place, and seen his deceased rela-
tions. There was a great exaltation of the
faculties after this; and having been before
rather stupid, he now, whilst his body
lar Etiff and inunm·eabie and his eyes
closed, prayed and discoursed with eloquence.
He continued in this state for seven weeks, but
finally recovered.
In the year 17!33, Johann Schwerzeger fell
int:> a similar state of trance, afier an illness,
CASES OF TRANCE. 213
put revived. He said he had seen his .whole
life, and every sin he had committed, e,·en
those he had quite forgotten-everything had
been as present to him as when it happened.
He also lamented being recalled from the
happiness he was about to enter into; but said
that he had only two days to spend in this
valley of tears, during which time he wished
everybody that would, should come and listen
to what he had to tell them. His before
sunken eyes now looked bright, his face had
the bloom of youth, and he discoursed &o elo-
quently that the minister said, they had ex-
changed offices, and the sick man had become
his teacher. He died at the time he had fore-
told.
The most frightful cases of trance rcorded,
are those in which the patient retains entire con-
sciousness, although utterly unable to exhibit
any evidence of life; and it is dreadful to think
how many persons may have been actually
.buried, hearing every nail that was screwed
into their own coffin, and as perfectly aware of
the whole ceremony as those who followed
them to the grave.
Dr. Binns mentions a girl, at Canton, who
lay in this statP, hearing every word that was
said around her, hut utterly unable to move a
214 CASES OF TRAXCE.
finger. She tried to cry out, hut could not,
and supposed that she was really dead. The
l10rror of finding herself about to be buried,
at length caused a perspiration to appear on
her skin, and she finally revived. She de_
scribed that she felt that her soul had no power
to act upon her body; and that it seemed to
be in her body and out qft"t, at lite same time.
Now, this is very much what the somnam-
bulists say-their soul is out of the body, but
is still so far in rapport with it,that it does not
leave it entirely. Probably, magnetism would
be the best means of reviving: a person from
this state.
· The custom of burying people before there
are u~mistakable signs of death, is a very con-
demnallle one. A l\Ir. l\I'G. fell into a trance,
some few years since, and remained insensible
for five days, his mother being, meanwhile,
quite shocked that the physician would not
allow him to he buried. He had, afterwards,
a recun:ence of the malady, which continued
seven days.
A :Mr. S., who had been some time out of
the country, died, apparently, two days after
his return. As he had eaten of a pudding
which his step-mother had made for his dinner,
with her own hands, people took into their
CASES OF TRAXCE. 215
heads she had poisoned him; and, the grave
being opened for purposes of investigation,
the body was found lying on its face.
One of the most frightful cases extant, is
that of Dr. \'\Talker, of Dublin, who had so
strong a presentiment on this subject, that he
had actually written a treatise against the Irish
C'Ustoms of hasty burial. He himself, subse-
quently died, as was helieve(l, of a fever. His
decease took place in the night, and on the
following day he was interred. At this time,
1\Irs. Bellamy, the once celebrated actress, was
in Ireland ; and as she had promised him, in
the course of conversation, that she would
take care he should not be laid in the earth
till unequivocal signs of dissolution had ap-
peared, she no Sf>Oner heard of what had hap-
pened, than she took measures to have the
gra,·e re-opened; but it was, unfortunately,
too late; Dr. Walker had evidently revived,
and had turned upon his side; but life was now
quite extinct. The case related by Lady Fan-
shawe, of her mother, is very remarkable, from
the confirmation furnished by the event of her
d~atl1.
" My mother, being sick of a fever," says
Lady F., in her memoirs, "her friends a1Hl
senants thought h& deceased, and she lay in
216 CASES OF TRA~CE.
that state for two days and a night; but l\lr·
'Vinslow, coming to comfort my father, went
into my mothei·'s room, and, looking earnestly
in her face, said, ' She was so handsome, and
looked so lovP.ly, that he could not think her
dead; and, suddenly taking a lancet out of
his pocket, h~ cut the sole of her foot, which
bled, upon this he immediately caused her to
be removed to the bed again,and to be rubbed,
and such means used that she came to life, and
opening her eyes, saw two of her kinswomen
standing by her, Lady Knollys and Lady
Russell, both with great wide sleeves, as the
fashion then was ; and she said, ' Did you
not promise me fifteen years, and are you come
again already?' which they, not understanding,
bade her keep her spirits quiet in that great
weakness wherein she was; but, some hours
after, she de~ired my father and Dr. Howles-
worth might he left alone with her, to whom
she said, I will acquaint you, that, during my
trance, I was in great t,'Tief, but in a place I
could neither distinguish nor describe; but
the sense of leaving my girl, who is deare~ to
me than all my children, remained a troubl~
upon my sp1nts. Suddenly I saw two lJy me,
clothed in long white garments,and methought
I fell down upon my face in the dust, and they
THA~CE. 217
asked me why I was so troubled m so great
happiness. I replied,' Oh, let me have the
same grant given to Hezekiah, that I may live
fifteen years to see my daug·hter a woman,'
to which they answeren, 'It is done!' and
then at that instant I awoke out of my trance!'
And Dr. Howlesworth did affirm, that that day
she died, made just fifteen years from that time.''
· I have met with a somewhat similar case to
this, which occurred to the mother of a very
respectable person, now living in Edinburgh.
She having been ill, was supposed to be dead,
and preparations 'vere making for her funeral,
when one of her fingers were seen to move,
and, restoratives being applied, she revived.
As soon as she could speak, she said that she
had been at the gates of heaven, where she
saw some going in, but that they told her she
was not ready. Amongst those who had passed
her, and been admitted, she said, she !lad seen
JJ1r. So-and-so, the baker, and the remarkable
thing was, that during the time she had been
in the trance, this man had died.
·. On the lOth of January, 1717, Mr. John
Gardner, a minister, at Elgin, fell into a trance,
and, being to all appearance dead, he was put
into a coffin, and on the second day was carried
to the grave. But fortunately a noise being
VoL.I. u
218 TRANCE.
heard, the coffin was opened, and he was found
alive and taken home again; where, according
to the record, "he related many strange and
amazing things which he had seen in the other
world."
Not to mention somnambules, there are
numerous other cases recorded of persons who
l1ave said, on awaking from a trance, that they
had been in the other world; though fre-
quently the freed spirit, supposing that to be
the interpretation of the mystery, seems
busied with the affairs of the earth and brings
tidings from distant places, as in the case of
the American above-mentioned. Perhaps, in
these latter cases, the disunion is less complete..
Dr. Werner relates, of his somnambule, that
it was after those attacks of catalepsy, in
which her body had lain stiff and cold, that·
she used to say she had heen wandering away
through other spheres. Where the catalepsy
is spontaneous and involuntary, and resembles
Jeath so nearly as not to be distinguished
from it, we may naturally conclude, if we ad-
mit this hypothesis at all, that the seeing of
the r-pirit would be clear in proportion to its
disentanglement from the flesh.
I have spoken above of dream compelling
or suggesting, and I have heard of persons
WITCH POTIONS. 219
who have a power ofdirecting their own dreams
to any particular subject.
This faculty may be, in some degree, analo-
gous to that possessed by the American, and a
few somnambulic persons, who appear to carry
the recollections of one state into the other.
The effects produced by the witch potions
seem to have been somewhat similar, inasmuch
as they dreamt what they expected or wished
to dt·eam. Jung Stilling mentions, that a
woman gave in evidence, on a witch trial, that
having visited the so-called witch, she had
found her concocting a potion over,the fire, of
which she had advised her, the visitor, to
drink, assuring her that she would'then accom-
pany her to the Sabbath. The woman said,
lest she should give offence, she had put the
Yessel to her lips, hut had not drank of it; the
witch. however, swallowed the whole, and
immediately afterwards sunk down upon the
hearth in a profound sleep, where she had left
her. When she went to see her on the fol-
lowing day, she declared she had been to the
Brocken.
Paolo Minucci relates, that a woman ac-
cused of sorcery, being brought before a cer-
'tain magistrate, at t-,lorence, she not only
confessed her guilt, but she declared that, pro-
2:20 WITCH POTIO~S.
-vi<led they would let her return home and anoint
herself, she would attend the Sabbath that
-very nigl1t. The magistrate, a man more en-
lightened than the generality of his contem-
poraries, consented. The woman went home,
used her unguent, and fell immediately into a
profound sleep; whereupon they tied her to
the bed, and tested the reality of the sleep by
burns, blows, and pricking her with sharp
instruments. When she awoke on the follow-
ing day, she related that she had attended
the Sabbath. I could quote se\--eral similar
facts; and Gassendi actually endeavoured to
undeceive some peasants who believed them-
selves witches, by composing an ointment that
produced the same effects as their own magical
application~
In the year 1545, Andre Laguna, physician
to Pope Julius III., anointed a patient of his,
who was suffering from phrenzy and sleep-
lessness, with an unguent found in the house
of" a sorcerer, who had been arrested. The
patient slept for thirty-six hours consecutively,
and when, with much difficulty, she was
awakened, she complained that they had ton1
l1er from th.e 1nost ravishing delights; delights
which see1n to have rivalled the Heaven of the
1\'Iahometan. According to Llorente, the women
WITCH POTIOXS. 221
who were dedicated to the service of the
:Mother of the Gods, heard continually the
sounds of flutes and tambourines, beheld the
joyous dances of the fauns and satyrs, and
tasted of intoxicating pleasures, doubtless from
a similar cause.
It is difficult to imagine, that all the unfor-
tunate wretches who suffered death at the
stake in~ the middle ages, for having attended
the unholy assemblies they described, had no
faith in their own stories ; yet, in spite of the
unwearied vigilance of public authorities, and
private malignity,no such assemblage was ever
detected. How, then, are we to account for
the pertinacity of their confessions, but by
supposing them the Yictims of some extraor-
dinary delusion? In a paper addressed to the
Inquisition, by Llorente, he does not scruple to
assert, that the crimes imputed to, and con-
fessed by, witches, have most frequently n'l
existence but in their dreams; and that
their dreams are produced by the drugs with
which they anointed tliemselves.
ThP- recipes for these compositions, which
had descended traditionally from age to age,
]mve been lost since witchcraft went out of
fashion, and modern science lws uo time to
investigate secrets which appear to be more
222 WITCH POTI O~S.
curious than profitable; hut in the profound
sleep produced by these applications, it is not
easy to say what phenomena may have occuned
to justify, or, at least, account for, their self-
accusations.
CHAPTER VII.
WRAITHS.
SucH instances as that ofLady Fanshawe, and
other similar ones, certainly seem to favour
the hypothesis, that' the spirit is freed from
the body, when the latter becomes no longer
a fit habitation for it. It does so when actual
death supervenes, and the reason of its depar-
ture we may naturally conclude to be, that the
1Jody has ceased to be available for its manifes-
tations; and in these cases, which seem so
nearly allied to death, that, frequently, there
would actually be no revintl but for the exer-
tions used, it does not seem Ycry diflicult to
'224 WRAITHS.
conceive that this separation may take place.
When we are standing by a death bed, all we
see is the death of the body, of the going forth
of the spirit we see nothing; so in cases of
apparent death, it may depart and return,
whilst we are aware of nothing but the re-
animation of the organism. Certain it is, that
the Scriptures countenance this view of the
case in se\·eral instances; thus, Luke says,
Chap. viii., 34, "And he put them all out, and
took her by the hand, and called, saying,
'l\Iaid, arise!' ~nd her spirit came again,
and she arose straightway,'' &c., &c.
'Dr. 'Vigan observes, when speaking of the
effects of temporary pressure on the brain, that
the mind is not annihilated, because, if the pres-
sure is ti"mely removed, it is restored, though,
if continued too long, the borly will he resolved
mto its primary elements; and he compares the
human organism to a watch, which we can
either stop or set going at will, which watch,
he says, will also be gradually resolved into ih
ultimate elements by chemical action; and, he
adds, that, to ask where the mind is, during the
interruption, is like asliing where the motion
of the watch is. I think a wind instrument
'votlld be a better simile, for the mntion of the
watch is purely mechanical. It requires no
WHAITH S. 225
informing, intelligent spir-it to breathe into its
apertures and make it the vehicle of the harsh-
est discords, or of the most eloquent discourses.
"The divinely mysterious essence, which we
call the soul," he adds, "is not then the mind,
from which it must be carefully distinguished,
if we would hope to make any progress in
mental philosophy. Where the soul resides
during the suspension of the mental powers
by asphyxia, I know not, any more than I
know where it resided before it was united
with that specific compound of bones, muscles,
and nerve."
By a temporary pressure on the brain, the
mind is certainly not annihilated, but its
manifestations by means of the brain are sus-
pended ; the source of these manifestations
heing the soul or anima, in which dwells
the life, fitting the temple for its divine
inhabitant, the spirit. The connexion of the
soul and the body is probably a much more
intimate one than that of the latter with the
spirit; though the soul, as well as the spirit, is
immortal and survives when the body dies.
Somnamhulic persons seem to intimate that
the soul of the fleshly body becomes, here-
after, the body of the spirit, as if the imago or
idolon were the soul.
Dr. \Vigan, and indeed physiologists in
226 WRAITHS.
general, do not appear to recognise the old
distinction bet"ivixt the pneuma or anima and
the psyche-the soul and the spirit; and in-
deed the Scriptures occasionally seem to use
the terms indifferently; but still there are pas-
sages enough which mark the distinction ; as
'''here St. Paul speaks of a " living soul and
a quickening spirit," 1 Cor. xv., 45; again,
I Thess. v., 23," I pray God your whole spirit,
and soul, and body, &c,;" and also, Hebrews
iv. 12. Where he speaks of the sword of God
"dividing asunder the soul and spirit." In
Genesis, chap. ii., we are told that "man be-
came a living soul;" but it is distinctly said,
1 Cor. xii., that the gifts of prophecy, the dis'
cerning of spirits, &c. &c. belong to the spirit.
Then, with regard to the possibility of the
spirit absenting itself from the body, St. Paul
says, in ref~rring to his own Yision, 2 Cor. xii.,
''I knew a man in Christ, about fourteen
years ago (whether in the body, I cannot tell;
or out of the body, I cannot tell; God
knoweth); such an one caught up to the third
heaven ;" and we are told, also, that to be
"absent from the body is to be present with
the Lord," and that when we are "at home in
the body we are absent from the Lonl.'' 'Ve
are told, also, "the spirit returns to God, who
gaYe it;" but it depends on ourselves whether
WRAITHS. 227
or not our souls shall perish. "\Ve must suppose,
howe\'er, that even in the worst cases some
remnant of this divine spirit remains with the
soul as long as the latter is not utterly per-
verted and rendered incapable of salvation.
St. John also says, that when he prophesied,
he was in the spirit; but it was the "Soul.'l '!l
the Slain" that he saw, and that "cried with
a. loud voice, &c. &c.'' Soul.'f, here, being pro-
bably used in the sense of individuals; as
we say, ''So many souls perished hy ship-
vn-eck, &c."
In the "Revue de Paris," 29th July. 1838,
it is related that a child saw the soul of a
woman who was lying insensible in a mag-
netic crisis in which death nearly ensued,
depart out of her; and I find recorded in
another work that a somnambule who was
brought to give advice to a patient, said, "It
is too late; her soul is leaving her. I see the
vital flame quitting her brain.''
From some of the cases I ha,·e aho,·e re-
lated, we are led to the conclusion, that in
certain conditions of the body, the spirit, in a
manner unknown to us, resumes a portion of
its freedom, anrl is enabled to exercise more or
less of its inherent properties. It is somewhat
1·eleased from those inexorable conditions of
228 WIt.\ IT HS.
time and space, which bound and limit its
powers, whilst in close conncxion with matter,
and it communes with other spirits who m·e
also liberated. How far this liberation (ifsuch
it he), or 1·e-integration of natuntl attributes,
may t:tke place in ordinary sleep, we can only
conclude from examples. In prophetic dreams,
and in those instances of information appa-
rently received from the dead, this condition
seems to occur; as, also, in such cases as that
of the gentleman mentioned in a former chap-
ter, who has several times been conscious on
awaking, that he had been conversing with
sorne one, whom he has been subsequently
startled to hear had died at that period, ancl
this is a man apparently in excellent health,
endowed with a vigorous understanding, and
immersed in active business.
In the story of the American, quoted in a.
former chapter from J ung Stilling, there was
one point which I forbore to comment on at
the moment, but to which I must now re\·ert;
this is the assertion, that the voyager had seen
the man, and even conversed with him, in the
coffee-house, in· l.Jondon, whence the desire(l
intelligence was brought. Now, this single
case standing alone, would amount to nothing,
although Jung Still~ug, who was one of the
\VlL\ITlis . 22t)
riwst conscientioi1s of men, declares himself to
have been quite satisfied with the authority on
which he relates it ; but, strange to say-for
undoubtedly the thing is very strange-there
are numerous similar instances recorded ; and
it seems to have been believed in all ages of
the world, that people were sometimes seen,
where bodily they were not; seen not by
sleepers alone, but by persons in a perfect state
of vigilance; and that this phenomenon,
though more frequently occurring at the
moment that the individual seen is at the
point of death, does occasionally occur at in-
definite periods anterior to the catastrophe;
and sometimes where no snelL catastrophe is
impending. In some of these cases, an earnest
desire seems to be the cause of the pheno-
menon. It is not very long since a very esti-
mable lady, who was dying in the Mediter-
ranean, expressed herself perfectly ready to
meet death, if she could but once more'behold
her children, who were in England. She
soon afterwards fell into a comatose state, and
the persons surrounding her were doubtful
whether she had not already breathed her last;
at all events, they did not expect her to revive.
She did so, however, and now cheerfully an-
nounced that having seen her children, she
VoL. I. X
230 WRAITHS.
was ready to depart. During the interval
that she lay in this state, her family saw her
in England, and were thus aware of her
death before the intelligence reached them.
As it is a subject, I understand, they are un-
willing to speak of, I do not know precisely
under what circumstances she was seen; but
this is an exactly analogous case to that al-
ready recorded of Maria Goffe, of Rochester,
who, when dying, away from home, expressed
precisely the same feelings. She said she
could not die happy till she had.seen her chil-
dren. By and by, she fell into a state of coma,
whirh left them uncertain whether she was
dead or alive. Her eyes were open and fixed,
her jaw fallen, and there was no perceptible
respiration. 'Vhen she revived, she told her
mother, who attended her, that she had been
home and seen her children; which the other
said was impossible, since she had been lying
there in the bed the whole time. "Yes,'' re-
plied the dying woman, '' but I was there in
my sleep." A widow woman, called Alexander,
who had the care of these children, declared
herself ready to take oath upon the sacrament,
that during this period, she had seen the form
of l\Iaria Goffe come out of the room, where
the eldest child slept, and approach the bed
where she herself lay with the younger beside
WRAITHS• 231
.her. The figure had stood there nearly a
·quarter of an hour, as far as she could judge;
and she remarked that the eyes and the mouth
moved, though she heard no sound. She de-
·clared herself to have been perfectly awake,
and that as it was the longest night in the
year, it was quite light. She sat up in bed,
and whilst she was looking on the figure, the
clock on the bridge struck two. She then
adjured the form in the name of God, where-
upon it moved. She immediately arose and
followed it; but could not tell what had be-
·come of it. She then became alarmed, and
throwing on her clothes, went out and walked
on the quay, returning to the house ever and
anon to look at the children. At five o'clock,
she knocked at a neighbour's door, but they
would not let her in. At six, she knocked
·again, and was then admitted, and related to
the1n what she l1ad seen, which they, of
com·se, endeavoured to · persuade her was a.
dream or an illusion. She declared herself,
·howevei:, to have been perfectly awake ; and
.said, that if ever she had seen Maria Goffe in
·her life, sl1e had seen her that night.
The following story has been currently re.-
.lated in Rome, and is already in print. I take
it from a German work, and I do not know
232 WJL\.JTH S.
how far its authenticity can be established.
It is to the effect that two friends having
agreed to attend confession together, one of
them went at the appointed time to the Abbate
B., and made his confession; after which the
priest commenced the usual admonition, in the
midst of which he suddenly ceased speaking.
After waiting a short time, the penitent stept
forward and perceived him lying in the con-
fessional in a state of insensibility. Aid was
summoned and means used .to restore him,
which were for some time ineffectual; at
length, when he opened his eyes, .he bade the
penitent recite a prayer for his friend, who had
just expired. This proved to be the case, on
enquiry; and when the young man, who had
naturally hastened to his friend's house, ex-
pressed a hope that he had not died without
the last offices of the church, he was told to
his amazement, that the Abbate B. had arrived
just as he was in e:t·iremis, and had remained
wid~ him till he died.
These appearances seem to l1aYe taken place
when the corporeal condition of the person
seen elsewhere permits us to conceive the pos-
sibility of the spirit's having withdrawn from
the body; but the question then naturally arises,
what is it that was seen; and I confess, that of
WRAITHS. 233
all the difficulties that surround the subject, I
haYe undertaken to treat of, this seems to me
.the greatest; for we cannot suppose that a
spirit can be visible to the human eye, and
.both in the above instances and seyeral others
I have to narrate, there is nothing that can
lead us to the conclusion, that the persons
who saw the wraith or double, were in any
other than a normal state; the figure, in short,
.seems to have been perceived through their
external organs of sense. Before I discuss this
question, however, any further, I will relate
some instances of a similar kind, only with this
difference, that the wraith appearing as nearly
as could be ascertained at the moment of death,
it remains uncertain whetherit was seen before
pr after the dissolution had taken place. As
both in 1hese cases above related and those
that follm':, the material body was visible in
. one place, whilst the wraith was visible in
another, they appear to be strictly analogous;
especially, as in both class of examples, the
body itself was either dead or in a state that
closely resembled death.
Insta~ces of people being seen at a distance
from the spot on which they are dying, are so
numerous, that in this department I have po-
sitively an embarras de 1·icllesse$, and find it
X 5
WRAITHS.
difficult to make a selection; more especially
as there is in each case little to relate, the whole
})henomenon being comprised in the fact of the
form being observed and the chief Yariations
consisting in this, that the seer, or seers, fre-
quently entertain no suspicion that what they
haYe seen is any other than a. form of flesh and
blood; whilst on other occasions the assurance
that the person is far away, or some peculiarity
connected with the appearance itself, produces
the immediate conviction that the shape is not
corporeal. .
:Nirs. K., the sister of Provost B.~ of Aber-
deen, was sitting one day with her husband,
Dr. K., in the parlour of the manse, when she
suddenly said, "Oh ! there's my brother
come.! he ·has just passed the window," and,
followed by her hu~band, she hastened to the
door to meet the visitor. He was however not
there. "He is g·one round to the back door,".
said she; and thither they went; but neither
was he there, nor had the servants seen any
thing of him. Dr. K. said she must be mis-
taken; but she laughed at the idea; her brother
had passed the window and looked in; he must
have gone somewhere, and would doubtless be
hack directly. But he came not; and the intel-
ligeu~e short~y arrived from ~t. Andrew'~, that
WRAITHS. 23~
at that precise time, as nearly as they could
compare circumlStances, he had died quite sud-
denly at his own place of residence. I have
heard this story from connexions of the family
w • '
and also from an eminent professor of Glasgow,
who told me that he had once asked Dr. K.,
whether he believed, in these appearances.
"I cannot choose but believe," returned Dr. K.,
and then he accounted for his con\·iction by
narrating the above particulars.
Lord and Lady M. were residing on their
estate in Ireland ; Lord M. had gone out
shooting in the morning; and was not expected
to return till towards dinner time. In the
course of the afternoon, Lady M. and a friend
were walking on the terrace that forms a
promenade in front of the castle, when she
said, "Oh, there is l\1. returning!" whereupon
she called to him to join them. He, however,
took no notice, but walked on before them, till
they saw him enter the house, whither they
followed him ; but he was not to be found ;
and before they haJ recovered their surprise
at his sudden disappearance, he was brought
home dead; having been killed by his own
gun. It is a curious fact in this case, that
whilst the ladies were walking behind the
figure, on the terrace, Lady l\1:. called the
23G \\'RAlTHs.
attention of her companion to the shooting
jacket, observing that it was a particularly
convenient one, and that she had the Cl'edit
of having contrived it for him hel'self.
A person in Edinburgh, busied about her
.
daily work, saw a woman enter her house with
whom she was on such ill terms that she could
not but be surprired at the visit; but whilst
she was expecting an explanation, and under
the influence of her resentment avoiding to
look at her, she found she was gone. She re-
mained quite unable to account for the visit,
and as she said, " Was wondering what had
brought her there," when she heard that the
woman had expired at that pl'ecise time.
::1\ladame 0. B. was engaged to marry an
officer who .was with his regiment in India;
and wishing to live in privacy till the union
took place, she. retired to the cmmtry and
boarded with some ladies of hel' acquaintance,
awaiting his 1·eturn. She, at length, heard
that he had obtained an appointment, which,
by impl'oving his prospects, had removed some
difficulties out of the way of the marriage, and
that he was .immediately coming home. A
short time after the arrival of this intelligence,
this lady and one of those with whom she was
residing, were wall\ing over a bridge, when
WRAITHS. 2:3i
the friend said, alluding to an officer, she saw
on the other side of the way, "what an ex-
traordinary expression of face." But without
pausing to answer, JVladame 0. B. darted
across the road to meet the stranger-but he
was gone ! Where? They could not conceive.
They 1·an to the toll-keepers at the ends of the
bridge to enq~ire if they had observed such a
person ; but they had not. Alarmed and per-
plexed, for it was her intended husband that
she had seen, Madame 0. B. returned home;
and in due time the packet that should have
b1·ought himself, brought the sad tidings of his
unexpected death.
Madame 0. B. never recovered the shock,
and died herself of a broken heart not long
afterwards.
Mr. H., an eminent artist, was walking arm
in arm, with a friend, in Edinburgh, when he
suddenly left him, saying, " Oh, the1·e's my
b1·other !" He had seen him with the most
entire distinctness, but was confounded by
losing sight of him, without being able to
ascertain whithe1· he had vanished. News
came, ere long, that at that precise period his
brother had died.
l\irs. T., sitting in her drawing-room, saw
her nephew., then at Cambridge, pa8s across
238 WRAITHS.
the adjoining room. She started up to meet
him, and, not finding him, summoned the ser-
vants to ask where he was. They, however,
l1ad not seen him, and declared he could not be
there; whilst she as positively declared he
.was. The young man had died, at Cambridge,
quite unexpectedly.
A Scotch minister \vent to visit a friend,
who was dangerously ill. Af~r sitting with
the invalid for some time, l1e left l1im to take
some rest, and went below. He had been
reading in the library some little time, when,
.on looking up, he saw the sick man standing
at the door. " God bless me!" he cried, start-
ing up, "how can you be so imprudent ?" The
.figure disappeared; and hastening upstairs, he
found his friend l1ad expired.
Three young men, at Cambridge, had been
.out hunting, and afterwards dined together in
the apartments of one of them. After dinner,
:two of the party, fatigued with their morning's
exercise, fell asleep, whilst the third, a :Mr.
,M., remained awake. Presently the door
.opened, _
and a gentleman entered and placed
._himself behind the sleeping owner of tl1e
rooms,and, after standing there a minute, pro-
ceeded into the gyp-room-a small inner
:chamber, from which there was no tgress.
WUAITII S. 239
Mr. lVI. waited a little while, expecting the
stranger 'Yould come out again ; but as he did
not, he awoke his host, saying, "There's
somebody gone into your room ; I don't know
who it can be.''
The young man rose and looked into the
gyp-room, lJut there being nobody there he
naturally accused 1\ir. M. of dreaming ; but
the other assured him he had not been asleep.
He then described the stranger-an elderly
man, &c. &c. dressed like a country squire,
with g.aiters on, and so forth. " Why that's
my father," said the host, and he imme-
diately made enquiry, thinking it possible
the old gentleman had slipt out unobserved
by Mr. M. He was not, however, to be heard
of; and the post shortly brought a letter an-
nouncing that he had died at the time he had
been seen in his son's chawber at Cambridge.
1\ir. C. F. and some young ladies were not
long ago, standing together looking in at a
shop window, at Brighton, when he suddenly
darted across the way and they saw him
hun-ying along the street, apparently in pur-
suit of somebody. After waiting a little \Vhile,
as he did not return, they went home with-.
out him; and when he come, they of course
anaigned him for his want of gallantry.
240 WRAITHS.
" I beg your pardon," said he ; " but I saw au
acquaintance of mine that owes me some
money, and I wanted to get hold of him."
" And did you?" enquired the ladies.
"No," returned he; "I kept sight of him
some time; but I suddenly missed him. I can't
think how."
No more was thought of the matter; but by
the next morning's post, l\fr. C. F. received a
letter; enclosing a draught from the father of
the young man he had seen, saying, that his
son had just expired; anrl that one of his last
requests had been that he would pay l\Ir. C.
F. the money that he owed him.
Two young ladies staying at the Queen's
Ferry, arose one morning early, to bathe; as
they descended the stairs, they each exclaimed,
"There's my uncle!'' They had seen him
standing by the clock. He died at that time.
Very lately, a gentleman living in Edin-
burgh, whilst sitting with his wife, suddenly
arose from his seat, and advanced towards the
door, with his hand extended, as if about to
welcome a visitor. On his wife's enquiring
what he was about, he answered that he had
seen so-and-so enter the room. She had seen
nohody. A day or two afterwards the post
brought a letter announcing the death of the
pcn;on :;een.
WHAITHS. 241
A regiment, not very long since, stationed at
New Orleans, had a temporary mess-room
erected, at one end of which was a door for
the officers; and at the other, a door and a
space railed off for the messman. One day,
two of the officers were playing at chess, or
draughts, one sitting \vith his face towards the
centre of the room, the other with his back to
it. ''Bless me ! \vhy, surely that is your
brother !" exclaimed the former to the latter,
who looked eagerly round, his brother being
then, as he believed, in England. By this
time, the figure having passed the spot where
the officers were sitting, presented only his
back to them. "No,'' replied the second,
"that is not my brother's regiment; that's the
uniform of the Rifle Brigade. By heavens ! it
is my brother, though ;"he added, starting up,
and eagerly pursuing the stranger, who at
that moment turned his head and looked at
him, and then, somehow, strangely disappeared
amongst the people standing at the messman's
end of the room. Supposing he had gone out
that \vay, the brother pursued him, but he was
not to be found ; neither had the messman, nor
any body there, observed him. The young
man died at that time iu England, having just
exchanged into the Rifle Brigade.
VoL. r. Y
242 'WRAITHS.
I could fill pages with similar instances, not
to mention those recorded in other collections
and in history. The case of Lord Balcarres
is perhaps worth alluding to, from its being so
perfectly well established. Nobody has e,·er
disputed the truth of it, only they get out of
the difficulty by saying that it was a spectral
illusion t Lord B. was in confinement in the
ca.';tle of Edinburgh, under suspicion of Jnco-
hitism, when one morning, whilst lying in bed,
the curtains were drawn aside by his friend,
Viscount Dundee, who looked upon him stead-
fastly, leaned for some time on the mantle-
piece and then walked out of the room. Lord B.
uot supposing that what he saw was a sp~ctre,
c;alled to Dundee to come back and SJ)eak to
him, but he was gone ; and shortly afterwards
the news came that he had fallen about that
same hour at Killicranky.
Finally, I ha,T
e met with three instances of
persons who are so much the subjects of this
phenomenon, that they see the wraith of most
persons that dies belonging to them, and fre-
quently of those who are merely acquaintance.
They see the person as if he were ali,·e, and
unless they know him positively to be else-
where, they ha,·e no suspicion but that it 'is
bimself,. in the flesh, that is before them, till
WR.UTHS. 243
the sudden disappearance of the figure brings
the conviction. Sometimes, as in the case of
l\fr. C. F. above alluued to, no suspicion arises,
till the news of the death arrives, and they
mention, without reserve, that they have met
so and so, but he did not stop to speak, and so
forth.
On other occasions, however, the circum-
stances of the appearance are such, that the
seer is instantly aware of its nature. In the
first place, the time and locality may produce
the conviction.
Mrs. J. wakes her husband in the night, and
tells him she has just seen her father pass
through the room-she being in the West
Indies and her father in England. He died
that night. Lord T. being at sea, on his way
to Calcutta, saw his wife enter his cabin.
l\frs. Mac.... , of Sky, went from Lynedale
where she reside<l, to pay a visit in Perthshire.
During her absence, there was a ball given at
L.; and when it was over, three young ladies,
two of them her daughters, assembled in their
bedroom to talk over the evening's amusement.
Suddenly, one of them cried, " 0 God ! my
mother." They all saw her pass across the
room towards a chest of drawers, where she
vanished. They immediately told their fri~nds
244 WRAITHS.
what they had seen; and afterwards learnt
that the lady died that night.
Lord l\I. being from l:ome, saw Lady l\1.,
whom he had left two days before, perfectly
well, standing at the foot of his bed; aware
of the nature of the appearance, but wishing
to satisfy himselfthat it was not a mere spectral
illusion, he called his senant, who slept in the
dressing-room, and said to him, " John, who's
that?'' "It's my lady !•' replied the man. Lady
l\1. had been seized with inflammation and died
after a few hours illuess. This circumstance
awakened so much interest at the time, that I
am informed by a member of the family, George
the Third was not satisfied without hearing the
particulars both from Lord l\I. and the ser-
\ant, also.
But, besides time and locality, there are
very frequently other circumstances accom-
j)anying the appearance, which not only show
the form to be spectral, but also make known
to the seer the nature of the death that has
taken place.
A lady, with whos~ family I am acquainted,
had a son abroad. One night she was lying
in bed, with a door open which led into an
adjoining room, where there was a fire. She
had not been to sleep, when she saw her sou
WRAITHS. 245
cross this adjoining room and approach the
fire, over which he leant, as if very coltl. She
saw that he was shivering and dripping wet.
She immediately exclaimed, "That's my
G.!" The figure turned its face round, looked
at her sadly, and disappeared. That same night
the young man was drowned.
Mr. P., the American manager, in one of his
voyages to England, being in bed, one night,
between sleeping and waking, was disturbed
by somebody coming into his cabin, dripping
with water. He concluded that the person
had fallen overboard, and asked him why he
came there to disturb him, when there were
1)lenty of other places for him to go to? The.
.man muttered somethingindistinctly, and :Mr.
P. then perceived that it was his own brother.
This roused him completely, and feeling quite
certain that somebody had been there, he got
out of bed to feel if the carpet was wet ou
the spot where his brother stood. It was not,
however; and when he questioned his ship-
mates, the following morning, they assured
him that nobody had been overboard, nor had
anybody been in his cabin. Upon this, he
noted down the date and the particulars of the
event, and, on his arrival at Liverpool, sent .
the paper sealed, to a friend in London, de-·
y 5
246 WRAITHS.
siring· it mig-ht not be opened till he wrote
again. The Indian post, in due time, brought
the intelligent:e that on that night Mr. P.'s
brother was drowned.
A similar case to this is that of .Captain
Kidd, which Lord Byron used to -say he heard
from Captain K. himself. He was, one night
awakened in his hammock, by feeling some-
thing heavy lying upon him. He opened his
eyes, and saw, or thought he saw, by the in-
distinct light in the cabin, his brother, in
uniform, lying across the bed. Concluding
that this was only an illu:sion arising out of
so~e foregone dream, he closP.d his eyes again
to sleep; but again he felt the weight, and
there was the form still lying across the bed.
He now stretched out his hand, and felt the
uniform, which was quite wet. Alarmed, he
called out for somebody to come to him; and,
as one of the officers entered, the figure dis-
appeared. He afterwards learnt, that his
hrother was drowned on that night in the
Indian Ocean.
Ben Jonson told Drummond, of Hawthorn-
den, that, being at Sir Robert Cotton's house,
in the country, with old Cambden, he saw, in
a vision, his eldest son, then a child at Lon-
don, appear to him with a mark of a bloody
WRAITHS. 247
cross on his forehead ; at which, amazed, he
prayed to God; and, in the morning-, mentioned
the circumstance to 1\ir. Cambden, who per-
suaded him it was fancy. In the mean time,
came letters announcing that the boy had died
of the plague. The custom of indicating an
infected house by a red cross, is here suggested;
the cross, apparently, symbolizing the manner
of the death.
1\Ir. S. C. a gentleman of fortune, had a
son in India. One fine calm summer's morning,
in the year 1780, he and his wife were sitting
at breakfast, when she a10se and went to the
window; upon which, turning his eyes in the
same direction, he started up and followed her,
sa.ring, "l\iy dear, do you see that?'' "Surely,''
she replied, "it is our son. Let us go to him !''
As she wa~ very much agitated, however, he
begged her tQ sit down and recover herself;
and when theylookedagain, the figure was gone.
The appearance was that of their son, precisely
as they had last seen him. They took note of
the hour, and afterwards learnt that he had
died in India at that period.
·A lady, with whose family I am acquainted,
'~as sitting 'vith her son, named Andrew, when
she suddenly exclaimed that she had seen him
pas,s the window, in a white mantle. As the
248 WRAITHS.
window was high from the ground, and over-
hung a precipice, no one could have passed·;
else, she said," Had there been a path, and he
not beside her at the moment, she should have
thought he had walked by on stilts." Three
days afterwards, Andrew was seized with a
fever which he had caught from visiting some
sick neighbours ; and expired after a short
illness.
In 1807, when several people were killed in
consequence of a false alarm of fire, at Sadler;s
'Veils, a woman named Price, in giving her
evidence at the inquest, said, that her little
girl had gone into the kitchen ahout half-past
ten o'clock, and was surprised to see her brother
there, whom she supposed to be at the Theatre.
She spoke to him; whereupon, he disappeared.
The child immediately told her mother, who,
alarmed, set off to the theatre and found the
hoy dead.
In the year 1813, a young lady in Berlin,
whose intended husband was with the army
at Dusseldorf, heard some one knqck at the
door of her chamber, and her lover entered iu
a white neglige, stained with blood. Thinking
that this Yision proceeded from some disorder
in herself, she arose and quitted the room to
call the servant; who not being at hand, she·
WRAITHS. 249
l'etnrned, and found the figure there still. She
now became much alarmed, and having men-
tioned the circumstance to her father, enquiries
were made of some prisoners that were march-
~ing through the town, and it 'vas ascertained,
that the young man had been wounded and
had been carried to the house of Dr. Ehrlick,
in Leipsick, with great hopes of recove1y. It
afterwards proved, howeve1, that he had died
at that period, and that his last thoughts were
with her. This lady earnestly wished and
prayed for another such visit ; but she ne,·er
saw him again.
In the same year, a woman in Bavaria, who
had a brother with the army in Russia, was
one day at field-work, on the skirts of a forest,
and everything quiet m·ound her, when she
repeatedly felt herself hit hy small stones,
though, on looking round, she could see no-
body. At length, supposing it was some jest,
she threw down her implements and stept into
the wood whence they had proceeded, when
she saw a headless figure, in a soldier's mantle,
leaning against a tree. Afraid to approach,
she summoned j;;ome labourers from a neigh-
bom·ing field, who also saw it; but on going
up to it, it disappeared. The woman declared
her conviction that the circumstance indicated
250 WRAITHS.
her brother's death ; and it was afterwards
ascertained that he had, on that day, fa1len
in a trench.
Some few years ago, a l\Irs. H., residing in
Limerick, had a servant whom she much
esteemed, called Nelly Hanlon. Xelly was a
very steady person, who seldom asked for a
holiday, and consequently 1\Irs. H. was the
less disposed to refuse her, when she requested
a day's leave of absence for the purpose of
attending a fair, that was to take place a few
miles off. The petition was therefore fa\·orably
heard, but when Mr. H. came home and was
informed of Nelly's proposed excursion, he
said she could not be spared, as he had invited
some people to dinne1· for that day, and he had
nobody he could trust with the keys of the
cellar except Nelly; adding, that it was not
likely his business would allow him to get
home time enough to bring up the wine himself.
Unwilling, however, after giving her con-·
sent, to disappoint the girl, l\Irs. H. said that
:she would herself undertake the cellar depart-·
ment on the day in question; so when the
wished for morning arri\·ed, Nelly departed in
great spirits, having faithfully promised to re-
tuni that night, if possible, or at the latest, the
following morning.
WRAITHS. 251
The day passed as usual and nothing was
thought about Kelly, till the time arri,·ed for
fetching up the wine, whP-n :Mrs. H, proceeded
to the cellar stairs with the key, followed by a
servant carrying a bottle-basket. She had,
however, scarcely lJegun to descend when she
uttered a loud scream and dropt down in a
state of insensibility. She was carried up
stairs and laid upon the bed, whilst, to the
amazement of the other scn'ants~ the girl who
had accompanied her, said, that they had seen
Kelly Hanlon, dripping with water, standing
at the bottom of the stairs. l\1r. H. being
sent for, or coming home at the moment, this
8tory was repeated to him; whereupon he re-
proved the woman for her folly; and, proper
restoratives being applied, l\irs. H. at length
began to revive. As she opened her eyes, she
hea,·ed a deep sigh saying, " Oh, Nelly Han-
lon," and as soon as she was sufficiently re-
covered to speak, she corroborated what the
girl had said ; she had seen Nelly at the foot
of the cellar stairs, dripping as if she had just
come out oi the water. l\1 r. H. used his ut-
most efforts to persuade his wife out of what
he looked upon to be an illusion; but in vain.
"_Nelly," said he, " will come home by and
2J2 WRAITHS.
hy and laugh at you,'' whilst she, on the con-
trary, felt sure that Nelly was dead.
The night came, and the morning came, but
there was no Nelly. "\Vhen two or three days
had passed, enquiries were made; and it was
ascertained that she had been seen at the fair,
and had started to return home in the even-
ing; but from that moment all traces of her
were lost, till her body was ultimately found
in the river. How she came by her death,
was never known. Now. in most of these
cases, which I have above detailed, the person
was seen where his dying thoughts might
naturally be supposed to have flown, and the
visit seems to have been made either imme-
diately before or immediately after the disso-
lution of the body; in either case we may
imagine that the final parting of the spirit had
taken place, even if tlte organic life was not
quite extinct. I have met with some cases in
which we are not left in any doubt, with re-
spect to what were the last wisheo;; of the
dying person : for examp]e,-a lady, with
whom I am acquainted, was on her way to
India, when near the end of her voyage, she
was one night awakened by a rustling in her
cabin, and a consciousness that there was some-
thing hovering about her. She sat up, and
WR.\ITHS. 253
saw a bluish cloudy form moving away ; lmt
persuading herself it must he fancy, !'he ad-
dressed herself again·to sleep; but as soon as
she lay down, she both heard and felt the
same thing: it seemed to her as if this cloudy
form hung over and enveloped her. Overcome
with horror, she screamed. The cloud then
moved away, assuming distinctly a humau
shape. The people about her naturally per-
suaded her that she had hcen dreaming ; and
she wished t? think so; hut when she arrived
in India, the first thing she heard wa:-;, that a
very particular friend had come down to Cal-
cutta to be ready to receive her on her landing,
.but that he had heen takrn ill and clied, say-
ing, he only wished to live to see his old friend
once more. He had expired on the night she
saw the shadowy form in her room.
A very frightful instance of this kind of
rihenomenon is I'elated by Dr. H. 'Verner, of
Baron Emilins von 0. This young· man had
been sent to prosecute his studies in Paris;
hut funning somP. had connexions, he became
dissipated, and negleetcd them. His father's
counsels were unheeded, and his letters re-
mained unanswered. One day the young baron
.was sitting alone on a seat, in the Bois de
Boulogne, aud had fallen some\Yhat into a re,·e-
VoL. I. z
I
254 WRAITHS.
rie, when, on raisinghis eyes, he saw his father's
form before him. BelieYing it to be a mere spec-
tral illusion, he struck at the shadow with his
riding-whip, upon which it disappeared. The
next day brought him a letter urging his
return home instantly, if he wished to see his
parent ali\'e. He went, but found the old man
already in his grave. The persons who had
been about him said, that he had been quite
conscious, and had a great longing to see his
son; he had, indeed, exhibited one symptom
of delirium, which was, that after expressing
this desire, he had suddenly exclaimed, '' l\Iy
God ! he is striking at me with his riding-
whip !,, and immediately expired. In this
casP, the condition of the dying man resembles
that of a somnambulist, in which the patient
describes what he sees taking place at a dis-
tance; and the archives of magnetism furnish
some instances, especially that of Auguste
l\liiller, of Karlsruhe, in which, by the force
of will, the sleeper has not only been able to
bring intelligence from a distance, but also,like
the American magician, to make himself
visible. The faculties of prophecy and clear
or far-seeing, frequently disclosed by dyi~1g
persons, is fully acknowledged by Dr. AbeT-
crombie, and other physiologists.
WRAITHS. 255
Mr. F. saw a female relative, one night, by
his bed-side. Thinking it was a trick of some
one to frighten him, he struck at the figure ;
whereon she said, "What have I done? I
know I should have told it you before." This
. lady was dying at a distance, earnestly de-
siring to speak to Mr. F. before she departed.
I will conclude this chapter with the follow-
ing extract from "Lockhart's Life of Scott":-
"'Valter Scott to Daniel Terry, April 30,
1818. (The new house at Abbotsford being
then in progress, Scott living in an older
part, close adjoining.)
" * * The exposed state of my
house has led to a mysterious disturbance.
The night before last we were awakened by a.
violent noise, like drawing hea''Y boards along
the new part of the house. I fancied some-
thing had fallen, and thought no more about
it. This was about two in the morning.
J_Jast night, at the same witching hour, the
very same noise occurred. Mrs. S., as you
know, is rather timbersome; so up I got, with
Beardie's broad sword under my arm-
"Bolt upright,
And ready to fight."
256 WRAITHS.
Hnt nothing was ont of ·order, neither can I
discover what occasioned the disturbance.
Mr. Lockhart adds, " On the morning that
1
\'Ir. Terry received the foregoing letter, in
London, Mr. William Erskine was brcnl\fast-
ing with him, and the chief subject of their
conversation was the sudden death of George
Bullock, which had occurred on the same-
nigllt, and, as nearly as they could ascertain,
at the very hour when Scott was roused from '
his sleep by the ' mysterious disturbance'
here described. This coincidence, when
Scott 1·eceivcd Erskine's minute detail of what
had happened in Tenterdon-strect (that is the
death of Bullock, who had the charge of fur-
nishing the new rooms at Abbotsford), made a
much stronger impression on his mind than
might be gathered from the tone of an ensuing
communication.''
It appears that Bullock had been at Abbots-
ford, and made himself a great favourite with
old and young. Scott, a week or two after-·
wards, wrote thus to Terry, " Were you nut
struck with the fantastical coincidence of our
nocturnal disturbances at Abbotsford, with th~
melancholy event that followed? I protest
to you, the noise resembled half-a-dozen men
WRAITHS.
hard at work, putting up boards and furni-
ture; and nothing can he more certain than
that there was nobody on the premises a.t the
time. With a few additional touches, the
story would figure in Glanville or Aubrey's
collection. In the mean time, you may set it
down with poor Dubisson's warnings, as a
remarkable coincidence coming under your
own observation."
z 5
CHAPTER VIII.
DOPPELGANGERS, OR DOUHJ,ES.
I~ the instances detailed in the last chnptcr
the apparition has shown itself, .as nearly as
could be discovered, at the moment of (lissolu-
tion ; but there are many ca8cs in which the
wraith is seen at an indefinite period before or
after the catastrophe. Of these, I could quote
a great number, but as they generally resolve
themselves into simply seeing a person where
they were not, and death ensuing very shortlJ.
afterwards, a. few will suffice.
There is a very remarkable story of this
kind, related by Macnish, which he calJs "a
DOPPELGA~GERS. 259
case of hallucination, arising without thP indi-
vidual being conscious of any physical cause
by which it might be occasioned.'' If this case
stood alone, strange as it is, I should think so,
too; but when similar instances abound, as
they do, I cannot bring myself to dispose of it
so easily. The story is as follows :-1\Ir. H.
was one day walking along the street, appa-
rently in perfect health, when he saw, or sup-
posed he saw, his acquaintance, 1\Ir. C.,
walking before him. He called to him, aloud,
but he did not seem to hear him, and con-
tinned moving on. l\Ir. H. then quickened
his pace for the purpose of overtaking him,
hut the other increased his, also, as if to keep
ahead of his pursuer, and proceeded at such a
rate that Mr. H. found it impossible to make
up to him. This continued for some time, till,
on l\Ir. C. reaching a gate, he opened it and
passed in, slamming it violently in Mr. H.'s
face. Confounded at such treatment from a
friend, the latter instantly opened the gate,and
looked down the long lane into which it led,
where, to his astonishment, no one was to he
seen. Determined to unra,rel the mystery, he
then went to l\1r. C.'s house, and his surprise
was great to hear that he was confined to his
bed, and had been so fur several days. A
260 DOPPELGANGERS.
week or two afterwards, these gentlemen met
at the house of a common friend, when l\Ir. H.
related the circumstance, jocularly telling l\:Ir.
C. that, as lw had 8een his wraith, he of course
could not live long. The person addressed,
laughed heartily, as did the rest of the party;
hut .in a few days, l\fr. C. was attacked with
putrid sore throat, and died; and, within t\.
short period of his death, l\fr. H. was also in
the grave.
This is a Yery striking case : the hastening
on and tl1e actually opening and shutting the
gate, evincing not only will but pou·er to pro-
duce mechanical effects, at a time the person
was bodily elsewhere. It is true he was ill,
and, it is highly prohahle, was at the time
n~leep. The tihowing himself to l\ir. H., who
was so soon to follow him to the gra,·e, is
another peculiarity which appears frequently
to attend these cases, and which seems like
what was in old English, and is still, in Scotch,
called a tryst-an appointment to meet again
betwixt those spirits, so soon to be free. Sup-
posing l\fr. C. to have been asleep, he was
possibly, in that state, aware of what impended
over both.
There is a still more remarlmble case, given
by l\Ir. Barham, in his reminiscences. I haYe
DOPPELGAXGERS. 261
no other authority for it; hut he relates, as a
fact, that a respectable young 'voman was
awaked, one night, by hearing somebody in
her room, and that on looking up, she saw a.
young man, to whom she was engaged.
Extremely offended by such an intrusion, ~he
hade him instantly depart, if he wished her
ever to speak to him again. Whereupon, he
bade her not be frightened; hut said he was
come to tell her that he was to die that day
six weeks, and then disappeared. Having
ascertained that the young man himself
could not possibly have been in her room,
she was naturally much alarmed, and, her
evident depression leading to some enquiries,
she communicated what had occurred to the
family with whom she lived-I think as dairy-
maid; but I quote from memory. 'They at-
tached little importance to what seemed so
improbable, more especially as the young man
continued in perfectly good health, and entirely.
ignorant. of this prediction, which his mistress
had the prudence to conceal from him. When
theJatal <.hy arrived, these ladies saw the girl
looking very cheerful, as they were going for
their morning's ride, and observed to each
other that the prophecy did not seem likely to
he fulfilled; hut when they returned, they saw
262 DOPPELGA:XGERS.
her running up the aYenue towards the house,
in great agitation, and learned that her 10\·er
was either dead1 or dying, I think, in conse-
sequence of an accident.
. The only key I can suggest as the expla-
nation of such a phenomenon as this, is, that
the young man, in his sleep, was aware of the
fate that awaited him; and that whilst his
bocJ.y lay in his bed, in a state approaching to
tranre or catalepsy, the freed spirit-free as
the spirits of the actual dead-went forth to
tell the tale to the mistress of his soul.
Franz von Baader, says in a letter to Dr.
Kerner, that Eckartshausen, shortly before his
death, assured him that he possessed the power
of making a person's double or wraith appear,
whilst his body lay elsewhere, in a state of
trance or catalepsy. He added that the ex"1'
pcriment might be dangerous, if care were not
taken to prevent intercepting the rapport of
the etherial form with the material one.
A lady, an entire disbelieYer in these spiri-
tual phenomena, was one day walking in her
own garden with her husband, who was indis-
posed, leaning on her arm, wl1en seeing a man
with his back towards them, and a spade m
bis hand,digging,she exclaimed,'' Look there!
'Vho's that?'' '' \Vherc ?" said her companion;
DOPPELG:\XGEits. 263
and at that moment, the figure leaning on the
spade, turned round, and looked at her, sadly
shaking its head; and she saw it was her hus-
band. Slle avoided au explanation, by pre-
tending she had made a mistake. Three days
afterwards the gentleman died; leaving her
entirely converted to a belief she had previously
scoffed at.
Here, again, the foreknowledge and evident
design, as wcl~ as the power of manifesting it,
is extremely curious. l\1 ore especially, as the
antitype of the figure was neither in a trance
nor asleep, but perfectly conscious, wall<ing
and ta1king. If any particular purpose were
to be gained, by the information indicated, the
solution might be less difficult. One ohject,
it is true, may have been, and indeed, was
attained, namely, the change in the opinions
of the wife; and it is impossible to say, what
influence such a conversion may have had on
her after life.
It must be admitted that these cases are
''ery perp1exing. '"e might, indeed, get rid
of them by denying· them, but the instances are
to,o numerous, and the phenomenon has been
t.oo well known in all ages to be set aside so
easily. In the above examples the apparition,
or wraith, has been in soine way connected
DOPPELGASGERS.
with the death of the per~on whose visionary
likeness is seen ; and, in most of these in-
stances, the earnest longing to behold those he-
loved, seems to have been the means of effect-
ing the object. The mystery of death is to
us so awful and impenetrable, and we know so
little of the mode in which the spiritual ami
the corporeal are united and kept together
during the continuance of life, or what con-
dition may ensue when this connexion is about
to he dissolved, that whilst we look with
wonder upon such phenomena as these above
alluded to, we yet find very few persons who are
disposed to r~ject them as utterly apocryphaL
They feel that in that department, already ~o
mysterio,Is, there may exist a greater mystery
still; ancl the very terror with which the
thoughts of present death inspires most minds,
deters peor!le from treating this class of facts
with that scornful scepticism with which many
appmximate ones !lre deniecl and laughed at.
Kevertheless, if we suppose the person to h;n-e
heen dead, though it he but an inappreciable
instant of time, before he appears, the appear-
ance comes under the denomination of what
i~ commonly callerl a ghost; for, whether the
~pirit has been parted from the bo(_
ly- oue
:.;econd or fifty Jea.rs, ought to make llO differ-
DOPPELGANGERs. 265
'ence in our appreciation of t1Ie fact, nor is the
difficulty less in one case than the other.
I mention this, because I have met with,
and do meet with, people constantly, who
admit this class of facts, whilst they declare
they cannot believe in ghosts ; the instances,
they say, of people being seen at a distance at
the period of their death, are too numerous to
permit of the fact being denied. In grantintr
it, however, they seem to me to grant every-
thing. If~ as I have said above, the person be
dead, the form seen is a ghost or spectre,
whether he has been dead a second or a
-
century; if he be alive, the difficulty is cer-
tainly not diminished, on the contrary, it
appears to me to be considerably augmented;
and it is to this perplexing class of facts I
shall next proceed; namely, those in which
the person is not only alive, as in some of the
cases above related, but where the phenomenon
seems to occur without any reference to the
death of the subject, present or prospective.
In either case, we are forced to conclude
that the thing seen is the same; the ques-
tions are, what is it that we see, and how does
it render itself visible; and, still more difficult
to answer, appears the question, of how it can
communicate intelligence, or exert a mechani-
VoL. 1. 2 A
266 DOPPELGA~GERS.
cal force. As, however, this investigation will
he more in its place when I have reached that
department of my subject commonly called
ghosts, I will defer it for the present, and
merely confine myself to that of Doubles, or
Doppelgangers, as the Germans denominate
the appearance of a person out of his body.
In treating of the case of Auguste l\Iuller, n.
remarkable somnambule, who possesseJ the
power of appearing elsewhere, whilst his body
lay cold and stiff in his bed. Professor Kieser,
who attended him, says, that the phenomenon,
as regards the seer, must be looked upon as
purely subjective-that is, that there was no
outstanding form of Auguste 1\Iuller visible
to the sensuous organs, but that the magnetic
influence of the somnambule, by the force of
his will, acted on the imagination of the seer,
and called up the image which he belie,·ed he
saw. But then, allowing this to be possible,
as Dr. \Verner SaJ·s, how are we to account
for those numerou~-.c~ses in which there is no
tiOmnambule concern~~ in the matter, and no
especial rapport, that we are aware of, esta-
hlished betwixt the parties? And yet these
latter cases are much the most frequent; for,
although I have met with numerous instances
1·ecordcd by the German physiologists of what
DOPPELGANGERS. 267
is called far-working on the part of their som-
nambules, this power of appearing out of the
body seems to he a very rare one. :Many
persons will be surprised at these allusions to
a kind of magnetic phenomena, of which, in
this country, so little is known or believed; but
the physiologists and psychologists of Ger-
many have been studying this subject for the
last fifty years, and the volumes filled with
their theoretical views and records of cases,
are numerous beyond anything the English
public has an idea of.
The only other theory I have met with,
which pretends to explain the mode of this
douhle appearance, is that of the spirit lea,T-
ing the body, as we have supposed it to do in
cases of dreams and catalepsy; in which in-
stances, the nerve-spirit, which seems to be the
archams or astral spirit of the ancient philoso-
phers, has the power of projecting a visible
body out of the imponderable matter of the
atmosphere. According to this theory, this
nerve-spirit, which seems to be an embodi-
ment of-or rather, a body constructed out of
the nervous fluid, or ether-in short, the
spiritual body of St. Paul, is the bond of
union betwixt the body and the soul, or spirit;
and has the plastic force of raising up au
268 J;>OPPELGAXGEHS.
aerial form. Being the highest organic power,
it cannot by any othir, physical or chemical,
he destroyed; and when the body is cast off,
it follows the soul; and as, during life, it is
the means by which the soul acts upon tlJC
hody, and is thus enabled to communicate with
the external world, so when the spirit is dis-
embodied, it is through this nerve-spirit, that
it can make itself visible, and even exercise
mechanical powers.
It is certain, that not only somnambules,
hut sick persons, are occasionally sensible of a
feeling that seems to lend some countenance to
this latter theory.
The girl at Canton, for example, mentioned
in a former chapter, as w£:11 as many somnam-
hulic patients, declare, whilst their bodies are
lying stiff and cold, that they see it, as if out
of it; and, in some instances, they describe
particulars of its appearance, which they could
not see in the ordinary way. There are also
numerous cases of sick persons seeing them-
~eh·es double, where no tendency to delirium
or spectral illusion had been obscned. These
are, in this country, always placed under the
latter category ; but I find various instances
recorded hy the German physiologists, where
this appearance has been seen by others, and
DOPPELGA~G.ERS. 2u9
even by children, at the same time that it was
felt by the invalid. In one of these cases, I
find the sick person saying, "I cannot think,
how I am Tying. It seems to me that I am
divided and lying in two places at once." It
is remarkable, that a friend of my own, during
an illness in the autumn of 1845, expressed
precisely the same feeling; we however, saw
nothing of this second ego; but it must be re-
m·embered, that the seeing these things, as I
have said in a former chapter, probably de-
pends on a peculiar faculty or condition of the
seer. The servant of Elisha was not blind,
but yet he could not see what his master saw,
till his eyes were opened-that is; till he was
rendered capable of perceiving spiritual ob-
jects.
When Peter was released from prison by the
angel-and it is not amiss here to remark, that
even he" wist not that it was true which was
done by the angel, but thought be saw a
vision,'' that is, he did not believe his sense.s,
but supposed himself the victim of a spectral
illusion-but when he was released, and went
and knocked at the door of the gate, where
many of his friends were assembled, they not
conceiving it possible he could have escaped,
ttaid, when the girl who had opened the door,
2 A 5
DOPPELGANGERS. 271
But if we are capable of thus perceiving the
imago of another person, I cannot comprehend
why we may not see our own ; unless, indeed,
the former was never perceived, but when the
body of the person seen, was in a state of in-
sensibility ; but this does not always seem to
be a necessary condition, as 'vill appear by
some examples I am about to detail. The
faculty of perceiving the ohject,Dr. Ennemoser
eonsiders analogous to that of second sight,
and thinks it may be evolved by local, as well
as idiosyncratical, conditions. The difficulty
arising from the fact,that some persons are in the
habit of seeing the wraiths of their friends and
relations must be explained by his hypothesis.
'The spirit, as soon as liberated from the body,
is adapted for communion with all spirits;
embodied or otherwise, hut all embodied spirits
are not prepared for communion with it.
A 1\fr. R., a gentleman who has attracted
public attention by some scientific discoveries,
had had a fit of illness at Rotterdam. He
was in a state of convalescence, but was still
so far taking care of himself as to spend part
of the day in bed, wheu, as he was lying there
one morning, the door opened, and there en-
tered, in tears, a lady with whom he was inti-
mately acquainted, but whom a·t the time he
272 DOPPELGAXGEilS.
believed to be in England. She walked has-
tily up to the side of his bed, wrung her hands,
evincing by her gestures extreme anguish of
mind., and before he could sufficiently recover
his surprise to enquire the cause of he1· dis-
tress and sudden appearance, she was gone.
She did not disappear, but walked out of the
. room again, and l\1r. R. immediately sum-
moned the servants of the hotel, for the pur-
po!'le of making enquiries about the English
lady- when she came, what had happened
to her, and where she had gone to, on quitting
his room? The people declared there \Vas no
such person there ; he insisted there was, but
they at length convinced him that they, at
least, knew nothing ·about her. 'Vhen his
physician "·isited him, he naturally expressed
the great perplexity into which he had been
thrown by this circumstance : and, as the
doctor could find no symptoms about his
patient that could warrant a suspicion of spec-
tral illusion, they made a note of the date and
hour of the occurrence, and 1\Ir. R. took the
earliest opportunity of ascertaining if anything
had happened to the lady in question. No-
thing had happened to herself, but at that
precise period. her son had expired, and shei
was actually in the state of di!:itress in which
DOPPELG.\~GERS. 273
Mr. R. beheld he1-. It would be extremely
interesting to know whether her thoughts had
been very intensely directed to l\fr. R. at the
moment; but that is a point which I have
not been able to ascertain. At all events, the
impelling cause of the form projected, be the
mode of it what it may, appears to have been
violent emotion. The following circumstance,
which is forwarded to me by the gentleman
to whom it occurred, appears to ha,·e the same
origin:-
"On the eveningof the 12th ofl\larch, 1792,"
says Mr. H., an artist, and a man of science, "I
had been reading in the 'l)hilosophical Transac-
tions,' andretired to my room somewhat fatigued,
but not inclined to sleep. It was a bright moon-
light night, and I had extinguished my candle
and was sitting on the side of the bed, deliber-
l'atcly taking off my clothes, when I was
amazed to behold the visible appearance of
my half-uncle, .Mr. R. Roberston, standing be-
fore me ; and, at the same instant, I heard the
words, ' Twice will be sufficient-'' The face
was so di~tinct that I actually saw the pock-
pits. His dress seemed to he made of a
strong twilled sort of sackcloth, and of the
same dingy colour. It was more like a
woman's dress than a man's-resembling a
274 DOPPELGA~GERS.
petticoat, the neck-band close to the chin, and
the ga1ment covering the whole person, so
that I saw neither hands nor feet. 'Vhilst the
figure stood there, I twisted my fingers till
they cracked, that I might be sure I was
awake.
"On the following morning, I enquired if
anybody had heard lately of l\1r. R., and was
well laughed at when I confessed the origin of
my enquiry. I confess I thought he was
dead; but when my grandfather heard the
story, he said thai the dress I described, re-
sembled the straight-jacket 1\ir. R. had been
put in formerly, under an attack of insanity.
Subsequently, we learnt that on the night,
and at the very hour I had seen him, he had
attempted suicide, and been actually put into a
straight-jacket.
"He afterwards recovered,and went to Egypt
with Sir Ralph Abercrombie. Some people
laugh at this story, and maintain that it was a
delusion of the imagination ; but surely this is
blinking the question ! vVhy should my
imagination create such an image, whilst my
mind was entirely engrossed with a mathe-
matical problem?"
The words '' Twice will be sufficient," pro-
bably embodied the thought, uttered or not, of
DtlPPELG.\XGERS. 275
the maniac, under the influence of his emotion
-two blows or two stabs would be sufficient
for his purpose.
Dr. Kerner relates a case of a Dr. John B.,
who was studying medicine in Paris, seeing-
his mother, one night, shortly after he had got
into bed, and before he had put out his light.
She was dressed after a fashion in which he
had neYer seen her; but she vanished; and
thus aware of the nature of the appearance,
he became much alarmed, and wrote home to
enquire after her health. The answer he re-
ceived was, that she was extremely unwell,
having been under the most intense anxiety
on his account, fi·mn hearing that se\·eral me-
dical students in Paris had been arrested as
resurrectionists ; and, knowing his passion for
anatomical in\·estigations, she had appre-
hended he might be amongst the number.
The letter concluded with an earnest request
that he would pay her a visit. He did so, and
his surprise was so great on meeting her, to
perceive that she was dressed exactly as he
had seen her in his room at Paris, that he
could not, at first, embrace her, and was
obliged to explain the cause of his astonish-
ment and repugnance.
An analogous case ·to these 1s that of Dr.
2i6 DOPPELGANGERS.
Donne, which is already mentioned m so
many publications, that I should not allude to
it here, but for the purpose of showing that
these examples belong to a class of facts, and
that it is not to be supposed that similarity
argues identity, or that one and the same story.
is reproduced with new names and localities.
I mention this, because when circumstances of
this kind are related, I sometimes hear people
say," Oh, I have heard that story before, but
it was said to ha,·e happened to 1\ir. So-and-so,
or at such a place; the truth being, that these
things happen in all places, and to a great ·
Yariety of people.
Dr. Donne was with the embassy, in Paris,
where he had been but a short time, when his
friend 1\ir. Roberts entering the salon, found
him in a state of considerable agitation. As
soon as he was sufficiently recovered to speak,
he said that his wife had passed twice through
the room, with a dead child in her arms. An
express was immediately dispatched to Eng- .
land to enquire for the lady, and the intelli-
gence returned was, that, after much suffering,
she had been delivered of a dead infant. The
delivery had taken place at the time that her
husband had seen her in Paris. Nobody has
C''er disputed Dr. Donne's assertion that he
n(iPPELGAXGERS. o--
_,,
saw his wife, but, as usual, the case is crammecl
into the theory of spectral illusions. They
say, Dr. Donne \vas naturally very anxious
about his wife's approaching confinement, of
which he must have been aware; and that his
excited imagination did all the rest. In the
first place. I do not find it recorded that he
was suffering any particular anxiety on the
subject; and even if he were, the coincidences
in time and in the circumstance of the dead
child, remain unexplainecL Neither are we
led to believe that the doctor was unwell, or
living the kind of life that is apt to breed
thick-comii1g fancie~. He was attached to the
embassy in the gay city of Paris; he had just
been taking luncheon with others of the suite,
and had been left alone but a short time, when
he was found in the state of amazement above
described. If such extraordinary cases of
spectral illusion as this, and many others I am
recording, can suddenly arise in constitutions
apparently healthy, it is certainly high time
that the medical world reconsider the subject,
and gi"e us some more comprehensible theory
of it; if they are not cases of spectral illusiou,
'but are to be explained under that \'ague and
abused term Imagination, let us be told some-
thing more about Imagination-a sen·ice
VoL. r. 2 B
278 DOPPELGA~GERS
which those who consider the word sufficient to
account for these strange phenomena, must, of
course, be qualified to perform. If, however,
both these hypotheses-for they are but simple
hypotheses, unsupported by any proof what-
ever, only being deli,·ered with an air of
authority in a rationalistic age, they have be~n
allowed to pass unquestioned-if, however,
they are not found sufficient to satisfY a vast
pumher of minds, which I know to be the
case, I think the enquiry I am instituting can-
not be wholly useless or unacceptable, let it
lead us where it may. The trutlt is all I
seek; and I think the1·e is a very important
truth to be educed from the further investiga-
tion of this subject in its various relations-in
short, a truth of paramount importance to all
others; one which contains evidence of a fact,
in which we are more deeply concen1ed than
in any other; and which, if well established,
brings demonstration to confirm intuition aud
tradition. I am very well awr.re of all the
difficulties in the way-difficulties internal
and external; many inherent to the subject
itself; and others extraneous, but inseparable
from it; and I am very far from supposing
that my book is to settle the questiou, even
with a single mind. All I hope or expect i~,
AXD SELF-SEEING. 279
to show that the question is not disposed of yet,
either by the rationalists or the physiologists;
and that it is still an open one; and all I desire
is, to arouse enquiry and curiosity; and that
thus some mind, better qualified than mine, to
follow out the investigation, may be incited to
undertake it.
Dr. Kerner mentions the case of a lady,
named Dillenius, who was awakened one
night by her son, a child cf six years of age;
her sister-in-law, who slept in the same room,
also awakened at the same time, and all three
saw 1\fadame Dillenius enter the room, attired
in a black dress, which she had lately bought.
.The sister said, "I see you double! you are in
bed, and yet JOU are walking about the room.''
They were both extremely alarmed, whilst the
figure stood between the doors, in a melan-
choly attitude, with the head leaning on the
hand. The child, who also saw it, but seems
not to have been terrified, jumped out of bed,
and running to the figure, put his hand through
it as he attempted to push it, exclaiming, "Go
away, you black ,,..oman." The form, how-
ever, remained as before ; and the child, be-
coming alarmed, sprung into bed again.
~~adame Dillenius expected that the appear-
280 DOPPELGAXGERS
ance foreboderl her own death; but that tlicl
uot ensue. A serious accident immcdiatcl.v
afterwards occurred to her husband, and she
fancied there might be some connexion betwixt
the two events.
This is one of those cases that, from their
extremely pel'plexing nature, have indnce<l
some psychologists to seek an exph~nation in
the hypothesis, that other spirits may for some
purpose or under certain conditions, assume
the form of a pel'son with a view to giving an
intimation or impression, which the gulf sepa-
rating the material from the spiritual world
renders it difficult to convey. As regards such
instances as that of Madame Dillenius, how-
ever, we are at a loss to discover any motive-
unless, 1ndeed, it be s_ympathy-for such
an exertion of power, supposing it to be pos-
sessed; but in the famous case of Catherine of
Russia, who is said, whilst lying in bed, to
have been seen hy the ladies to enter the
throne-room and being informed of the cir-
cumstance, went herself and saw the figure
seated on the throne, and bade her gmuds fire
on it, we may conceive it possible that her
guardian spirit, if such she had, might adopt
this mode of warning bel' to prepare for a.
A~D SELF-SEEI~G. 281
change, which, after such a life as hers, v.-e
are entitled to conclude, she was not very fit to
encounter.
There are numerous examples of similar
phenomena to be met with. Professor Stilling
relates that he heard from the son of a 1\-Iadame
~I., that his mother, having sent her maid up
stairs, on an errand, the woman came running
down in a great fright, saying that her mistress
was sitting above, in her arm-chair, looking
precisely as she had left her below. The lady
went up stairs, and saw herself as described by
the woman, very shortly after which she died.
Dx. 'Verne1 relates, that a jeweller at Lnd·
wigsburg, named Ratzel, when in perfect
health, one evening, on turning the cornet· of
a street, met his own form, face to face; the
figure seemed as real and life-like as himself;
and he was so close as to look into its very
eyes. He was seized with terror, and it va-
nished. He related the circumstance to several
people, and endeavoured to laugh, but, never-
theless, it was evident he was painfully im·
pressed with it. Shortly afterwards, as he
was passing through a forest, he fell in with
some wood-cutters, who asked him to lend a
lmnd to the ropes with which they were pull..
2 B 5
282 DOPPEI.GAX GE RS
ing down an oak tree. H e did so, and was
killed by its fall.
Becker, professor of mathematics at Rostock,
having fallen into argument witl~ some friends,
1·egarding a disputed point of theology, on
going to his library to fetch a book which he
wished to refer to, sa\\r himself sitting at the
table in the seat he usually occupied. He ap-
proached the figure, which appeared to be
reading, and, looking over its shoulder, he
observed that the book open before it was a
.Bible, and that, with one of the fingers of the
'right hand, it pointed to the passage, " ·Make
ready thy house, for thou must die.'' He re-
turned- to the company, and related what he
had seen, and, in spite of all their arguments
to the contrary, remained fully persuaded that
his death was at hand. . He took leave of his
friends, and expired on the following day, at
six o'clock in the evening. He had already
attained a considerable age. Those who
would not believe in the appearance, said he
had died of the fright; but, whether he did so
or not, the circumstance is sufflciently remark-
able; and, if this were a real, outstanding np-
parition, it would go strongly to &npport the
hypothesis alluded to above, whilst, if it were
AXD SELF-SEET~G. 283
a spectral illusion, it is, certainly, ail infinitely
strange one.
As I am aware how difficult it is, except
where the appearance is seen by more persons
than one, to distingui5h case·s of actual self-
seeing from those of spectral illusion, I do not
linger longer in this department, hut, returni11g
to the analogous ':>nbject of Doppelgangers, I
will relate a few curious instances of this kind
of phenomenon.
Stilling relates, that a Government officer,
of the name of Triplin, in 'Veimar, on going to
his office to fetch a paper of importance, saw
his own likeness sitting there, with the deed
before him. Alarmed, he returned home, and
desired his maid to go there and fetch the
paper she would find on the table. The maid
saw the same form, and imagined that her
master had gone by another road, and got there
before her; his mind seems to have preceded
his body.
The La.ltdrichter, or Sheriff F., in Frankfort,
sent his secretary on an errand; pre~eutly
afterwards, the secretary re-entered the room,
and laid hold of a hook. His master asked
him what had brought him hack, whereupon
the figure vanished, and the book fell to th~
ground, it was a volume of Linnreus. In the
28-1 DOPPELGANGERS
evening, when the secretary returned, and was
interrogated with regard to his expedition, l1e
said that he had fallen into an eager dispute
with an acquaintance, as he went along, about
some botanical question, anJ had ardently
wished he had had his Linnc.eus with him to
refer to.
Dr. 'Verner relates, that Professor Happach
had an elderly maid-servant, who was in the
habit of coming every morning to call him,
and on entering the room, which he generally
heard her do, she usually looked at a clock
which /stood under the mirror. One morning,
she entered so softly that though he saw her,
he did not hear her foot; she went, as was her
custom, to the clock, and came to his bedside,
but suddenly turned round and left the room.
He called after her, but she not ans,~ering, he
jumped ont of bed and pursued her. He
could not see her, however, till he reached her
room, where he found her fast asleep in hed.
Subsequently, the same thing occurred fre-
quently with this woman.
An exactly parallel case was related to me
as occun;ng to himself, by a publisher in
Edinburgh. His housekeeper was in the
habit of calling him e\'ery morning. On one
occasion, being perfectly awake, he saw her
A~ D SELF-SEEI~G.
Pnter, walk to the window, and go out
again 'Yithout speaking. Being in the hahit
of fastening his door, he supposed he had
omitted to do so; but presently afterwards he
heard her knocking to cume in, and he found
the door was still locked. ~he assured him
she had not been there befcJre. He was
in perfectly good health at the time this
happened.
Only a few nights since, a lady, with whom
I am intimately acquainted, was in bed, and
had not been to sleep, when she saw one of her
daughters, who slept in an upper room, and
who had retired to rest some time bef~H"e,
standing at the foot of her bed. "H-,'' she
said, "what is the matter? what are yon
come for?'' The daughter did not answer, bnt
moved away. The motherjumped out of bed,
but not seeing her, got in again: but the
figure was still there. Perfectly satisfied it
was really her daughter, shespohe to her, asking-
if anything had happened; but again the figure
moved silently away, and again the mother
jumped out of bed, and actually went part of
the way up stairs; and this occurred a third
time. The daughter was during the whole of
this time asleep in her bed ; and tl1e Indy her-
self is quite in her usual state of health ; not
286 DUPPELGA~GERS
robust, but not by any means sickly, nor in
the slightest degree hysterical or ncn·ous; yet,
she is perfectly conviuced 'that she sa\v the
figure of her daughter on that occasion, though
quite unable to account for the circumstance.
I>robably the daughter was dreaming of the
mother.
Edward Stern, author of some Germnn
works, had a friend, who was frequently seen
out qf the body, as the Germans term it; and
the £1.ther of that person was so much the sub-
ject of this phenomenon, that he was fre-
quently observed to enter his house, whilst he
was yet working in the fields. His wife
used to say to him, "'Vhy, papa, you came
home before ;" and he would answer, " I dare
say; I was so anxious to get away earlier,
but it was impossible."
The cook in a convent of nuns, at Ebers-
dorf, was frequently seen picking herbs in the
garden, when she was in the kitchen and
much in need of them.
A Danish Physician, whose name Dr.
'Vemer does not mention, is said to have been
frequently seen entering a patient's room, and
on being spoken to, the figure would disappear,
with a sigh. This used to occur when he had
made an appointment which he was prevented
A~D SELF SEEIXG. 287
keeping, and was rendered uneasy by the
failure. The hearing of it, howe,·er, occa-
sioned him such an unpleasant sensation that
he requested his patients ne,·er to tell him
when it happened.
A president of the Supreme Court. in Ulm,
named Pfizer, attests the truth of the follow-
ing case :-A gentleman, holding an official
~ituation, had a sou at Gottingen, who wrote
home to hi~ father, requesting him to send him,
without delay, a certain book, which he re-
t'l!:lired to aid him in preparing a dissertation
he was engaged in. The father answered, that
he had sought but could not find the work, in
question. Shortly afterwanls, the latter hatl
been taking a book from his shelves, when,
on turning round, he beheld, to his amazement,
his son just in the act of stretching up his
hand t0wards one on a high shelf in another
part of the room. "Hallo !" he exclaimed,
!:iUpposing it to be the young man himself;
but the figure disappeared; and, on examining
the shelf, the father found there the hook that
was required, which he immediately forwarded
{o Gottingen; but before it could arrive there,
he received a letter from his son, describing
the exact spot where it was to be f(nmd.
A case of what is called spectral illusion
288 DOPPELGA~GERS
is mentioned by Dr. Paterson, which appears
to me to belong to the class of phenomena
I am treati11g of. One Sunday evening,
l\Iiss N. was left at home, the sole inmate of
the house, not being permitted to accompany
her family to church, on account of her deli-
cate state of health. Her father was an in-
firm old man, who seldom went from home,
and she was not aware whether, on this oc-
casion, he had gone out with the rest or not.
By and by, there came on a se,·ere storm of
thunder, ~ightning, and rain, and l\1iss N.
is described as becoming very uneasy about
her father. Under the influenceof this feeling,
Dr. Paterson says, she went into the back
room, \Yhere he usually sat, and there saw him
in his arm chair. Not doubting but it was
himself, she adYaneed, and laid her hand upou
his shoulder, hut her hand eucountered
Yacancy; all(l, alarmed, she retired. As she
quitted the 1·oom, however, she looked back,
and there still sat the figure. Not being a
believer in what is called the" supernatural,"
:Miss N. resoh·ed to m·ercome llP.r appre-
~lensions, and return into the 1·oom, which she
did, and saw the figure as before. For the
space of fully half an hour she went in aiHl
0ut of the room in this manner, before it dis-
AND sELF-SEEJN(-; , 280
appeared. She ditl not sec it vanish, hut the
fifth time she returned, it was gone; Dr. }Ja-
terson vouches for the truth of this story, and
no doubt of its being a mere illusion occurs to
him, though the lady had never before or since,
as she assured him, been troubled with thl'
malady. It seems to me much more likely
that, when the storm came on, the thoughts
of the old man would be intensely drawn
homewards, he would naturally wish himself
in his comfortable arm-chair, and knowing
his young daughter to be alone, he would
inevitably feel some anxiety about her, too.
There was a mutual projection of their spirits
· towards each other; and the one that was
most easily freed from its bonds, was seen
where in the spirit it actually was; for, as I
have said above, a spirit out of the flesh, to
whom space is annihilated, must be where its
thoughts and affections are, for its thoughts
and afl'cctions are itself:
I observe that Sir David Brewster, and
others, who have written on tl~is subject, and
who represent all these phenomena as images
]Hojected on the retina hom the brain, dwell
much on the fact that they are seen alike,
whether the eye be closed or open. There are,
however, two answers.to be made to this argu-
YOL. I. 2 c
290 DOPPELGANGERS
ment; first, that even if it were so, the proof
would not be decisive; since it is generally with
closed eyes that somnambulic persons see
-whether natural somnambules or magnetic
·patients; and, secondly, I find in some in-
stances which appear to me to be genuine cases
of an objective appearance, that where the
experiment has been tried, the figure is not
seen when the eyes are closed.
The author of a wm·k, entitled '' An In-
quiry into the Nature of Ghosts,'' who adopts
the illusion theory, relates the following story,
as one he can vouch for, though not permitted
to give the names of the parties :-
'":Miss -, at the age of seven years, being
in a field not ·far from her father's house,
in the parish of Kirklinton, in Cumberland,
!'aw what she thought was her father in the
field, at a time that he was in bed, from which
he had uot been removed for a considerable
period. There were in the field, also, at the
~arne moment, George Little, and John, his
fellow-servant. One of these ctied ·out, ''Go
t() your fathet·, J\:1iss !" She turned round, and
the figurP. had disappeared. On returning home,
she said, "'Vhere is my father?" The mother
answered, "In lJed, to be sure, child;" out of
which he had not Leen.
A'ND SELF-SEEI:SG. 2D
l
I quote this case, because the figure was
seen by two persons; I could mention several
similar insta.nces, but when only seen by one,
they are, of course, open to another ex -
planation.
Goethe, whose family, by the way,were ghost-
seers, relates, that as he was once in an un-
easy state of mind, riding along the fqot-path
towards Drusenheim, he saw, "not with the
eyes of his body, but with those of his spirit,"
himself on horseback coming towards him, in
a dress that he then did ·not possess. It was
grey, and trimmed with gold; the figure dis-
appeared; but eight years afterwards he found
himself, quite accidentally, on that spot, on
horseback, and in precisely that attire." This
seems to have been a case of sec:ond sigltt.
The story of Byron's being seen in London
when he was lying in a fever at Patras, is well
known ; but may possibly have arisen from
some extraordinary personal resemblance,
though so firm was the conviction of its being
his actual self that a bet of a hundred guineas
was offered on it.
Some time ago, the "Dublin University
Magazine" related a case, I know not on what
authority, as having occurred at Rome, to the
effect, that a gentleman had, one . night on
292 DOl'PELGA:-IG EI{S
going home to his lodging, thrO\vn his sen'ant
into great amazement_:_the man exclaiming-,
" Good Lord, sir ! you came home heforc !"
He declared that he had let his master into
the house, attended him up stairs, and, I think,
undressed him, and seen him get into bed.
'Vhen they went to the room, they found no
clothes; but the bed appeared to have been
lain in, and there was a strange mark upon the
ceiling, as if from the passage of an eJec-
trical fluid. The only thing the young man
could remember, whereby to account for · this
extraordinary circumstance was, that whilst
abroad, and in company, he had been over-
come with ennui, fallen into a deep reverie, and
had for a time forgotten that he was not at
home.
• When I read this story, though I have learnt
from experience to be very cautious how I pro-
nounce that impossible which I know nothing
about, I confess it somewhat exceeded my re-
ceptive capacity, but I have since heard of a
similar instance, so well authenticated, ·that
my incredulity is shaken.
Dr. Kcnwr relates, that a canon of a catholic
·cathedral, of somewhat dissipated habits, on
coming home one evening, saw a light in his
·bed-room. 'Vhen the maid opened the door,
A~D SELF-SEEING. 293
sl1e started back with surprise, whilst he en-
quired why she had left a candle burning up
stairs ; upon 'Yhich she declared, that he had
come home just before, and gone to his room,
and she had been wondering at his unusual
silence. On ascending to his chamber, he
saw himself sitting in the arm-chair. The
figure arose, passed him, and went out at the
room-door. He was extremely alarmed, ex-
pecting his death was at hand. He, how-
ever, lived many years afterwards, but the
influence on his moral character was very
beneficial.
. Not long since, a professor, I think of
theology, at a college at Berlin, addressed his
class, saying, that, instead of his usual lec-
ture, he should relate to them a circumstance
which, the preceding evening, had occurred to
himself, believing the effects would be no less
salutary.
He then told them that, as he was going
home the last evening, he had seen his own
imago, or double, on the other side of the
street. He looked away, and tried to avoid
it, but, finding it still accompanied him, he
took a short cut home, in hopes of getting rid
ot it, wherein he succeeded, till he came oppo-
2 c 5
•,
294 Dt)PI'ELGA~GEHS.
site his own house, ~,·hen he saw it at the
door.
It rang, the maid opened, it entered, she
handed it a candle, and, as the professor stood
in amazement, ou the other side of the street,
he saw the light passing the windows, as it
wound·its way up to his own chamber. He
then crossed ove1· and rang; the servant was
naturally dreadfully alarmed on seeing l1im,
but, without· waiting to explain, he ascended
the stairs. Just as he 1·eachcd his own cham-
her, he heard a loud crash, and, on l)pening the
door, they found no one there, but the ceiling
had fallen in, and his life was thus saved.
The servant corroborated this statement to
the students ; and a minister, now attached to
one of the Scotch churches, was present when
the professor told his talc. Without admitting
the doctrine of protecting spirits, it is difficult
to account for these latter circumstances.
A very interesting case of an apparent
friendly intervention occurred to tlte celebrate<l
Dr. A. T., of Etlinburgh. He was sitting up
late one night, reading in his study, when he
heard a foot in the passage, and lHwwing the
family were, or ought to be, all iu bed, he rose
and looked out to ascertain who it was, but,
seeing uobotly, he sat down again. J>rcscntly,
AND SELF-SEEING. 2U5
the sound recurred, and he was sure there
was somebody, though he could not see l1im.
The foot, however, evidently ascended the
stairs, and he followed it, till it led him to the
nursery door, which he opened, and found the
furniture was on fire; and thus, but for this
kind office of his good angel, his children
woulcl have been burnt in their beds.
The most extraordinary history of this sort,
however, with which I am acquainted, is
the following, the facts of which are perfectly
authentic:-
Some seventy or eighty years since, the
apprentice, or assistant, of a respectable sur-
geon in Glasgow, was known to have l1ad an
illicit connexion with a servant girl, who
somewhat suddenly disappeared. No sus-
picion, however, seems to have been enter-
tained of foul play. It appears rather to have
been supposed that she had retired for the
· purpose of being confined, and, consequently,
no enquiries were made about her.
Glasgow was, at that period, a very different
place to what it is at present, in more respects
than one; and, amongst its peculiarities, was
·the extraordinary strictness with which the
observance of the Sabbath was enforced, ins~.,­
much. that nobo(hr was ~1ermittP.d to show
296 DOPPELGA:\GEilS
themselves in the streets or public walks
during the hours dedicated to the church
services; and there were actually inspectors
appointed to see that this regulation was
observed, and to take down the names of
defaulters.
At one extremity of the city, there is some
open ground, of rather consciderable extent, on
the north side of the river, called" The Green,"
where ' people sometimes resort for air and
exercise; and where lovers not unfrequently
Ietire to enjoy as much solitude as the
pi~oximity to so large a town can afford.
One Sunday morning, the inspectors of
public piety above alluded to having traversed
the city, and extended their perquisitions as
far as the lower extremity of the Green, where
it 'vas bounded by a wall, obsened a young
man lying on the grass, whom they imme-
diately recognized to be the surgeon's assist-
ant. They, of course, enquired why he was
not at church, and proceeded to 1·egistcr his
name in their books, but, instead of attempting
to make any excuse for his offence, he only
rose from the ground, saying, ''I am a miscr1
able man; look in the water!" He then
immediately crossed a style, which dh·ided the
wall. ancllP.cl to a path extending along the
A:'<D S E LF - SEEI~G. 2U7
side of the riYer towards the Ruthcrglen-road.
They saw him cross the style, hut, not com-
prehending the significance of his words, in-
stead of observing him further, they naturally
directed their attention to the water, where
they presently perceived the body of a woman.
Having with some difficulty dragged it ashore,
they immediately proceeded to carry it into the
town, assisted by several other persons, who
by this time had joined them. It was now
about one o'clock, and, as they passed through
the streets, theY. were obstructed by the congre-
gation that was issuing from one of the prin-
cipal places of \Vorship; and, as they stood up
1or a moment, to let them pas;;, they saw the
surgeon's asBistant issue from the church door.
As it was quite possible for him to have gone
round some other way, and got there before
them, they were not much surprised. He did
not approach them, but mingled with the
crowd, whilst they proceeded on their way.
On examination, the woman proved to be
the missing servant-girl. She was pregnant,
and had evidently been murdered \vith a sur-
geon's instrument, which was found entangled
amongst her clothPs. Upon this, in conse-
quence of his known connexion with her, and
2U8 DOPPELGAXGERS
his implied self-ac~usation to the inspectors,
the young man was apprehended on suspicion
of being the guilty party, and tried upon the
circuit. He was the last person seen in her
company, immediately previous to her dis-
appearance; and there was, altogether, such
strong presumptive eviden~e against him, as
corroborated by what occurred on the green
would have justified a verdict of guilty. But'
strange to say, this last most important item
in the evidence failed, and he established an
incontrovertible alibi; it being proved, beyond
all possibility of doubt, that he had been in
church from the beginning of the service to the
end of it. He was, therefore, . acquitted ;
whilst the public were left in the greatest per-
plexity, to account as they could for this extra-
ordinary discrepancy. The young man was
well known to the inspector~, and it was in
broad daylight that they had met him aud
placed his name in their books. Neither, it
must be remembered, were they seeking for
him, nor thinking of him, nor of the woman,
about whom there existed neither curiosity nor
suspicion. Least of all, would they have
sought her where she was, but for the hint
given to them.
AXD SELF-SEEING. 299
The interest excited, at the time, was very
great; but no natural explanation of the
mystery has ever been suggested.
CHAPTER IX.
APPA RIT10NS.
THE numhcr of stories on record, which seem
to support the views I have suggested in my
last chapter, is, I f~u1cy, little suspected hy
people in general; and still less is it imagined
that similar occurrences are yet frequently
taking place. I had, indeed, myself no idea of
either one circumstance or the other, till my
attention being accidentally turned in this
direction, I was led into enquiries, the result
of which has extremely surprised me. I do
110t mean to imply that all my acquaintance
arc ghost-seers, or that these things happen
API'.\lUTIO:\S. 301
ev~ry day; but the amount of what I do mean,
is this: first, that besides the numerous in-
stances of such phenomena alluded to in
history, which have heen treated as fables by
those who profess to believe the rest of the
narratives, though the whole rPsts upon the
same foundation, i. r>., tradition aud bear-sa)' ;
besides these, there exists in one form or
another, hundreds and hundreds of recorded
cases, in all eunntries, and in all language:-:,
exhibiting that degree of f.limilarity which
mark them as belonging to a class of facts,
many of these being of a nature which seems
to preclude the possibility of bringing them
under the theory of speetral illusions ; and,
secondly, that I scarcely meet any one man
or woman, who, if I can induce them to
believe I will not publish their names, and am
110t going to laugh at them, is not prepared to
tell me of some occurrence of the sort, as
having happened to themselves, their family,
or their friends. I admit that in many in-
stances they terminate their narration, by say-
ing, that they. think it must have been an
illusion, because they cannot bring themselves
to believe in ghosts; not unfrequently adding,
that they wish to think so; since to thiuk
otherwise, would make them uucomfortable.
VoL. r. 2 D
302 Al'PAHITIO~s.
I confess, however, that this seems to me a
very unwise, as well as a very unsafe way of
treating the matter. Belie,·ing the appearance
to be an illusion, because they cannot bring
themselves to believe in ghosts, simply amounts
to saying, "I don't believe, because I don't
believe;" and is an argument of no effect,
except to in,·alidate their capacity for judging
the question, at all; but the second reason for
not belie,·ing, namely, that they do not wish
to do so, has not only the same disad~;antagc,
out is liable to much more serious objections;
for it is our duty to ascertain the truth in an
affair that concerns every soul of us so deeply;
and to shrink from looking at it, lest it should
disclosesomethingwe douot like,is an expedient
us childish as it is desperate. In re,·iewing my
late novelof "Lilly Dawson," where I announce
the present work, I observe, that, whilst some
of the reviewers scout the very idea of any
body's believing in ghosts, others, less rash,
whilst they admit that it is a subject we know
nothing about, object to further in,·estigation,
on account of the terrors and uncomfortable
feelings that will he engendered. Now, cer-
tainly, if it were a matter iu which we had no
personal concern, and which belonged merely
to the region of speculati,·c curiosity, every
Al'PAHITIOXS.
·lwdy would he perfectly justified in following-
their iudinutions with rt::gard to it; there
would be no reason for rrightening themselves,
if they did not lik~ it; but since it is perfectly
certain that the fate of these poor ghosts, be
what it may, will be ours some day-perhaps
llCfore another year or another week has passed
o\·er our heads-to shut our eyes to the truth,
because it may, perchance, occasion us some
uncomfortable feelings, is surely a strange
mixture of eontemptibJc cowardice and daring
temerity. If it be true that hy some law of
nature,-departed souls occasionally revisit the
earth, we may he quite certain that it was in-
tenued we should know it, and that the law is
to some good end; for no law of God can be
purposeless ormischicvo~s; and isit conceivable
that we should say, we will not know it, be-
cause it is disagreeable to us? Is not this
,·cry like saying, "Let us eat, drink, and be
merry, for tomorrow we die !" and y<::t re-
fusing to enquire what is to become of us
when we do die? refusing to avail ourselves
of that dcmow;trati,·e proof, which God has
mercifully placed within our reach ? And
with all this obstinacy, people do not get rid
of the apprehension; they go on stn1ggling
against it and keeping it down by argument
30 l AI'I'.\ l!ITillXS.
and reason, but there nrc very few persons in-
deed, men or women, who, when placed iu a
situation, calculated to suggest the idcn, do not
feel the intuitive conviction :;triving within
them. In the ordinary circumstances of life,
nobody suffers from this terror; in the extra-
ordinary ones, I find the professed disbelievers
uot much better off than the 1Jelicvcrs. Not
long ago, I heard a lady expressing the graat
alarm ~he should have felt, had she been ex-
posed to spend a whole night on Ben Lomond,
as !\1argnret Fuller, the American authoress,
. did lately; "for," said she," though I don't be-
lieve in ghosts, I should have been dreadfully
afraid of seeing one, then !''
l\foreovcr, though I do not suppose that man,
in his normal state, could ever encounter an
incorporeal spirit wi'thout cousidcrablc awe, I
am inclined to think that the extreme te~TOl"
th~ idea inspires, arises from bad training.
The ignorant frighten children with glwsts;
and the better educated assure them there is
uo such thing. Our understanding may be-
lieve the latter, but our instincts believe the
former; so tlu~!., · out of this education, we
retain the tcn~or, and just belief enough to
make it very troublesome whcue\·er we are
placEd in circumstances that awaken it. Xow,
APPARTTTOXS. 305
perhaps, if the thing wcre'differcntly managed,
the result might be different. Suppose the
subject were duly investigated, and it were
ascertained that the views I and many others
are disposed to entertain with regard to it,
are correct; and suppose, then, children were
calmly told that it is not impossible, hut that
on some occasion they may see a departed
friend again; that the laws of nature esta·
blished by an allwise Providence, admit of the
dead sometimes revisiting the earth, doubtless
for the benevolent purpose of keeping alive
in ns our faith in a future state; that death
is merely a transition to another life, which it
depends on ourselves to make happy or other-
wise ; and that, whilst those spirits which
appear bright and hlessf>d, may well be objects
of our envy, the others should excite only our
intense compassion. I am persuaded that a
child so educated would feel no terror at the
sight of an apparition, more especially as
there very rarely appears to be anything
terrific in the aspect of these forms ; they
generally come in their" habits as they lived,"
and appear so much like the living person in
the flesh, that where they are not known to be
already dead, they are frequently mistaken
for them. There are exceptions to this rule,
2 I) 5
306 .-\Pl'ARITIO::\S.
but it is very rare that the fonns in themselves
exhibit anything to create alarm.
As a proof that a child would not naturally
be terrified at the sight of an apparition, 1
will adduce the following instance, the au-
thenticity of which I can vouch for:-
A lady with her child embarked on board a
vessel at Jamaica, for the purpose of visiting
her friends in England, leaving her husband
lJehind her quite well. It was a sailing
packet; aud they had been some time at sea,
when, one evening, whilst the child was
kneeling before her, saying his prayers, pre-
viously to going to rest, he suddenly said,
looking eagerly to a particular spot in the
cabin, "l\famma, Papa!" ., Nonsense, my
dear!" the mother answered; "You know
your papa is nut here !'' " He is, indeed,
mama,'' returned the child, "he is looking at
us now !'' Nor could she convince him to the
contrary. 'Vhen she went on deck, she men-
tioned the circumstance to the captain, wh9
' thought it so strange, that he said he would
note down the date of the occurrence. The
latly begged him not to do so, saying, it was
attaching a significance to it which would
make her miserable; he did it, ho\\'e\·er, and
shortly after her arri\'al in England, she learnt
:307
that her husband had died exactly at that
period.
I ha,Te met with other instances in which
children have seen apparitions 'vithout ex-
hibiting any alarm; and in the case of Fre-
dericka Hauffc, the infant in her arms was
frequently observed to point smilingly to those
which she herself said she saw. In the above
related case, we find a valuable example of an
apparition which we cannot belie,Tc to have
been a mere subjective phenomenon, being
seen by one person and not by another. The
receptivity of the child may have been greater,
or the rapport betwixt it and its father stronger,
but this occurrence inevitably leads us to sug-
gest, how often our departed friends may be
near us, and we not see them !
A 1\'Ir. B., with whom I am acquainted,
informed me that some years ago, he lost
two children. There was an intenal of two
years between their deaths ; and about as long
a period had elapsed since the decease of the
second, when the circumstance I am about to
relate took place. It may be conceived that
at that distance of time, however vivid the
impression had been at first, it had consi-
derably faded from the mind of a man en-
gaged in bu~ines~ ; and he a~:mrcs me that
l
Al'l'.\ HITI O;\"S. 30U
in g hosts, and therefore concluded it must
have been some extraordinary spectral illusion;
.especially as his wife heard nothing. It may
have been so; but that circumstance by no
means proves it.
From these varying degrees of susceptibility,
or affinity, there seems to arise another conse-
quence, namely, that more than one person
may see the same object, and yet see it tlifler-
ently, and I mention this particularly, because
it is one of the objections that unreflecting
. persons make to phenomena of this kind,
second sight especially. In the remarkable
instance which is recordrd to ha\'e occuncd at
Ripley, in the year 1812, to which I ·shall
allude more p~rticularly in a future chapter,
much stress was laid on the fact, that the first
seer said, '' Look at those beasts !" 'Vhilst
the second answered, they were "not beasts,
but men.'' In a former chapter, I mentioned
the case of a lady, on board a ship, seeing and
feeling a sort of blue cloud hanging over her,
which afterwards, as it retired, assumed a
human form, though still appearing a vaponry
substance. Kow, possibly, had her recep-
tivity, or the rapport, been greater, she might
have seen the distinct image of hP-r dying
fi·iend. I have met with l:iCVCI al instances of
310 li.PPAHITIO:"S.
these cloudy figures being seen, as if the spirit
had built itself up a form of atmospheric air;
and it is remarkable, that when other persons
perceived the appatitions that frequented the
Seeress of Prevorst, some saw those as cloudy
forms, which she saw distinctly attired in the
costume they wore when alive; and thus, on
some occasions, apparitions are represented as
heing transparent, whilst on othe1·s they have
not been distinguishable from the real cor-
poreal body. All these discrepancies, and
others, to be hereafter alluded to, are doubtless
only absurd to onr ignorance; they are the
results of physical laws, as absolute, though
not"so easily ascertained, as those by which the
most ordinary phenomena around us are found
explicable.
With respect to these cloudy forms, I hm·e
met with four instances lately; two occutTing
to ladies, and two to gentlemen; the one a
minister, and the other a man engaged in
business ; and although I am quite aware that
these cases are not easily to be distinguished
from those of spectral illusion, yet I do not
think them so myself; and as they occurred to
persons in their normal state of health, who
never before or since experienced anything of
the kind, and who could find nothing in tliCir
APPAIUTIO~S. 3ll
own circumstances to account for its happen-
ing then, I shall mention them. In the in-
stances of the gentleman and one of the ladies,
they were suddenly awakened, they could not
tell by what, and perceived bending O\'er
them a cloudy form, which immediately re-
treated slowly to the other end of the room,
and disappeared. In the fourth case, which
occurred to an intimate friend @f my own, she
had not been to sleep; but having been the
last person up in the house, had just stept into
the bed, where her sisterhad already been some
time asleep. She was perfectly awake, when
her attention was attracted by hearing the
clink of glass, and on looking up, she saw a
figure standing- on the hearth, which was ex-
actly. opposite her side of the bed, and as
there was water aud a tumbler there, she con-
cluded that her sister had stept out at the
llottom, unperceived by her, and was drinkiug.
Whilst she was carele_ssly observing the figure,
it moved towards the bed, and laid a heaYy
hand upon her, pressing her arm in a manner
that gave her pain. "Oh, Maria, don't !,
she exclaimed; but as the form retreated, and
she lost sight of it, a strange feeling crept oYer
her, and she stretched out her hand to ascer-
tain if her sister was besid9 her. She was, and
312 APPAIUTIONS.
asleep; hut this movement awoke her, an(l she
found the other now in considcrahlc agitation.
She, of course, tried to pcrsua(le hL•r that it
was a dream, or night-mare, as did the family
the next day; but she was quite clear iu her
mind at the time, as she then assured me, that
it was neither m)e nor the other; though now,
at the dista,nce of a year from the occnrrcncC',
she is very desirous of putting that con-
struction upon it. As somebody will be ready
. to suggest that this was a freak played hy one
of the family, I can only answer that that is
ari explanation that no one who is acquainted
with all the circumstances, could admit;
added to which, the figure did not disappear
in the direction of the door, but in quite ·an
opposite one.
A very singular thing happened to the
accomplished authoress of" Letters from the
Baltic,'' on which my readers may put what
interpretation they please, hut I give it here as
a pendant to the last story. The night before
she left Petershurgh, she passed in the house
of a friend. The room appropriated to her
use was a large dining-room, in which a tem-
porary hed was placed, and a folding screen
was so ari·anged as to give an air of comfort to
the nook where the Led stood. She went to
APPARITIONS. 31:3
bed, and to sleep, andnoonewhoknowshercan
suspect her of seeing spectral illusions,or being
incapable of distinguishing her own condition
when she saw anything whatever. As she
was to commence her journey on the fo1lowing
day, she had given orders to be called at an
early hour, and, accordingly, she found herself
awakened towards morning by an old woman
in a complete Russian costnme, who looked at
her, nodding and smiling, and intimating, as
she supposed, that it was time to rise. Feeling,
however, very sleepy, and very unwilling to do
so, she took her watch from behind her pillow,
and. looking at it, perceived that it was only
four o'clock. As, from the costume of the
old woman, she knew her to be a Russian, and
therefore not likely to understand any lan-
guage she could speak, she shook her head,
and pointed to the watch, giving her to under-
stand that it was too early. The woman looked
at her, and nodded, and then retreated, whilst
the traveller laid down again and soon fell
<\sleep. By and by, she was awakened by a
.knock at the door, and the voice of the maid
whom she had desired to call her. She bade
her come in, but the door being locked on the
inside, she had to get out of bed to admit her.
It now occurred to her to wonder how the old
VoL. 1. 2 E
314 APPARITIO~S.
woman had entered, but, taking it for granted
there was some other mode of ingress, she
did not trouble herself about it, but dressed,
and desoended to breakfast. Of course, the
enquiry usually addressed to a stranger was
made, they hoped she had slept well ! "Per-.
fectly," she said," only that one of their good
people had heen somewhat over anxious to get
her up in the m01'11ing ;" and she then men-
tioned the old woman's visit, but to lter sur-
prise they declared they had no such person in
the family. ''It must have been snme old
nurse, or laundress, or somebody of that
sort," she suggested. '' Impossible !" they
answered;" You mu~t have dreamt the whole
thing; we have no old woman in the house;
nobody wearing that costume ; and nobody
could have got in, since the door must have
been fastened long after that!" And these
assertions the servants fully confirmed ; added
to which, I should observe, the house, like
foreign houses in general, consisted of a flat, or
floor, shut in by a door, whicb separated it
entirely from the t·est of the building, and,
being high up from the street, nobody could
even have gained access by a window; -The
lady now beginning to be somewhat puzzled,
enquired if there wet·e any second entrance
APPARITTOXS. 315
into the room ; hut, to her surprise, she heard
there was not, and she then mentioned that
s]le had locked the door on going- to bed, and
had found it locked in the morning. The
thing has ever remainBd utterly inexplicable,
and the family, who were much more amazed
by it than she was, would willingly believe it
to have been a dream, but, whatever the inter-
pretation of it may be, she feels quite certain
that that is not the true one.
l make no comments on the above case,
though a very inexplicable one; and I scarcely
know whether to mention any of those well
established tales, which appear certainly to be
as satisfactorily attested as any circumstance
which is usually taken simply on report. I
allude, particularly, to the stories of General
1Vynyard, Lord Tyrone, and Lady Beresforrl,
the case which took place at Havant, in Hamp-
shire, and which is related in a letter from lVIr.
Caswell, the mathematicjan, to Dr. Bentley ;
that which occurred in Cornwall, as narrated
by the Rev. Mr. Ruddle, one of the preben-
daries of Exeter, whose a~sistance and advice
was asl\ed, and who himself had two inter-
views \vith the spirit; and many others, which
are already published in different works, espe-
cially in a little book entitled ''Accredited
316 APPARITIOXS.
Ghost Stories." I may howe'fer mention, that
with respect to those of Lady Beresford and
General 'Vynyard, the families of the parties
have always maintained their entire belief .in
the circumstances ; as do the family of Lady
Hetty Cobb, who took the ribbon from Lady
JJeresford's arm, after she was dead ; she
having alvtays worn it since her interview with
the apparition, in order to conceal the mark. he
had left by touching her.
There have been many attempts to explain
away the story of Lord Littleton's warning,
although the evidence for it certainly satisfied
the family, as we learn from Dr. Johnson, who
said, in regard to it, that it was the most ex-
traordinary thing that had h~ppened in his
day, and that he heard it from the lips of Lord
"\Vestcote, the uncle of Lord Littleton.
There is a sequel however to this story,
which is extremely well authenticated, though
much less generally known. It appears that
l\Ir. 1\Iiles Peter Andrews, the intimate friend
of Lord Littleton, was at his house, at Dart-
ford, when Lord L., died at Pitt-place, Epsom,
thirty miles ufi'. .Mr. Andrews' house was full
of company, and he expected Lord Littleton,
whom he had left in his usual state of health,
to join him the next day, which was Sunday.
APPARITIO~S. 317
1\lr. And1·ews himself feeling rathe1· indisposed
on the Saturday evening, retired early to bed,
and requested 1\tirs. Pigou, one of his guests,
to do the honours of his supper-table. H e
admitted, for he is himself the authority for
the story, that he fell into a feverish sleep on
going to bed, but was awakened between eleven
and twelve by somebody opening his curtains,
which proved to be Lord Litttleton, in a
night-gown and cap, which J\1:r. Andrews
recognized. Lord L. spoke, saying that he
was come to tell him all was over. . It appears
that Lord Littleton was fond of practical
joking, and as Mr. A. entertained no doubt
whatever of his visitor being Lord L. himself,
in the body, he supposed that this was one of
his tricks; and, stretching his arm out of bed,
he took hold of his slippers, the nearest
thing he could get at, and threw them at him,
whereupon the figure retreated to a dressing-
room, which had no ingress nor egress except
through the bed-chamber. Upon this, :Mr.
Andrews jumped out of bed to follow him, in-
tending to chastise him further, but he could
find nobody in either of the rooms, although
the door was locked on the inside, so he rang
his bell, and enquired who had seen Lord
Littleton. Nobody had seen him; but, though
2 E 5
318 APPARITIO~S.
how he had got in or out of the room, re-
mained an enigma, ~Ir. Andrews asserted that
he was certainly there; and, angry at the sup-
posed trick, he ordered that they should give
him no bed, but let him go and sleep at the
inn. Lord Littleton, howeYer, appeared no
more, and Mr. Andrews went to sleep, not
entertaining the slightest suspicion that he
had seen an apparition. It happened that,
on the following morning, 1\Irs. Pigou had
occasion to go at an early hour to London, and
great .was her astonishment to learn that Lord
Littleton had died .on the preceding night.
She immediately dispatched an express to
Dartford with the news, upon the receipt of
which, 1\Ir. Andrews, then quite well, and re-
membering perfectly all that had happened,
swooned away. He could not understand it,
but it had a most serious effect upon him, and,
to use his own expression, he was not
his own man again for three years. There
are ,·arious authorities for this story, the
correctness of which is vouched for by some
members of l\Irs. Pigou's family, with whom I
am acquainted, who have frequently heard the
circumstances detailed by herself, and who
assure me it was always believed by the family.
I really, therefore, do not see what grounds we
APPARITIOXS. 31 9
ha\·e' for doubting either of these facts. Lord
"\Vcstcote, on whose word Dr. Johnson founded
his belief of Lord Littleton's warning, was a
man of strong sense ; and that the story was
not looked upon lightly by the family, is
proved by the circumstance that the dowager
Lady Littleton had a picture, which was seen
by Sir Nathaniel Wraxhall in her house in
Portugal-street, as mentioned in his memoirs,
wherein the event was cormnemorated. His
Lordship is in bed, the dove appears at the
window, and a female figure stands at the
foot of the couch, announcing to the unhappy
vrofligate his approaching dissolution. That
he mentioned the warning to his valet, and
some other persons, and that he talked of
jockeying the ghost by surviving the time
named, is certain; as, also, that he died with
his watch in his hand, precisely at the ap-
pointed period. .Mr. Andrews says, that he
was subject to fits of strangulation, from a
swelling in the throat, which might have killed
him at any moment; but his decease having
proceeded from a natural and obvious cause,
does not interfere one way or the other \vith
the validity of the prediction, which simply
foretold his death at a particular period, not
320 APPARITIO~S.
that there was to be anything preternatural in
the manner of it.
As I find so many people willing to believe
in wraiths, who cannot believe in ghosts-that
is, they are overpowered by the numerous
examples, and the weight of evidence for the
first-it would be very desirahle if we could
ascertain whether these wraiths are seen before
the death occurs, or after it; but, though the
day is t·ecorded, and seems always to be the
one on which the death took place, and the
hour about the same, minutes are not suf-
ficiently observed to enable us to answer that
question. It would be an interesting one, be-
cause the argument advanced by those who
believe that the dead never are seen, is, that it
is the strong will and desire of the expiring
person which enables him so to act on the
nervous system of his distant friend, that the
imagination of the latter projects the form, and
sees it as if objectively. By imagination I do
not simply mean to convey the common notion
implied by that much abused word, which is
onlyfancy, but the constructh·e imagination,
which is a much higher function, and which,
inasmuch as man is made in the likeness of
God, bears a distant relation to that sublime
APPARITIO:XS. 321
power by which the Creator projects, creates,
and upholds his universe; whilst the far-
working of the departing spirit seems to con-
sist in the strong will to do, reinforced by the
strong faith that the thing can he done.
'Ve have rarely the strong will, and still more
rarely the strong faith, without which the will
remains ineffective. In the following case,
which is perfectly authentic, the apparition of
1\Iajor R. was seen several hours after his
death had occurred.
In the year 1785, some cadets were ordered
to proceed from Madras, to join their regiments
up the country. A considerable part of the
journey was to be made in a barge, and they
were under the condurt of a senior officer,
~Iajor R. In order to relieve the monotony of
the voyage, this gentleman proposed, one day,
that they should make a shooting excursion
inland, and walk round to meet the boat at a
point agreed on, which, owing to the windings
of the river, it would not reach till evening.
They accordingly took their guns, and as th~y
had to cross a swamp, Major R., who was well
acquainted with the country, put on a heavy
pair of top-boots, which, together with an
odd limp he had in his gait, rendered him dis-
tinguishable from the rest of the party at a
322 APRARITio.:-;::,.
considerable distance. 'Vhen they reached
the jungle, they found there was a wide ditch
to leap, which all succeeded in doing except
the :Major, who being less young and active,
jumped short of the requisite distance; and
although he scrambled up unhurt, he found
his gun so crammed fnll of wet sand that it
would be useless till thoroughly cleansed. He
therefore bade them walk on, saying he would
follow; aud taking off his hat, he sat down
in the shade, where they left him. 'Vhen they.
had been beating about for game some time,
they began to wonder the Major did not come
on, and they shouted to let him know where
abouts they were; but there was no answer,
and hour after hour passed without his appear-
ance, till at length they began to feel some-
what uneasy. Thus the day wore away, and
they found themselves approaching the ren-
dez\·ous; the boat was in sight, and they were
walking down to it, wondering how their
friend could have missed them, when suddenly,
to their great joy, they saw him before them
making towards the barge. He was without
his hat or gun, limping hastily along, in his
top-boots, and did not appear to obsene them.
They shouted after him, but as he did not
look round, they began to run, in 0rder to
APPARITIONS. 3=?3
overtake him; and, indeed, fast as he went,
they did gain considerably upon him. Still
he reached the boat first, crossing the plank
which the boatmen had placed ready for the
gentlemen they saw approaching. He ran
down the companion stairs, and they after
him; but inexpressible was their surprise
when the~ could not find him below. TIH~Y
ascended again, and enquired of the boatmeu
what had become of him; but they declared
he had not come on hoard, and that nobody
had crossed the plank till the young men
themselves had done su.
Confounded and amazed at what appeared
so inexplicable, and doubly anxious about
their friend, they immediately resohTed to re-
trace their steps in search ofhim; and, accom-
panied by some Indians who knew the jungle,
they made their way back to the spot where
they had left him. From thence :-~ome foot-
marks enabled them to trace him, till, at a very
short distance from the ditch, they found his
hat and his gun. Just then the Indians called
out to them to beware, for that there was a
sunk well thereabouts, into which they might
fall. An apprehension naturally seized them
that this might have been the fate of their
friend; and on examining its edge, they saw a
324 APPARITIOXS.
mark as of a heel slipping up; upon this, one
of the Indian8 consented to go down, having
a rope with which they had provided them-
selves tied round his waist, for, aware of the
existence of the wells, the nath·es suspected
what had actually occurred, namely, that the
unfortunate gentleman had slipt into one of
these traps, which, being overgrown with bram-
bles, were not discernible by the eye. \Vith
the assif3tance of the Indian, the body was
brought up and carried back to the boat,
amidst the deep regrets of the party, with
whom he had been a great favourite. They
p_
roceeded with it to the nP.xt station, where an
enquiry was instituted as to thP. manner of his
death, but of course there was nothing more
to be elicited.
I give this story as related by one of the
parties present, and there is no doubt of its
perfect authenticity. He ~ays, he can in no
way account for the mystery-he can only re-
late the fact; and not one, but the whole five
cadets, saw him as distinctly as they saw each
other. It was evident, from the spot where
the body was found, which was not many
hundred yards from the well, that the accident
must have occurred very shortly after they left
him. \Vhen the young·men reached the boat,
APPARITIOXS. 325
l\1ajor R. must have been, for some seven or
eight hours, a denizen of the other world, yet
he kept the rendezvous !
There 'vas a similar occurrence in Devon-
shire, some years back, which happened to the
well known Dr. Hawker, who, one night, in
the street, observed an old woman pass him,
to whom he was in the habit ofgiving a weekly
charity. Immediately after she had passed, he
felt somebody pull his coat, and, on looking-
t•otmd, saw it was she, whereupon he put his
hand in his pocket to seek for a sixpence, but,
on turning to give it to her, she was gone. He
thought nothing about it, but when he got
home, he enquired if she had had her money
that week, when, to· his amazement, he heard
she was dead, but his family had forgotten to
mention the circumstance. I have met with
two curious cases occurring in Edinburgh,. of
late years; in one, a young man and his sister
were in their kitchen, wm·ming themselves
over the fire, before they retired to bed, when,
on raising their eyes, they both saw a female
figure dressed in white, standing in the door-
way, and looking at them; she was leaning
against one of the door-posts. l\1iss E., the
young lady, screamed, whereupon the figure
advanced, crossed the ldtchen towards Q. closet,
VOL. I. 2 F
326- APPARITIONS.
and disappeared. There was no egress at the
clos~t; and, as they lived in a flat, and the door
was closed for the night, a strange-r could
neither have entered the house nor got out of
it. In the other iDstance, there were two
honses on one flat, the doors opposite each
other. In one of the houses there resided a
person with her two daughters, grown up
women; in the other liveu a shoemaker and
his wife. The latter died, and it was said her
husband had ill-treated her, and worried he1·
out of the world. He was a drunken, dissi-
pated man, and used to be out till a late hom.·
most nights, whilst this goor woman sa.t up for
him ; and, when she heard a voice on the stairs,
or a bell, she used often to come out and look
0\·er, to see if it wel"e her husband returned.
One night, when she had been dead some
weeks, the two young women were ascending
the stairs to their own door, when, to their
amazement, they both saw her standing at the
top, looking over as she used to do in her life
time. At the same moment, their mother
opened the door, and saw the figure also; the
girls rushed past, oYercome ,with tenor, and
one, if not both, fainted, as soon as they got
into the door. The youngest fell on her face
in the passage.
APPARITIOXS. 327
Another case, which occurred in this town,
I mention, although I know it is liable to be
called a spectral illusion, because it bears are-
markable similarity to one which took place in
America. A respectable woman lost her father,
for whom she had a great affection; she was
of a serious turn, and much attached to the
tenets of her church, in which particulars she
thought her father had been deficient. She
was therefore very unhappy about him, fear-
ing that he had not died in a proper state of
mind. A considerable time had elapsed since
his death, but her distrust of his condition
was still causing her uneac;iness, when, one
day, whilst she was sitting at her work,
she felt something touch her shoulder, and
on looking round she perceived her father,
who bade her cease to grieve about him, as he
was not unhappy. From that moment, she
became perfectly resigned and cheerful. The
American ease-l have omitted to write down
the name of the place, and forget it-was
that of a mother and son. She was also a
highly respectable person, and was described
to me as perfectly trustworthy, by one who
knew her. She was a widow, and had one
son, to whom she was extremely attached,
lle however disappeared, one day, and she
328 ~PPARITIO!"S.
never could 'learn what had become of him;
she always said, that if she did but know his
fate, she should be happier. At length, when
he had been dead a considerable time, her
attention was, one day, whilst reading, at-
tracted by a slight noise, which induced her
to look round; and she saw her son, dripping
with water, and with a sad expression of
countenance. The features however presently
relaxed, and they assumed a more pleasing
·aspect before he disappeared. From that time
she ceased to grieve, and it was subsequently
ascertained that the young man had nm away
to sea; but no more was known of him. Cer-
tain it was, however, that she attributed her
recovered tranquillity to having seen her son as
above narrated.
A lady, with whom I am acquainted, when
she ":as a girl, was one d.ay standing at the
top of the stairs, with two others, discussing
their games, when they each suddenly ex-
claimed, ''Who's that?'' There was a fourth
among them; a girl in a checked pinafore;
hut she was gone again. They had all seen
her. One day a younger brother, in the same
house, was playing with a whip, . when he
suddenly laughed at something, and cried,
~'Take that;,' and described having seen the
APPARITIONS. 329
same girl. This led to some enquiry, and it
was said that such a girl as they described had
lived in that house, and had died from the bite
of a mad dog; or, rather, had been smothered
between two feather beds; but whether that
was actually done, or was only a report, I
cannot say. Supposing this to have been no
illusion, and I really cannut see how it could be
one, the memory of past sports and pleasures
seems to have so survived, as to have attracted
the young soul~ prematurely cut off, to the spot
where the same sports and pleasures were
being enjoyed by the living.
A maid servant, in one of the midland coun-
~ies of England, being up early one morning,
heard her name called in a voice that seemed to
be her brother's, a sailor then at sea; and run-
ning up, she found him standing in the hall ; he
said he was come from afar, and was going
again, and mentioned some other things, when
her mistress, hearing voices, called to know
who she was talking to; she said, it was her
brother, from sea. After speaking to her for
some time, she suddenly lost sight of him, and
found herself alone. Amazed and puzzled,
she told her mistress what had happened, who
being led thus .to suspect the kind of visitor it
was, looked out of the window to ascertain if
2 F 5
3:30 .APPARITIOXS.
there were any marks of footsteps, the ground
being covered with snow. There were how-
ever none, and it was therefore clear that no-
body could have entered the house. Intelli-
gence afterwards arrived of the young man's
death.
This last is a case of wraith, but a more
complicated one, fi·om the circumstance of
speech being superadded. But this is not by
any means an isolated particular ; there are
many such. The author of the book called
"Accredited Ghost Stories," whose name ·I at
.this moment forget, and I have not the book
at hand, gives, on his own authority, the fol-
lowing circumstance, .professing to be ac-
quainted with the parties. A company were
visiting York Cathedral, when a gentleman
and lady, who had detached themselves from
the rest, observed an officer wearing a naval
uniform approaching them; he walked quickly,
saying to the lady as he passed," There ·is
another world." The gentleman, seeing her
greatly agitated, pursued the stranger, but lost
sight of him, and nobody had seen such a per-
son but themselves. On returning to his com-
panion, she told him that it was her brother,
who was then abroad with his phip, and with
whom she had frequently held discussions as-
APPARITIOXS. 3:31
to whether there was or was not a future life.
The news of the young man's death shortly
reached the family. In this case, the brother
must have been dead; the spirit must have
passed out of this world into that other, the
existence of which he came to certify. This
is one of those cases which, happening not
long ago, leads one especially to regret the
l\·ant of moral courage which prevents people
giving up their names, and avowing their ex-
perience. The author ofthe above-mentioned
book, from which I bolTOW this stnry, says, that
the sheet had gone to the press with the real
names of the parties attached, but that he was
requested to withdraw them, as it would be
painful to the family. My view of this case is
so different, that, had it occurred to myself, I
should have felt it my imperative duty to make
it known, and give every satisfaction to
enquirers.
Some years ago, during the war, when Sir
Robert H. E. \Vas in theNetherlands, he hap-
pened to be ·quartered with two other officers,
one of whom was dispatched into Holland on
an expedition. One night, during his absence,
Sir R. H. E. awoke, and, to his great sur-
prise, saw this absent friend sitting on the bed,
which he used to occupy, with a ·wound in his
332 APPARITIO:\S.
breast. Sir R. immediately awoke his com-
. panion, who saw the spectre also. The latter
then addressed them, saying, that he bad been
that day killed in a skinnish, and that he had
died in great anxiety about his family, where-
fore he had come to communicate that there
was a deed of much consequence to them de·
posited in the hands of a certain lawyer in
London, whose name and address he men•
tioned, adding that this man's honesty was not
to be altogether relied on. He therefore re-
quested that, on their return to England, they
would go to his house and demand the deed,
but that, if he denied the possession of it,
they were to seek it in a certain drawer in his
office, which he described to them. The
circumstance impressed them very much
at the time, but a long while had elapsed
ere they reached England, during which
period they had gone through so many
adventures and seen so many friends fall around
them, that this impression was considerably
weakened, insomuch that each went to his
own home and his own pursuits without think-
ing of fulfilling the commiss.ion they had
undertaken. Some time afterwards, however,
it happened that they both met in London,
and they then resolved to seek the street that
:APPARITIONS• 333
.had been named to the~, and ascertain if sueh
a man lived there. They found him, requested
an interview, and demanded the deed, the pos-
session of which he denied; but their eyes
were upon the drawer that had been described
to them; where they asserted it to be; and
being there discovered, it was delivered into
·their hands. Here, also, tho soul had parted
from the body, whilst the memory of the past
·and an anxiety for the worldly prosperity of
those left behind, survived; and we thus see
that the condition of mind in which this per-
son had died, remained unchanged. He wasnot
indifferent to the worldly prosperity of his re-
latives, and he found:his own state rendered
unhappy by the fear that they might suffer
from the dishonesty of his agent. It may here
be natui·ally objected that hundreds of much
loved widows and orphans have been ruined
·by dishonest trustees and agents, where no
ghost c~me back to instiuct them in the means
of obviating the misfortune• .ThiR is, no doubt,
a very.legitimate objection, and one which it
is very difficult to answer. I must, however,
repeat what I said before; nature is full of
exceptional cases, whilst we know very little
of the laws·which Tegulate these exceptions;
but we may see a very good reason for the fact
334 APPARITIO~S.
that such communications are the exccptwn,
and not the rule; for if they were the latter
the whole economy of this earthly life would
be overturned, and its affairs must necessarily
be conducted in a totally different manner to
that which prevails at present. 'Vhat the
effects of such an arrangement of nature would
be, had it pleased God to make it, he alone
knows; but certain it is, that man's freedom,
as a moral agent, would be in a great degree
abrogated, were the barriers that impede our
intercourse with the spiritual world 1·emoved.
It may be answered, that this is an argu-
ment which may be directed against the fact of
such appearances being permitted, at all; but
that is a iallacious objection. Earthquakes
and hurricanes are occasionally permitted,
which overthrow the work of man's hands
for centuries; but if these convulsions of
nature were of every day occurrence, nobody
would think it worth their while to build a
.house or culti\·ate the earth, and the world
would be a wreck and a wilderness. The
apparitions that do appear, are not without
their use to those who believe in them; whilst
there is too great an uncertainty attending the
subject, generally, to allow of its ever being
taken into consideration in mundane affairs.
APPARITIO~S ; 335
The old, so called, superstition of the people,
that a person's" dying with something on his
mind," is one of the frequent causes of these
revisitings, seems, like most ether of their
superstitions, to be founded on experience. I
meet with many cases in which some appa-
rently trivial anxiety, or some frustrated com-
munication, prevents the ui1easy spirit flinging
off the bonds that bind it to the earth. I
could quote many examples characterised by
this feature, but will confine myself to two or
three.
Jung Stilling gives a very curious one, which
occurred in the year 1746, and for the authen-
ticity of which he vouches. A gentleman, of
the name of Dorrien, of most excellent
character and amiable disposition, who ,was
tutor in the Carolina Colleges, at Brunswick,
died there in that year; and, immediately pre-
vious to his death, he sent to request an inter-
view with another tutor, of the name of Hofer,
with whom he had lived on terms of friend-
ship. Hofer obeyed the summons, but came
too late; the dying man was already in the
last agonies. After a short time, rumours be-
gan to circulate that Herr Dorrien had been
seen by different persons about the college;
but as it was with the pupils that these rumours·
336 APPARITIOXS.
originated, they were supposed to be mere
fancies, and no attention whatever was paid to
them. At length, howe,·er, in the month of
October, three months'after the decease of Herr
Don·ien, a circumstance occurred that excited
considerable amazement amongst the pro-
fessors. It formed part of the duty of
Hofer to go through the college every
uight, between the hours of eleven and
twelve, for the purpose of ascertaining
that all the scholars were in bed, and
that nothing irregular "·as going on amongst
~them. On the night in question, on entering
one of the anti-rooms in the execution of this
I
i duty, he saw, to his great amazement, Herr
l Dorrien, seated, in the dressing-gown and
;'white cap he was accustomed to wear, and
holding the latter with his right hand, in such
a manner as to conceal the upper part of the
face ; from the eyes to the chin, however, it
was distinctly visible. This unexpected ~ight
naturally startled Hofer, but, summoning reso-
lution, he .ad\-·anced into the young men's
ch~mber, and, having ascertained that all was
in order, closed the door ; he ~he~ turned his
eyes again towards ~he spectre, and there it sat
as before, whereupon he went up to !t, and
stretched out his arm towards it; bu~ h~ . wa~
APPARITlOXS. 33i
now seized 'vith such a feeling of indescribable
horror, that he could scarcely withdraw his
hand, which became swollen to a degree that
for some months he had no use of it. On the
following day, he related this circumstance to
the professor of mathematics, Oeder, who of
course treated the thing as a spectral illusion.
He, however, consented to accompany Hofer
on his rounds the ensuing night, satisfied that
he should be able either to convince him it
was a mere phantasm, or else a spectre of
flesh and blood who was playing him a trick.
They accordingly went at the usual hour, but
no sooner had the professor of mathematics
set his foot in that same room, than he ex-
claimed," By Heavens, it is Dorrlen himself!"
Hofer, in the mean time, proceeded into ihe
chamber as before, in the pursuance of his
duties, and, on his return, they both contem-
plated the figure for some time; they had,
hmvever, neither of them the courage to ad~
dress or approach it, and finally quitted the
room, very muc_h impressed, and perfectly con-
vinced that they had seen Dorricn. .This
incident soon got spread abroad, and many
people came in hopes of satisfying their own
eyes of the fact, but their pains were fruitless ;
and even Professor Oeder, who had made up his
VoL. I. 2 G
338 APPARITIOXS.
mind to speak to the apparition, sought it re-
peatedly in the same place in vain. At length,
he gave it up, and ceased to think of it, saying,
"I have sought the ghost long enough; if he
has anything to say, he must now seek me.''
About a fortnight after this, he was suddenly
awakened, between three and four o'clock in
the morning, by something moving in his
chamber, and, on opening his eyes, he beheld
a shadowy form, having the same appearance
as the spectre, standing in front of a press
which was not more than two steps from his
bed. He raised himself, anrl contemplated
the figure, the features of which he saw rlis-
tinctly for some minutes, till it disappeared.
On the following ni~ht he was awakened in
the same manner, and saw the figure as before,
with the addition that there was a sound pt·o-
ceeded from the door of the press, as if some-
body was leaning against it. Tlu~ spectre also
staid longer this time, and Professor Ot>der, no
doubt frightened and angry, addressing it as
an evil spirit, bade it begone, whereon it made
gestures with its head and hands that alarmed
him so much, that he adjured it, in the name
of God, to leaYe him, which it did. Eight
days now elapsed without any fnl'ther disturh-
ance, but, after that period, the visits of the
APPARITIO:-IS. 339
spirit were resumed, and he was a.wakened by
it repeatedly about three in the morning, when
it would advance from the press to the bed, and,
hang its head over him in a manner so annoy-
ing, that he started up and struck at it, where
upon it would retire, but presently advance
again. Perceiving, now, that the countenance
was rather placid and friendly than otherwise,
the professor at length addressed it, and, having
reason to believe that Dorrien had left some
debts unpaid, he asked him if that were the
case, upon which the spectre retreated some
steps, and seemed to place itself in an attitude
of attention. Oeder reiterated the enquiry,
whereupon the figure drew its hand across its
mouth, in which the professor now observed a
short pipe. "Is it to the barber you are in
debt?" he enquired. The spectre slowly shook
its head. "Is it to the tobacconist, then?''
asked he, the question being suggested by the
pipe. Hereupon the form retreated, and dis-
appeared. On the following day, Oeder nar-
rated what had occurred to Councillor Erath,
one of the curators of the college, and also to
the sister of the deceased, and arrangements
were made for discharging the debt. Professor
Seidler, of the same college, now proposed to
pass the night with Oeder for the purpose of ·
3-10 APPARITIOXS.
observing if the ghost came again, which it
did about five o'clock, and awoke Oeder as
usual, who awoke his companion, but just then
the form disappeared, and Seidler said he only
saw something white. They then both dis-
posedthemselves to sleep, but presently Seidler
was aroused by Oed.er's starting up and striking
out, whilst he cried, with a voice expressive of
rage and horror, "Begone ! You have tor-
mented me long enough! If you want any-
thing of me, say what it is, or give me an
iptelligible sign, and come hme no more!"
. Seidler heard all this, though hesaw nothing;
but as soon as Oeder was somewhat appeased,
lie told him that the figure had returned, and
not only approached the l1ed, but stretched
itself upon it. Afte~ this, Oeder burnt a light,
and had some one in the room with him every
night. He g~ined this advantage by the light,
that he saw nothing; but between the hours
of three and five, he was generally awakened
. .
by noises in his room, and other symptoms
that satisfied him the ghost was there. At
length, however, this annoyance ceased also;
and trusting that )1is unwelcome guest had
taken his leave, he dismissed his bedfellow,
and dispensed with his light. Two nights
p~ssed quietly over: on the third, however,
APPARITIONS. 341
the spectre returned; but very perceptibly
darker. It now presented another sign, or
symbol, which seemed to n~present a picture,
with a hole in the middle, through which it
thrust its head. Oeder was now so little
alarmed, that he bade it express its wishes more
clearly, or approach nearer. To these requi-
sitions the apparition shook its head, and
then vanished. This strange phenomenon
recurred several times, and even in the pre-
sence of another curator of the college; but
it was with considerable difficulty they dis-
covered what the symbol was meant to convey.
They at length, however, found that Don·ien,
just before his illness, had obtained, on trial,
several pictures for a magic lantern, which
had never been t·eturned to their owner. This
was now done, and from that time the appari-
tion was neither seen nor heard again. Pro-
fessor Oeder made no secret of these circum-
stances; he related them publicly in court
and college; he wrote the account to several
eminent persons, and declared himself ready
to attest the facts upon his oath.
Stilling, who relates this story, has been
called superstitious ; he may be so ; but his
piety and his honesty are above suspicion ; he
says the facts are well known, and that he can
2 G 5
342 .APPAJUTIO~S.
vouch for their authenticity; and as he must
have been a cotemporary of the parties con-
cerned, he had, doubtless, good opportunities
of ascertaining what foundation there was for
the story. It is certainly a very extraordinary
one, and the demeanour of the spirit as little
like what we should have naturally appre-
hended as possible; but, us I have said before,
we have no right to pronounce any opinion on
this subject, except from experience, and
there are two arguments to be advanced in
favour of this narration ; the one being, that I
cannot imagine anybody setting aLout to in-
~·eut a ghost·story, would have introduced cir-
cumstances so apparently imvrobable and
iu~ppropriate; and the other consisting in
the fact, that I have met with numerous re-
lations, coming from very opposite quarters,
which seem to corroborate the one in question.
'V'ith respect to the cause of the spectre's
appearauce, J ung Stilling, I think, reasonably
enough, suggests, that the poor man had in-
tended to commission Hofer to settle these
little affairs for him, but that delaying this
duty too long, his mind had been oppressed by
the recollection of them in his last moments-
he had canied his care with him, and it bound
him to the earth. 'Vherefore, considering ho~v .
APPARITIO.XS. 3t13
many persons die with duties unperformed,
this anxiety to repair the neglect, is not more
frequently manifested, we do not know; some
reasons we have already suggested as possible;
there may be others of which we can form no
idea, any more than we can solve the question,
why in some cases communication and even
speech seems easy, whilst in this instance, the
spirit was only able to convey its wishes by
gestures and symbols. Its addressing itself to
Oeder instead of Hofer, probably arose from
its finding communication with him less diffi-
cult; the swelling of Hofer's arm indicating
that his physical nature, was not adapted for
this spiritual intercourse. With respect to
Ocdcr's expedient of burning a light in his
room, in order to prevent his seeing this
shadowy form, we can comprehend, that the
figure would be discerned more easily on the
dark ground of comparative obscurity, and that
clear light would render it invisible. Dr. Kerner
mentions, on one occasion, that whilst sitting in
an adjoining room, with the door open, he had
seen a shadowy figure, to whom his patient
was speaking, standing beside her bed ; and
catching up a candle, he had rushed towards
it; but as soon as he had thus illuminated the
chamber, he could no·longer distinguish it.
344 APPARITIONS.
The ineffective and awkward attempts of
this apparition, to mali:e itself understood, are
not easily to be reconciled to our ideas of a
spirit, whilst at the same time, that which it
could do, and that which it could not-the
powers it possessed and those it wanted-tend
to throw some light on itscondition. As regards
space, we may suppose, that in this instance,
what St. Martin said of ghosts in general,
may be applicable, "Je ne crois pas a.ux ret:e-
'IWnts, maisje croix aux restants ;''that is, he
didnotbelieve, that spiritswhohad once quitted
the earth, returned to it, but he believed that·
some did not quit it, and thus, as the somnam-
bule mentioned in a former chapter said to
me, " Some are waiting and some are gone on
before." ·Dorrien's uneasiness and worldly
care chained him to the earth, and he was a
restant, but, being a spirit, he was inevitably
inducted into some of the inherent properties
of spirit; matter to him was no impediment;
neither doors nor walls could keep him out;
he had the intuitive perception of whom he~
could most easily communicate with, or he
was brought into rapport with Oeder by the·
latter's seeking him; and he could either so
act on Oeder's constructive imagination, as
to enable it to project his own figure, with'
APPARITIO~S. 345
the short pipe and the pictures, or he could,
by the magical power of his will, build up
these images out of the constituents of the
atmosphere. The last seems the most proba-
ble, because, had the rapport with Oeder, or
Oeder's receptivity, been sufficient to enable
the spirit to act potently upon him, it would
have been also able to infuse into his mind the
wishes it desired to. convey, even without
speech, for speech, as a means of communi-
cation betwixt spirits, must be quite unneces-
sary. EYen in spite of these dense bodies of
ours, we have great difficulty in concealing
our thoughts from each other; and the som-
namhule reads the thoughts not only of his
I~agnetiser, but of others, with whom he is
placed in rapport. In cases where speech
appears to be used by a spirit, it is frequently
not audible speech, but only this transference
of thought, which appears to be speech from
t~e manner in which the thought is borne in
and enters the mind of the receiver; hut it is
not through his ears, but through his universal
supplementary sense, that he receives it; and
it is no more like what we mean by hearing,
than is the seeing of a clairvoyant, or a spirit,
like our seeing by means of our bodily organs.
In thqse cases .where the speech is audible to
346 APPARITIONS.
other persons, we must suppose that the
magical will of the spirit can, by means ofthe
atmosphere, simulate these sounds as it can
simulate others, of which I shall haYe to treat
by and by. It is remarkable, that, in some
instances, this magical power seems to extend
so far as to represent to the eye of the seer a
form apparently so real, solid, and life-like,
that it is not recognizable from the living
man; whilst in other cases the production of
a shadowy figure seems to be the limit of its
agency, whether limited by its own faculty, or
the·.receptivity of its subject; but \Ye must be
quite sure that the form is, in either instance,
equally ethereal or immaterial. And it will
not be out ofplace here to refer to the standing
joke of the sceptics, about ghosts appearing in
coats and waistcoats. Bentham thought he
had settled the question for ever by that ob-
jection; and I have heard it since frequently
advanced by very acute persons, but, properly
considered, it has not the least validity.
Whether or not the soul on leavingits earthly
tabernacle finds itselfat once clothed with that
spiritual body, which St. Paul refers to, is
what we cannot know, though it seems highly
probable ; but if it be so, we must be sure
that this body resembles in its nature, that
APPARITIOXS; 347
fluent subtle kind of matter, called by us im-
ponderables, which are capable of penetrating
all substances; and unless there be no visible
body at all, but only the will of a disembodied
spirit acting upon one yet in the flesh, in which
case it were as easy to impress the imagination
with a clothed figure as an unclothed one, we
must conclude that this ethereal flexible form,
· whether permanent or temporary, may be
held together and retain its shape by the
volition of the spirit, as our bodies are held
together by the principle of life that is in
them; and we see in various instances, where
the spectator has been bold enough to try the
experiment, that though the shadowy body
was pervious to any substance passed through
it, its integrity was only momentarily inter-
rupted, and it immediately recovered its pre-
vious shape. Now, as a spirit, provided there
be no especial law to the contrary, partial or
universal, absolute or otherwise, governing the
spiritual world-must be where its thoughts
and wishes are, just as we should be a~ the
place we intently think of, or desire, if our
solid bodies did not impede us, so must a spirit
appear as it is, or as it conceives of itself;
morally, it can only conceive of itself as it is,
good or bad, light or dark; but it may con-
3.!8 APPARITIO~S.
ceive of itself clothed as well as unclothed;
and if it can conceive of its former body, it can
equally conceive of its fonner habiliments; and
so represent them, by its power of will to the
eye, or present them to the constructive ima-
gination of the seer; and it will be able to do
this with a degree of distinctness proportioned
to the receptivity of the latter, or to the in-
tensity of the rapport which exists between
them. Now, considered in this way, the
appearance of a spirit "in its habit as ·it
liYed,'' is no more extraordinary than the
appearance of a spirit at all, and it adds no
complexity to the phenomenon. If it appears
at all, in a recognizable form, it must come
naked or clothed ; the former, to say the least
of it, would be much more ftightful and
shocking ; and if it be clothed, I do not see
what right we have to expect it shall be in a
fancy costume, confm·mable to our ideas, which
are no ideas at all, of the other world; nor
why, if it be endowed with the mc>mory of
the past, it should not he natural to suppose it
would assume the external aspect it l'.'Ore,
during its earthly pilgrimage. Certain it is,
whether consistent with our notions or not,
all tradition seems to sho_
w that this is the
appearance they assume; and the very fact,
APPARITIONS. 349
that on the first view·of the case, and until
the question is philosophically considered, the
addition of a suit of clothes to the phenome-
non, not only renders its acceptance much
more difficult, but throws an air of absurdity
and improbability on the whole subject, fur-
nishes a very strong argument in favour of the
persuasion, that this notion has been founded
on experience, and is not the result either of
fancy or gratuitous invention. The idea of
spirits appearing like angels, with wings, &c.
seems to be drawu from these relations in the
Jlible, when messengers were sent from God
to man ; but those departed spirits are not
angels, though probably destined in the course
of ages to become so; in the mean time, their
moral state continues as when they quitted the
body, and their memories and affections are
with the earth, and so, earthly they appear,
more or less. We meet with some instances
iu which bright spirits ha,·e been seen; pro-
tecting spirits, for example, who have shaken
oil' their earth entirely, clinging to it yet but by
some holy afl'ection or mission of mercy, and
these appear, nut with wings, which whenever
~een are merely symbolical, for we cannot
imagine they are necessary to the motion of a
spirit, but clothed in robes of light. Such
YnT.. I. 2H
350 APPARITIO~S.
appearances, however, seem much more rare
than the others. It will seem to many per-
sons very inconsistent with their ideas of the
dignity of a spirit that they should appear and
act in the manner I have described, at1d shall
describe further; and I have heard it objected
that we cannot suppose God would permit the
dead to return merely to frighten the living,
and that it is showing him little reverence to
imagine he .would suffer them to come on
such trifling errands, or demean themsehes in
so undignified a fashion. But God pennits
men of all degrees of wickedness, and ofen·ry
kind of absurdity, to exist, and to han·ass and
disturb the earth, whilst they expose them-
selves to its obloquy or its ridicule.
Now; as I ha,·e obsen·ed in a former
chapter, the;re is nothing more perplexing to
us in regarding man as a. responsible being,
than the degree to which we haye reason to
believe his moral nature is influenced hy hi~
phy~ical organization; but leaving this difii-
cnlt question to he decided-ifever it can be de-
cided in this world-by wiser heads than mine,
there is one thing of which we may rest per-
fectly assured, uamely, that let the fault of an
impure, or vicious, or even merely sensuous
life~ lie .)''~ere it will-whether it be the wicked
A:PPARITIUXS." 351
spirit within, or the ill-organized body with-
out, or a tertium quid of hoth combined, stil1,
the soul that has been a party to this earthly
career, must he soiled and deteriorated by its
familiai;ty with evil; and there seems much
reason to believe that the dissolution of the
connexion between the saul and body, pro-
duces far less change in the former than has
been commonly supposed. People generally
think, if they think on the subject at all, that
as soon as they are dead, provided they have
lived tolerably virtuous lives, or indeed been
free from any great crimes, they will imme-
diately find themselves provided with wings,
and straightway fly up to some delightful place,
which they call heaven, forgetting how unfit
they are for heavenly fellowship; and although
I cannot help thinking that the Almighty ha~
mercifully permitted occasional relaxations of
the boundaries that separate the dead from the
living, for the purpose of showing us our
error, we arc determined not to avail ourselves
of the advantage. I do not mean that these
spirits-these revenants orrestants-are special
messengers sent to warn us; I only mean that
their occasionally "revisiting the glimpses of
the moon" form the exceptional cases in a
great general law of nature, which divides the
3:0:0
--- .-\PPARITIOXS.
spiritual from the material world; and that in
framing this law, these exceptions may have
been designed for our benefit.
There are several stories extant in the
English, and a vast number in the German
records, which, supposing them to be well
founded-and I repeat, that for many of them
we have just as good evidence as for anything ,
else we believe as hearsay or tradition-would
go to confirm the fact that the spirits of the
dead are sometimes disturbed by what appear
to us very trifling cares. I give the following
case from Dr. Kerner, who says it was related
to him l>y a very respectable man, on whose
word he can entirely rely.
"I was," said Mr. St. S., of S-, ''the son
of a man who had no fortune but his business,
in which he was ultimately successful. At first,
however, his means being nanow, he was per-
haps too anxious and inclined to parsimony ;
so that when my mother, careful housewife as
she was, asl\ed him for money, the demand
generally led to a quarrel. This occasioned
her great uneasiness, and having mentioned
this characteristic of her husband to her father,
the old man advised her to get a second key '
made to the money-chest, unln10wn to her
l1usband, considering this expedient all~wable
,-'
APPARITIO:'-I'S. 35:3
and e\·en preferable to the destruction of their
conjugal felicity, and feeling satisfied that she
would make no ill use of the power possessed.
1\'Iy mother followed his advice, very much to
the ad,•antage of all parties; and nobody sus-
pected the existence of this second key, except
myself, whom she had admitted into her con...
fidence. Two and twenty years my parents
li\·ed happily together, when I, being at the
time about eighteen hoursjourney from home,
1·eceived a letter from my father informing me
that she was ill; that he hoped for her speedy
amendment; but that if she grew worse he
would send a horse to fetrh me home to see
her. I was extremely busy at that time, and
therefore waited for further intelligence, and as-
several days elapsed without any reaching me, I
trusted my motherwas convalescent. One night,
feeling myself unwell, I had lain down on the
bed with my clothes on to take a little rest.
It was between eleven and twelve o'clock, and
I had not been to sleep, when some one
knocked at the door, and my mother entered,
dressed as she usually was. She saluted me,
and said, 'We shall see .each other no more in
this world, but I have an injunction to give
you. I have given that key toR. (naming a
servant we then had), and she will remit it tO:
2H5
354 APP.\HITIOXS.
you. Keep it carefully, or throw It mto the
water, but nevel' let your father see it; it would
trouble him. Farewell, nnd walk virtuously
through life!' And with these words she
turned and quitted the room hy the door, as
she had entered it. I immediately aro~c,
called up my people, expressed my apprehen-
sion that my mother ·was dead, and, .without
further delay, started for home. As I ap-
proached the house, R., the maid, came 9ut,
and informed me that my mother had expired
betwixt the hours of eleven and twelve on the
preceding night. As there was another
person present at the moment, she said nothing
further to me, but she took an early oppor-
tunity of remitting me the key, saying that
my mother had given it to her just before she
expired, desiring her to place it in my hands,
with an injunction that I should keep it care-
fully, or fling it into the water, so that ·my
father might never know anything about it. I
I
took the key, kept it for some years, and at
length threw it into the Lahue."
I am aware that it may be ohjected by those
who believe in wraiths, but in no other kind
of apparition, that this phenomenon occurred
before the death of the lady, and that it was
produced by her energetic anxiety with regard
APPARITIO"SS. 35.j
to the key; it may be so, or it may not; but at
all events, we see in this case hmY a compara-
tively trifling uneasiness may disturb a uying
person, and how therefore if memory remains
to them, they may carry it with them, and
seek by such means as they have, to obtain re-
lieffrom it.
A remarkable instance of anxiety for the
welfare of those left behind, is exhibited in
th~ following story, which I received from a
member of the family concerned :-Mrs. R., a
lady very well connected, lost her husband
when in the prime of life, and found herself
'vith fourteen children, unprovided for. The
overwhelming nature of the calamity depressed
her energies to such a degree.as to render her
incapable of those exertions which could alone
redeem them f1:om ruin. The flood of mis-
fortune seemed too strong for her, and she
yiel~ed to it without 1·esistance. She had thus
given way to despondency some time, whe~ one
day, as she was sittii1g alone, the door opened
and her mother, who had been a considerabl~
time dead, entered the room and addressed her,
reproving her for this weak indulgence of use-:-
less sorrow, and bidding her exert herself for
the sake of her children. ~ro~:n that period
she threw off the depression, set acti~·ely t?
356 APP.UUTIO~S.
work to promote the fortunes of her family;
and succeeded so well that they ultimately
emerged from all their difficulties. I asked
the gentleman who related this circumstance
to me, whether he believed it. He answered
that he could only assure me that she herself
affirmed the fact, n.nd that she avowedly attri~
buted the sudden change in her character and
conduct to this cause-for his own part, he did
not know what to say-finding it difficult to
believe in the possibility of such a -visit from
the dead.
.A somewhat similar instance is related by
Dr. Kerner, which, he says, he received froni
the party himself, a man of sense a1_1d probity:
This gentleman, l\1r. F., at an early age lost
his mother. Two and twenty years afterwards
he formed an attachment to a young person,
whose hand he resolved to ask in marriage.
Having, one evening, seated himself at his
desk, for the purpose of writing his proposal,
he was amazed, on accidentally lifting his eyes
from the paper, to see his mother looking ex-
actly as if alive, seated opposite to him; whilst
she, raising her finger with a warning gesture,
said, ''Do not that thing!" Not the least
alarmed, Mr. F. started up to approach her,
whereupon she disappeared. Being very much-
APP.-\RITIOXS. 357
attached to the lady however, he did not feel
disposed to follow her couusel; but havin~
read the letter to his father, who highly
approved of the match and who laughed at
the ghost, he returned to his chamber to seal
it, when whilst he was adding the superscrip-
tion, she again appeared as before, and
reiterated her injunction. But love conquered;
the letter was dispatched, the marriage ensued,
and after ten ytars of strife and unhappiness
was dissolved by a judicial process.
A remarkable circumstance occurred, about
forty years ago, in the family of Dr. Paulus at
Stuttgard. The wife of the head of the family
having died, they, .with some of their con-
nexions, were sitting at table a few days
afterwards, in the room adjoining that in which
the corpse lay, when, suddenly the door of the
latter apartment opened, and the figure of the
mother, clad in white robes, entered, and
saluting them as she passed, walked .slowly
and noiselessly through the room, and then
disappeared again through the door by which
she had entered. The whole company saw
the apparition; but the father. who was at that
time quite in health, died eight days after-
wards.
l\:Iadame R. had promi~ed an old wood-..
358 .A PP.\.HITIOXS.
cutter, who had a particular horror of dying
in the poor-house, because he knew his body
would be given to the surgeons, that she
would take care to see him properly interreLl.
The old man lived some years afterwards, and
she had quite lost sight of him, and indeed
fm·gotten the circumstance, when she was one
night awakened by the sound of some one
cutting wood in her bed-chamber; and so
perfect was the imitation, that she heard e\·ery
log flung aside as separated. She started up,
exclaiming, "The old man must be dead~, m1d
so it proved; his last anxiety having been
th~t Madame R. should remember her promise.
That our interest in whatever has niuch
concerned us in this life, accompanies us
beyond the grave, seems to be proved by many
stories I meet with, and the following is of
undoubted authenticity :-Some years ago, a.
music-master died at Erfrert at the age of '
seventy. He was a miser, and had never ·
looked with Yery friendly eyes on Professor
Rinck, the composer wno he knew was likely
to succeed to his classes. The old man had
lived and died in an apartment adjoining the
class-room; and • the first day that Rinck
entered on his office, whilst the scholars were
singing Aus der tiefe ruf iclt dicll, which is a.
APPARITioSs. 35fJ
paraphrase of the De profitndis, he thought he
saw through a hole or hull's eye there was in
the door something moving about the inner
chamber. As the room was l'oid of every kind
of furniture, and nobody could possibly be in
it, Rinck lo,,ked more fixedly; when he
distinctly saw a shadow, whose mo,Tements
were accompanied by a strange rustling sound.
Perplexed at the circumstance, he told his
pupils that on the following day he should
require them to repeat the same choral. They
did so; and whilst they were singing, Rinck
saw a person walking backwards and forwards
in the next room, who frequently approached
th~ hole in the door. Very much struck with
so extraordinary a circumstance, Rinck had
the choral repeated on the ensuing day; and
this time his suspicions were fully confirmed ;
the old man, Lis predecessor, approaching the
door, and gazing steadfastly into the class-
room. " His face," said Rinck, in relating the
story to Dr. 1\iainzer, who has obligingly fur-
ni~hed it to me as ente~ed in his journal at the
timP, "his face was of an ashy grey. The
apparitiOn," he added "never more appeared
to me, although I frequently had the chora]
repeated.''
"I am no belie1er in ghost-stories," he added,
:3()0 APPAJUTIO~S.
·" nor in the least superstitious ; nevertheless I
cannot help admitting that I have seen this, it
· is impossible for me ever to doubt or to deny
that which I know I saw."
CHAPTER X.
THE FUTURE THAT AWAITS US.
IN all ages of the world, and in all parts of it,
mankind have earnesc.ly desired to learn the
fate that awaited them when they had" shuf-
fled off.this mortal coil;'' and those pretend-
ing to be their instructors have built up dif-
ferent systems which have stood in the stead
of knowledge, and more or less satisfied the
bulk of the people. The interest on this sub-
ject is, at the present period, in the most highly
civilized portions of the globe, less than it has
been at any preceding one. The great pro-
portion of us live for this world alone, and
VOL. I. 2 I
362 THE FUTlJRE
think very little of the next; we are in too
great a hurry of pleasure or business to be-
stow any time on a subject of which we have
such vague notions-notions so vague, that,
in short, we can scarcely by any effort of the
imagination bring the idea home to ourselves;
and whim we are about to die \~e arc seldom
in a situation to do more than resign oursehes
to what is inevitable, and blindly meet our
" fate; whilst, on the other hand, what is gene-
rally called the religious u·orld, is so engrossed
lJy its struggles for power and money, or by
its sectarian disputes and enmities; and so
. nanowcd and circumscribed by dogmatic
orthodoxies, that it has neither inclination nor
liberty to tun1 back or look around, and en-
deavotlr to gather up from past records and
present observation such hints as are now and
a~in dropt iu our path, to give us an inti-
mation of what the truth may be. The ration-
alistic age, too, out of which we are only just
emerging, and which succeeded one of gross
superstition, having settled, beyond appeal,
that there never was such a thing as a ghost-
that the dead never do come back to tell us
the secrets of their prison-house, and that no-
hody believes such idle tales but <;hildrcn and.
nld women, seetncd to have slmt the door.
THAT AWAITS US. 363
against the only channel through which any
information could be sought. Revelation tells
us very little on this subject, reason can tell us
nothing; and if nature is equally silent, or if
we are to be deterred from questioning her
from the fear of ridicule, there is certaiuly no
resource left for us hut to rest contented in
our ignorance; and each wait till the awful
secret is disclo!5ed to ourselves. A great many
things have been pronounced untrue and
absurd, and even impossible, by the highest
authorities in the age in \vhich they lived1
which 'have afterwards1 and indeed within a
very short period, been found to be both pos-
sible and true. I confess myself, for one, to
have no respect whatever for these dogmatic
denials and affirmations, and I am quite ot
opinion that vulgar incredulity is a much
more contemptible thing than vulgar credulity.
We know very little of what is, and still less of
what may be; and till a thing has been proved,
by induction logically impossible, we have no
right whatever to pronounce that it is so. A~ I
have said before, apriori conclusions are per-
fectly worthless; and the sort ofinve~Stigation
that is bestowed upon subjects of the class of
which I am treating,somethingworse; inasmuch
as they deceive the timid and the ign•orant, and
364 THE FU'DUHE
that very numerou!i class which pins its
faith on authority and never ventures to think
for itself, by an assumption of wisdom and
knowledge, which, if examined and analysed,
would very frequently prove to be nothing
more respectable than obstinate prejudice and
rash assertinn.
For my owii part, I repeat, I insist upon
nothing. The opinions I have formed from
the evidence collected, may be quite erroneous;
if so, as I seek only the truth, I shall be glad
to be undeceived and shall be quite ready to
accept a better explanation of these facts,
whenever it is offered to me; but it is in vain
to tell me that this explanation is to be found
in what is called imagination, or in a morbid
state of the nerves, or an unusual excitement
of the organi of colour and form, or in im-
]JOsture; or in all these together. The existence
of allsuch sources oferror and delusion,I am far
from denying, but I find instances that it is
quite impossible to reduce under any one _
of
those categories, as we at present understand
them. The multiplicity of these instances,
too-for not to mention the large number that
are never made known or carefully concealed,
if I were to avail myself liberally of cases
already recorded in various works, many of
TliAT AWAlTS U
s. 365
which I know, and many others I hear of as
existing, but which I cannot conveniently get
nccess to, I might fill volumes-German lite·
rature abounds in thPm-the number of the
examples, I repeat, even on the supposition
that they are not facts, would of itself form
the subject of a very curious physiological or
psychological enquiry. If so many people in
res1,ectable situations of life, and in apparently
. a normal state of health, are either capable of
such gross impostures, or the subjects of such
extraordinary spectral illusions, it would cet·..
tainly be extremely satisfactory to learn some•
thing of the conditions that induce these
phenon1ena in such abundance ; and all I
exp,ect from my book at present is, to induce
a suspicion that we are not quite so wise as we
think ourselves; and that it might be worth
while to enquire a little seriously into reports,
which may perchance tum aut to ha,·e a
deeper interest for us, than all those various
questions, public and private, put together,
with which we are daily agitating oUr8elves.,
I have alluded in an earlier part of this
work, to the belief entertained by the ancients,
that the souls of men on being disengaged
from the bodies, passed into a middle state,
called Hades, in which their portions seemed
2 I 5
THE FUTURE
neither to be that of complete happiness nor
of insupportable misery. They retained their
personality, their human form, their memory
of the past, and their interest in those that had
been dear to them on earth. Communications
were occasionally made by the dead to the
living; they mourned o\·er their duties ne-
glected and their errors committed; many of
their mortal feelings, passions and propen-
sities, seemed to sun-ive; and they sometimes
sought to repair, through the inst!umentality
of the living,. the injuries they had formerly
inflicted. In short, death wn.s merely a tran-
sition from one condition of life to another;
but in this latter state, although we do not
see them condemned to undergo any torments,
we perce.ive that they are not happy. There
are indeed compartments in this dark region ;
there is Tartarus for the wicked, and the
Elysian fields for the good, but they are com·
{mratively thinly peopled. It is in the mid
. region that these pale shades abound, con-
sistently with the fact, that here on earth,
moral, as well as intelle~tual, mediocrity is the
rule ; and extremes of good or evil the ex-
ceptions.
" 'ith regard to the opinion entertained of a
future state by the Hebrews, the Old Testa-
THAT AWAITS US. 3G7
ment gives us very little information; but
what glimpses we do obtain of it, appears to
exhibit notions analogous to those -of the
heathen nations, inasmuch as that the person-
ality and the form seem to be retained, and
the possibility of these departed spirits re-
visiting the earth and holding commune with
the living is admitted. The request of the
rich man, also, that Lazarus might be sent to
wan1 his brethren, yet alive, of his own
miserable condition, testifies to the existence of
these opinions; and it is worthy of remark,
that the favour is denied, not because its per-
formance is impossible,but because the mission
would be unavailing-a prediction which, it
appears to me, time has singularly justified.
Altogether, the notion that in the state entered
upon after we leave this world, the personality
and form are retained, that these shades some-
times revisit the earth, and that the memory
of the past sti11 survives, seems to be universal;
for it is found to exist amongst all people,
savage and civilized ; and if not founded on
obse1·vation and experience, it becomes difficult
to account for such unanimity on a subject
,which I think.~ speculatively considered, would
not have been productive of such results; and
one proof of this is, that those who reject such
368 Tlll~ FUTUnt·:
testimony n.nd tradition as we luwc in regard
to it, and rely only on their own understand-
ings, appear to be pretty uniforn1ly led to forni
opposite couclu~ions. They cannot discern
the mode of such a phenomenon; it is open
to all sorts of scientific objections, and the cui
bono sticks in their teeth.
This position being ndmitted, as I think it
muBt be, we have but one resource left, where-
by to account for the universability of this
persuasion; which is, thnt in all periods and
places, both mankind and womenkind, as well
in health RS in sickness, have been liable to a
~eries of spectral illusions of a most extra-
ordinary and complicated nature, and bearing
such a remarkable similarity to each other, in
regard to the objects supposed to be seen or
heard, tlmt they have been universally led to
the same erroneous interpretation of the phe-
nomenon. It is manifestly not impossible
that this may be the case; and if it be so, it
becomes the business of physiologists to en-
quire into the matter, and give us some account
of it. In the mean time, we may be permitted
to take the other view of the question, and
examine what probabilities seem to be in its
favour.
'Vheu the body is about to die, that which
THAT AWAITS US. 369
cannot die, and which, to .spare words, I wi11
call the soul, departs from it; whither ? We
do not know ; but, _in the first place, we have
no reason to believe that the space destined
for its habitation is far removed from the earth,
since, kno\'ring nothing about it, we are equally
entitled to suppose the contrary; and, in the
next, that which we call distance is a condition
that merely regards material objects, and of
which a spirit is quite indepen~ent, just as our
thoughts are, which can travel from .here to
China, and .back again, in a second of time.
Well, then, supposing this being to exist
somewhere, and it is not unreasonable to sup-
pose that the souls of the inhabitants of each
planet continue to hover within the sphere of
that p~anet, to which, f9r anything we can tell,
they may be attached bya magnetic attraction,
supposing it to find itself in space, free of the
body, endowed wi~h the memory of the past,
and consequently with a consciousness of its
own deserts, able to perceiv_e that which we do
not ordinarily perceive, namely, those who
havP. pas.sed into n. similar state with itself, will
itnot naturally seek its place amongst those
spirits which most resemble itself, and with
whom, therefore, it must have the most affinity?
On earth, the good seck the good, and the
370 TilE l<"UTURE
wicked the wicked: and the axiom that u like
associates with like," we cannot doubt will be
as true hereafti:r as now. "In my father's
house there are many mansions," and our in-
tuitive sense of what is fit and just mnst needs
assure us that this is so. There are teo many
degrees of moral worth and of moral unworth
amongst mankind, to permit of our supposing
that justice could be satisfied hy an abrupt
division into two opposite classes. On the
contrary, there must be infinite shades of
desert, aud,as we mustconsider that that which
a spirit enters into on leaving the body, is not
so much a place as a condition, so there must
be as many degrees of happiness or suffering'
as there are individuals, each carrying with
him his own Heaven or Hell. For it is a
·,·ulgar notion to imagine that Heaven and Hell
·are places; they are states ; and it is in our-
selves we must look for both. When we leave
the body, we carry them with us ; " as the tree
falls, so it shall lie.'' The ·soul which here
has wallowed in wickedness or been sunk in
sensuality, will not be suddenly purified by
the death of the body ; its moral condition
remains wllat its earthly sojourn has trained
it to, but its means of indulging its propen-
sities are lost. If it has had uo godly aspira-
THAT AWAITS US. ;J7l
tions here, it will not be drawn to God there;
and if it has so bound itself to the body' that it
has known no happiness but that to which the
body ministered, it will be incapable of hap-
J>iness when deprived of that means of enjoy-
ment. Here we see ut once what a variety
of conditions must necessarily ensue; how
many comparatively negative states there must
be betwixt those of positive happiness or
positive misery.
We may thus conceive how a soul, on en-
tering upon this new condition, must find its
own place or state; if its thoughts and aspi-
rations here have been heavenward, and its pur-
suits noble, its conditions will be heavenly.
The contemplation of God's works, seen not as
by our mortal eyes, but in their beauty and
their truth, and ever-glowing sentiments
of love and gratitude, and, for aught we know,
good offices to souls in need, would constitute
a suitable heaven, or happiness for such a
being; an incapacity for such pleasures, and
the absence of all others, would constitute a
negative sta.te., in which the chief suffering
would consist in mournful regrets and a vague.
longing for something better, which the un-
trained soul that never lifted itself from the
earth, kuows uot how to seck; whilst malig- .
372 THE FUTU RE
nant passions and unquenchable desires would
constitute the appropriate hell of the wicked;
for we must remember, that although a spirit is
independent of those physical laws which are
the conditions of matter, the moral law, which
is indestructible, belongs peculiarly to it_;_that
is, to the spirit, and is inseparable from it.
'Ve must next remember, that this earthly
body we inhabit is more or less a mask, by
means of which we eoncPal from each other
those thoughts which, if constantly exposed,
would unfit us for living in community; but
when we die, this mask falls away, and the
truth~ shows nakedly. There is no more dis-
guise; we appear as we are, spirits of light or
spirits of darkness; and there can be no diffi-
culty, I should think, in eonceiving this, since
we know that even our present opaque and
comparatively inflexible features, in spite of
all efforts to the contrary, will be the iudex
of the mind; and that the expression of the
face is gradually moulded to the fashion of the
thoughts. How much more must this be.the case
with the fluent and diaphanous body which
,,.e expect is to succeed the fleshly one !
Thus, I think, we have arrived at forming
some conception of the state that awaits us
hereafter; the indestructible moral law fixes
THAT AWAITS US• 373
.our place or condition; affinity governs our
as89ciations; and the musk under which we
conceal ourselves having fa~len away, we ap-
pear to each other as we are : and I must here
observe, that in this last circumstance, must he
comprised one very important clement of
happiness or misery ; for the love of the pure
spirits for each other will be for ever excited
by simply beholding that beauty and bright-
ness which will be the inalienable expression
oftheir goodness; whilst the reverse will be the
case with the spirits of darkness; for no one
loves wickedness, either in themselves or
others, however we may practice it. We must
also understand, that the words dark and light,
which in this world of appearance we usc
metaphorically to express good and evil, must
be understood literally when speaking of that
other world where everything will be seen as
It IS. Goodness is truth, and truth is light;
and wickedness is falsehood, and falsehood is
darkness, and so it will be seen to be. Those
who have not the light of truth to guide them
will wander darkly through this valley of the
shadow of death; th~se in whom the light
of goodness shines \vill dwell in the light,
which is inherent in themselves. The former
will be in the kingdom ofdarkness, the latter in
VoL. 1. 2 K
374 THE FUTURE
the kingdom oflight. All the records existing
of the blessed spirits that have appeared,
ancient or modern, exhibit them as robed in
light, whilst their anger or sorrow is sym-
bolised by their darkness. Now, there appears
to me nothing incomprehensible in this view
of the future; on the contrary, it is the only
one which I ever found myself capable of con-
ceiving or reconciling with the justice and
mercy of our Creator. He does not punish us,
we punish ourselves; we have built up a
heaven or a hell to our own liking, and we
carry it with us. The fire that for ever burns
without consuming, is the fiery evil in which
we have chosen our part; and the heaven
in which we shall dwell will he the heavenly
peace which will dwell in us. "re are our own
judges arid our own chastisers; and here
I must say a few words on the subject of that,
apparently to u;, preternatural memory which
is developed under certain circumstances, and
to which I alluded in a former chapter. Every
oue will have heard that persons who have
b_een drowned and recovered ha\'e had, in
what would have been their last moments, had
no means been used to revi\·e them, a strange
vision of the past, in which their whole life
seemed to float before them in review; and I
T HAT AWAITS US. 3i 5
have heard of the same phenomenon taking
place in moments ofimpending death, in other
forms. Now, as it is not during the struggle
for life, but immediately before insensibility
ensues, that this vision occurs, it must be the
act of a moment; and this renders compre-
hensible to us what is said by the Seeress of
l)revorst, and other somnambuies of thehighest
order, namely, that the instant the soul is
freed f~om the body it sees its whole earthly
career in a single sign; it knows that it is
good or evil, and pronounces its own sentence.
The extraordinary memory occasionally ex-
hibited in sickness where the link between
the soul and the body is probably loosened,
shows us an adumbration of this faculty.
But this self-pronounced sentence, we are
led to hope is not final, nor does it seem con-
sistent with the love and mercy of God that it
should be so. There must be few, indeed,
who leave this earth fit for heaven; for al-
tlwugh the immediate frame of mind in which
dissolution ta,kes place, is probably very im-
portant, it is surely a pernicious error, en-
com·aged by jail chaplains and philanthropists,
that a late repentance and a few parting prayers
can purify a soul sullied by years of wicked-
ness. Would we at once receive such an one
into our intimate communion and love?
376 THE FUTURE
Should we not require time for the stains of
vice to be washed away and habits of virtue to
Le formed? Assuredly we should! And how
can we imagine thatthe purity of heaven is to
Le sullied by that approximation that the
purity of earth would forbid? It would be
cruel to say, and irrational to think, that this
late repentance is of no avail; it is doubtless
so far of avail that the straining upwar~s and
the heavenly aspirations of the parting soul
are carried with it, so that when it is free,
instead of choosing the darkness, it will flee
to as much light as is in itself; and be ready,
through the mercy of God and the ministering
of brighter spirits, to receive more. But in
this case, as also in the innumerable instances
of those who die in what may be called a ne-
gative state, the advance must be progressive,
though wherever the desire exists, I must be-
lieve that this advance is possible. If not,
wherefore did Christ, after being "put to
death in the flesh," go and "preach to the
spirits in pl;son !'' It would have been a
mockery to preach salvation to those who had
no hope; nor would they, having no hope, have
listened to the preacher.
r think these views are at once cheeiing,
encouraging, and beautiful; and I cannot but
believe, that were they more generally ente1·-
T H:\!T AWAITS US. !377
taincd and more intimately concP.ived, they
would be very beneficial in t'kcir effects. As I
have said before, the extremely vague· notions
people have of a future life, pre,~ent the possi-
bility of its exercising any great influence upon
the present. The picture, on one side, is too
I:evolting and inconsistent with our ideas of
Divine goodness to be deliberately a<'ceptcd ;
whilst, with regard to the other, our feelings
somewhat resemb-le those of a little girl, I once·
knew, who, being told by her mother what
was to be the reward of goodness if she were-
so happy as to reach h-eaven, put her finger in
her eye and began to cry, exclaiming, "Oh,.
mamma ~ how tired I shall be singing ~,,.
The question which will now naturally
arise, and vrhich I am bound to answer, is,
How have these views been formed? and what
is the authority for them? and the answer l
have to make will startle many minds, when I
say, that they have been gathered from two-
sources; first and chiefly from the state in
which those spirits appem· to be, and ·somc-
ti mes avow themselves to· be, who, after quit-
ting the earth, return to it and make themselves·
visible to the living; and, secondly, fi·om the
revelation& of numerous somnambules of the
highest order, which entirely conform in all
2 K 5
378 THE FUTURE
cases, not only with the revelations of the
dead, but with each other. I do not mean to
imply, when I say this, that I consider the
question finally settled, as to wl1ether somnam-
bules are really clear-seers or only visionaries;
nor that I have by any means established the
fact that the dead do sometimes actually re-
turn; but I am obliged to beg the question
for the moment, since whether these sources
be pure or impure, it is from them the infor-
mation has been collected. It is true, that
these views are extremely conformable with
those entertained by Plato and his scho0l of
philosophers; and also with those of the
mystics of a later age ; but the latter certainly,
and the former probably, built up their systems
on the same foundation ; and I am very far
from using the term mystics in the opprobrious,
or at least contemptuous, tone in which it has
of late years beP.n uttered in this country; for
although abounding in errors, as regarded tl1e
concrete, and although their want of an in-
ductive methodology led them constantly
astray in the region of the real, they were
sublime teachers in that of the ideal; and they
seem to have been endowed with a wonderful
insight into this veiled department of our
nature.
THAT AWAITS US. 379
It may be here objected, that we only admire
their insight, because, being in entire igno-
rance of the subject of it, we accept raving
for revelation; and that no weight can be
attached to the conformity of later disclosures
with theirs, since they have no doubt been
founded upon them. As to the ignorance, it
is admitted ; and, simply looking at their views,
as they stand, they have nothing to support
them but their sublimity and consistency; but,
as regards the value of the evidence afforded
by conformity, it rests on very difierent
grounds; for the reporters from whom we
collect our inteJligence are, with very few
exceptions, those of whom we may safely
predicate, that they were wholly unacquainted
with the systems promulgated by the Platonic
philosophers, or the mystics either, nor, in
most instances, had ever heard of their names;
for, as regards that _peculiar somnambulic
state which is here referred to, the subjects
of it appear to be generally very young people
of either sex, and chiefly girls ; and, as re-
gards ghost-seeing, although this phenomenon
seems to have no connexion with the age of
the seer, yet it is not usually from the learned
or the cultivated we collect our cases, inas-
380 THE FGTU I!E
much as the apprehension of ridicmlc, on the
one hand, and the fast hold the doctrine of
spectral illusions has taken of them, on the
other, prevent their believing in their own
senses, or producing any evidence they might
have to furnish.
And here will be offP.red another suhtle ob-
jection, namely, that the testimony of such
witnesses as I have above described is per-
fectly worthless; but this I deny. The som-
nambulic states I allude to, are such as have
been developed, not artificially, but naturally;
an~l often under very extraordinary nervous
diseases, accompanied with catalepsy, and·
various symptoms far beyond feigning. Such
cases are rare, and, in this country, seem to
have been very little observed, for doubtless
they must occur, and when they do occur, they
are very carefully concealed by the families of
the patient, and not followed up or investi-
gated as a psychological phenomenon by the
physician; for it is to be observed that, with-
out questioning no revelations are made; they
are not, as far as I know, ever spontaneous.
I have heard of two such cases iu this country,
both occurring in the higher classes, and both
patients being young ladies; but, although
THAT AWAITS US. 381
surprising phenomena were exhibited, interro-
gation was not permitted, and the particulars
were never allowed to transpire.
No doubt there are examples of error and
exa~ples of imposture, so there are in every- ·
thing where room is to be found for them;
and I am quite aware of the propensity of
hysterical patients to deceive, but it is for the
judicious observers to examine the genuineness
of each particular instance; and it is perfectly
certain and well established by the German
physiologists and psychologists, who have
carefully studied the subject, that there are
many above all suspicion. Provided, then,
that the case be genuine, it remains to be de-
termined how much value is to be attached to
the revelations, for they may be quite honest1y
delivered, and yet be utterly worthless-the
mere ravings of a disordered brain ; and it is
.here that conformity becomes important, for I
cannot admit the objection that the simple
circumstance of the patient's being diseased
invalidates their evidence so entirely as to
annul even the value of their unanimity, be-
cause although it is not logically impossible,
that a certain state of nervous derangement
should occasion all somnambules, of the class
in question, to make similar answers, when
382 T HE FUT•UTIF!
interrogated, regarding a suhjcct of-which in
their normal condition they know nothing,
and on which they have never reflected, and
that these answers should be not only con-
sistent, but disclosing far more elevated views
than are evolved by minds of a very superior
order which l1ave reflected on it very deeply-
! say, although this is not logically impossible,
it will assuredly be found, by most persons, an
hypothesis of much more difficult acceptance
than the one I propose; namely, that what-
ever be the cause of the effect, these patients
are in a state of clear-seeing, wherein they
have "more than mortal knowledge;" that is, .
more knowledge than mortals possess in their
normal condition: and it must not be for-
gotten, that we have some facts confessed by
all experienced phy~icians and physiologist~~
even in this country, proviug that there arc
states ofdisease in which preten1atural faculties
have been developed, such as no theory has
yet satisfactorily accounted for.
But Dr. Passavent, who has written a very
philosophical work ou the subject of vital
magnetism and clear-seeing, asserts, that it is.
an. error to imagine that the extatic condition
is- merely the product of disease. He says,
that it has sometimes exhibited itself in
THAT AWAITS US. 383
persons of very vigorous constitutions, in-
stancing Joan of Arc, a woman, whom his-
torians have little understood, and whose
memory Voltaire's detestable poem has ricli-'
culed and degraded, but who was, neverthe-
less, a great psychological phenomenon.
The circumstance, too, that phenomena of
this kind are more frequently developed in
women than in men, and that they are merely
the consequence of her greater nervous irrita-
bility has been made another objection to
them-an objection, however, which Dr.
Passavent considers founded on ignorance of
the essential difference between the sexes,
which is not merely a physical but a psycho.
logical one. l\1an is more productive than
receptive. In a state of perfectibility, both
attributes would be equally developed in him;
but in this terrestrial life, only imperfect
phases of the entire sum of the soul's faculties
are so. l\1ankind are but children, male or
female, young or old: of man, in his tota1ity,
we have but faint adumbrations, here and there.
Thus the extatic woman will be more fre-
quently a seer, instinctive and intuitive; man,
a doer and a worker ; and as all genius is a
degree of extacy or clear-seeing, we perceive
the reason wherefore in man it is more pro-
384 THg F UT URE.
ductive than in woman, and that our greatest
poets and artists, in all kinds, are of the former
sex, and even the most remarkable women
produce but little in science or art; whilst on
the other hand, the feminine instinct, and tact,
and intuitive seeing o£ truth, is frequently
more sure than the ripe and deliberate judg-
ment of man: and it is hence that solitude
and such conditions as develop the passive
or receptive at the expense of the active,
tend to produce this state, and to assimilate
the man more to the nature of the woman ;
whilst in her they intensify these distinguish-
ing characteristics: a.nd this is also the reason
that simple and child-like people and races are
the most frequent subjects of these phenomena.
It is only necessary to read l\1ozart's account
of his own moments of inspiration, to com-
prehend, not only the similarity, but the posi-
tive identity of the extatic state with the state
of genius in activity. " 'Vhen all goes well
with me," he says," when I am in a carriage,
or walking, or when I cannot sleep at night,
the thoughts come streaming in upon me most
fluently. 'Vhence, or how, is more than I cPn
tell. \\7
hat comes, I hum to myself, as it pro-
ceeds................theu follows the counterpoint
and the clang of the different instruments, and
THAT AWAITS US. 385
if I am not disturbed my soul is fixed., aud
the thing grows gn~ater, and broader, and
clearer ; and I have it all in my head, even
when the piece is a long one, and I see it like
a beautiful picture, not hearing the different
parts in succession, as they must be played,
but the whole at once. That is the delig-l1t ~
The composing and the making is like a lJ~an­
tiful and vivid dream, but this hearing of it, is
the best of all."
'Vhat is this but clear-seeing, backwards
and forwards, the past and the future ? The
one faculty is not a whit more surprising and
incomprehensible than the other, to those who
possess neither, only we see the material pro-
duct of one, and therefore believe in it. But,
as Passaveut justly iays, these corruscations
belong not to genius exclusively : they are
latent in all men. In the highly gifted, this
divine spark becomes a flame to light the
world withal': but even in the coarsest and
least developed organizations, it may, and
does momentarily break forth. The germ of
the highest spiritual life is in the rudest,
according to its degree, as well as in the highest
form of man we have yet seen; he is but a
more imperfect type of the race, in whom this
spiritual germ has not unfolded itself.
VoL. 1. 2 L
386 THE FUT URE
Then, with respect to our second source of
information, I am quite aware that it is equally
difficult to establish its validity; but the1e
are a few arguments in our favour here, too.
In the first place, as Dr. Johnson says, though
all re:\son is against us, all tradition is for us;
and this conformity of tradition is surely of
sm~e weight, since I think it would be diffi-
cult to find any parallel instunce, ofa universal
tradition that was entirely without a founda-
tion in truth; for with respect to witchcraft,
the belief in v;·hich is equally universal, we
llOW know that the phenomena were generally
facts, although the interpretations put upon
them were fables. It may ~ertainly be objected
that this universal belief in ghosts only arises
from the universal prevalence of spectral illu-
sions, but, if so, as I have before observed,
these spectral illusions become a subject of
very curious enquiry, for, in the first place,
they frequently occur under circumstances the
least likely to induce them,and to people whom
we should least expect to find the victims of
them ; and, in the second, there is a most re-
markable conformity here, too, not only
I between the individual cases occuning amongst
· all classe~ of persons, who had.never exhibited
the slightest tendency to uerYous derangement
THAT AWAITS Us. 887
or somnambulism, hut also between these and
the revelations of the somnambules. In short,
it seems to me that life is reduced to ·a mere
phantasmagoria, if spectral illusions are so
prevalent, so complicated in their nature, and
so delusive as they must be, ifall the instances
of ghost-seeing that come before us are to be
refened to that theory. How numerous these
are, I confess myself not to hnYe had the least
idea, till my attention was directed to the
enquiry; and that these. instances haYe been
equally frequent in all periods and places, we
cannot doubt, from the variety of persons that
have given in their adhesion, or at lea~t that
haYe admitted, as Addison did, that he could
not refuse the universal testimony in favour of
the re-appearance of the dead, strengthened by
that of many credible persons with whom he
was acquainted. Indeed, the testimony in
fiwour of the facts has been at all periods too
strong to be wholly rejected, so that even the
materialists,_ like Lucretius and the elder
Pliny, find themselves obliged to acknowledge
them, whilst, on the other hand, the extrava-
gant admissions that are demanded of us by
those who eudeaYour to explain them away,
prove that their disbelief rests on no more solid
~oundation than their own prejudices. I ac-
388 . THE FUTURE
lmowledge all the difficulty of establishing the
facts, such difficulties as indeed encompass few
other branches of enquiry; but I maintain that
the position of the opponents is still worse,
although, by their high tone, and their con-
temptuous laugh, they assume to haYe taken
np one that, being fortified by reason, is quite
impregnable, forgetting. that the wisdom of
man is preeminently " foolishness before God,''
when it wanders into this region of unknown
things. Forgetting, also, that they are just
serv~ng this branch of enquiry, as their prede-
cessors, whom they laugh at, did physiology ;
concocting their systems out of their own
brains, instead of the responses of nature; and
with :-;till more rashness and presumption~ this
department of her kingdom being more inac.;.
cessihle, more incapable of demonstration, and
more entirely beyond our controul; for these
~pirits will not" come when we do call them;"
and, I confess, it often surprises me to hear
the very shallow nonsense that Yery clever men
talk upon the subject, and the inefficient argu-
ments they use to dispro,·e what they know
nothing about. I am quite conscious that the
facts I shall adduce are open to controversy;
I can bring forward no evidence that will
satisfy a. scientific mind; but neither are my
THAT AWAITS Us. 389
opponents a whit better fortified. All I do
hope to establish is, not a proof, hut a pre-
sumption; and the conviction I desire to
awaken in people's minds, is, not that these
things are so, but that they ·may he so, and that
it is well worth our while to enquire whether
they are or not.
It will be seen, that these views of a future
state are extremely similar to those of Isaac
Taylor, as suggested in his physical theory of
another life-at least, as far as he has entered
upon the subject-and it is natural that they
should be so, because he seems also to have
been a convert to the opinion, that "the dead
do sometimes break through the boundaries
that hem in the etherial crowds ; and if so, as
if by trespass, may in single instances infringe
upon the ground of common corporeal life.''
Let us now fancy this dispossessed soul en-
tering on its new career, amazed, and no more
able than when it was in the body to accommo-
date itself at once to conditions of existence,
for which · it was unprepared. If ·its aspi-
rations had previously been heavenward, these
conditions would not be altogether new, and it
would speedily find itself at home in a sphere
in which it had dwelt before; for, as I have
formerly said, a spirit must be where its
2 L 5
390 · THE FUTURE
thoughts and affections are. and the soul,
whose thoughts and affections had been ·
directed to heaven, would only awaken after
death into a more perfect and unclouded
heaven. Bnt imagine the contrary of all this.
Conceive what this awa]\ening must be to an ·
earth-bound spi1·it-to one altogether unpre..
pared for its new home-carrying no light
within it-floating in the dim obscure-cling..
ing to the earth, '~lH.~re all its affections were
garnered up; for where its treasure is, there
shall it he also. It will find its condition evil,
more or less, ac'cording to the· degree of its
moral light or darkness, and in proportion to
the amount of the darkness will be it8 inca-
pacity to seck for light. ·Now, there seems
nothing offensive to our notions of the Divine ·
goodness in this conception of what awaits us
when the body dies. It appears to me, on the
contrary, !o offer a more comprehensible and
coherent view.than any other that has been
pre~ented to me; yet, the state I have d~­
picted is very much the Hades of the Greeks
aud Romans. It is the middle state, on
which all souls enter, a state in which
there a.r~ many mansions-that is, there are
innumerable states-probably not permanent,
but ever progressive or retrograde; for we can-
THAT AWAITS US. 39~
not conceive of any moral state being permaoo~
nent, since we know perfectly well that ours is
never so: it is always advancing or retroceding.
When we are not improving, we are deterio-
rating; and so it must necessarily be with us
hereafter.
Now, if we admit the probability of this
middle state, we have removed one of the great
objections which are made to the belief in the
re-appearance of the dead; namely, that the
blest are too happy to return to the earth, and
that the wicked have·it not in their power to
do so. This difficulty arises~ however, very
much from the material ideas· entertained of
Heaven and Hell-the notion that they are
places instead of states. I am told that the
· Greek word Hades is derived from QJides, in-
visible; and that the Hebrew word Sclteot,
which has the same signification, also implies
a state, not a place; since it may pe inter-
preted into desiring, longing, asking, praying.
These words in the Septuagint, are transla-
ted by grave, death, or hell; hut previously to
the Reformation, they seem to have borne
their original meaning; that is, the state into
which the soul entered at the death of th~ body.
It was probably to get rid of the purgatory of
the Roman Church, which had doubtless be-
392 THE Ft;TCRE
come the source of many absurd notions and
corrupt practices, tbnt the doctrine of a middle
sl<'\te or Hades was set aside; besides which
the honest desire for reformation in all refor-
ming churches, being alloyed by the odium
tlteologicum, the purifying besom is apt to
take too discursh•e a sweep, exercising less
modesty and discrimination than might be de-
sirable; and thus not uncommonly wiping
away truth and falsehood together.
Dismissing the idea, therefore, that Hea'"en
and Hell are places in which the soul is im-
prisoned, whether in bliss or woe, and, sup-
posing that, by a magnetic .relation, it may
remain connected with the sphere to which it
previously belonged, we may easily conceive
that, if it have the memory of the past, the
more entirely sensuous its life in the body may
have been, the closer it will cling to the scene
of its former joys; or, even if its sojourn on
earth were not a period pf joy, but the con-
trary, still, if it have :·~10 .hen,'enward aspira-~
tions, it will find itself, .if not in actual woe,
yet aimless, objectless, and .out of a congenial
element. It has no longer the organs whereby
it percei\·ed, communicated with, and enjoye(l
the matei;al world and its pleasures. Thejoys
of Hea\·en are not its joys_; we might as wt.:ll
THAT AWAITS Us. 393
expect a hardened prisoner in Newgate, asso-
ciuting with others as hardened as himself, to
melt into extatic delight at the idea -of that
which he cannot apprehend! How helpless
and inefficient such a condition seems, and
how natural it is to us to imagine that, under
such circumstances, there might be awakened
a considerable desire to manifest itself to those
yet living in the flesh, if such a manifestation
be possible! And what right have we, in direct
contradiction to all tradition, to assert that it
is not? We may raise up a variety of objec-
tions from physical science, but we cannot be
sure that these are applicable to the case; and
of the laws of spirit we know very little, since
we are only acquainted with it as circum-
scribed, confined, and impeded in its opera-
tions bythe body; and whenever such abnormal
states occur as enable it to act with any degree
of independence, man, under the dominion of
his all-sufficient reason, denies and disowns
the facts. That the manifestation of a spirit
to the living, whether seen or heard, is an
exception, and not the rule, is evident; for,
supposing the desire to exist at all, it must
exist in millions and millions of instances
which never take effect. The circumstances
must, therefore, no doubt be very peculiar, as
394 THE FUTURE
regards both parties in which such a mnnifes..
tat.ion is possible; what these are we have very
little means of knowing, but, as far as we do
knmv, we ·are led to oonclude that a certain
magnetic rapport or polarity constitute this
condition, whilst, at the same time, as regards
~he seer, there must be what the prophet called
the "opening of t!te eye," which may, perhaps,
signify the seeing of the spirit without the aid
of the bodily organ, a condition which may
temporarily occur to any one under we know
not what influence, but which seems, to a cer-
tain degree, hereditary in some families.
The following passage is quoted from Sir
'Villiam Hamilton's edition of Dr. Reid's
works, published in 1846:-
"No man can show it to be impossible to
the Supreme Being to ha,·e given us the power
of perceiving external objects, without any
such organs'' i. e., our organs of sense. "'Ve
ha,·e reason to belie,•e that when we put off
these bodies, and all the organs belonging to
them, our perceptive powers shall rather be
.improved than destroyed or impaired. 'Ve
have reason to believe that the Supreme Being
perceives everything in a much more perfect
manner than we do, without bodily organs.
'Ve have reason to belie,·e that there are other
THAT AWAITS Us. 395
created beings endowed with powers of per-
ception more perfect and more extensive than
ours, ·without any such organs as we find ne-
cessary;" and Sir "'\Villiam Hamilton adds the
following note :-
"However astonishing, it is now proved be-
yond all rational doubt, that in certain abnor-
mal states of the nervous organism, perceptions
are possible through other than the ordinary
channels of the senses.',
Of the existence of this faculty in nature,
any one, who chooses, may satisfy himself by
a very moderate degree of trouble, pro,·ided
he undertake the investigation honestly ; and
this being granted, another objection, if not
altogether removed, is considerably weakened.
I allude to·the fact, that in numerous reported
cases of ghost-seeing, the form~ were visible
to only one person, even though others were
present, which, of course, rendered them UTI-
distinguishable from cases of spectral illusion,
and indeed unless some additional evidence be
afforded, they must remain ·so still, only we
have gained thus much, that this objection is
no longer unanswerable; for whether the
phenomenon is to he referred to a mutual rap-
port, or to the opening of the spiritual eye, we
comprehend how one 111ay see what others do
396 THE FUTtJRE
not. But really\ if the seeing depP.nded upon
ordinary vision, I cannot perceive that the
difficulty is insurmountable; for we perfectly
well know that some people are endowed with
an acuteness of sense, or power of perception,
which is utterly incomprehensible to others:
for without entering into the disputed region
of clear-seeing, everybody must have met with
-instances of those strange antipathies to certain
objects, accompanied by an extraordinary ca.
pacity for perceiving their presence, which
remain utterly unexplained. Not to speak of
cats and hares, where some electrical effects
might be conceived, I lately heard of a gentle-
man who fainted if he were introduced into a
room where there was a raspbeny tart; and
that there have been persons endmved with a
faculty for discovering the proximity of water
and metals, even without the aid of the
divining rod-which latter marvel seems to be
now clearly established as an electrical pheno-
menon, will scarcely admit of further doubt.
A very eminent person, with whom I am ac-
quainted, possessing extremely acute olfactory
powers, is the subject of one single exception.
He is insensible to the odour of a bean-field,
however potent: but it would surely he very
absurd in him to deny that the bean-field
THAT A WAITS US. 3U7
emits an odour, and the eYidence of the rna.
jority against him is too strong to admit of
his doing so. Now, we haYe only the eYi·
dence of a minority with regard to the ex.
istence of ce.rtain faculties not generally de-
,·eloped, but surely it argues great presumption
to dispute their possibility. 'Ve might, I
think, with more appearance of reason, insist
upon it that my friend mwd be mistaken, and
that he does smell the bean.field; for we
have the majority against him there, most
decidedly. The difference is, that nobody cares
whether the odour of the bean-field is per-
ceptible or not: but if the same gentleman
asserted that he had seen a ghost, beyond all
doubt, his word would be disputed.
Though we do not know what the condi.
tions are that d~velope the faculty of what St.
Paul calls the discerning of spirits, there is
reason to believe that the approach of death is
one. I have heard of too many instances of
this kind, where the departing person has
been in the entire possession of his or her fa-
culties, to doubt that in our last moments we
are frequently ·visited by those who haYe gone
before us, and it being admitted by all physi-
ologists, that preternatural faculties are some..
times exhibited at this period, we can haYe
VoL. r. 2 l\1
398 THE FUTURE
no right to say that" the discerning of spirits"
is not one of them.
There is an interesting story recorded by '
Beaumont, in his '~World of Spirits," and
quoted by Dr. Hibbert with the rem~rk, that
110 reasonable doubt can be placed on the au-
thenticity of the narrative, as it was drawn up
by the Bishop of Gloucester from the recital of
the you.ng lady's father; and I mention it here
not for any singularity attending it, but fir~t
because its authenticity is admitted, and next
on account of the manner in which, so much
being granted, the fact is a~temp~ecl to b.e ex::
plainecl away.
"Sir Charles Lee~ by h\& first laqy, had only
one daugh~er, o~ which she died in child-:hirth,
and when she was dead, her sister, the Lady
EYerard~ d.t!s1red to. have the education of the
chilo, ~nd she was very well educated till she
was m~rr~age~ble, and a match was.con<;ludecl
fnr her w\t~ .Sir W. Parkins, but wa~ ~hen
pr~v~nted in ~n ~~traordinary manner~ Upon
a, Thursday night, ~he thinking she saw ~light
~n her cha~ber after s\le was in bed, knocked
for per maid, who pr~sently came to her,. aud
~he a~ked, ' Why she left ~ candle burning in
her roow ?; The maid ans.wered, that she had
-~ ~~f~ n.~~? ~~q ~ha~ ~~~~e w~s. none but what
THAT AWAITS US. 399
she had brought with her at that time;' then;
she said, it must be the fire; but that her
maid told her, was quite out, adding she
l)elieved it was only a dream, whereupon
1\Iiss Lee answered, it might be so, and com-
posed herself again to sleep. But, about two
of the clock, she was awakened ag~in, and
saw the apparition of a little woman between
l1er curtains and her pillow, who told her
·she was her mother, that she was happy, ancl
that, by tw-elve of the clock that day, she
should be with her. Whereupon,she knocked
again for her maid, called for her clothes, and
when she was dressed, went into her closet,
and came not out again till nine, and then
brought out with her a letter, sealed, to her
father, carried it to her aunt, the Lady Everard,
told her what had happened, and desired that
as soon as she was dt>acl it might be sent to
him. The lady thought she was suddenly
fallen mad., and therefore sent presently away
to Chelmsford., for a physician and surgeon,
who both came immediately., but the physician
could discen1 no indication of what the lady
imagined, or of any indisposition of her body ;
notwithstanding, the lady would needs have
her let blood, which was clone accordingly;
and when the young woman had patiently
400 THE FUTURE
let them do what they would with her, she
desired that the chaplain might be called to
read prayers; and when prayers were ended,
she took her guitar and psalm-book, and sat
d~nvn upon a chair without arms, and played
and sung so melodiously and admirably,
that her music-master, who was then there,
admired at it; and near the stroke of twelve,
she rose and sat herself down in a great chair
'vith anns, and presently fetching a strong
breathing or two, she immediately expired, and
was so suddenly cold as was much wondered
at by the physician and surgeon. She died at
'Valtham, in Essex, three miles from Chelms-
ford, and the letter was sent to Sir Charles, at
his house, in Warwickshire; but he was so
afflicted at the death of his daughter, that he
came not till she was buried; but when he
came, he caused her to be taken up, and to be
buried with her mother, at Edmonton, as she
desired in her letter."
This circumstance occurred in the year 1662,
and is, as Dr. Hibbert observes, "one of the
most interesting ghost-stories on record:'' yet
he insists on IJlacing it under the category of
spectral illusions, upon the plea, that let the
physician, whose skill he arraigns, say what
he would, her death within so short a 1)eriocl,
THAT AWAtTs USe 401
proves that she must have been indisposed at
the time she saw the vision, and that probably
''the languishing female herself might hm'e
unintentionally contributed to the more strict
verification of the ghost's prediction,'' con·
eluding with these words, "all that can be
said of it is, that the coincidence was a for-
tunate one; for without it, the story would,
probably, never have met with a 1·ecorder,''
&c.&c.
Now, I ask if this is a fair way of treating
any fact, transmitted to us on authority, which
the . objector himself admits to be perfectly
satisfactory; more especially, as the assistants
on the occasion appear to have been quite as
ttnwilling to believe in the supernatural intPr-
pretation of it, as Dr. H. could have been
himself, had he been present; for what more
could he have done than conclude the young
lady to be mad, and bled her ?-a line of prac-
tice which is precisely what would be followed
at the present time; and which proves that
they were very well aware of the sensuous
illusions produced by a disordered state of the
netTous system; and with respect. to his con-
clusion that the "languishing female " con-
tributed to the verification of the prediction,
we are entitled to ask, where is the proof that
2 l\I 5
402 tH:B FUT·URF!
she was languishing? A very clever watch·
maker once told me, that a watch may go per-
fectly well for years and at length stop sud-
denly, in consequence of an organic defect in
its construction, which only becomes percep-
tible, even to the eye of a watchmaker, when
this effect takes place; and we do know that
many persons have suddenly fallen dead im-
mediately after declaring themselves in the
best possible health; and we have therefore
no right to dispute what the narrator
implies, namely, that there were no sensible
indications of the impending catastrophe.
There either was some organic defect or
derangement jn this lady's physical economy,
which rendered her death inevitable at the
hour of noon, on that particular Thursday, or
there was not. If there were, and her certain
death was impending at that hour, how came
she acquainted with the fact? Surely, it ..is a
monstrous assumption to say, that it was "a
fortunate coincidence," when no reason what-
ever is given us for concluding that she felt
otherwise than perfectly well ? If, on the con-
trary, we are to take refuge in the supposition.
t;hat there was no death impending, and that
she o~ly died of the fright, how came she-
f~eling per[ectly well, and, in this case, we have
THAT AWAITS Us. 403
n. right to conclude bei11!1 perfectly well,-to be
the subject of such an extraordinary spectral
illusion? And if such spectral illusions can
occur to people in a good normal state of
health, does it not become very desirable to
give us some clearer theory of them than we
have at present. But there is a third presump-
tion to which the sceptical may have recourse,
in order to get rid of,this well established, and
therefore very troublesome fact, namely, that
l\iiss Lee was ill) although unconscious of it
herself, and indicating no symptoms that
could guide her physician to an enlightened
diagnosis ; and that the proof of this is to be
found in the occurrence of the spectral illusion,
and that this spectral illusion so impressed her,
that it occasioned the precise fulfilment of the
imaginary prediction, an hypothesis which
appears to me to be pressing very hard on the
spectral illusion; for it is first called upon to
establish the fact of an existing indisposition
of no slight character, of which neither patient
or physician were aware; and it is next Te-
quired to kill the lady with unerring certainty,
at the hour appointed, she being, according to
the only authority we have for the story, in
a perfectly calm and composed state of mind !
for ·there is nothing to be discerned in the
404 THE FUTGRE
description ofher demeanour but an entire and
willing submission to the announced decree,
accompanied by that pleasing exaltation, which
appears to me perfectly natural under the cir-
cumstances; and I do not think that anything
we know of human vitality can justify us in
believing that life can be so easily extin-
guished. But to such straights people are re-
duced, who write with a predetermination to
place their !acts on a Procrustian bed, till they
have fittP.d them into their own cherished
theory.
In the above recorded case of 1\iiss Lee, the
motive for the visit is a sufficient one; hut
one of the commonest objections to such nar-
rations, is the insignificance of the motive
when any communication is made, or there
being apparently no motive at all, when none
is made. 'Vhere any previous atta.chment has
subsisted, we need seek no further for an im-
pelling cause; but, in other cases, this im-
pelling cause must probably be sought in the
earthly r~pport still subsisting and the urgent
desire of the spirit to manifest itself and
establish a communication where its thoughts
and affections still reside; and we must con-
sider that, provided there be no law of God
prohibiting its revisiting the earth, which law
THAT AWAITS US. 405
would of course supersede all other laws, then,
as I ha\'e before observed, where its thoughts
and affections are, it must be also. What is
it but our heavy material bodies that prevents
us fmm being where our thoughts are? But
the being near us, and the manifesting itself
to us, are two very different things, the latter
e\·idently depending on conditions we do not
yet understand. As I am not writing a bo@k
on vital magnetism, and there are so many
already accessible to every body who chooses to
be informed on it, I shall not here enter into the
subject of magnetic rapport, it beiug, I believe,
now generally admitted, except by the most
obstinate sceptics, that such a relation can be
established betwixt two human beings. In
what this relation consists, is a more difficult
question, but the most rational view ap-
pears to be that of a magnetic polarity
which is attempted to be explained by two
theories-the dynamical and the etherial : the
one viewing the phenomena as simply the
1·esult of the transmission of forces, the other
hypothetising an ether which pervades all
space,and penetrates all substance, maintaining
the connexion betwixt body and soul, and be-
twixt matter and spirit. To mo:st minds, this
last hypothesis will be the most comprehen-
406 THE FUT URE
sible; on which account, since the result would
be the same in either case, we may adopt it
for the moment; and there will then be less
difficulty in conceiving that the influence or
ether of every beiug or thing, animate or in-
animate~ must extend beyond the periphery of
its own terminations~ and that this must be
eminently the case where there is animal life;
the nerves forming the readiest conductors for
this supposed imponderable. The proofs of
the existence of this ether are said to be mani~
fold, and more especially to be found in th~
circumstances that m·ery created thing sheds
an atmosphere around it, after its kind; this
atmosphere becoming~ under certain con-
ditions, perceptible or even visible, as in the
instances of electric fish, &c., the fascinations
of serpents, the influence of human beings
upon plants, and "'!ice "''ersa; and fin all~·, the
pl1enomena of animal magnetism, and the un-
doubted fact, to which I myself can bear wit..:
ness, that the most ignorant girls, when in a
state of son\nambulism; have been known to
declare that they saw their magnetism· sur•
rounded by a halo of light; and it is doubtless
this halo oflight,that,from their being strongly
magnetic men, has frequently been observed
to surround the heads of saints and eminently ·
THAT A""AITS L'S. 407
holy persons :
: the temperament that produced
the internal fervour, causing the visible mani-
festation of it. By means of this ether, or
force, a never-ceasing motion and an inter-
communication is sustained betwixt all created
things, and betwixt created things and their
Creator, who sustains them and creates them
en~r anew, by the constant exertion of his
Divine will, of which this is the messenger
and the agent, as it is betwixt our will and our
mvn bodies; and without this sustaining will,
so exerted, the whole would fall away, dissolve
and die; for it is the life of the universe.
That ,Ul inanimate objects emit an influence.
greater or less, extending beyond their own
peripheries is established by their efl'ects on
Yarious susceptible individuals, as well as ou
f:omnambqles ; and thus there exists a uni-
versal polarity and rapport, which is however
stronger betwixt certain organisms; and every
being stands in a varying relation of positive
and negative to every other.
'Vith regard to these theories, however,
where there is so muc4 o.bscurity, even in the
language, I do not w~sh to insist; more espe-
cially as I am fully aware that this subject
may be discussed in a manner much more con-
gruous with the dynamical spirit of the philo-
408 THE FUTURE
sophy of this century: but, in the meanwhile,
as either of the causes alluded to is capable
of producing the effects, we adopt the hypo-
thesis of an all-pervading ether, as the one
most easily conceived.
Admitting this then to be the case, we begin
to have some notion of the modus operandi, by
which a spirit may manifest itself to us, whether
to our internal universal sense, or even to our
sensuous organs; and we aho find one stum-
bling block removed out of our way, namely,
that it shall be visible or even audible to one
person and not to another, or at one time and
not at another; for by means of this ether, or
force, we are in communication with all spirit,
as well as with all matter; and since it is the
vehicle of will, a strong exertion of will may
reinforce its influence to a degree far beyond
our ordinary conceptions : but man is not ac-
quainted with his own power, and has conse-
quently no faith in his own will : nor is it
probably the design of Pro\·idence, in ordinary
cases, that he should. He cannot therefore
exert it; if he could, he " might remove
mountains." Even as it is, we know some-
thing ofthe power of will in its effect on other
organisms, as exhibited by certain strong-
willed individuals; also in popular movements, /0
THAT AWAITS US. 409
and more manifestly in the influence and far-
working of the magnetiser on his patient.
The power of will, like the seeing- of the
spirit, is latent in our nature, to be developed
in God's own time; but mean,vhile, slight ex-
amples are found, shooting up here and there,
to keep alive in man the consciousness that
he is a spirit, and give evidence of his diviue
origin.
\Vhat especial laws may appertain to this
supersensuous domain of nature, of course we
cannot know, and it is therefore impossible for
us to pronounce how far a spirit is free, or not
free, at all times to manifest itself; and we
can, therefore, at present, advance no reason
for these manifestations not being the rule
instead of the exception. The law which
restrains more frequent intercourse, may, for
anything we know to the contrary, have its
relaxations and its limitations, founded in
nature ; and a rapport with, or the power of
acting on, particular individuals, may arise
from causes of which we are equally ignorant.
Undoubtedly, the receptivity of the corporeal
being is one of the necessary conditions,
whilst, on the part of the incurporeal, the will is
a_
t once the cause and the agent that produces
the effect; whilst attachment, whether to
VoL. r. 2 N
410 THE FUTURE
individuals or to the lost joys of this world, is .
.the motive. The happy spirits in whom this
latter impulse is weak, and who would float
away into the glorious light of the pure moral
law, would have little temptation to return;
and at least would only be brought back by
their holy affections or desire to serve mankind.
The less happy, clinging to their dear cor-
poreal life, would hover nearer to the earth;
and I do ,question much whether the often
ridiculed idea of the mystics, that there is a
moral u:eight, as well as a moral da'rkness, be
not founded in truth~ We know very well
that even these s~bstantial bodies of our:;, are,
to our own sensations (and, very possibly, if
the thing could be tested, would prove to be
in fact) lighter or heavier, according to the
lightness or heaviness of ~he spirit-terms used
figurativ~ly, but perhaps capable of a literal
interpretatio.n ; and thus the common idea of
up and down, as. applied to Heaven or Hell,
is founded in truth, though npt mathematically
correct, we fa~iliarly using the words up and
down to exp.res&farther or nearer, as regards
the planet on which we live.
~xperience seems to justify this view of the
case; forl &upposing the phenomena I am
tre~\i~g of to be facts, and not spectral
THAT AWAITS US. 411
illusions, all tradition shows that the spirits
most frequently manifested to man, have been
evidently not in a state of bliss; whilst, when
h1ight ones appeared, it has been to serve
him ; and hence the old persuasion that they
were chiefly the wicked that haunted the
earth, and hence, also, the foundation for the
belief that not only the murderer, but the mur-
dered, l'eturned to vex the living; and the
just view, that in taking away life the injury
is not confined to the body, but extends to
the surprised and angry soul, which is-
"C.:ut off, even in the blossom of its sin,
Unhousel'd, disappointed, unaneal'd;
No reckoning made, but sent to its account
'Vith all its imperfections on its head."
It seems also to be gathered from experience,
that those whose lives have been rendered
wretched, "rest not in their graves," at least,
several accounts I have met with, as well as
tradition, countenance this view; and this
may originate in the fact, that cruelty and ill-
usage frequently produce very permcwus
etl"ects on the mind of the sufferer, in many
instances inspiring, not resignation or a pious
desire for death, but resentment, and an eager
longing for a fair share of earthly enjoyment.
412 THE FUTURE
Supposing, also, the feelings and prejudices of
the earthly life to accompany this dispossessed
soul-for, though the liberation from the body
inducts.it into certain privileges inherent in
spirit, its moral qualities remain as they were,
as the tree falls, so it shall lie-supposing,
therefore, that these feelings, and prejudices,
and recollections of its past life, are carried
with it, we see, at once, why the discontented
spirits of the Heathen world could not rest
till their bodies had obtained sepulture, why
the lJuried money should torment the soul of
the miser, and why the religious opinions,
whatever they may have been, believed in the
fle~h, seem to survive with the spirit. There
are two remarkable exceptions1 however, and
these are precise]y such as might be expected.
Those who, during their corporeal life, have
not he1ieved in a future state, return to warn
their friends against the same error. "There
is another world," said the brother of the
young lady who appeared to her in the Ca-
thedral of York, on the day he was drowned;
and there are several similar instances re-
corded. The belief that this life " is the be-ali
and the end-all here," is a mistake that death
must i~stantly rectify. The other exception
I allude to is, that that toleration, of which,
THAT AWAITS US. 413
unfortunately, we see much less tl1an is de-
sirable in this world, seems happily to prevail
in the next; fm·, amongst the numerous nar-
rations I meet with, .in which the dead have
returned to ask the prayers or the services of
the living, they do not seem, as will be seen
by and by, to apply by any means exclusively,
to members of their own church. The attrazt
which seems to guide their selection of indi-
viduals, is evidently not of a polemical nature.
The pure worship of God, and the inexorable
moral law, are what seem to prevail in the
other world, and not the dogmatic theology
which makes so much of the misery of this.
There is a fundamental truth in all religious ;
the real end of .all is morality, however
the means may be mistiken, and however
corrupt, s-elfish, -ambitious, and sectarian the
m-ass of their teachers may, and generally do,
become; whilst the effect of prayer, in what-
ever form, or to whatever .ideal of the Deity,
it may ·be offered, provided that .offering be
honestly and earnestly made, is precisely the
same to the supplicant and in its results.
i have reserved the following story, 'vhich
is not a fiction, butthe relation of an undoubted
"'and ~veil-attested fact, till the present c~apter,
2N5
414 THE FUTURE
ns being particularly applicable to this branch
of my subject.
Someninety years ago, there flourished in Glas-
gow a club of young men, which, from the ex-
treme profligacy of its members and the licen-
tiousness of their orgies, was commonly called
the Hell Club. Be~ides their nightly or weekly
meetings, they held one grand annual satur-
nalia, in which eac4 tried to excel the other
in drunkenness and blasphemy ; and on these
occasions there was no star amongst them whose
lurid light was more conspicuous than that of
young l\Ir. Archibald B., who, endowed 'vith
br~lliant talents and a handsome person, had
held out great promise in his boyhood, and
raised hopes, which had been completely frus-
trated by his subsequent reckle~s dissipations.
One morning, after returning from this
annual festival, l\Ir. Archihald B. ha,·ing
retired to bed, dreamt the following dream:- ·
He fancied that he himself was mounted on
a favourite black horse, that he always rode,
and that he was proceeding towards his own
.house, then a country seat embowered by trees,
and situated upon a hill, now entirely built
o'·er, and forming part of the city, when a
stranger, w'hom . the ....darkness of night
pre,·ented his distinctly discerniug, suddenly
TH:\.T AWAITS US. 415
seized his horse's rein, saying, "You must go
\vith me!"
"And who are you?" exclaimed th_
e young
man, with a volley of oaths, whilst he struggled
to free himself.
" That you will see by and by," returned
the other, in a tone that excited unaccount-
able tenor in the youth, who plunging his
spurs into his horse, attempted to fly. But in
vain: however fast the animal flew, the
stranger was still beside him, till at length in
his desperate efforts to escape, the rider was
thrown, but instead of being dashed to the
earth, as he expected, he found himself falling
-falling-falling still, as if sinking into the
bowels of the earth.
At length, a period being put to this mys-
terious descent, he found breath to enquire
of his companion, who was stil1 beside him,
whither they were going; "Where am I?
1\rhere are you taking·me ?''he exclaimed.
"To Hell !" replied the stranger, and imme-
diately interminable echoes repeated the fearful
sound, "To Hell! to Hell! to Hell!')
At length a light appeared, which soon
increased to a blaze ; b~t, instead of the cries,
and groans, and lamentings, .the terrified tra-
veller expected, nothing met his ear but sounds
'THE FUTURE
of music, mirth, and jollity; and he found
himself at the entrance of a superb building,
far exceeding any he had seen constructed by
h'!lman hands. 'Vithin, tao, what a scene!
No amusement, employment, or pursuitof man
en earth, but was here being cani.ed on with
a. vehenrence that excited his unutterable
amazement. "Thete the young and lovely
still swam through the ma~es of the giddy
dance! There the panting steed still bore his
brutal 1·ider through the excitements of the
goaded r-ace! There, over the midnight bowl,
the intemperate still drawled out the wanton
song or maudlin blasphemy! The gam-
bler plied for e,·er his endless game, and
the slaves of :Mammon toiled through eternity
their bitter task; whilst all the magnificence
of earth paled before that which no\'V met his
Yiew !"
He soon perceh·ed that he was amongst old
acquaintance, whom he knew to be dead, and
each he observed, was pu1·suing the object,
I
whatever it was, that had formerly engrossed
him; when, finding himself relieYed of the pre-
sence of his unwelcome conductor, he ventured
to address his former friend l\Irs. D., whom he
saw sitting, as had been her wont on earth,
absorbed at loo, requesting her to rest from the
THAT AWAITS Us. 317
game, and introduce him to the pleasures of
the place, which appeared to him to be very
unlike wha,t he had expected, and, indeed, an
extremely agreeable one. But, with a cry of
agony, she answered, that there was no rest
in Hell; that they must ever toil on at those
Yery pleasures; and innumerable voices echoed
thrgugh the interminable vaults," There is no
rest in Hell !'' Whilst, throwing open their
vests, each disclosed in his bosom an ever-
burning flame ! These, they said, were the
pleasures of Hell; their choice on earth was
now their inevitable doom ! In the midst of
the horror this scene inspired, his conductor
returned, and, at his earnest entreaty, restored
him again to earth ; but, as he quitted him,
he said, "Remember! In a year and a day
we meet again P'
At this crisis of his dream, the s:leeper
awoke, feverish and ill ; and, whether from the
effect of the dream, or of his preceding orgies,
he was so unwell as to be obliged to keep his
bed for ~everal days, during which period he
had time for many serious reflections, which
terminated in a resolution to abandon the
club and his licentious companions altogether.
lie was no sooner well, however, than they
flocked around him,bent on recoveringso valu-.
418 THE FUTURE
able a member of their society; and having
wrung from him a confession of the cause of his
defection, which, as may be supposed,appeared
to them eminently ridiculous, they soon con-
trived to make him ashamed of his guod reso-
lutions. He joined them again, resumed his
former co~rse of life, and ·\Vhen the annual
saturnalia came round, he found himself with
his glass in his hand at the table, when the
pmsident, rising to make the accustomed
speech, began with saying, '"Gentleman:
This being leap-year, it is a year and a day
since our last anniversary, &c. &c.'' The words
struck upon the young man's ear like a knell;
hut ashamed to expose his weakness to the
jeers of his companions, he sat out the feast,
plying himself with wine, even more liberally
than usual, in order to drown his intrusive
thoughts; till, in the gloom of a winter's
morning, he mounted his horse to ride home.
Some hours afterwards, the horse was found
with his saddle and bri,lle on, quietly grazing
by the road-side, about half-way between the
city and l\1r. B.'s house; whilst a iew yards
off, lay the corpse of his master.
Now, as I have said, in introducing this
story, it is.no fictio~l: the circumstance hap-
pened as here related. An account of it was
THAT AWAITS t:s. 419
published at the time, but the copies were
bought up by the family. Two or three bow-
m·er were preserved, and the narrative bas
been re-printed.
The dream is evidently of a symbolical
character ; and accords in a very remarkable
degree with the conclusions to be drawn from
the sources I have above indicated. The in-
terpretation seems to be, that the evil passions
and criminal pursuits which have been in-
dulged in here become our curse hereafter. I
do not mean to imply that the ordinary amuse-
ments of life are criminal; far from it. There
is no harm in dancing, nor in playing at loo,
either; but if people make these things the
whole business of their lives, and think of no-
thing else, cultivating no higher tastes, nor
forming no higher aspirations, what sort of
preparation are they making for another world?
I can hardly imagine that anybody would
wish to be doing these things to all eternity,
the more especially that it is most frequently
ennui that drives their votaries into excesses,
even here; but if they have allowed their
minds to be entirely~bsorbed in such frivolities
and trivialties, surely they cannot expect that
God will, by a miracle, suddenly obliterate
the~e tastes and inclinations, and inspire them
420 THE FUTURE THAT AWAITS CS.
with others better suited to their new con-
dition ! It was their business to do that for
themselves, whilst here; and such a process
of preparation is not in the slightest degree
inconsistent with the enjoyment of all manner
nf harmless pleasures ; on the contrary, it
gi\'es the greatest zest to them ; for a life,
in which there is nothing serious, in which
all is play and diversion, is, beyond all
doubt, next to a life of active, perseYering
wickedness, the saddest thing under the sun !
But let everybody remember, that we see in
nature no violent transitions; everything ad-
Yances by almost insensible steps, at least
e,·erything that is to endure, and therefore
to expect that because they have quitted their
fleshly bodies, which they always knew were
but a temporary appurtenance, doomed to
perish and decay, they themselves are to
undergo a sudden and Uiiracnlous conversion
and purification, which is to elevate them
into fit companions for the angels of Heaven,
and the Blessed that have passed a·way, is
surely one of the most inconsistent, unreason-
able, and pen1icious errors that mankind ever
indulged in !
APPENDIX TO CHAPTER YI.
CASE OF COLO~EL TOWNSHEND.
vVHILST this volume is going through the
press, I find, from the account of Dr. Cheyne,
who attended him, that Colonel Townshend's
own way of describing the phenomenon to
which he was subject, was, that he could "die
or expire when he pleased; and yet, by an
effort, or somehow, he could .come to life again."
He performed the experiment in the presence
of three medical men, one of whom kept his
hand on his heart, another held his wrist,
and the third placed a looking-glass before his
lips, and they fo.und that all traces of respira-
tion and pulsation gradually ceased, insomuch
VoL. 1. 2 o
422 CASE OF COLO!IlEL TOWNSHE~D.
that, after consulting about his condition for
some time, they were leaving the room, per-
suaded that he was really dead, when signs of
life appeared, and he slowly revived. He did
not die whilst repeating this experiment.
This reviving "by .an effort or somehow,"
seems to be better explained by the hypothesis
I have suggested than by any other; namely
'
that, as in the case of l\'lr. Holloway, men-
tioned in the same chapter, his spirit, or soul,
was released from his body, but a sufficient
rapport maintained to re-unite them.
E~D OF VOL U~IE I.
THE
NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE;
OR,
GHOSTS AND GHOST SEERS.
BT
CATHERINE CROWE,
AUTHORESS OF
"SUSAN HOPLEY," "LILLY DAWSON,"
"ARISTODEMUS," &c. &c.
" Thou com'st in such a questionable shape,
That I will speak to theeI"
liAKLET.
IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. II.
LONDON :
T. C. NEWBY, 72, MORTIMER ST., CAVENDISH SQ.
1848.
Digitized by Goog[e
LONDON :
D1g111Zed by Coogle
INDEX.
VOL IL
1.-The Power of Will
II.-Troublcd Spirits
111.-Hauntcd Houses
IV.-Spcctral Lights, and Apparitions attached to
certain families
•
Page
1
26
64
147
V.-Apparitions seeking the prayers of the living 194
VI.-The Poltergeist of the Germans, and Pos-
session 238
VII.-Misccllaneous Phenomena 312
VIII.-Conclusion 353
Digitized by Goog[e
THE
1'\IGHT SIDE OF NATURE.
CHAPTER I.
THE POWER OF \\'ILL
THE power, be it what it may, whether ofdress-
ing up an ethereal visible form, or of acting
on the constructive imagination of the seer,
which would enable a spirit to appear" in his
habit as he lived," would also enable him to
present any other object to the eye of the seer,
or himself in any shape, or fulfilling any func-
tion he willed ; and we thus find in various
instances, especially those recorded in the
Seeress of Prevorst, that this is the case. 'Ve
VoL. Jl. B
o;9mzedbyGoogle
2 THE POWER OF WILL.
not only see· changes of dress, but we see booki,
pens, writing materials, &c. in their hands;
and we find a great variety of sounds imi-
tated : which sounds are frequently heard,
not only by those who have the faculty of
" disceming of spirits," as St. Paul says, hut
also by every other person on the spot; for the
hearing these sounds does not seem to depend
on any particular faculty on the part of the
auditor, except it be in the case of speech. The
hearing the speech of a spirit, on the contrary,
appears in most instances to be depend1mt on
the same conditions as the seeing it, which may
p9ssibly arise from there being, in fact, no
audible voice at all, but the same sort of
spiritual communication which exists between
a magnetiser and his patient, wherein the sense
is convejed without words.
This imitating of sounds, I shall give several
instances of in a future chapter. It is one way
in which a death is frequently indicated. I could
quote a number of examples of this descrip·
tion, but shall confine myself to two or three.
Mrs. D. being, one night, in her kitchen,
preparing to go to bed, after the house was
ehut up and the rest of the family retired, she
was startled by hearing a foot coming along
the passage, which she t·ecognised distinctly to
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE POWER OF WILL. 3
Le that of her father, who she was quite certain
was not in the house. It advanced to the
kitchen-door, and she waited with alarm.to see
if the door was to open ; but it did not, and
sh~ heard nothing more. On the following day,
she found that her father had died at that time ;
and it was from her niece I heard the circum-
stance.
A Mr. J. S., belonging to a highly respect-
ahle family, with whom I am acquainted,
having been for some time in declining health,
was sent abroad for change of air. During
his absence, one of his sisters, having been
lately confined, an old servant of the family
was sitting half asleep in an arm-chair, in a
room adjoining that in which the lady slept,
when she was startled by hearing the foot of
Mr. J. S. ascending the stairs. It was easily
recognisable, for, owing to his constant con-
finement to the bouse, in consequence of his
infirm health, his shoes were always so dry
that their creaking was heard from one end
of the house to the other. So far surprised
out of her t·ecollection as to forget he was not
in the country, the good woman started up,
and, rushing out with her candle in her hand,
to light him, she followed the steps up to
D1g111Zed by Coogle
4 THE POWER OF WlLL.
Mr. J. S.'s own bed-chamber,neverdiscovering
that he was not preceding her till she reached
the door. She then returned, quite amazed,
frnd, having mentioned the occurrence to her
mistress, they noted the date, and it was after-
wards ascertained that the young man had
died at Lisbon on that night.
Mrs. F. tells me that, being one morning,at
eleven o'clock,engagedin herbed.room,shesud-
denly heard a strange, indescribable, sweet, but
unearthly sound, which apparently proceeded
from a large open box which stood near her.
She was seized with an awe and a horror which
there seemed nothing to justify, and fled up
stairs to mention the circumstance, which she
could not banish from her mind. At that
precise day and hour, eleven o'clock, her
brother was drowned. The news reached her
two days afterwards.
Instances of this kind are so well known,
that it is unnecessary to multiply them further.
With respect to the mode of producing these
sounds, howel'er, I should be glad to say
something more definite if I could, but, from
the circumstance of their being heard not only
hy one person, who might be supposed to be eu
rapport, or whose constructive imagination
might be acted upon, but by any one who
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE roWER OF WJI.L,
happens to be within hearing, we are led to con-
clude that the sounds are really reverberating
through the atmosphere. In the strange cases
recorded in "TheSeeress ofPrevorst," although
the apparitions were visible only to certain
persons, the sounds ~hey made were audible to
all; and the seeress says they are produced by
means of the nerve-spirit, which I conclude is
the spiritual body of St. Paul and the at-
mosphere, as we produce sound by means of
our material body and the atmosphere.
In this plastic power of the spirit to present
to the eye of the seer whatever object it wills,
we find the explanation of such stories as the
famous o11e of Ficinus and Mercatus, related
by Baronius in his annals. These two
illustrious friends, Michael Mercatus and
Marcellinus Ficinus, after a long discourse on
the nuture of the soul, had agreed that, if pos-
sible, whichever died first should return to
visit the other. Some time afterwards, whilst
Mercatus was engaged in study a~ an early
hour in the morning, he suddenly heard the
noise of a horse galloping in the street, which
presently stopped at his door, and the voice of
his friend Ficinus exclaimed,'' Oh, Michael !
Oh, Michael ! Vera sunt illa ! Those things
B 5
D1g111Zed by Coogle
6 THE POWER OF WILL.
are true!" \Vhereupou Mercatus hastily ·
opened his window, and espied his friend
Ficinus on a white steed. He called after him,
but he galloped away ont of his sight. On
sending to Florence to enquire for Ficinus, he
leamt that he had died about that hour he
called to him. From this period to that of
his death, Mercatus abandoned all profane
studies, and addicted himself wholly to
Divinity. Baronius lived in the sixteenth
century, and even Dr. Ferrier and the spectral
illusionists admit that the authenticity of this
story cannot be disputed, although they still
claim it for their own.
Not very many years ago, Mr. C., a staid
citizen of Edinburgh, whose son told me the
story, was one day riding gently up Corstor·
phina-hill, in the neighbourhood of the city,
when he observed an intimate friend of his
own, on horseback also, immediately behiud
him, so he slackened his pace to give him an
opportunity of joining company. Finding he
did not come up so quickly as he should, he
looked round again, and was astonished at no
longer seeing him, since there was no side road
into which he could have disappeared. He re-
turned home, perplexed at theoddnessof the cir-
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE POWER OF WILT,.' 7
cumstance, when the first thing he learnt was,
that, during his absence, this friend had been
killedby his horsefallinginCandlemaker's-row.
I have heard of al)other circumstance, which
occurred some years ago in Yorkshire, where,
I think, a farmer's wife was seen to ride into
a farm-yard on horse-back, but could not be
afterwards found, or the thing accounted for,
till it was ascertained that she had died at that
period.
There are very extraordinary stories extant
in all countries of persons being annoyed by
appearances in the shape of different animals,
which one would certainly be much disposed
to give over altogether to the illusionists,
though at the same time it is very difficult t.o
reduce some of the circumstances under that
theory; especially, one mentioned, p. 307, of
my "Translation ofthe Seeress of Prevorst." If
they are not illusions, they are phenomena to
be attributed, either to this plastic power, or
to that magico-magnetic influence in which
the belief in lycanthropy and other strange
transformations have originated. The multi-
tudes of unaccountable stories of this descrip-
tion recorded in the witch trials, have long
furnished a subject of perplexity to everybody
who was sufficiently just to human nature to
D1g111Zed by Coogle
8 THF. POWER OF WILl••
conclude, that there must have been some
strange mystery at the bottom of an infatu-
ation that pre,·ailed so universally, and in
which so many sensible, honest, and well-
meaning persons were involved. Till of late
years, when some of the arcana of animal or
vital magnetism have been disclosed to us, it
was impossible for us to conceive by what
means such strange conceptions could prevail;
but since we now know, and many of us hM·e
witnessed, that all the senses of a patient are
frequently in such subjection to his magnetiser,
that they may be made to convey any impres-
sions to the brain that magnetiser wills, we
can, without much difficulty, conceive how this
belief in the power of transformation took its
rise ; and we also know how a magician could
render ~imself visible or invisible, at pleasure.
I have seen the sight or hearing of a patient
taken away and restored, by Mr. Spencer Hall,
in a manue:r that could leave no doubt on the
mind p( the beholder; the evident paralysis
of the eye of the patient testifying to the fact.
Mon~eur Eusebe Salverte, the most deter-
mined of rationalistic sceptics, admits that we
have numerous testimonies to the existence
of an art, which he confesses himself at some
loss to explain, although the opposite quarters
D1g111Zed by Coogle
----
THE POWER OF WILL•. 9
from which the accounts of it reach us, t·ender
it difficult to imagine that the historians ha•e
copied each other. The various transfor-
mations of the gods into eagles, bulls, and so
forth, have been set down as mere mytho-
logical fables ; but they appear to have been
founded on an art, known in all quarters of
the world, which enabled the magician to
take on a form that was not his own, so as to
deceive his nearest and dearest friends. In
the history of Gengis Khan there is mention
of a city, which be conquered, "in which
dwelt," says Suidas, ''certain men, who pos-
sessed the secret of surrounding themseh-es
with deceptive appearances, insomuch that
they wete able to represent themselves to the
eyes of people quite different to what they
t·eally were." Saxo Grammaticus, in speaking
of the traditions connected with the religion
of Odin, says, " that the magi were very
expert in the art of deceiving the eyes, being
able to assume, and even to enable others
to assume, the forms of various objects, and
to conceal their real aspects under the most
attractive appearances." John of Salisbury,
who seems to have drawn his information from
sources now lost, says, that " Mercury, the
most expert of magicians, had the art of fasci-
o1g1tized by Coogle
JO THE POWER OF WILL.
nating the eyes of men to such a degree, as.to
render people invisible, or make them appear
in forms quite different to those they really
bore. We also learn, from an eye-witness,
that Simon, the magician, possessed the secret
of making another person resemble him so
perfectly, that every eye was deceived. Pom-
ponius Mela affirms, that the Druidesses of
the island of Sena could transform themselves
into any animal they chose, and Proteus
has become a proverb by his numerous
metamorphoses.
Then, to tum to another age and another
hemisphere, we find Joseph Acosta, who
resided a long time in Peru, assuring us that
there existed at that period magicians who
had the power of assuming any form they
chose. He relates that the predecessor of
Montezuma, having sent to anest a certain
chief, the latter successively tmnsformcd him·
self into an eagle, a tiger, and an immense
serpent; and so eluded the envoys, till having
consented to obey the king's mandate, he was
carried to court and instantly executed.
The same perplexing exploits are confi-
dently attributed to the magicians of the West
Indies; and there were two men eminent
amongst the natives, the one called Gomez
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE POWER OF WILL ) 1
and the other Gonzalez, who possessed th!s
art in an extraordinary degrt>e ; hut both fell
victims to the practice of it, being shot during
the period of their apparent transformations.
It is also recorded that Nanuk, the founder
of the Sikhs, who are not properly a nation but
a religious sect, was violently opposed by the
Hindoo zealots ; and at one period of his
career when he visited Vatala, the Yogiswaras,
who were recluses, that by means of corporeal
mortifications, were supposed to have acquired
a command over the powers of nature, were
so enraged against him, that they streve to
terrify him by their enchantments, assuming
the shapes of tigers and serpents. But they
could not succeed, for Nanuk appears to have
been a real philosopher, who taught a pure
. theism, and inculcated unh·ersal peace and
toleration. His tenets, like the tenets of the
founders of all religions, have been since col·-
rupted by his followers. We can scarcely
avoitl concluding that the power by which
these feats wP.re performed is of the same
nature as that by which a magnetiser persuades
his patient that the water he drinks is beer, or
the beer wine, and the analogy betwixt it,
and that by which I have supposed a spirit to
present himself, .with such accompaniments as
D1g111Zed by Coogle
12 THE POWER o• W'ILL.
he desires, to the eye a spectator, is evident.
In those instances where female figures are
seen with children in their arms, the appear·
ance of the child we must suppose to be pro-
duced in this manner.
Spirits of darkness, howel'er, cannot, as I
have before observed, appear as spirits of
light; the moral nature cannot be disguised.
On one occasion, when Frederica Hauffe asked
a spirit, if be could appear in what form he
pleased; he answered, no; that if he had lived
as a brute, he should appear as a brute ; " as
our dispositions are, so we appear to you."
This plastic power is exhibited in those
instances I have related, where the figure has
appeared dripping with water, indicating the
kind of death that had been suffered; and
also in such cases as thlit of Sir Robert H. E.,
where the apparition showed a wound in his
breast. There are a vast number of similar
ones on record, in all countries ; but I will
here mention one which I received from the
lips of a member of the family concerned,
wherein one of the trivial actions of life was
curiously represented.
Miss L. lived in the country with her three
brothers, to whom she was much attached, as
they were to her. These young men, who
THE POWER OF WILL. 13
amused themselves all the morning with their
out-door pursuits, were in the habit of coming
to her apartment, most days before dinnP.r
and conversing with her till they were sum-
moned to the dining-room. One day, when
two of them had joined her, as usual, and they
were chatting cheerfully over the fire, the door
opened, and the third came in, crossed the
room, entered an adjoining one, took off his
boots, and then instead of sitting down beside
them, as usual, passed again through the room,
wentout, leaving the door open, and they saw
him ascend the stairs towards his own cham-
ber, whither they concluded he was gone to
change his dress. These proceedings had been
observed by the whole party: they saw him
enter, saw him take off his hoots, saw him
ascend the stairs, continuing the conversation
without the slig-htest suspicion of anything
extraordinary. Presently afterwards the dinner
was announced ; and as this young man did
not make his appearance, the servant was de-
sired to let him know they were waiting for
him. The servant answered, that he had not
come in yet ; hut being told that he would find
him in his bed-room, he went up stairs to call
him. He was however not there, nor in the
house; nor were his boots to be found where
VoL. 11. c
D1g111Zed by Coogle
14 .THE POWER OF WILL.
he had been seen to take them off. Whilst
they were yet wondering what could have be-
come of him, a neighbour atTived to break the
news to the family, that their beloved }}rother
had been killed whilst hunting, and that the
only wish he expressed was, that he could live
~o 8ee his sister once more.
I observed in a fonnerchapter. whilst speak-
jug of wraiths, how very desirable it would be
to ascertain whether the phenomenon takes
place before, or after, the dissolution of the
bond betwixt soul and body; I have since
received the most entire satisfaction on that
head, so far as the establishing the fact, that it
does sometimes occur after .the dissolution.
Three cases have been presented to me from
the most undoubted authority, in which the
wraith was seen at intervals varying from one
to three days after the decease of the pe.--
~on whose image it was; ,·ery much com-
plicfl,ting the difficulty of that theory which
considers these phenomena the result of an
interaction, wherein the ,·ital p.-inciple of one
person is able to influence another within
its sphere, !J.nd thus make the organs of that
other the subjects of its will; a magical power,
hy the way, which far exceeds that we possess
vver our own organs. There is here, lwwever,
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE POWEU OF WILL. 15
where death has taken place, no living
organism to produce the efl'ect, and the phe-
nomenon becomes, therefore, purely subjective
-a mere spectral illusion, attended by a coin-
cidence, or else the influence is that of the
disembodied spirit, and those who will take
the trouble of investigating this subject, will
find that the number of these coincidences
would violate any theory of probabilities, to
a degree that precludes the acceptance of that
explanation. I do not see, therefore, on what
we are to fall back, except it be the willing
agency of the released spirit, unless we suppose
that the operation of the will of the dying
person travelled so slowly, that it did not take
effect till a day or two after it was exerted, an
hypothesis too extravagant to be admitted.
Dr. Passavent, whose very philosophical
work on this occult department of nature, is
well worth attention,considers the fact ofthese
appearances far too well established to be
disputed ; and he enters into some curious
disquisitions with regard to what the Germans
call far-working, or the power of acting on
bodies at a distance, without any sensible
conductor, instancing the case of a gymnotus,
which was kept alive for four months in Stock-
holm, and which, when urged hy hunger, could
D1g111Zed by Coogle
16 THE POWER OF WILL.
kill fish at a distance, without contact, adding,
that it rarely miscalculated the amount of the
shock necessary to its purpose. These, and all
such effects, are attributed by this school of
physiologists to the supposed imponderable,
the nervous ether I have elsewhere men-
tioned, which Dr. P. conceives in cases of
somnambulism, certain sicknesse~ and the
approach of death, to be less closely united
to its material conductors, the nerves, and
therefore capable of being more or less
detached, and acting at a distance, especially
on those with whom relationship, friendship,
or love, establish a rapport, or polarity ; and
he observes that intervening substances, or
distance, can no more impede this agency than
they do the agency of mineral magnetism.
And he considers that we must here seek for
the explanation of those curious so-called
coincidences of pictures falling, and clocks and
watches stopping, at the moment of a death,
which we frequently find recorded.
With respect to the wmiths, he observes
that the more the ether is freed, as by trance,o1·
the immediate approach of death, the more
easily the soul sets itsf'lf in rapport with dis-
tant persons; and that thus it either acts
magically, so that the seer perceives the real
D1g111Zed by Coogle
-tHE POWER OF WihL 17
actual body of the person that is acting upon
him, or else that he sees the ethereal body,
which presents the perfect form of the fleshly
one, and which, whilst the organic life pro-
ceeds, can he momentarily detached and ap-
pear elsewhere, and this ethereal body he holds
to be the fundamental form, of which the
external body is only the copy, or husk.
I confess I much prefer this theory of Dr.
Passavent's, which seems to me to go very
much to t.he root of the matter. We have
here the ''spiritual body~' of St. Paul, and the
"nerve spirit'' of the somnambulists, and its
magical effects are scarcely more extraordinary,
if properly considered, than its agency on our
own material bodies. It is this ethereal body
which obeys the intelligent spirit within, and
which is the intermediate agent betwixt the
spirit and the fleshly body. We here find the
explanation of wraiths, whilst persons are in
trance, or deep sleep, or comatose, this ethereal
body can be detached and appear elsewhere ;
and I think there can be no great difficulty
for those who can follow us so far, to go a
little further, and admit that this ethereal hody
must be indestructible, and survive the death
of the material one; and that it may, there-
fore, not only berome visible to us under
c .')
D1g111Zed by Coogle
18 TilE POWER OF WILL.
given circumstances, but that it may, also,
produce effects bearing some similarity to
those it was formerly capable of, since, in
acting on our bodies during life, it is already
acting on a material substance, in o. manner so
incomprehensible to us, that we might well
apply the word Magical, when speaking of it,
were it not that custom has familiarised us to
the man·el.
It is to he observed, that this idea of a
spiritual body is one that pervaded all Chris-
tendom, in the earlier and purer ages of
Christianity, before priestcraft-and by priest-
craft, I mean the priestcraft of all denomi-
nations-had overshadowed and obscured, by
their \'arious sectarian heresies, the pure teach-
ing of Jesus Christ.
Dr. Ennemoser mentions a curious instance
of this actio in distan.,, or far•working. It
appears that Van Helmont having asserted
that it was possible for a man to extinguish
the life of an animal by the eye alone (oculis
iulentis), Rousseau, the naturalist, repeated the
experiment, when in the East, and in this
manner killed several toads ; but on a sub-
sequent occasion, whilst trying the same ex-
periment at Lyons, tht: animal, on finding it
could not escape, fixed its eyes immoveably on
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE POWER OF WILL. ]9
him, so that he fell into a fainting fit, and was
thought to be dead. He was 1estored by
means of theriacum and viper powder-a
truly homeopathic remedy ! However, we
here probably see the origin of the universal
popular persuasion, that there is some myste-
rious property in the eye of a toad ; and also
of the, so called, superstition of the et,il eye.
A very remarkable circumstance occurred
some years ago, at Ki~kcaldy, when a per"on,
for whose truth and respectability I can vouch,
was living in the family of a. Colonel M., at
that place, The house they inhabited, was at
one extremity of the town, and stood in a sort
of paddock. One evening, when Colonel M.
bad dined out, and there was nobody at home
but Mrs. M., her son, (a. boy about twelve
years old) and Ann, the maid, (my informant),
Mrs. M. called the latter, and directed her at-
tention to a soldier, who was walking back-
wards and forwards in the drying ground,
behind the house, where some linen was
hanging on the lines. She said) she wondered
what he could be doing there, and bade Ann
fetch in the linen, lest he should purloin any
of it. The gid fearing he might be some ill-
disposed person, felt afraid; Mrs. M., however,
promising to watch from the window, that
Digitized by Goog[e
20 THE POWER OF WILT••
nothing happened to her, she went; but still
apprehensi~e of the man's intentions, sae
turned her back towards him, and hastily
pulling down the linen, she carried it into the
house; he, continuing his walk the while, as
before, taking no notice of her, whatever. Ere
long, the Colonel returned, and Mrs. M. lost
no time in taking him to the window to look
at the man, saying, she could not conceive
what he ceuld mean, by walking backwards·
and forwards there, all that time; whereupon,
Aun added, jestingly," I think,it's a ghost, for
my part!" Colonel M. said," he would soon
see that," and calling a large dog that was
lying in the room, and accompanied by the
little boy, who begged to be permitted to go
also, he stept out nnd approached the stranger ;
when, to his surprise, the dog, which was an
animal of high courage, instantly flew back,
and sprung through the glass door, which the
Colonel had closed behind him, sbhering the
panes all around.
The Colonel, meantime, advanced and chal-
lenged the man, repeatedly, without obtaining
any answer or notice whatever; till, at length,
getting irritated, he raised a weapon with
which he had armed himself, telling him he
"must speak, or take the consequences," when
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE POWER OF WILL. 21
just as he \vas preparing to stl'ike, lo ! there
was nobody there ! The soldier had dis-
appeared, and the child sunk senseless to the
ground. Colonel M. lifted the boy in his
arms, and as he brought him into the house,
he said to the girl, "You are right, Ann. It
was a ghost !" He was exceedingly impressed
with this circumstance, and much regrt>tted
his owu behaviour, and also the having taken
the child with him, which he thought bad
probably prevented some communication that
was intended. In order to repair, if possible,
these errors, he went out every night, and
walked on that spot for some time, in hopes
the apparition would return. At length, he
said, that he had seen and had conversed with
it ; but the purport of the conversation he
would never communicate to any human being;
not even to his wife. The effect of this occur-
rence on his own character was perceptible to
everybody that knew him. He became grave
and thoughtful, and appeared like one who had
passed through some strange experience. The
above-named Ann H., from whom I have th~
account, is now a middle-aged woman. 'When
the circumstance occurred, she was about
twenty years of age. She belongs to a highly
respectable family ; and is, and always has
D1g111Zed by Coogle
2:2 THE POWEU OF WILL;
hccn, a person of unimpeachable character
and veracity.
In this instance, as in several others I meet
with, the animal had a consciousness of the
nature of the appearance, whilst the persons
around him had no suspicion of anything un-
usual. In the following singular case, we
must conclude that attachment counteracted
this instinctive apprehension. A farmer, in
Argyleshire, lost his wife, and a few weeks
after her decease, as he and his son were cross-
ing a moor, they saw her sitting on a stone, with
their house-dog lying at her feet, exactly as he
used to do when she was alive. As they ap-
proached the spot the woman vanished, and
supposing the dog must be equally visionary,
they expected to see him vanish, also ; when,
to their surprise, he rose and joined them, and
they found it was actually the ''ery animal of
flesh and blood. As the place was at least three
miles from any house, they could not conceive
what could have taken him there. It was,
probably, the influence of her will.
The power of will is a phenomenon that has
been observed in all ages of the world, though
of late years much less than at an earlier
period; and, as it was then more frequently
exerted for evil than good, it was looked upon
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE POWEU OF WILL. 23
as a branch of the art of black magic, whilst
the philosophy of it being unkMwn, the devil
was supposed to be the real agent, and the
witch, or wizard, only his instrument. The
profound belief in the existence of this art is
testified by the twelve tables of Rome, as well
as by the books of Moses, and those of Plato,
&c. It is extremely absurd to suppose that
all these statutes were erected to suppress a
crime which never existed; and, with. regard
to these witches and wizards, we must re-
member,as Dr. Ennemoser justlyremarks, that
the force of will has no relation to the strength
or weakness of the body; witness the extra-
ordinary feats occasionally performed by feeble
persons under excitement, &c. ; and, although
these witches and wizards were frequently
weak, decrepit people, they either believed in
their own arts, or else that they had a friend
or coadjutor in the devil, who was able and
willing to aid them. They, therefore, did not
doubt their own power, and they had the one
great requisite, faith. To will and to believe,
was the explanation given by the Marquis de
Puysegur of the cures he performed; and this
unconsciously becomes the recipe of all
such men as Greatrix, the Shepherd of
Dresden, and many other wonder-workers,
D1g111Zed by Coogle
24 THE POWER or WILJ,.
and hence we see why it is usually the
humble, the simple and the child-like,
the solitary, the recluse, nay, the ignorant,
who exhibit traces of these occult faculties;
for he who cannot believe, cannot will, and
the scepticism of the intellect disables the
magician; and hence we see, also, wherefore,
in certain parts of the world and in certain
periods of its history,:these powers and prac-
tices have prevailed. They were believed
in because they existed; and they existed
because they were helieved in. There was a
continued interaction of cause and effect-of
faith and works. People who ll)ok superfi-
cially at these things, delight in saying that the
more the witches were persecuted the more
they abounded; and that when the persecu-
tion ceased, we heard no more of them.
Naturally ; the more they were persecuted the
more they believed in witchcraft and in them·
selves; when persecution ceased and men in
authority declared that there was no such
thing- as witchcraft or witches, they lost their
fttith; and with it, that little sovereignty o~·er
nature that that faith had conquered.
Here we, also, see an explanation of the
power attributed to blessings and curses. The
Word of God is creative, and man is the child
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE POWER OF WILL. 25
of God, made in his image; who never out-
grows his childhood, and is often most a child
when he thinks himself the wisest, for " the
wisdom of this world," we cannot too often
repeat, " is foolishness before God"-and
being a child, his faculties are feeble in pro-
portion ; but though limited in amount, they
are divine in kind, and are latent in all of us ;
still shooting up here and there, to amaze and
perplex the wise, and make merry the foolish,
whcl have nearly all alike forgotton their origin,
and disowned their birthright.
VoL. n. D
D1g111Zed by Coogle
CHAPTER II.
TROUBLED SPIRITS.
A VERY curious circumstance, illustrative of
the power of will, was lately narrated to me
by a Greek gentlemal\i. to whose uncle it oc-
curred. His uncle, Mr. M., was, some years
ago travelling in Magnesia, with a friend, when
they arrived one evening at a caravanserai,
where they found themselves unprovided with
8.11Jthing to eat. It was therefore agreed, that
one should go forth and endeavour to procure
food ; and the friend offering to undertake the
office, Mr. M. stretched himself on the floor to
D1g111Zed by Coogle
TROUBLED SPIRITS, 27
repose. Some time had elapsed and his friend
had not yet returned, when his attention was
attracted by a whispering in the room ; he
looked up, but saw nobody, though still the
whispering continued seeming to go round by
the wall. At length it approached him; but
though he felt a burning sensation on his
cheek, and heard the whispering distinctly, he
could not catch the words. Presently he heard
the footsteps of his friend, and thought he was
returning ; hut though they appeared to come
quite close to him, and it was perfectly light,
he still saw nobody ; then he felt a ·strange
sensati~n-an irresistible impulsion to rise ;
he felt himself drawn up, across the room,
out of the door, down the stairs; he must go,
he could not help it, to the gate of the caravan-
serai, a little farther, and there he found the
dead body ofhis friend, who had been suddenly
assaileu and cut down by robbers, unhappily too
plenty in the neighbourhood at that period.
We here see the desire of the spirit to com-
municate his fate to the survivor ; the imper-
fection of the rapport or the receptivity, which
prevented a more directintercom·se; and the
exertion of a magnetic influence, which Mr.
M. could not resist, precisely similar to that of
a living magnetiser over his patient.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
28 TROUBLED SPIRITS.
There is a story extant in various English
collections, the circumstances of which are said
to have occurred about the middle of the last
ccntury,and which I shall here mention, on ac-
count of its simila1·ity to the one that follows it.
Dr. Bretton, who was late in life appointed
rector of Ludgate, lived previouslyin Hereford-
shire, where he married the daughter of Dr.
Sauter, a woman of great piety and virtue.
This lady died : and one day as a fonner ser-
vant of hers, to whom she had been attached,
and who had since married, was nursing her
child in her own cottage, the door opened, and
a lady entt>red so exactly resembling the late
Mrs. Bretton in dress and appeat·ance, that
she exclaimed," If my mistress were not dead,
I should think you were she !" Whereupon,
the aP.parition told her that she was so, and
request.ed her to go with her, as she had
business of importance to communicate. Alice
objected, being very much frightened, and
entreated her to address herself rather to Dr.
Bretton, but Mrs. B. answered, that site h.ad
endeavoured to do 80, and had heen several
time8 in his room for that purpose, hut lle was
still asleep, and site had no power to do -more
towards awakening him than once uncm:er /tis
teet. Alice then pleaded that she bad nobody
D1g111Zed by Coogle
TROUBLED SP1RITR. 29
to leave with her child, but Mrs. B. promising
that the child should ileep till her return, she
at length obeyed the summons, and, having
accompanied the appalition into a large field,
the latter bade her observe how mueh she
measured off with her feet, and, having
taken a considerable compaas, she bade.·her go
and tell her brother that all that portion had
been wrongfully taken from the poor by their
father, and that he must restore ·it to .them,
adding, that she was thP- more concerned about
it, since her name had been used in the trans-
action. Alice then asking how she ~hould
satisfy the gentleman of the truth of her mis-
sion, Mrs. B. mentioned to her some circum-
stance known only to herself and this brother;
she then entered into much discourse with
the woman, and gave her a grea1 deal of good
advice, remaining till hearing the sound of
horse-bells, she said," Alice, I must be seen by
none but yourself~" and then disappeared.
Whereupon, Alice proceeded to Dr. Bretton,
who admitted that he had actually heard some
one walking about his room, in a way he
could not account for. On mentioning the
thing to the brother, be laughed heartily, till
Alice communicated the secret which consti-
tuted her credentials, upon which he changed
D 5
D1g111Zed by Coogle
30 TROUBLED SPIRITS.
lis tone, and declared himself ready to make
the required restitution.
Dr. Bretton seems to have made no secret
of this story, but to have related it to various
persons; and I think it is somewhat in its
favour, that it exhibits a remarkable instance of
the various degrees of recepth·ity of different
individuals, where there was no suspicion of
the cause, nor no attempt made to ell:plain
wby Mrs. Bretton could not communicate her
wishes to her husband as easily as to Alice.
The promising that the child should sleep, was
promising no more than many a magnetiser
could fulfil. There are several cm;ous stories,
e~tant of lame and suffering persons, suddenly
recovering, who attributed their restoration to
the visit of an apparition which had stroked
their limbs, &c. ; aud these are the more cu-
rious from the fact, that they occurred before
Mesmer's time, when people in general knew
nothing of vital magnetism. D1'. Binns quotes
the case of a person named Jacob Olaffson, a
Ietiident in some small island, subject to Den-
mark, who after lying very ill for a fortnight,
was found quite well, which he accounted for,
by saying, that a person in shming clothes
had come to him in the night, and stroked him
with his hand, whereupon, he was presently
D1g111Zed by Coogle
TROUBLED SPIRITS. 31
ht>aled. But .
the stroking is not always neces-
sary, since we know that the eye and the will
can produce the same effect.
The other case !alluded,as similiar to that of
;Mrs. Bretton, occmTed in Germany, and is re-
lated by Dr. Kerner.
The late Mr. L. St. --, he says, quitted
this world with an excellent reputation, being
at the time superintendant of an institution
for the relief of the poor, in B-. His son in-
herited his property, and in acknowledgment
of the faithful services ofhis father's old house-
keeper, he took her into his family and esta-
blished .her in a country house, a few miles
from B-, which formed part of his inheritance.
She had been settled there but a short time,
when she was awakened in the night, she
knew not how, and saw a tall, haggard looking
man in her room, who was rendered visible to
ht>r by a light that seemed to issue from him-
self. She drew the bed-clothes over he1· head;
but as this apparition appeared to her re-
peatedly, she became so much alarmed that
10he mentioned it to her master, begging per-
mission to resign her situation. He however
laughed at her, told her it must be all imagi-
nation, and promised to sleep in the adjoining
apartment, in order that she might call him
D1g111Zed by Coogle
32 TROUBLED SPIRITS.
whene\'er thi~ terror seized her. He did so;
hut when the spectre retUined, she was so
much oppressed with horror that she found it
impossible to raise her voice. Her master then
advised her to enquirt- the motive of its visits.
This she did ; whereupon, it beckoned her to
follow, which, after some struggles, abe sum-
moned resolution to do. It then led the way
down some steps to a passage, where it pointed
out to her a concealed closet, which it signi-
fied to her, by signs, she should open. She
represented that she had no key, whereupon,
it described to her, in sufficiently articulate
words, where she would find one. She pro-
cured the key, and on opening the closet, found
a small parcel, which the spirit desired her to
remit to the governor of the institution for the
poor, at B., with the injunction, that the con-
tents should be applied to the benefit of
the inmates ; this restitution being the only
means, whereby he could obtain rest and peace
in the other world. Having mentioned these
circumstances to her master, who bade her do
what she had been desired, she took the parcel
to the governor and delivered it without'com-
nnmicating by what means it had come into
her hands. Her name was entered in their
books, and she was dismissed ; but after she
D1g111Zed by Coogle
TROUBLED SPIRITS. 33
was gone, they discovered, to their surprise,
that the packet contained an order for thirty
thousand fl()rins, of \vhich the late Mr. St. -
had defrauded the institution and converted.to
his own use.
Mr. St.-, jun. was now called upon to
pay the money, which he refusing to do, the
affair was at length referred to .the authorities
and the house-keeper being arrested, he and
she were confronted in the court, where she
detailed the circumstances by which the
parcel bad come into her possession. Mr.
St. -, denied the possibility of the thing,
declaring the whole must be, for some purpose
or other, an invention of her own. Suddenly,
whilst making this defence he felt a blow
upon his shoulder, which caused him to start
.and look round, and at the same moment the
house-keeper exclaimed" See! there he stands
now! there is the ghost!" None perceived the
figure excepting the woman herself and Mr.
St. -, but every body present, the minister
included, heard the following words, "My
son, repair the injustice I have committed,
that I may he at peace !" The money was
paid; and Mr. St. - was so much affected
by this painful event, that he was seized with
D1g111Zed by Coogle
34 TROUBLED SPIRITS,
a severe illness, from which he with difficulty
recovered.
Dr. Kerner says that these circumstances
occurred in the year 1816, and created a con-
siderable sensation at the time, though at the
earnest request of the family of Mr. St. -,
there was an attempt made to hush them up ;
adding, that in the month of October 1819, he
was himself assured by a very respectable
citizen of B., that it was universally known in
the town, that the ghost of the late super-
intendant had appeared to the bouse-keeper,
and pointed out to her where she would find
the packet; that she bad consulted the
minister of her parish, who bade her deliver
it as directed ; that she had been subsequently
arrested; and the affair brought before the
authorities, where, whilst making his defence,
Mr. St. -, had received a blow on the
shoulder from an invisible band; and. that
Mr. St. -was so much affected by these cir-
cumstances, which got abroad in spite of the
efforts to suppress them, that be did not long
survive the event.
Grose, the antiquary, makes himself very
merry with the observation, that ghosts do not
go about their business like other people ; and
D1g111Zed by Coogle
TROUBLED SPIRITS• sa
that in cases of murder, instead of going to
the nearest justice of peace or to the nearest
relation of the deceased, a ghost addresses it-
self to somebody who had nothing to do with
the matter, or hovers about the grave where
its body is deposited. " The same circuitous
mode is pursued," he says, " with respect to
redressing injured orphans or widows ;
where it seems as if the shortest ancl most
certain way would be, to go and haunt the
person guilty of the injustice, till he were
terrified into restitution. We find the same
sort of strictures made on the story of the
ghost of Sir George Villiers, which instead of
going directly to his son, the Duke of Buck-
ingham to warn him of his danger, addressed
himself to an inferior person, whilst the
warning .was after all inefficacious, as the
Duke would not take council; but surely
such strictures are as absurd as the conduct of
.the ghost; at least I think there can he
nothing more absurd than pretending to pre-
scribe laws to nature, and judging of what we
know so little about.
The proceedings of the ghost in the follow-
ing case will doubtless be equally displeasing
to the critics. The account is extracted ver·
batim from a work publi~:~hed by the Banna-
D1g111Zed by Coogle
86 TROUBLED SPIRJTII.
tyne Club, ancl is entitled, •' Authentic
Account of the Appearance of a Ghost in
Queen Ann's County, Maryland, United
States of North America, proved in the fol-
lowing remarkable uial, from attested notes,
taken in court at the time, by one of the
counsel."
It appears that Thomas Hanis had made
some alteration in the disposal of his property,
immediately previous to his death ; and that
the family disputed the will and raised up
difficulties likely to be injurious to his chil-
dren.
" William Brigs said, that he was forty-
three years of age; that Thomas Harris died
·. in September, in the year 1790. In the March
following he was riding near the place where
Thomas Hanis was buried, on a horse for-
merly belonging to Thomas Harris. After
crossing a small branch, his horse began to
walk on Yery fast. It was between the hours
of eight and nine o'clock in the rooming. He
was alone: it was a cl~ar day. He entered a
lane adjoining to the field where Thomas
Harris was buried. His horse suddenly
'wheeled in a pannel of the fence, looked o'·er
the fence into the field where Thomas Harris
was buried and neighed very loud. WitneBs
D1g111Zed by Coogle
TROOBLEU SPIRITS. 37
then saw Thomas Harris coming towards him,
in the same apparel he had last seen him in
his lifetime; he had on a sky blue coat. Just
before he came to the fence, he varied to the
right, and vanished; his horse immediately
took the road. Thomas Harris came within
two pam1els of the fence to him ; he did not
see his features, nor speak to him. H~ was
acquainted with Thomas Harris when a boy,
and there had always been a great intimacy
between them. He thinks the horse knew
Thomas Harris, because of his neighing,
pricking up his ears, and looking over the
fence.
"About the first of June following he was
ploughing in his own field, about three miles
from where Thomas HaiTis was b111ied. About
dusk Thomas Harris came alongside of him,
and walked with him about two hundred yards.
He was dressed as when first seen. He made
a halt about two steps from him. J. Bailey
who was ploughing along with him, came
driving up, and he lost sight of the ghost.
He was much alarmed: nota word was spoken.
The young man Bailey did not see him ; he
did not tell Bailey of it. There was no mo-
tion of any particular part: he vanished. It
preyed upon his mind so as to affect his health.
VoL. u. E
D1g111Zed by Coogle
38 TROUBLED SPIRITS. '
Jle was with Thomas Harris when he died,
but had no particular conversation with him.
&me time after he was lying in bed, about
eleven and twelve o'clock at night, he heard
Thomas Hams groan, it was like the groan
h.e gave a few minutes before he expired : Mrs.
Brigs, his wife, heard the groan. She got up
aJic! searched the house : he did not, becau10e
he )mew the groan to be from Thomas Harris.
SC)me time .after when in bed, and a great fire-
light in the room, he saw a shadow OJl ·the wall
at the same time he felt a great weight upon
him. SoJDe time after, when in ~d .and asleep,
he felt a stroke between his eyes, which black,
ened them both : his wife was in bed with him,
~nd two young men were ip the room. The
blow awaked }lim, and all in ~he room were
aslt>~p ; is certain no person in the room struck
him: the blow swe}led his nose. .About the
middle of August he was alone, coming from
Hickey Colljns', .after dark, about one hour in.
the night, ThoiJlas llarris appeared, c!re~ilred
as he had seen hiJD when he was going dQlVn
to the meeting house branch, three miles and a
half from the grave-yllrd pf Thomas Harris.
It was star,.lig}lt. He extended his arms over
his shouliiers. Poes pot know how long he
reJDaipeq ip ~his situation. Jle WllS JDuc~
D1g111Zed by Coogle
TROUBLED SPIRITS. 39
alarmed. Thomas Harris disappeared. No-
thing was said. He felt no weight on his
shonlders. He went back to Colonel Linsi;
and got a young man to go with him. After
he got home he mentioned it to the young man.
He had, before this, told James Harris he had
seen his brother's ghost.
"In October, about twilight in the morning,
he saw Thomas Harris about one hundred
yards from the house of the witneliS ; his head
was leant to one side ; same appMel as before· ;
his face was towards him; he walked fast
and disappeared; there was nothing between
them to obstruct the view ; he was~ ~tbout fifty
yards from him, and alone ; be had no con-
ception why Thomas Harris appeared to him.
On the same day, about eight o'clock in the
morning, he was banding up blades· to J obn
B&iley, who was' stacking them; he saw
Thomas Harris come along tlre garden~fence,
dressed,as before he vanished,and always to the
East : was within fifteen feet ofhim; :Bailey did
not see him. An hour and a halfafterwards-, in
the same place, he again appeared, coming as
before; came up to the fence; leaned on it
within ten feet of the witness, who called to
Bailey to look there (pointing towards Thomas
Hani~). Bailey asked what was there?
Digitized by Goog[e
40 TROUBLED SPIRITS,
Don't you see Harris ? Does not recollect
what Bailey said. Witness advanced towards
Harris. One or the other spoke as witness
got over the fence, on the same pannel that
Thomas Harris was leaning on. They
walked off together about five hundred yards,
a conV"ersation took place as they walked ;
he has not the conversation on his memory.
He could not understand Thomas HatTis, his
voice was so low. He asked Thomas Harris
a question, and he forbid him. Witness then
asked, ' Why not go to your brother, instead
of me ?' Thomas Harris said, ' Ask me no
questions.' Witness told him his will was
doubted. Thomas Harris told him to ask
his brother if he did not remember the con-
versation which pa.~sed between them on the
east side of the whea.t stacks, the day he was
taken with his death sickness; that he then
deemed.that he wished all his property kept
together by J1\0les Harris, until his chiMren
arrived at age, then the whole should be sold
and divided among his children; and, should
it be immediately sold, as expressed in his
will, that the pro.perty would be most wanting
to his ehilclren while minors, therefore he
had changed his will, and said that witness
should see him again. He then told witness
D1g111Zed by Coogle
TROUBLED SPIRITs; 41
to turn, and disappeared. He did not speak
to him with the same voice as in his life-time.
He was not daunted while with Thomas
Harris, but much afterwards.· Witness then
went to James Harris; and told him that he
had seen his brother three times that day.
Related the conversation he had with him.
Asked James Harms· if he remembered the
conversation between him and his brother, at
the wheat-stack, he said he did, and told bini
what bad passed. Said he w'o~d fulfill his
bmtber's will. He was satisfied that witness
bad seen his brother, for that no-other person
knew the conversation' On the same evening,
returning ho!Jle about anohoUT before sun-set,
Thomas Harris appeared to him, came along-
side of him.· Witne11s told him that his
brother said he would fulfill his will. No more
conversation on·this subject.· He disappeared.
He had further conversation with Thomas
Ranis, but not on this ·subject;- He was
always dressed in the same manner. He had
never related ·to any person the last conver-
sation, and never would.
"Bailey,who was sworn in thecause,declared
that as he and Brigs were stacking blades, as
related- by~ Brigs; he called to w·itness and
E5--
D1g111Zed by Coogle
42 TROUBLED SPIRITS,
said, ' Look there ! Do you not see Thomas
Harris? • Witness said, 'No.' Brigs got
over the fence, and walked some distance ; ap-
peared by his action to be in deep conversation
with some person. Witness saw no one.
"The counsel was extremely anxious to
hear from Mr. Briggs the whole of the con-
versation of the ghost, and on his cross-
examination took every means, without effect,
to obtain it. They represented to him, as a
t·eligious man, he wa& bound to disclose the
whole truth. He appeared agitated when
applied to, deelaring nothing sho~:t of life
should make him reveal the whole .conver-
sation, and claiming the protection of the
court, that he had declat·ed all he knew relative
to the case•.
"The Court overruled the question of the
counsel. Hon. James Tilgman, judge.
''His Excellency Robert Wright, late Go-
,·emor of Maryland, and the Hon..Joseph H.
Nicholson, afterwards judge of one of the
courts in Mat·ylandr.were the counsel. for the
plaintiff.
''John Scott· and RichardT•. Eal'le,..Esq;rs.,
were counsel for the defendant."
Here, as illi. the case of Colonel M., men-
D1g111Zed by Coogle
TROUBLE!) SPIRITS. 43
tioned' in a fonner chapter, and some others
I have met with, we find disclosures made
that were held saered.
Dr. Kerner relates the following singular
story, whieh he declares himself to have re·
ceived from the most satisfactory authority.
Agnes B.,. being: at the time eighteen years
of age, was living as servant in a small inn at
Undenheim) her native place. The host and
hostess were quiet old people, who generally
went to bed about eight o'clock, whilst she
and the boy, the only other sen·ant, were
expected to sit up till ten, when they had to
shut up the house and retire to bed also. One
evening, as. the host was sitting on a bench
before the door, there came a beggar, re-
questing a night's lodging;. 'Ihe host, how-
ever, refused,. and bade him seek what he
wanted in the village, whereon-the man went
away.
At the usual hour the old people went to
bed, and the two .servants, having closed the
shutters, and indulged in a little gassip with
the watchman, were about to follow their
example, when the beggar came round the
corner of the neighbouring street, and ear-
nestly entreated them to gh'e him a lodging
for the night, since he could find nobody that
D1g111Zed by Coogle
'tlt:OUBLED SPllUTS~
would take-him in.· At first, the young people
refused, saying they dare not, without their
master's leave, but at length the entreaties of
the man prtmliled', and they consented to let
him sleep in the bam, on condition that, when
they called him in the morning, he would
immediately depart. At- tht·ee o!clock they
rose, and when the boyentered the bam, to his
dismay, he found that the old man had expired
in the night. Theywere now much perplexed
with the ap}oJrehension of t~ir master's dis-
pleasure ; so, after some consultation, they
agreed that the lad' shouldc convey the body
out of the bam, and lay it· in· a dry ditch
that was near at handJ where it would be
found by the labourers, and· e~ite no ques-
tion, as they would naturally conclttde he had
laid himselfdc.wn there to die...
This was done, the man was·discovt"red and
buried, and they thought themselves well rid of
the wholeaffair; but, on the following night,the
girl was awakened bythe beggar, whom she saw
standing at her bed-side. He looked at her,
and then quitted the room by the door. "Glad
was I," she says," when the day brake, but I
was scarcely out of my room when the boy
came to me, trembling and pale, and before I
could sav a word to him of what l had seen,
D1g111Zed by Coogle
TROUBLED SPIRITS. 45
he told me that the beggar had been to his
room in the night, had looked at him, and
then gone away. He said he was dressed as
when we had seen him alive, only he looked
blacker, which I also had observed."
Still afraid of incurring blame, they told
nobody, although the apparition retm"Ded to
them every uight, and although they found
removing to the other bed-chambers did not
relieve them from his visits. But the effects
of this persecution became so visible on both,
that; much curiosity was awakened in the vil-
lage with respect to the cam~e of the alteration
observed in them; and, at length the boy's
mother went to the minister, requesting him
. to interrogate her son, and endeavour to dis-
cover what was preying on his mind. To him
the boy disclosed their secret,and thisminister,
who was a Protestant, havinglistened with at-
tention to the story, advised him, whea neJJ;t
he went to Mayence, to market, to call on
Father Joseph, of the 'Franciscan Convent,
and relate the circumstance to him. This ad-
vice was followed, and FatherJoseph,assuring
the lad that the ghost could do him no harm,
recommended him to ask him, in the name of
God, what he desired. The boy did so, where-
upon the apparition answered, "Ye are chil-
Digitized by Goog[e
46 TROUBLED SPIRITS.
dren of mercy, but I am a child of evil; in the
bam, under the straw, you will find my money.
Take it; it is yours... In the morning, the
boy found the money accordingly in nn old
stocking, bid under the straw ; but having a
natural horror of it, they took it to their
minister, who advised them to divide it into
three parts : giving one to the Franciscan
Convent, at Mayence, another to the Reformed
Church, in the village, and the third to that to
which they themselves belonged, which was of
the Lutheran persuasion. This they did, and
were no more troubled with the beggar; With
respect to the minister 1tbo gave them this
good advice, I can only say, all honour be to
him ! I wish there were many more such !
The circumstance occurred in the year 1750,
and is related by the daughter of Agnes B.,
who declared that she had frequently heard it
from her mother.
The circumstance of this-apparition looking
darker than the man bad done when alive, is
si~ificant of his condition ; and confirmswhat
I have said above,. namely, that the moral state
of the disembodied soul can no longer be con-
cealed as it was in the flesh; but that as be is,
he must necessarily appear.
There is an.old. saying,.that. we should ne~r
D1g111Zed by Coogle
TROUBLED SPIRITS. 47 .
lie down to rest at enmity with any human
being ; and the story of the ghost of the
Princess Anna of Saxony, who apppeared to
Duke Christian of Saxe-Eisenburg, is strongly
confirmatory of the wisdom of this axiom.
Duke Christian was sitting one morning in
his study, when he was surprised by a knock
at his door-an unusual circumstance, since
the guards as well as the people in waiting
were always in the anti-room. He however
cried," Come in l" when there entered to his
amazement, a lady in an ancient costume, who,
in answer to his enquiries, told him that she
was no evil sphit, and would do him no harm ;
but that she was one of his ancestors, and bad
been the wife of Duke John Casimer,of Saxe-
Coburg. She then related that she and her
husband had not been on good terms at the
period of their deaths, and that although she
had sought a reconciliation, he had been in-
exorable; pursuing her with unmitigated
baued, and injuring her by unjust suspicions ;
and that consequently although she was happy,
lte was still wandering in cold and darkness,
betwixt time and eternity. She bad, however,
long known that one of their descendants was
destined to effect this reconciliation for them,
and they were rejoiced to find the time for
D1g111Zed by Coogle
48 TROUBLED SPIRITS.
it had at length alTived. She then ga,·e
the Duke eight days to cont.ider if he were
willing to perform this good office, and dis-
appeared; whereupon he consulted a clergy-
man, in whom he had great confidence, who
after finding the ghosts communications veri-
fied, by a reference to the annals of the family,
advised him to comply with her request.
As the Duke had yet soine difficulty in
believing it was really a ghost he had seen,
he took care to have his door well watched;
she, however, entered at the appointed time,
unsP.en by the attendants; and, having re-
ceived the Duke's promise, she told him that
she would return with her husband on the
following night; for that, though she could
come by day, he could not; that then,
having heard the circumstances, the Duke
must arbitrate between them, and then unite
their hands, and bless them. The door was
still watched, but nevertheless the apparitions
both came, the Duke Casimer in full :royal
costume, but of a livid paleness; and when
the wife had told her story, he told his. Duke
Christian decided for the lady, in which judg-
ment Duke Ca.simer fully acquiesced. Chris-
tian then took the ice-cold hand of Casimer
and laid it in that of his wife, which. felt ofa
Digitized by Coogle
TROUBLED SPIRITs; 49
natural heat. They then prayed and sang
together, and the apparitions disappeared,
having foretold that Duke Christian would
ere long be with them. The family records
showed that these people had lived about one
hundred years before Duke Christian's time,
who himself died in the year 1707, two years
after these visits of his ancestors. He desired
to be buried in quick lime, it is supposed from
an idea that it might prevent his ghost walking
the earth.
The costume in which they appeared was
precisely that they had worn when alive ; as
was ascertained by a reference to their por-
traits.
The expression, that her husband \Vai wttn-
dering in cold and darkness, betwixt time and
eternity, are here, very worthy of observation ;
as are the circumstances, that his hand was
cold, whilst hers was warm; and also, the
greater privilege she seemed to enjoy. The
hands of the unhappy spirits appear, I think,
invariably to communicate a sensation of cold.
I have heard of three instances, of persons
now alive, who declare that tlwy hold con-
tinual intercourse with their deceased partners.
One of these, is a naval officer, whom the au-
thor of the book lately published, called " Thf>
VoL. n. F
D1g111Zed by Coogle
50 TROUBLED SPIRITS.
Unseen World," appears to be acquainted
with. The second is a professor, in a college
in America, a man of eminence and learning,
and full of activity and energy-yet, he as-
sured a friend of mine, that he receives con·
stant visits from his departed wife, which afford
him great satisfaction. The third example, is
a lady in this country. She is united to a second
husband, has been extremely happy in
both marriages; and declares that she receives
frequent visits from her first. Oberlin, the
good pastor of Ban de la Roche, asserted the
same thing of himself. His wife came to him
frequently after her death ; was seen by the
rest of his household, as well as himself; and
warned him, beforehand of many events that
occurred.
Mrs. Mathews relates in the memoirs of
her husband, that he was one night in bed
and unable to sleep, frt)m the excitement that
continues some time after acting; when hear-
ing a rustling by the side of the bed, be
looked out, and saw his first wife, who was
then dead, standing by the bed-side, dressed
as when alive. She smiled and bent forward
as if to take his hand ; but in his alarm, he
threw himself out on the floor .to avoid the
contact, and was found by the landlord in a
D1g111Zed by Coogle
TROUBLED SPIRITS. 51
fit. On the same night and at the same hour,
the present Mrs. Mathews who was far away
from him, received a similar visit from her
predecessor, whom she bad known when alive.
She was quite awake; and in her terror seized
the bell rope to summon assistance, which
gave way, and she fell with it in her hand, to
the ground.
Professor Bartbe, who visited Oberlin in
1824, says, that whilst he· spoke of his inter-
course with the spiritun.l world as familiarly
as of the daily visits of his parishioners, he
was at the same time, perfectly free from fan-
aticism, and eagerly alive to all the concerns
of this earthly existence. He asserted, what I
find many somnambules and deceased persons
also assert, that everything on earth is but a
copy, of which the antitype is to be found in
the other.
He said to his visitor, that he might as well
attempt to persuade him that that was not a
table before them, as that he did not hold com-
munication with the other world. " I give
you credit for being honest, when you assure
me that you never saw anything of the kind,''
said he ; " give me the same credit when I
assure you that I do."
With respect to the faculty of ghost-seeing,
D1g111Zed by Coogle
32 'JROUBLED SPIRITS.
he said, it depended on several circumstances,
external and internal. People who live in
the bustle and glare of the world seldom see
them, whilst those who live in stilJ, solitary,
thinly inhabited places, like the mountainous
districts of various countries, do. So if I go
into the forest by night, I see the phosphoric
light of a piece of rotten wo,od; but if I go by
day I cannot see it; yet it is still there. Again,
there must be a rapport. A tender mother is
awakened by the faintest cry of her infant,
whilst the maid slumbers on, and never hears
it; and if I thrust a needle amongst a parcel
of wood-shavings, and hold a magnet over
them, the needle is stirred, whilst the shavings
•u·e quite unmoved. There mu~:~t be a parti-·
.cular aptitude: what it consists in, I do not
know; for of my people, many of whom are
ghost-seers, some are weak and sickly, others
vigorous and strong. Here are several pieces
of flint : I can see no difference in them; yet
some have so much iron in them that they
easily become magnetic ; others have little or
none. So it is with the faculty of ghost-
seeing. People may laugh as they will, but
the thing is a fact, nevertheless.
The visits of his wife coutinued for nine
years after her death, and then ceased.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
.TROUBLED SPIRITS. 53
At length she sent him a message, through
another deceased person, to say that she was
now elevated to a higher state, and could there-
fore no longer revisit the earth.
Never was there a purer spirit, nor a more
beloved human being, than Oberlin. When
first he was appointed to the cure of Ban de la
Roche, and found his people talking so fami-
liarly of the re-appearance of the dead, he re-
proved them and preached against the super-
stition; nor was he convinced, till after the
death ofhis wife. She had however previously
received a visit from her deceased sister, the
wife of Professor Oberlin, of Strasburg, who
had warned her of her approaching death, for
which she immediately set about preparing,
making extra clothing for her children, and
even laying in provisions for the funeral feast.
She then took leave of her husband and family,
and went quietly to bed. On the following
morning she died ; and Oberlin never heard of
the warning she had received, till she disclosed
it to him in her spectral visitations.
In narrating the following story, I am not
permitted to give the names of the place or
parties, nor the number of the regiment, with
all of which however I am acquainted. The
account was taken down by one of the.officers,
F 5
Digitized by Goog[e
•TROUBLED SPIRITS.
with whose family I am also acquainted; and
·the circutnatance occurred within the last
ten years.
" About the month of August," says Captain
·E., " my attention was requested by the school-
master-sergeant, a man of considerable worth,
and highly esteemed by the whole corps, to an
event which had occurred in the garrison hos-
pital. Having heard his recital, which, from
the serious earnestness with which he made it,
·challenged attention, I resolved to investigate
the matter; and having communicated the
circumstances to a friend, we both repaired to
the hospital for the purpose of enquiry.
"There were two patients to be examined-
both men of good character, and neither of
them suffering from any disorder affecting the
brain; the one was under treatment for con-
sumptive symptoms, and the other for an
ulcerated leg ; and they were both in the prime
of life.
" Having received a confirmation of the
schoolmast-er's statement from the hospital-
sergeant, also a very resp!!ctable and trust-
worthy man, I sent for the patient principally
concerned, and desired him to state what he
had seen and heard, warning him, at the same
time, that it was my intention to take down his
D1g111Zed by Coogle
.TROUBLED SPIRITS.
deposition, aucl that it behoved him to be ,·ery
careful, as, possibly, serious steps might be
taken for the purpose of discove1·ing whether
an imposition had been practised in the wards
of the hospital-a crime for which, he was well
aware, a very severe penalty would be inflicted.
He then proceeded to relate the circumstances,
which I took down in the presence of Mr.
-B., and the hospital-sergeant, as follows:-
"'It was last Tuesday night, somewhP-re be-
tween eleven and twelve, when all of us were
in bed, and all lights out except the rush-light
that was allowed for the man with the fever,
when I was awoke by feeling a weight upon
my feet, and at the same moment, as I was
drawing up my legs, Privllte W., who lies in
the cot apposite mine, called out, "I say, Q.
there's somebody sitting upon your legs !'' and
as I looked to the bottom of my bed, I saw
some oDe get up from it, and then come round
and stand over me, in the pa~>sage betwixt my
-cot and the next. I felt somewhat alarmed ;
.for the last few nights the ward had been dis-
turbed by sounds as of a heavy foot walking
up and down; and as nobody could be seen,
it was beginning to be supposed amongst us
that it was haunted, and fancying this that
came up to my bed's head might be the ghost,
Digitized byGoogle
TROUBLED SPIRITS.
I called out," Who are you? and what do you
want?"
"'The figure then leaning, with one hand
on the wall, over my head, and stooping down,
Raid, in my ear," I am Mrs. M. ;''and I could
then distinguish that she was dressd in a
flannel gown, edged with black ribbon, exactly
similar to a set of grave clothes in which I had
assisted to clothe her corpse, when her death
took place a year previously.
"' The voice however was notlike Mrs. M.'s,
nor like anybody elses, yet it was very distinct,
and seemed somehow to sing through my
head. I could see nothing of a face beyond a
darkish colour about the head, and it appeared
to me that I could see through her body ag-<~.inst
the window-glasses.
" ' Although I felt very uncomfortable, I
asked her what she wanted. She replied, ''I
am Mrs. M., and I wish you to write to him
that was my husband, and tell him........"
" ' I am not, sir,' said Corporal Q., 'at liberty
to mention to anybody what she told me,
except to her husband. He is at the depot in
Ireland, and I have written and tol<l him. She
made me promise not to tell any one else.
After I had promised secrecy, she told me
something of a matter, that convinced me I
D1g111Zed by Coogle
TROUBLED SPIRITS. 57
was talking to a spirit ; for it related to what
only I and Mrs. M. knew, and no one living
.could know anything whatever of the matter ;
and if I was now speaking my last words on
earth, I say solemnly that it was Mrs. M.'s
spirit that spoke to me then, and no one else.
After promising that if I complied with her
request, she would not trouble me or the ward
again, she went from iny bed towards the fire-
place, and with her hands she kept feeling
about the wall over the mantel-piece. After
awhile, she came towards me again; and whilst
my eyes were upon her, she somehow dis-
appeared from my sight altogether, and I was
left alone.
''' It was then that I felt faint like, and a
cold sweat broke out over me ; but I did not
faint, and after a time I got better, and gradu-
ally I went off to sleep.
"'The men in the ward said, next day, that
Mrs. M, bad come to speak to me about pur-
gatory, because she had been a Roman Catho-
lic, and we had often bad arguments on
religion: but what she told me had no refer-
ence to such subjects, but to a matter only she
and I knew of.'
"After closely cross-questioning Corporal
Q., and endeavouring, without success, to
D1g111Zed by Coogle
TROUBLED SPIRITS,
reason him out of his belief in the ghostly
character of his visitor; I read over to him
what I had written, and then, dismissing him,
sent for the other patient.
"After cautioning him, as I had done the
fir11t, I proceeded to take down his statement,
which was made with every appearance of good
faith and sincerity.
"'I was lying awake,' said he, 'last Tuesday
night, when I snw some one sitting on Corporal
Q.'s bed. There was so little light in the
ward that I could not make out who it was,
and the figure looked so strange that I got
alarmed, and felt quite aick. I called out to
Corporal Q. that there was somebody sitting
upon his bed, and then the figure got up ; and
as I did not know but it might be coming to
me, I got so much alarmed, that being but
weakly (this was the consumptive man) I fell
back, and I believe I fainted away. When I
"
got round again, I saw the figure standing,
·and apparently talking to the Corporal, placing
one hand against. the wall and stooping down.
I could not however hear any voice ; and being
still much alarmed, I put my head under the
clothes for a considerable time. When I
looked up again I could only see Corporal Q.,
sitting up in bed alone, and he said he had
D1g111Zed by Coogle
TROUBLED SPIRITS.
seen a ghost ; and I told him I bad also seen
it. After a time, he got up and gave me a
drink of water, for I was very faint. Some
of the other patients being disturbed by our
talking, they bid us be quiet, and after some
time I got to sleep. The ward has not been
disturbed since.'
" The man was then cross-questioned; but
his testimony remaining quite unshaken, he
was dismissed, and the hospital-sergeant was
interrogated, with regard to the possibility of
a trick having been p~tised. He asserted,
however, that this was impossible; and, <'er-
tainly, from my own knowledge ofthe hospital
regulations, and the habits of the patients, I
should say that a practical joke of this nature
was too serious a thing to have been attempted
by anybody, especially·as there were patients
in the ward very ill at the time, and one very
near his end. The punishment would have
been extremely severe, and discovery almost
certain, since everybody would have been
adverse to the delinquent.
" The investigation that ensued was a very
brief one, it being found that there was no·
· thing more to be elicited; and the affair ter-
minated with the supposition that . the two
men had been dreaming. Nevertheless, six
D1g111Zed by Coogle
60 TROUBLED SPIRITS.
months afterwards, on being interrogated,
their evidence and their conviction were as
clear as at first, and they declared themselves
ready at any time to repeat their statement
upon oath.''
Supposing this case to be as the men believed
it, there are several things worthy of obt~er­
vation. In the first place, the ghost is guilty
of that inconsistency so offensive to Francis
Grose and many others. Instead of telling
her secret to her husband, she commissions
the Corporal to. tell it him, and it is not till a
year after her departure from this life that she
does even that ; and she is heard in the warQ-
two or three nights before she is visible. We
are therefore constrained to suppose that like
Mrs. Bretton, she could not communicate with
her husband, and that till that Tuesday night,
the necessary conditions for attaining her
object, as regarded the Corporal, were want-
ing. It is also remarkable, that although the
latter heard her speak distinctly, and spoke to
her, the other man. heard no voice; which
renders it probable, that she had at length
been able to produce that impression upon
him, which a magnetiser does on his som·
nambule, enabling each to understand the
other by a transference of thought, which
D1g111Zed by Coogle
TROUBLED SPIRITS. 61
was undistinguishable to the Corporal from
speaking, as it is frequently to the somnambule.
The imitating the actions of life by leaning
against the wall and feeling about the mantel-
piece, are very unlike what a person would
have done, who was endeavouring to impose
.on the man; and equally unlike what they
would have repotted, had the thing been au
invention of their own.
Amongst the established jests on the subject
of ghosts, their sudden vanishing, is a very
fruitful one ; but, I think, if we examine
this question, we shall find, that there is no-
.thing comical in the matter, except the igno-
rance or want of reflection of the jesters.
In the first place, as I have before observed,
a spirit must be where its thoughts and affec-
tions are, for they are itself-our spirib are
where our thoughts and affections are, al-
. though our solid bodies remain stationary ; and
no one will suppose, that walls or doors, or
material obstacle:J of any kind, could exclude
a spirit, any more than they can exclude our
thoughts.
But then, there is the visible body of the
spirit-what is that? and how does it retain
its shape! For we know, that there is a law
discovered by Dalton, that two masses of
VoL. n. G
D1g111Zed by Coogle
62 TROUBLED SPIRITS,
gaseous matter cannot remain in contact, but
they will immediately proceed to diffuse them-
selves into one another; and accordingly, it
may be advanced, that a gaseous corporeity in
the atmosphere, is an impossibility, because it
could not retain its form, but would inevitably
he dissolved away, and blend with the sur-
rounding air. But precisely the sameobjection
might be made by a chemist to thP, possibility
of our fleshly bodies retaining their integrity
and compactness : for the human body, taken
as a whole, is knwn to be an impossible
chemical compound, except for the vitality
which upholds it; and no sooner is life with-
drawnfrom it,than it crumbles intoputrescence;
aud it is undeniable, that the reriform body
would be an impossible mechanical pheno-
menon, but. for the vitality which, we nre
entitled to suppose, may uphold it. But, just
as the state or condition of organisation pro-
tects the flesh]ybody from the naturalre-actions
which would destroy it, so may an analogous
condition of organisation protect a spiritual
ethereal body from the destructive influence of
the mutual inter-diffusion of gases.
Thus, supposing this reriform body to be a
permanent appurtenance of the spirit, we see
how it may subsist and retain its integtity, and
o;9mzedbyGoogle
TROUBLED SPIRITS. 63
it would be as reasonable to hope to exclude
the electlic fluid by walls or doors as to exclude
by them this subtle, fluent form. If, on the
contrary, the ·shape be only one constructed
out of the atmosphere, by an act of will, the
same act of will, which is a vital force, will
preserve itentire, till the will being withdrawn,
it dissolves away. In either case, the moment
the will or thought of the spirit is elsewhere, it
is gone-it has vanished.
For those who prefer the other hypothesis,
namely, that there is no outstanding shape at
ali; but that the will of the sphit, acting on
the constructive imagination of the seer, en-
ables him to conceive the form, as the spirit
its~lf conceives of it, there can be no difficulty
in understanding, that the becoming invisible
will depend merelyon a similar actof will.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
CHAPTER III.
HAUNTED HOUSES.
E''EttYBoDY has heard of haunted houses; and
there is no country, and scarcely any place, in
which something of the sort is not known or
talked off; and I suppose there in no one who,
in the course of their travels, has not seen very
respectable, good-looking houses shut up and
uninhabited, because they bad this evil repu-
tation assigned to them. J have seen several
such, for my own part; and it is remarkable
that this mala fama does not always, by any
tr\eans, attach itself to buildings one would
imagine most obnoxious t.o such a suspicion.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSES. 65
For example, I never heard of a ghost being
seen or heard in Haddon Hall, the most ghostly
of houses; nor in many other antique, myste-
rious looking buildings, where one might ex-
pect them, whilst sometimes a house of a very
prosaic aspect remain~ uninhabited, and is ulti-
mately allowed to fall to ruin for no other
reason, we are told, than that nobody can live
in it. I remember, in my childhood, such a
house in Kent-I think it was on the road be-
twixtMaidstoneandTunbridge-whichbadthis
reputation. There was nothing dismal about
it; it was neither large nor old; and it stood
on the borders of a well frequented road; yet,
I was a11sured it had stood empty for years ;
and as long as I lived in that part of the country
it never had an inhabitant, and I believe was
finally pulled down; and all for no other reason
than that it was haunted, and nobody could
live in it. I have frequently heard of people,
whilst travelling on the continent, getting into
ltouses at a rent so low as to surprise them, and
I hM·e moreover frequently heard of very
strange things occurring whilst they were
there. I remember, for instance, a family of
the name of S. S ., who obtained a very hand-
some house at a most agreeal>ly cheap rate,
some,vhere on the coast of ltaly-1 think it
G i)
D1g111Zed by Coogle
63 HAUNTED HOUSES.
was at Mola de Gaeta. They 1ived very com-
fortably in it, till one day, whilst Mrs. S. S.
was sitting iu the drawing-room, which opened
into a balcony overhangiDg the sea, sbe saw a
lady dressed in white pass along before the
windows, which were all closed. Concluding
it wa'S one of her daughters, who had been ac-
cidentally shut out, she arose and opened the
window to allow her to enter, but on looking
out, to her amazement, there was nobody there,
although there was no possible escape from the
balcony unless by jumping into the sea. On
mentioning this circumstance to somebody in
the neighbourhood, they were told "that that
'vas the reason they had the bouse so cheap ;
nobody liked to live in it."
I have heard of several houses, e,·en in
populous cities, to which some strange circum-
stance of this sort is attacheJ-some in Lon-
don even, and some in this city and neighbour-
hood; and what is more, unaccountable things
actually do happen to those who inhabit them.
Doors are strangely opened and shut, a rustling
of silk, and sometimes a whispering, and fre-
quently footstP.ps are heard. There is a house
in .Ayrshire, to which this sort of thing has
been attached for years, insomuch that it was
finally abandoned to an old man and woman,
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSES. 67
who said tl1nt they were so used to it that they
did not mind it. A distinguished authoress
told me, that some time ago she passed a night
at the house of an acquaintance, in one of the
midland counties of England. She and her
sister occupied the same room, and in the night
they heard some one ascending the stairs ; the
foot came distinctly to the door, then turned
away, ascended the next flight, and they heard
it over head. In the morning, on being asked
if they had slept well, they mentioned this cir-
cumstance. "That is what everybody hears
who sleeps in that room," said the lady of the
house. "Many a time I have, when sleeping
there, drawn up the night-bolt, persuaded that
the nurse was bringing the baby to me; but
there was nobody to be seen. We have taken
every pains to discover what it is, hut in vain;
and are now so used to it, that we have ceased
to care about the matter."
I know of two or three othe1· houses in this
city, and one in the neighbourhood, in which
circumstances of this nature are transpiring, or
have tmnspired very lately; but people hush
them up, from the fear of being laughed at,
and also from an apprehension of injuring the
character of a house; on which account, I do
not dwell on the particulars; but there was
D1g111Zed by Coogle
68 HAUNTED HOUSES.
~me time since afama of this kind attached
to a house in St. J- Street, some of the details
of which became very public. It had stood
empty a long time, in consequence of the an-
noyances to which the inhabitants had been
subjected. There was one room particularly
which noboby could occupy without disturb-
ance. On one occasion, a youth who had been
abroad a considerable time, either in the anny
or navy, was put there to sleep on his anival,
since k11owing nothing of these reports, it was
hoped his rest might not be interrupt~d. In
the morning, however, he complained of the
dreadful time he had had with people looking
in at him between the curtains of his bed, all
night, avowing his resolution to tenninate
his visit that same day, as he would not sleep
thert: any more. After this period, the house
stood empty again tor a considerable time, but
was at length taken, and workmen sent in to
repair it. One day, when the men were away
at their dinner, the master tradesman took the
key, and went to inspect progress, and having
examined the lower rooms, he was ascending
the stairs, when he heard a man's foot behind
him. He looked round, but there was nobody
there, and he moved on again ; still there was
somebody following, and he stopped and looked
Digitized by Goog[e
HAUNTED HOUSEl>. 69
overt~ rails; but there was no one to be seen.
So, though feeling rather queer, he advanced
into the drawing-room, where a fire had been
lighted, and wishing to combat the uncomfort-
able sensation that was creeping m·er him, he
took hold of a chair, and drawing it resolutely
along the floor, he slammed it down upon the
hearth with some force, and seated himself in
it; when, to his amazement, the action, in all
its particulars of sonud, was immediately re-
peated by his unseen companion, who seemed
to seat himself beside him on a chair as in-
visible as himself. Horror-struck, the worthy
builder started up and rushed out ofthe house.
There is a house in S- Street, in London,
which, having stood empty a good while, was
at length taken by Lord B. The family were
annoyed byseveral unpleasant occurrences, and
by the sound of footsteps, which were often
audible, especially in Lady B.'s bed-room, who
though she could not see the fonn, was occa-
sionally conscious of its immt>.diate proximity.
Some time since, a gentleman having esta-
blished himself in a lodging in London, felt,
the first night he slept there, that the clothes
were being dragged off his bed. He fancied
he had done it himself in his sleep, and pulled
them on again ; but it happens repeatedly ; he
Digitized by Goog[e
70 HAUNTED HOUSES.
gets out of bed each time, can find nobody-
no string-no possible explanation, nor can
obtain any from the people of the house, who
only seem distressed and annoyed. On men-
tioning it to some one in the neighbourhood,
he is informed that the same thing has occurred
to several preceding occupants of the lodging;
which, of course, he left.
The circumstances that happened at New
House, in Hampshire, as detailed by Mr.
Barham, in the third volume of the "Ingoldsby
Legends," are known to be perfectly authentic~
as are the following, the account of which I
have received from a highly respectable ser-
vant, residing in a family, with whom I am
well acquainted :-She informs me, that she
was not very long since living with a Colonel
and Mrs. W., who, being at Carlisle engaged
a furnished house, which they obtained at an
exceedingly cheap rate, because nobody liked
to live in it. This family, however, met with
no annoyance, and attached no importance to
the rumour which had kept the house empty.
There were, however, two rooms in it wholly
unfurnished, and as the bouse was large, they
were dispensed with, till the recurrence of the
race week, when, expecting company. these
two rooms were temporarily fitted up for the
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSJi:S. 71
use of the nurses aud children. There were
heavy Venetian blinds to the windows, and in
the middle of the night, the person who re-
lated the circumstance to me, was awaked by
the distinct sound of these blinds being pulled
up and down with violence, perhaps as many
as twenty times. The fire had fallen low, and
she could not see whether they were actually
moved, or not, but lay trembling iu inde-
scribable terror. Presently, feet were heard in
the room, and a ste.mping as if several men
were moving about without stockings. Whilst
lying in this state of agony, she was comforted
by hearing the voice of a nurse, who slept in
another bed in the same chamber, exclaiming,
"The Lord have mercy upon us!" This second
woman then asked the first, if she hadcourage
to get out of bed and stir up the fire, so that
they might be able to see; which, by a great
effort, she did ; the chimney being near her
bed. There was, however, nothing to be dis-
covered; everything being precisely as when
they went to bed. On another occasion, when
they were sitting, in the evening at worlc, they
distinctly heard some one counting money and
the chink of the pieces as they were l11.iu down.
The sound proceeded from the inner room of
the two ; but the1·e was nobody there. This
D1g111Zed by Coogle
72 HAUNTED HOUSES.
family left the house, and though a large and
commodious one, she understood it remained
unoccupied, as before.
A respectable citizen of Edinburgh, not long
ago, went to America to visit his son, who bad
married and settled there. The morning after
his arrival, be declared his .determination to
return immediately to Philadelphia, from
which the house was at a c.onsiderable dis-
tance ; aud ou being interrogated as to the
cause of this sudden depa:rture, he said that in
the previous night he had heard a man walk-
ing about his room, who had approached the
bed, drawn back the curtains, and bent over
him. Thinking it was somebody who had
concealed himself there with ill intentions, he
had struck out violently at the figure; when,
to his horror, his arm passed unimpeded
through it.
Other extraordinary things happened in that
.house, which had the reputation of being
haunted, although the son had not believed it,
and had therefore not mentioned the report to
the father. One day, the children said they
had been running after "such a queer thing in
the cellar ; it was like a goat, and not Itke a
goat ; but it seemed to be like a shadow,"
A few years ago, some friends of mine were
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSES. 73
taking a house in this city, when the servants
of the people who were leaving, advised them
not to have anything to do with it; for that
there was a ghost in it that screamed dread-
fully, and that they never could keep a stitch
of clothes on them at night; the bed-cover-
ings were always pulled off. My f1iends
laughed heartily, and took the house; but the
cries and groans all 0\·er it we1·e so frequent
that they at length got quite used to them.
It is to be observed that the house was a .flat
or .floor, shut in ; so that there could be no
draughts of air nor access for tricks. Besides,
it was a woman's voice, sometimes close to
their ears, sometimes in a closet, sometimes
behind their beds-in short, in all directions.
Everybody heard it that wt>nt to the house.
The tenant that succeeded them, however,
has never been troubled with it.
·· The story of the Brown Lady at the Mar-
quis of T.'s, in Norfolk, is known to many.
The Hon. H. W. told me that a friend of his,
whilst staying there, had often seen her, and
had one day enquired of his host, " Who was
the lady in brown that he had met frequently
on the stairs?" Two gentlemen, whose names
were mentioned to mf', rt>solved to watch for
her and intercept her. 'l;hey at length saw
Vo~ IL H
o;9mzedbyGoogle
74 HAUNTED HOUSBS.
her, but she eluded them by turning down a
staircase, and when they looked over she had
disappeared. Many persons have seen her.
There is a Scotch family ofdistinction, who,
I am told, are accompanied by an unseen
attendant, whom they call" Spinning Jenny."
She is heard spinning in t.heir house in the
country, and when they come iuto town, she
spins here; servants and all hear the sound of
her wheel. I believe she accompanies them
no further than to their own residen<'es, not
to those of other people. Jenny is supposed
to be a former housemaid of the family, who
was a great spinner, and they are so accus-
tomed to her presence as to feel it no
.annoyance.
The following very singular circumstance
was related to me by the daughter of the
celebrated Mrs. S :-Mrs. S. and her husband
were travelling into Wales, and had occasion
.to stop on their way, some days, at Oswestry.
.There they established themselves in a lodging,
to reach the door ofwhich they had to go down
a sort of close, or passage. The only inhabit·
ants of the house were the mistress, a very
handsome woman, and two maids. Mr. and
Mrs. S., however, very soon had occason to
complain of the neglected state of the rooms,
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSES. 75
which were apparently never cleaned or
dusted; though, strange to say, to judge by
their own ears, the servants were doing
nothing else all night, their sleep being con-
stantly di11turbed by the noise of rubbing,
sweeping, and the moving of fw'Diture. When
they complained to these servants of the noise
in the night, and the dirt of the rooms, they
answered that the noise was not made by
them, and that it was impossible for them to
do their work, exhausted as they were by
sitting up all night with their mistress, who
could not bear to be alone when she was in
bed. Mr. and Mrs. S. afterwards discovered
that she had her room lighted up every night ;
and one day, as they were returning from a
walk, and she happened to be going down the
close before them, they heard her saying, as
she turned her head sharply from side to side,
"Are you there again ? What, the devil! Go
away, I tell you ! &c. &c." On applying to
the neighbours for an explanation of these
mysteries, the good people only shook their
heads, and gave mysterious answers. Mr. and
Mrs. S. afterwards learnt that she was be-
lieved to have murdered a girl who formerly
lived in her service.
There is nothing in the conduct of this un-
D1g111Zed by Coogle
76 JlAUNTED HOUSES;
happy woinan which may not be perfectly
well accounted for, by the supposition of a
guilty conscience ; but the noises heard by
Mr. and Mrs. S. at night, are curiously in ac-
cordance with a variety of similar storiPs,
whe1·eio this strange visionary repetition of
the trh·ial ~ctions of daily life, or of some
particular incident, have been observed. The
affair ofLord St. Vincent's was of this nature;
and there is somewhere extant, an account of
the ghost of Peter the Great of Russia having
appeared to Doctor Doppelio, complaining to
him of the sufferings be endured from having
to act over again his former cruelties ; a cir-
cumstance which exhibits a remarkable coin-
cidence with the .Glasgow dream, mentioned
in a preceding chapter. We must, of course,
attach a symbolical meaning to these pheno-
mena, and conclude that these reactings are
somewhat of the nature of our dreams.
Certainly, there would need no stronger
motive to induce us to spend the period allotted
to us on earth, in those pure and innocent
pleasures and occupations, which never weary
or sicken the soul, than the belief that such a
future awaits us !
A family in one of the English counties, Was
a few years ago terribly troubled by an unseen
D1g111Zed by Coogle
BAU!IITlm BOUSEM. 77
inmate, who chiefiy seemed to inhabit a large
cellar, into which there was no entrance except
the door, which waiS kept locked. Here there
would be a loud knocking-sometimes a voice
crying-heavy feet walking, &c. &c. At fh-st,
the old trustworthy butler would summon his
accolytes, and descend, armed with sword and
blunderbuss; but no one was to be seen.
They could often hear the feet following them
up stairs from this cellar; and once, when the
family had determined to watch, they found
themselves accompanied up stairs not. only by
the sound of the feet, but by a vi.Yihle shadowy
companion ! They rushed up, flew to their
chamber, and shut the door, when instantly
they felt and saw the handle turned in their
hand by a hand outside. Windows and doors
were opened in spite of locks and keys; but
notwithstanding the most persevering investi-
gations, the only clue to the mystery waa the
appearance of that spectral figure.
The kuockings and sounds of people at
work, asserted to be heard in mines, is a fact
maintained by many very sensible men, over-
seers, and superintendents, &c. as well as by
the workmen themselves; and there isa strong
persuasion, I know, amongst the miners of
.Cornw·all and those of Mendip, that thP.se
H5
D1g111Zed by Coogle
78 HAUNTED HOUSES.
visionary workmen are aometimes heard
amongst them ; on which occasions the horses
evince their apprehensions· by trembling
and sweating; but as I have no means of
verifying these reports, I do not dwell upon
them further.
When the mother of George Canning, then
Mrs. Hnnn, was an actress in the provinces, she
went, amongst other places, to Plymouth,
·having previously requested her friend, Mr.
Bernard, 'of the theatre, to procure her a
lodging. On her arrival, Mr. B. told her that
if she was not afraid of a ghost, she might
have a comfortable residence at a very low
rate, '' For there is,', said he, "a house belong-
ing to our carpenter, that is reported to be
haunted, and nobody will live in it. If yon
like to have it, you may, and for nothing, I
believe, for he is so llnxious to get a tenant;
ouly you must not let it be known that you do
not pay rent for it."
Mrs. Hunn, alluding to the theatrical appa-
ritions, said, it would not be the first time she
had had to do with a ghost, and that she was
very willing to encounter this one ; so she
had her luggage taken to the house in question,
and the bed prepared. At her usual hour, she
·sent her" maid and her children to bed, and,
o;grlized by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSES. 79
rurious to see if there was any foundation for
the mmour she had heard, she seated herself
with a couple of candles and a book, to watch
the event. Beneath the room she occupied
was the carpenter'• workshop, which had two
doors ; the one which opened into the atreet
was barred and bolted within; the other, a
smaller one, opening into the passage, was
only on the latch ; and the house was, of
course, closed for the night. She had read
something more than half an hour, when she
perceived a noise issuing from this lower
apartment, which sounded very much like the
sawing of wood; presently, other such noises
as usually proceed from a carpenter's work-
shop were added, till, by and by, there was a
regular concert of knocking and hammering,
and sawing and planing, &c.; the whole
sounding like half a dozen busy men in full
employment. Being a womau of considerable
courage, Mrs. Hunn resolved, if possible, to
penetrate •he mystery ; so taking off her shoes,
that her approach might not he heard, with
her candle in her hand, she very softly opened
her door and descended the stairs, the noise
continuing as loud as evet·, and evidently pro-
ceeding from the workshop, till she opened the
door, when instantly all was silent-all was
D1g111Zed by Coogle
80 HAUNTED HOUSES,
still-not a mouse was stirring ; and the tools
and the wood, and everything else, lay as they
had been left by the workmen when they went
away. Having examined every part of the
place, and satisfied herself that there was no-
body there, and that nobody could get into it,
Mrs. Hunn ascended to her room again, be-
ginning almost to doubt her own senses, and
question with herself whether she had really
heard the noise or not, when it re-commenced
and continued, without intermission, for about
half an hour. She however went to bed, and
the next day told nobody what had occurred,
having determined to watch another night be-
fore mentioning the affair to any one. As,
however, this strange scene was acted over
again, without her being able to discover the
cause of it, she now mentioned the circum-
stance to the owner of the house and to her
friend Bernard; and the former, who would
not believe it, agreed to watch with her, which
he did. The noise began as before, and he
was so horrQr-struck, that instead of entering
the workshop, as she wished him to do, he
rnshed into the street. Mrs. Huon continued
to inhabit the bouse the whole summer, and
when referring afterwards to the adventure,
she observed, that use was second nature ; and
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSE&. 81
\bat she was sure if any night these ghostly
carpenters bad not pursued their visionary
labours, she should have been qui$e frightened,
lest they should pay her a visit up stairs.
From many recorded. cases, I find the vulgar
belief, that buried money is frequently the
cause of these disturbances, is strongly borne
out by facts; This certainly does seem to us
very strange; and can only be explained by
the hypothesis suggested, that the soul awakes
in the other world in.exactly the same state in
which it quitted this.
In the above mentioned instances, of what
are called haunted h01Ues, there is ·generally
11othing seen, but those are equally abundant,
where the ghostly visitor is visible.
Two young ladies were passing the night in
a heuse in the north, when the youngest, then
a child, awoke and sa.w an old man, in a Kil-
marnock night cap, walking about their bed
room. She said, when telling the story in
after life, that she was not the least frightened,
she was only surprised! but.she found that
her sister, who was several years older than
'herself, was in a state of great terror. He
continued some time moving about, aud at last
went to a chest of drawers, where there lay a
parcel of buttons~ belonging to a travelling
D1g111Zed by Coogle
82 HAUNTED HOUSES.
tailor, who had been at work in the house.
Whether the old man threw them down, or
not, she could not say, but, just then, they all
fell ratding off the drawers to the floor, where-
upon, he disappeared. The next morning,
when they mentioned the circumstance, she
observed, that the family looked at each other
in a significant manner; but it was not till she
was older, she learnt, that the house was said
to be haunted by this old man, " It never oc-
curred to me,'• she said, "that it was a ghost
-who could have thought of a ghost in a
Kilmarnock night cap.••
At the Leipsick fair, lodgings are often
very scarce, and on one occasion, a stranger
who bad arrived late in the evening, had some
difficulty in finding a. bed. Atlength, he found
a vacant chamber in the bouse of a citizen ;
it was one they made no nse of, but they said
be was welcome to it; and weary and sleepy,
be gladly accepted the offer. Fatigued as he
was, however, be was disturbed by some un-
ac<.-ountable noises, of which be complained
to his hosts in the morning. They pacified
him by some excuses, but the next night, not
long after he had gone to bed, he came down
stairs in great haste, with his portmanteau on
his shoulder, declaring he would not stay
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSES. 83
there another hour, for the world ; for that a
lady in a strange old fashioned dresa had come
into the room with a dagger in her hand, and
made threatening gestures at him. He ac-
cordingly went away, and the room was shut
up again ; but some time afterwards, a servant
girl in the family of this citizen, being taken
ill, they were obliged to put her into that
room, in order to separate her from the rest of
the family. Here she recovered her health
rapidly, and as she had never complained of
.a.Dy annoyance, she was asked, when she
was quite well, whether anything particular
had happened whilst she inhabited that
chamber, "Oh yes," she answered; "evel'y
night there came a strange lady into the room,
who sat herself on the bed and stroked me
with her hand, and I believe it is to her I owe
my speedy recovery ; but I could never get
her to speak to me-she only sighs and
weeps."
Not very long since, a gentleman set out,
one fine midsummer's evening, when it is light
all night in Scotland, to walk from Montrose
to Brechin. As he approached a place called
Dunn, he observed a lady walking on before,
which from the lateness of the hour, some-
what surprised him. Some time afterwards,
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSES,
he was found by the early labourers lying on
the g1'0und, near the churchyard, in a state of
insensibility. All he could tell them was,
that he had followed this lady till she had
turned her head and looked round at him,
when, seized with horror, he had fainted.
"Oh," said they," you have seen the lady of
Dunn !'' What is the legend attached to this
lady of Dunn, I do not know.
A Monsieur De S. had been violently in love
with Hippo1yte Clairon, the celebrated French
actress, but she rejected lhis &uit, in so per-
emptory a manner, that even when h,e was
at the point of death, she refused his earnest
entreaties, that she would visit him. Indignant
at her cruelty, he declared he would haunt
her, and he certainly kept his word. I be-
lieve she never saw his ghost, but he ap-
pears to have been always near her; at least,
on several occasions when other people doubted
the fact, he signalized his presence at her
bidding, by various sounds, and this, where\"er
she happened to be at the moment. Some-
times it was a cry-at others, a shot, and at
others, a clapping of hands or music. She
seems to have been slow to believe in the
extra-natural character of these .noises ; and
even when.shewas ultimately.convinc~d, to have
been divided betwixt horror, on the one hand,
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSES. 85
and diversion, at the oddness of the circum-
stance, on the other. The sounds were heard
hy everybody in her vicinity; and I am in-
formed by Mr. Charles Kirkpatrick Sharpe,
that the Margrave of Anspach, who was sub-
sequently her lover, and Mr. Keppel Craven,
were perfectly well acquainted with the cir-
cumstances of this haunting, and entertained
no doubt of the facts above alluded to.
The ghost, known by the designation of
"the white lady," which is frequently seen in
different castles or palaces, belonging to the
Royal Family of Prussia, has been mentioned
in another publication, 1 think. She was
long supposed to be a Countess Agnes of
Orlamunde ; but a picture of a princess, called
Bertha, or Perchta von Rosenberg, disco\·e1ed
some time since, was thought so exceedingly
to resemble the appmition, that it is now a
disputed point which of the two ladies it is;
or whether it is or is not the same appat·ition
that is seen at different places. Neither of
these ladies appear to have been very happy
in their lives;· but the opinion of its being
the Princess Bertha, who lived in the fifteenth
century, was somewhat countenanced by the
circumstance, that at a period when in con-
sequenl-'e of the war, an annual benefit which
VoL. n. 1
D1g111Zed by Coogle
86 HAUNTED HOUSES.
she had bequeathed·to the poor was neglected,
the appa1ition seemed to be unusually dis-
turbed, and was seen more frequently. She
is often observed before a death ; and one of
the Fredericks said, shortly before his decease,
that he should'' not live long; for be had met·
the white lady." She wears a widow's band
and veil, but it is sufficiently transparent to
show her features, which do not express hap-
piness, but placidity. She has only been twice
heard to speak. In December, 1628, she
appeared in the palace, at Berlin, and was
heard to say," Veni,judica vivos et mortuos!
Judicium mihi adhuc superest''-Come, judge
the quick and the dead! I wait for judg-
ment.
On the other occasion, which is more recent,
one of the princesses at the Castle of Neuhaus,
in Bohemia, was standing before a mirror,
trying on a new head-dress, when on asking
her waiting-maid, what the hour was, the
white lady suddenly stept from behind a
screen and said, " Zehn uhr ist es ihr Liebden!
~It is ten o'clock, your love!" which is the
mode i~ which the sovereign princes address
each other, instead of " your highness." The
princess was much alarmed ; soon fell sick,
and died in a few weeks. She has frequently
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSES. 87
evinced· displP.asure at the exhibition of im-
piety or vice ; and there are numerous records
of her different appearances to be found in
the works of Balbinus, and of Erasmus
Francisci ; and in a publication called " The
Iris,'' published in Frankfort, in 1819, the
editor, George Doring, who is said to have
been a man of great integrity, gives the fol-
lowing account of one of her later appearances,
which he declares he received just as he gives
it, from the lips of his own mother, on whose
word and judgment he could perfectly rely ;
and shortly before his death, an enquiry being
addressed to him with regard to the correct·
ness of the narration, he vouched for its
authenticity.
It seems that the elder sister of his mother
was companion to one of the ladies of the
court, and that the younger ones were in the
habit of visiting her frequently. Two of these
(Doring's mother and another) aged fourteen
and fifteen, were once spending a week with
her, when she being out and they alone with
their needle-work, chattering about the court
diversions, they suddenly heard the sound of a
stringed instrument, like a harp, which seemed
to proceed from behind a large stove, that
occupied one comer of the 1·oom. Half in fear
'
Digitized by Goog[e
88 HAUNTED HOUSES.
and half in fun, one of the girls took a yard
measure that lay beside them, and struck the
t.pot, whereupon, the music ceased, but the
stick was wrested from her hand. She became
alarmed ; but the other, named Christina,
laughed, and said, she must have fancied it,
adding, that the music, doubtless, proceeded
from the street, though they could not descry
any mustctans. To get over her fright, of
which she was half ashamed, the former now
ran out of the room, to visit a neighbour for a
few minutes, but when she returned, she found
Chri!itina lying on the floor, in a swoon; who,
on being revived, with the aid of the attend-
ants who had heard a scream, related, that no
sooner had her sister left her, than the sound
was repeated, close to the stove, and a white
figure had appeared, and advanced towards her,
whereupon, she had screamed and fainted.
The lady who owned the apartments, flat-
tered herself that this apparition betokened
that a treasure was hidden under the stove,
and, imposing silence on the girls, she sent for
a carpenter, and had the planks lifted. The
floor was found to be double, and below was
a vault, from which issued a very unwhole-
some vapour, but no treasure was found, nor
anytl1ing but a quantity of quick lime. The
o;9mzedbyGoogle
HAUNTED HOUSES. 89
circumstance being now made known to the
King, he expressed no surp1ise; he said that
the apparition was doubtless that ofa Countess
of Orlamunde, who had been built up alive in
that vault. She was the mistress of a Mar-
grave of Brandenburg, by whom she had two
sons. When the prince became a widower,
she expected he would many her; but he
urged, as an objection, that he feared, in that
case, her sons might hereafter dispute the
succession with the lawful heirs. In order to
remove this obstacle out of her wa.y, she
}Joisoned the. children; and the Margrave,
disgusted and alarmed, had her walled up in
that vault for her pains. He added that she
was usually seen every seven years, and was
preceded by the sound of a harp, on which
instrument she had been a proficient ; and
also that she more frequently appeared to
children than to adults, as if the love she had
denied her own offspring in life was now he1·
torment, and that she sought a reconciliation
with childhood in general. I know from the
best authority that the fact of these appear-
ances is not doubted by those who have the
fullest opportunities of enquiry and investi-
gation; and I remember seeing in the English
papers, a few years since, a paragraph copied
I 5
Digitized by Goog[e
90 H.\C:>ITED HOUSES.
from the foreign journals, to the effect that the
JV!tite Lady had been seen again, I think at
Berlin.
The following very curious relation, I have
received from the gentleman to whom the cir-
cumstance occurred, who is a professional mau,
residing in London.
"I was brought up by a grandfatherancl four
aunts, all ghost-seers, and believers in super-
natural appearances. The former had been a
sailor, and wat~ one of the crew that sailed
muud the world with Lord Anson. I re-
member when I was about eight years old, that
I was awakened by the screams ofone of these
ladies, with whom I was sleeping, which sum-
monecl all the family about her, to enquire the
cause of the disturbance. She said, that she
had 'Seen Nancy by the sicle ot the bed, and
that she was slipping into it.' We had scarcely
got clown stairs in the morning, before intel-
ligence arrived, that that lady had died, pre-
cisely at the moment my aunt saicl she saw
her. Nancy was her bother's wife. Another
of my aunts, who was married and had a
large family, foretold my grandfather's death,
at a time that we had no reason to apprehend
it; he also had appeared at her bed side. He
was then aliveand well; buthedied a fortnight
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSES. 91
afterwards. But it would he tedious were I
to enumerate half the instances I could recall
ofa similardescription ; and I will thereforepro·
ceed totherelation of what happened to myself.
" I was, some few years since, invited to pass
a day and night at the house of a friend in
Hertfordshire, with whom I was intimately
acquainted. His name was B., and. he had
formerly been in business as a saddler, in
Oxford-street, where he bad realised a hand-
some fortune, and had now retired to enjoy
his otium cum dignitate, in the rural and
beautiful village of SatTatt.
"It was a gloomy Sunday, in the month of
November, when I mounted my horse for the
journey, and there was so much appearance of
rain, that I should certainly have selected some
other mode of conveyance, bad I not been
desirous of leaving the animal in Mr. B.'s
straw-yard for the winter. Before I got as far
as St. John'~> Wood, the threatening clouds
broke, and, by the time I reached Watford, I
was completely soaked. However, I proceeded,
and arrived at SaiTatt before my friend and
his wife had returned from church. The
moment they did so, they furnished me with
dry clothes, and I was informed that we were
to dine at the house of Mr. D., a very agreeable
D1g111Zed by Coogle
92 .HAUNTED HOUSES.
neighbour. I felt some little hesitation about
presenting myself in such a costume, for I was
decked out in a full suit of Mr. B.'s, who was
a stout man, of six feet in height, whilst I am
rather of the diminutive order; but my objec-
tions were over-ruled; we went, and my ap-
pearance added not a. little to the hilarity of
the party. At ten o'clock we separated, und I
returned with Mr. and Mrs. B. to their house,
.where I was shortly afterwards conducted to
a very comfortable bed-room.
"Fatigued with my day's ride, I was soon in
bed, and soon asleep, but I do not think I could
have slept long, before I was awakened by the
violent barking of dogs. I found that the
noise had disturbed others as well as myself,
for I heard Mr. B., who was lodged in the
adjoining room, open his window and call to
them to be quiet. They were obedient to his
,·oice, and as soon as quietness ensued, I dropt
asleep again ; but I was again awakened by
an extraordinary pressure upon my feet; tlwt
I was perfectly awake, I declare; the light
that stood in the chimney-corner shone
strongly across the foot of the bed, and I saw
the figure of a well-dressed man in the act of
stooping, and supporting himself in so doing
by the boo-clothes. He had on a blue coat,
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSES. 93
with bright gilt buttons, but I saw no head ;
the curtains at the foot of the bed, which were
partly looped back, just bung so as to conceal
that part of his person. At first, I thought it
was my host, and tLS I had dropt my clothes,
as is my habit, on the floor, at the foot of the
bed, I supposed he was come to look after them,
which rather surprised me: but, just as I had
raised myself upright in bed, and was about
to enquire into the occasion of his visit, the
figure passed on. I then recollected that I
had locked the door; and, becoming some-
what puzz)ed, I jumped out of bed; but
I could see nobody ; and on examining
the room, I found no means of ingress
but the door through which I had entered,
and one other; both of which were locked on
the inside. Amazed and puzzled I got into
bed again, and sat some time ruminating on
the extmordinary circumstance, when it
occurred to me that I had not looked under
the bed. So I got out again, fully expecting
to find my visitor, whoever he was, there; but
I was disappointed. So after looking at my
watch, and ascertaing that it was ten minutes
past two, I stept into bed again, hoping now
to get some rest. But, alas ! sleep was
b'.l.nished for that night; and after turning
D1g111Zed by Coogle
94 HAUNTED HOUSES.
from side to side, and making vain endeavours
at forgetfulness, I gave up the point, and lay
till the clocks struck seven, perplexing my
brain with the question of who my midnight
visitor could be; and also how he had got in
and how he had got out of my room. About
eight o'clock, I met my host and his wife at
the breakfast-table, when, in answer to their
hospitable enquires of how I had passed the
night, I mentioned, first, that I had been
awaked by the barkingof same dogs, and that
I had heard Mr. B. open his window and call
to them. He answered that two s.trange dogs
had got into tbe yard and had disturbed the
others. I then mentioned my midnight
visitor: expecting that they would either ex-
plain the circumstance, or else laugh at me
and declare I must have dreamt it. But, to
my surprise, my story was listened to with
grave attention ; and they related to me the
tradition with which this spectre, for such I
found they deemed it to be, was supposed to
be connected. This was to the effect, that
many years ago, a gentleman, so attired, had
been murdered there, under some frightful
circumstances; and that his head had been
cut off. On perceiving that 1 was very un-
willing to accept this explanation of the
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSES, 95
mystery, for in spite of my family peculiarity,
I had always been an entire disbeliever dn
supernatural appearances, they begged me to
prolong my visit for a day or two, when they
would introduce me to the rector of the parish,
who could furnish me with such evidence with
regard to circumstances of a similar nature, as
would leave no doubt on my mind as to the
possibility oftheir occurrence. But I had made
an engagement to dine at Watford, on my way
back ; and I confess, moreover, that after what
I had heard, I ·did not feel disposed to en-
counter the chance of another visit from the
mysterious stranger; so I declined the proffered
hospitality and took my leave.
" Some time after this, I happened to be
dining in C--- Street, in company with some
ladies resident in the same county, when
chancing to allude to my visit to Sarratt, I
added, that I had met with a very extraordi-
nary adventure there, which I had never been
able to account for; when one of these ladies
immediately said, that she hoped I had not
had a visit from the headless gentleman, in a
blue coat and gilt buttons, who was said to
have been seen by many people in that house.
" Such is the conclusion of this marvellous
tale as regards myself; and I can only assure
D1g111Zed by Coogle
96 HAUNTED HOUSES.
you that I have related facts as they occurred ;
and that I had never heard a word about this
apparition in my life, till Mr. B., related to me
the tradition above alluded to. Still, as I am
no believer in supematural appearances, I am
constrained to suppose that the whole affair
was the product of my imagination.
" I must add, that Mr. B. mentioned some
stmnge circumstances connected with another
house in the county, inhabited by a Mr. M.,
which were corroborated by the ladiPs above
alluded to. Both parties agteed that, from
the unaccountable noises, &c. &c., which were
heard there, that gentleman had the greatest
difficulty in persuading any servants to remain
with him.
"(Signed)
'' C- Street,
"5th September, 1846."
A.W.M.
This is one of those cmious instances of
determined scepticism that fully justify the
patriarch's prediction. ·
The following interes~ing letter, written by
a member of a very distinguished· English
family, will furnish its own explanation:-
,,As you express a wish to know what de-
gree of credit is to be attached to a garbled
D1g111Zed by Coogle
. -1
/
HAUNTED HOUSES. 97
tale, which has been sent forth, after a lapse
of between thirty and forty years, as an ' ac-
credited ghost-story,' I will state the facts
as they were recalled to my mind last year, by
a daughter of Sir William A. C., who sent the
book to me, requesting me to tell her if there
was any foundation for the story, which she
could scarcely believe, since she bad never
heard my mother allude to it. I 1·ead the nar-
rative with surprise, it being evidently not fur-
nished by any of the family, nor indeed by
any one who \vas with us at the 'time ! yet
though full of mistakes in names, &c. &c.
some particulars come so near the truth as to
puzzle me. The facts are as follows :-
"Sir James, my mother, with myself and my
brother Charles, went abroad towards the end
of the year 1786. After trying several differ-
ent places, we determined to settle at Lille,
where we found the masters particularly good,
and where we had also letters of introduction
to several of the best French families. There
Sir James left us, and, after passing a few
days in an uncomfortable lodging, we engaged
a nice large family house, which we liked
much, and which we obtained at a very low
rent, even for that part of the world.
" About three weeks after we were esta-
VoL. u. K
D1g111Zed by Coogle
98 HAUNTED HOUSES.
blished in our new residence, I walked one
day, with my mother to the bankers, for the
purpose of delivering our letter of credit from
Sir Robert Herries, and drawing some money,
which being paid in heavy five-franc pieces,
we found we could not carry, and therefore re-
quested the banker to send, saying, 'We lh·e
in the Place Du Lion D'or.' Whereupon, he
looked surpri~<ed, and observed that he knew
of no house there fit for us, ' Except, indeed,'
he added, ' the one that has been long unin-
habited, on account of the revenant that walks
about it. He said this quite seriously, and in
a natural tone of voice ; in spite of which we
laughed, and were quite entertained at the idea
of a ghoit ; but, at the same time, we begged
him not to mention the thing to our servants,
lest they should take any fancies into their
heads; and my mother and I resolved to say
nothing about the matter to any one. ' I sup-
pose it is the ghost; said my mother, laughing,
' that wakes us so often by walking over our
heads.' We had, in fact, been awakened se-
Yeral nights, by a heavy foot, which we sup-
posed to be that of one of the men sen·ants,
of whom we had three English and four
French ; of women se"ants we had fil'e
English, and all the rest were French. The
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTJ!:D HOUSES, 99
English ones, men and women, every one of
them, returned ultimately to England with us.
" A night or two afterwards, being again
awakened by the step, my mother asked Cres-
well,' Who slept in the room above us?' 'No
one, my lady,' she replied, ' It is a large empty
garret.'
"About a week or ten days after this, Cres-
well came to my mother, one morning, and
told her that all the French servants talked of
going away, because there was a revenant in
the house ; adding, that there seemed to be a
strange story attached to the place, which was
said, together with some other property, to
have belonged to a young man, whose guar-
dian, who was aleo his uncle, had treated him
cruelly, and confined him in an iren cage; and
as he had subsequently disappeared, it was
conjectured he had been mmdered. This
uncle, after inheriting the property, had sud-
denly quitted the house, and sold itto the father
of the man of whom we had hired it. Since
that period, though it had been several times
let, nobody had ever staid in it above a week or
two ; and, for a considerable time past it had
had no tenant at all.
" 'And do you really believe all this non-
sense, Creswell ?' said my mother.
Digitized by Goog[e
100 HJ.U~TED HOUSES.
"'Well, I don't know, my lady,' answered
she ; ' but there's the iron cage in the garret
over your bed-room, where you may see it, if
you please.'
"Of course we rose to go, and as just at that
moment an old officer, with his Croix de St.
Louis, called on us ; we invited him to
accompany us, and we ascended together. We
found, as Creswell had said, a large empty
garret, with bare brick walls, and in the
further comer of it stood an iron cage, such as
wild heasts are kept in, only higher; it was
about four feet square, and eight in height, and
there was an iron ring in the wall at the back,
to which was attached an old rusty chain,
with a collar fixed to the end of it. I confess
it made my blood creep, when I thought of
the possibility of any human being having
inhabited it ! And our old fliend expressed
as much horror as ourselves, assuring us that
it must certainly have been constructed for
some such dreadful purpose. As, howe,·er,
wf! were no belie,•ers in ghosts, we all agreed
that the noises must proceed from somebody
who had an interest in keeping the house
empty ; and since it was very disagreeable to
imagine that there were secret means of enter-
ing it by night, we resohed, as soon as possible,
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSES, 101
to look out for another residence, and, in the
mean time, to say nothing about the matter to
anybody. About ten days after this deter-
mination, my mother, observing one morning
that Creswell, when she came to dress her,
looked exceedingly pale and ill, enquired if
anything was the matter with her? ' Indeed,
my lady,' answered she, 'we have been
frightened to death ; and neither I nor Mrs.
Marsh can sleep again in the room we are
now in.'
" 'Well,' returned my mother, 'you shall
both come and sleep in the little spare room
next us; but what has alarmed you?' ·
" 'Some one, my lady, went through our
room in the night ; we both saw the figure, but
we covered our heads with the bed-clothes, and
lay in a dreadful fright till morning.'
" On hearing this, I could not help laugh-
ing, upo:r.1 which Creswell burst into tears;
and seeing how nervous she was,we comforted
her, by saying, we had heard of a good house,
and that we should very soon abandon our pre-
sent habitation.
" A few nights afterwards, my mother re-
quested me and Charles to go to her bed-room,
and fetch her frame, that she might prepare
her work for the next day. It was after sup-
K.5
D1g111Zed by Coogle
102 HAC:STED HOUSES.
per; and we were ascending the stairs by the
light of a lamp which was always kept burn-
ing, when we saw going up before us, a tall,
thin figure, with hair flowing down hi~ back,
and wearing a loose powdering gown. We
both at once concluded it was my sister
Hannah, and called out,' [t won't do, Hannah !
You cannot frighten us !' Upon which the
figure turned into a recess in the wall ; but as
there was nobody there, when we passed, we
concluded that Hannah had contrived, some·
how or other, to slip a\vay and make her
escape by the back stairs. On telling this to
my mother, however, she said, 'It is very odd!
for Hannah went to bed with a head-ache be-
filre yon came in from your walk ;' and sure
enough, on going to her room, there we found
he-r fast asleep; and Alice, who was at work
there, assured us that she had been so for
more than an hour. On mentioning this cir-
cumstance to Creswell, she turned quite pale,
and exclaimed that that was precisely the
figure she and Marsh had seen in their bed-
room.
" About this time, my brother Harry came
to spend a fP-w days with us, and we gave him
a room up another pair of stairs, at the oppo-
site end of the house. A morningor two after
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HA U:STED HOUSES. 103
his anival, when he came down to breakfast,
he asked my mother, angrily, whether she
thought he went to bed drunk and could not
put out his own candle, that she sent those
French rascals to watch him. My mother as-
sured him that she bad never thought of doing
such a thing;__ but he persisted in the accu-
sation, adding, 'Last night I jumped up and
opened the door, and by the light of the moon,
through the skylight, I saw the fellow in his
loose gown at the bottom of the stairs. If I
had not been in my shirt, I would have gone
after him and made him remember coming to
watch me.'
"'Ve were now preparing to quit the house,
having secured another, belonging to a gentle-
man who wa11 going to spend some time in
Italy; but a few days before our removal, it
happened, that a Mr. and Mrs. Atkyns, some
English friends of ours, called, to whom we
mentioned these strange circumstanres, ob-
serving, how extremely unpleasant it was, to
live in a house that somebody found means of
getting into, though how they contrived it we
could not discover, nor wh!l.t their motive
could be, except it was to frighten us; ob-
serving, that nobody could sleep in the room
Marsh and Creswell had been obliged to give
D1g111Zed by Coogle
104 HAUNTED HOUSES.
up. Upon this, Mrs. Atkyns laughed heartily,
nnd said, that she should like, of all things,
to sleep there, if my mother would allow her,
adding, that, with her little terrier, she should
not be afraid of any ghost that ever appeared.
As my mother bad, of course, no ohjection to
this fancy of hers, she requested Mr. Atkyns
to ride home with the groom, in order that
the latter might bring her night-things before
the gates of the town were shut, as they were
then residing a little way in the country. Mr.
Atkyns smiled, and said she was very bold;
but he made no difficulties, and sent the things,
and his wife retired with her dog to her room,
wheu we retired to ours, apparently without
the least apprehension.
" When she came down in the morning
we were immediately struck at seeing her look
Yery ill ; and, on enquiring if she, too, had
been frightened, she said she had been
awakened in the night by something moving
in her room, and that, by the light of the
night-lamp, she saw, most distinctly, a figure,
and that the dog, which was very spirited
and fiew at everything, never stirred, although
she had endeavoured to make him. We saw
clearly that she had been very much alarmed .
'
and when Mr. Atkyns came, and endeavoured
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSES. 105
to dissipate the feeling by persuading her
that she might have dreamt it, she got quite
nugry. We could not help thinking that she
had actually seen something ; and my mother
said, after she was gone, that, though she
could not bring herself to helie,'e it was really
a ghost, still she earnestly hoped that she might
get out of the house without seeing this
figure, which frightened people so much.
" We were now within three days of the
one fixed for our removal ; I had been taking
a long ride, and, being tired, had fallen asleep
the moment I lay down, but, in the middle of
the night, I was suddenlyawakened-I cannot
tell by what, for the step over our heads we
had become so used to that it no longer dis-
turbed us. Well, I awoke ; I had been lying
with my face towards my mother, who was
asleep beside me, and, as one usually does on
awaking, I turned to the other side, where, the
weather being warm, the curtain of the bed
was undrawn, as it was, also, at the foot, and
I saw, stnndin~ by a chest of drawers, which
were betwixt me and the window, a thin, tall
figure, in a loose powdering gown, one arm
resting on the drawers, and the face turned
towards me. I saw it quite distinctly by the
night-light, which bumt clearly; it was a
D1g111Zed by Coogle
106 HAUNTED HOUSES.
long, thin, pale, young face, with, oh, such a
melancholy expression, as can never be effaced
from my memory ! I was, certainly, very much
frightened ; but my great horror was, lest my
mother should awake and see the figure. I
turned my head gently towards her, and heard
her breathing high in a sound sleep. Just
theu the clock on the stairs struck four. I
dare say it was nearly an hour before I ven-
tured to look again, and when I did take
courage to tum my eyes towards the ch"awers,
there was nothing, yet I had not heard the
slightest sound, though I had been listening
with the greatest intensity.
"As you may suppose, I never closed my
eyes again; and glad I was when Creswell
knocked at the door, as she did every morning,
for we always locked it, and it was my busi-
ness to get out of bed and let her in. But,
on this occasion, instead of doing so, I called
out,' Come in; the door is not fastened;'
upon which she answered that it was, and I
was obliged to get out of bed and admit her
as usual.
" When I told my mother what had hap-
pened, she wu.s very grateful to me for not
waking her, and commended me much for my
resolution; but as she was always my first
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSES. 107
object, that was not to be wondered at. She
however resoh·ed not to risk another night in
tht> house; and we got out of it that very day,
after instituting, with the aid of the sennnts,
a thorough search, with a view to ascertain if
there was any possible means of getting into
the rooms except by the usual modes ofingress;
but our search was vain; none could be dis-
covered. ·
" I think, from the errors in the names, &c.
that the publisher of the "Accredited Ghost
Stories" must have obtained his account from
the inhabitants of Lille."
Consideriug the number of people that were
iu the house, the fearlessness of the family,
and their disinclination to believe in what is
called the supernatural, together with the
great interest the cwner of this large and hand-
some residence must have bad in discovering
the trick, if there had been one, I think it is
difficult to find any other explanation of this
strange story, than that the sad and disap-
pointed spirit of thispoor injured, nod probably
murdered boy, had never been disengaged
from its earthly relations, to which regret for
its frustrated hopes and violated rights, still
held it attached.
There is a story told by Pliny, the
D1g111Zed by Coogle
108 HAUNTED HOUSES.
younger, of a house at Athens, in which no-
body could live, from its being haunted. At
length, the philosopher Athenadorus took it;
and the first night be was there, he seems to
have comported himself very much, as tl1e
courageous Mrs. Canning did on a similar
occasion, at Plymouth. He sent his servants
to bed, and set himself sel'iously to work with
his writing materials, determined that fancy
should not be left free to play him false. For
some time all was still, and his mind was
wholly engaged in his labours, when he heard
a sound like the rattling of chains-which
was the sound that bad frightened everybody
out of the house; but Athenadorus closed his
ears, kept his thoughts collected, and wrote on,
without lifting up his eyes. The noise, how-
ever increased ; it approached the door ; it
entered the room • then he looked round, and
beheld the figure of an old man, lean, haggard.
and dirty, with dishevelled hair, and a long
beard, who held up his finger and beckoned
him. Athenadorus made a gesture with his
own hand, in return, signifying that be should
wn.it, aud went on with his writing. Then,
the figure advanced and shook his chains o\·er
the philosopher's head, who, on looking up,
saw him beckoning as before; whereupon he
arose and followed him. The apparition
D1g111Zed by Coogle
.HAUNTED HOUSES. 109
walked slowly, as if obstructed by his chains,
and having conducted him to a certain spot in
the court, which separated the two divisions of
an ancient Greek house, he suddenly dis-
appeared. Athenadorus gathered together
some g1·ass and leaves, in order to mark the
place, and the next day he recommeuded the
.authorities to dig there ; which they did, and
found the skeleton of a human being encircled
with chains. It being taken up, and the rights
of sepulture duly performed, the bouse was no
longer disturbed.
This was, probably, some poor prisoner
also; and in his desire to direct notice to his
body, we see the prejudices of his age and
country surviving dissolution. Grose the
antiquary, who is, as I have before observed,
very facetious on the subject ofghosts, remarks
that" Drag-ging chains is not the custom of
English ghosts, chains and black vestments
being chiefly the accoutremeuts of foreigl'l
spectres, seen in arbitrary governments.'' Now,
this is a very striking observation. Grose's
studies, had, doubtless, introduced him to
many histories of this description ; and the
different characteristics of these apparitions
under different go\'ernments, is a circumstance
in remarkable conformity with the views of
VoL. u. L
D1g111Zed by Coogle
110 HAUNTED HOUSES.
those:who have been led to take a much more
serious view of the subject. They appear as
they lived, and as they conceive of themselves;
and when rapport or receptivity ena9le them
to see, and to render themselves visible to those
yet living in the flesh, it is by so appearing
that they tell their story, and ask for sympathy
and assistance. I say enable them to see, be-
(:ause there seem many reasons for concluding
that they do not, under ordinary circum-
stances, see us, any more than we see them.
Whether it be rapport with certain inhabitants,
·or whether the phenomenon be dependent on
certain periods, or any other condition, we
cannot tell; but I have met with several
accounts of houses in which an annoyance of
this sort has recurred more than once, at
different intervals, sometimes at a distance of
seven or ten years, the intermediate time being
quite free from it.
One of the most melancholy and im})l'essive
.circumstances of this sort I have met with,
occurred to Mrs. L., a lady with whose family
I am acquainted; Mrs. L. herself having been
kind enough to furnish me with the particu-
lars :-A few years since, she took a furnished
house in Stevenson Street, North Shields, and
she had been in it a very few hiJurs, before she
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTlm HOUSES, Ill
was perplexed by bearing feet in the passage,
though, whenever she opened the door, she
could see nobody. She went to the kitchen,
and asked the servant if she had not heard
the same sound; she said she had not, but
that there seemed to be strange noises in the
house. When Mrs. L. went to bed, she could
not go to sleep for the noise of a child's rattle,
which seemed to be inside her curtains. It
rattled round her head, first on one side then
on the other ; then there were sounds of feet
and of a child crying, aud a woman sobbing;
and, in short, so many strange noises, that
the servant became frightened, and went
away. The next girl Mrs. L. engaged came
from Leith, and was a stranger to the place ;
but she bad only passed a night in the bouse,
when she said to her mistress, " This is a
trouhled house you've got into, Ma'am," and
she described, amongst the rest, that she had
repeatedly heard her own name called by a
,·oice near her, though she could see nobody.
One night Mrs.L. heard a voice,like nothing
human, close to her, cry, "Weep! Weep!
Weep !" Then there was a sound like some
one struggling for breath, and again, "Weep!
Weep! Weep!" Then tht gasping, and a
third time, " Weep ! Weep ! Weep !" She
o 1
git1
zed byGoogle
112 DAUNTED HOUSEs;
stood still, and looked steadfastly on the spot
whence the voice proceeded, but could see
nothing; and her little boy, who held her
hand, kept saying, " What is that, Mamma?
What is that?" She describes the sound as
most frightful. All the noises seemed to sug-
gest the idea of childhood, and of a woman in
trouble. One night, when it was crying
round her bed, Mrs. L. took courage and ad-
jured it; upon which the noise ceased, for
that time, but there was no answer. Mr. L.
was at sea when she took the house, and when
he came home, be laughed at the story at first,
but soon became so convinced the account
she ga,·e was correct, that he wante1l to have
the boards taken up, because from the noises
seeming to hover much about one spot, he
thought perhaps some explanation of the
mystery might he found. But Mrs. L. ob-
jected that if auything of a painful nature
were discovered she should not be able to
continue in the house ; und as she must pay the
year's rent, she wi::;hed, if possible, to make
out the time.
She never saw anything but twice; once,
the appearance of a child seemed to fall from
the ceiling, close to her, and then disappear;
and another time she saw a child run into a
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSES. 113
closet in a room at the top of the house ; and
it was most remarkable that a small door in
that room, which was used for going out out
the roof, always stood open. However often
they shut it, it was opened again immediately
by an unseen hand, even before they got. out
of the room, and this continued the whole
time they were in the house ; whilst night
and day, some one in creaking shoes was
heard pacing backwards and forwards in the
room over Mr. and Mrs. L.'s head.
At length the year expired ; and to their
great relief they quitted the house: but five
or six years afterwards, a person who had
bought it having taken up the floor of that
upper room to repair it, there was found, close
to the small door above alluded to, the skeleton
of a child. It was then remembered, that
some years .before, a gentleman of somewhat
dissolute habits, had resided there; and that he
was supposed to have been on very intimate
terms with a young woman servant, who lived
with him ; but there had been no suspicion of
anything more criminal.
About six years ago, Mr. C., a gentleman,
engaged in business in London, heard of a
good country house in the neighbourhood of
the metropolis, which was to be had at a low
L .5
D1g111Zed by Coogle
114 H.\t::~TED HOUSES.
rent. It was rather an old-fashioned place,
and was surrounded by a garden and pleasure-
ground; and having taken a lease of it for
seven years, furnished as it was, his family re-
moved thither, and he joined them once or
twice a week, as his business permitted.
They had been some considerable time in
the house without the occurrence of anything
remarkable, when one e\"ening, towards dusk,
Mrs. C., on going into what was called the oak
bed-room, saw a female figure near one of the
windows. It was apparently a young woman
with dark hair hanging over her shoulders, a
silk petticoat, and a short white robe, and she
appeared to be looking eagerly through the
window, as if expecting somebody. Mrs. C.
clapped her hand upon her eyes "as thinking
she had seen something she ought not to have
~een," and when she looked again, the figure
hnd disappeared.
Shortly after this, a young girl who filled
the situation of under nursery-maid, came to
her in great agitation, saying, that she had
had a tel'l'ible fright, from SPeing a very ugly
old woman looking in upon her as she passed
the window in the lohby. The girl was trem-
bling violently, and almost crying, so that Mrs.
C. entertained no doubts of the reality of her
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSES. 11~
alarm. She, however, thought it advisable to
lau~rh her out of her fear, and went with her
to the window, which looked into a closed
court, but there was no one there; neither had
any of the other servants seen such a person.
Soon after this, the family began to find
themselves disturbed with strange and fre-
quently very loud noises, during the night.
Amongst the rest, there was something like
the bE-ating of a crow-bar upon the pump in
the above-mentioned court; but, t~earch as
they would, they could discover no cause for
the sound. One day, when Mr. C. had brought
a friend from London to stay the night with
him, Mrs. C. thought proper to go up to the
oak bed-room, where the stmnger wm; to sleep,
for the purpose of inspecting the anangements
for his comfort, when, to her great surprise,
some one seemed to follow her up to the fire
place, though, on turning round, there was no-
body tobeseen. Shesaid nothing about it, how-
ever, and returned below, where her husband,
and the stranger were sitting. Presently, one
of the servants (not the one mentioned above)
tapped at the door, and requested to speak with
her, and Mrs. C. going out, she told her, in
great agitation, that in going up stairs to the
visito1·'s room, a footstep had followed all the
o;g, ,zed by Coogle
116 HAt:NTED HOUSES.
way to the fire-place, although she could see
nobody. Mrs. C. said something soothing,
and that matter passed, she, herself, being a
good deal puzzled, but still unwilling to admit
the idea that there was anything extra-natural.
in these occurrences. Repeatedly, after this,
these foot-steps were heard in different parts
of the house, when nobody was to be seen ;
and often, whilst she was lying in bed, she
heard them distinctly approach her door, when,
being a very courageous woman, she would
start out with a loaded pistol in her hand, but
there was never any one to be seen. At length
it was impossible to conceal from herself and
her servants that these QCcurrences were of an
extraordinary nature, and the latter, as may
be suppo~ed, felt very uncomfortable. Amongst
other unpleasant things, whilst sitting all
together in the kitchen, they used to see the
latch lifted and the door open, though no one
came in that they could see; and when Mr.
C. himself watched for these events, although
they took place, aud he was quite on the alert,
he altogether failed in detecting any visible
agent.
One night, the same servant who had heard
the footsteps following her to the bed-room fire-
place, happening to be asleep in Mrs. C.'s
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSE!!. 117
chamber, Rhe became much disturbed, and
was heard to murmur " Waite me ! Wake me!"
as if in great mentnl anguish. Being aroused,
she told her mistress a dream she bad had,
which seemed to throw some light upon these
mysteries. She thought she was in the oak
bed-room, and at one end of it she saw a young
female in an old fashioned dress, with long
dark hair; whilst in another part of the room,
was a very ugly old woman, also in old·
fashioned attire. The latter addressing the
former, said, " What have you done with the
child, Emily? What have you done with the
child ?" To which the younger figure
ans,vered," Oh, I did not kill it. He was pre-
served, and grew up, and joined the - Regi-
ment, and went to India.'' Then addressing
the sleeper, the young lady continued, " I have
never spoken to mortal before ; hut I will tell
you all. My name is Miss Black ; and this
old woman is Nurse Black. Black is not her
name ; but we call her so, because she bas
been so long in the family.'' Here the old
woman interrupted the speaker by coming up
and laying her hand on the dreaming girl's
!Shoulder, whilst she said something; but she
could not remember what, for feeling excruci-
ating pain from the touch, she bad been so far
D1g111Zed by Coogle
118 HAUNTED HOUSES.
aroused as to be sensible she was asleep, and
to beg to be wholly awakened.
As the old woman seemed to resemble the
figure that one of the other servants had seen
looking into the window, and the young one
resembled that she had herself seen in the
oak chamber, Mrs. C. naturally concluded
that there was something extraordinary about
this dream ; and she consequently took an
early opportunity of enquiring in the neigh-
bourhood what was known as to the names
or circumstances of the former inhabitants of
this house; and after much investigation she.
leamt, that about seventy or eighty years be-
fore, it had been in the possession of a Mrs.
Ravenhall, who bad a niece, namedMiss Black,
living with her. This niece Mrs. C. supposed
might be the younger of the two persons who
had been seen. Subsequently, she saw her
again in the same room, wringing her hands,
and looking with a moumful significance to
one corner. They had the boards taken up
on that spot; but nothing was found.
One of the most curious incidents connected
with this story, remains to be told. After occu-
pying the house three years, they were pre-
paring to quit it-not on account. of its being
haunted, but for other reasons-when, on
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAU~TED HOUSES. 119
awaking one morning, a short time before
their departure, Mrs. C. saw standing at the
foot of her bed, a dark complexioned man, iu
l\ working dress, a fustian jacket, and red com-
forter round his neck, who, however, suddenly
disappeared. Mr. C. was lying beside her at the
time, but asleep. This was the last apparition
·that was seen ; but the strange thing is, that a.
few days after this, it being necessary to order
in a small quantity of coals, to serve till their
removal, Mr. C. undertook to perform the
commission on his way to London. Accord-
ingly, the next day she mentioned to him, that
the coals had arrived; which he said was very
fortunate, since lie had entirely forgotten to
order them. Wondering whence they had
come, Mrs. C. hereupon, enquired of the ser-
·vants, who none of them knew anything about
the matter; but, on inten-ogating a person
in the village, with whom they had frequently
been provided with this article, he answered,
that they had been ordered by a dark man, in
a fustian jacket and red cotpfort, who had
called for the purpose !
After this last event, Mr. and Mrs. C. quitted
the house; hut I have heard that its subse-
quent tenants encountered some similar annoy-
ances, although I hiU·e no means ofascertaining
the particulars.
Digitized by Goog[e
........
"·
120 HAUNTED HOUSES.
But, perhaps, one of the most remarkable
cases of hauntirrg in modern times, is that of
Willington, near Newcastle, in my account of
which, however, I find myself anticipated by
Mr. Howitt; and as he has had the advantage
of visiting the place, which 1 have not, I shall
take the liberty of borrowing his description
of it, prefacing the account with the following
letter from Mr. Procter, the owner of the house,
who, it will he seen, vouches for the general
authenticity of the narrative. The letter was
written in answer to one from me, requesting
some more precise information than I had been
able to obtain. ·
"Josh. Proctor, hopes C. Crowe will excuse
her note having remained two weeks un-
answered, during which time, J. P. has been
from home, or particularly engaged. Feeling
averse to add to the publicity the circumstances
occurring in his house, at Willington, have
already obtained, J.P. would rather not fur-
nish additional particulars; but if C. C. is not
in possession of the number of ' Howitt's
Journal,' which contains a variety of details on
the subject, he will be ~lad to forward her one.
He would at the same time, assure C. Crowe
of the strict accuracy, of that portion of W.
Howitt's narrative, which is extracted from
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSES. 121
'Richardson•s Table Book.' W. Howitt's state-
ments derived from his recollection of verbal
communications, with branches of J. Procter's
family, are likewise essentially correct, though,
as might be expected in some degree, erro-
neous circumstantially.
" -
J.P. takea leave to express his conviction,
that the unbelief of the educated classes, in
apparitions of the deceased and kindred phe-
nomena, is not grounded on a fair philosophic
examination of the facts, which have induced
tbe popular belief of all ages and countries ;
and that it will be found by succeeding ages, to
have been nothing better than unreasoning aud
unreasonable prejudice.
"Willington, near Newcastle-on-Tyne,
1th mo. 22, 1847."
" VISITS TO REMARKABLE PLACES.
"BY WILLIAK HOWITT.
"THE HAUNTKD HOUSE AT WILLINGTON, NEAR
NEWCASTLE·ON·TYNE.
" We have of late years settled it as an
established fact, that ghosts and haunted
houses were the empty creation of ignorant
times. We have comfortably persu11.ded our-
selves that such fancies only hovered in the
VoL. n. M
D1g111Zed by Coogle
122 HAUNTED HOUSES.
twilight of superstition, and that in these en-
lightened days they had vanished for ever.
How often has it befln triumphantly referred
tfl, as a proof that all such things were the
offspring of ignorance-that nothing of the
kind is heard of now ? What shall we say,
then, to the following facts ? Here we have
ghosts, and a haunted house still. We ·have
them in the face of our vaunted noon-day
light, in the midst of a busy and a populous
neighbourhood, in the neighbourhood of a
large and most intelligent town, and in a
family neither ignorant, nor in any other
respect superstitious. For years have these
ghosts and hauntings disturbed the quiet
of a highly respectable family, and continue
to haunt and disturb, spite of the incredulity
of the wise, the investigations of the curious
'
and the anxious vigilance of the suffering
family itself.
"Between the railway running from New-
castle-on-Tyne to North Shields, and the
river Tyne, there lies in a hollow some few
cottages, a par!!onage, and a mill and a miller's
house. These constitute the hamlet of Wil-
lington. Just above these the railway is carried
across the Yalley on lofty arches, and from it
you look down on the mill and cottages, lying
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSES. 123
at a considerable d~pth below. The mill is a
large steam flour mill, like a factory, and the
miller's house stands near it, but not adjoining
it. None of the cottages which lie between
these premises and the railway, either, are in
contact with them. The house stands on a
sort of little promontory, round which run~
the channel of a water-course, which appears
to fill and empty with the tides. On one side
of the mill and house, slopes away, upwards,
a field to a considerable distance, where it is
terminated by other enclosures ; on the other
stands a considerable extent of ballast-hill,
i. e., one of the numerous hills on the banks
of the Tyne, made by the deposit of ballast
from the vessels trading thither. At a distance,
the top of the mill seems about level with the
country around it. The place lies about
half-way bewteen Newcastle and North
Shields.
" This mill is, I believe, the property of,
~ndis worked by, Messrs. Unth&nk and Procter.
Mr. Joseph Procter resides on the spot in the
house just by the mill, as already stated. He
is a member of the Society of Friends, a gen-
tleman in the very prime of life; and his wife,
an intelligent lady, is of a family of Friends in
Carlisle. They have several young children.
Digitized by Goog[e
12-i HAUNTED HOUSES.
This very respectableand well-informed family,
belonging to a sect which of all others is most
accustomed to controul, to regulate, and to put
down even the imagination; the last people in
the world, as it would appear, in fact, to be
affected by any mere imaginary terrors or im-
pressions, have for years been persecuted by
the most extraordinary noises and apparitions.
"The house is not an old house, as will
appear; it was built about the year 1800. It
has no particularly spectral look about it. See-
ing it in passing, or within, ignorant of its real
character, one should by no means say that it
was a place likely to have the reputation of
being haunted. Yet looking dowu from the
railway, and seeing it and the mill lying in a
deep hole, one might imagine vario~s strange
noises likely to be heard in such a place in the
night, from vessels on the river, from winds
sweeping and howling down the gulley in
which it stands, ii·om engines in the neighbour-
hood connected with coal mines, one of which,
I could not tell where, was making, at the
time I was thP.re, a wild sighing noise, as I
stood on the hi11 above. There is not any
passage, howe,·er, known of under the house,
by which subterraneous noises could be heard
'
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSES. 125
nor are they merely noises that are heard ; dis-
tinct apparitions are declared to be seen.
: "Spite of the unwillingness of Mr. Procter
that these mystet·ious circumstances should be-
come quite public, and averse as he is to make
known himself these strange visitations, they
were of such a nature that they soon became
rumoured over the whole neighbourhood.
Numbers of people hurried to the place to
enquire into the truth of them, and at length
a remarkable occurrence brought them into
print. 'What this occurrence was, the pamphlet
which appeared, and which was afterwards re-
printed in 'The Local Historian's Table-
Book,' published by Mr. M.A. Richardson, of
Newcastle, and which I here copy, will ex
plain. It will be seen that the writer of this
article bas the fullest faith in tbe reality of
wbat he relates, as, indeed, vast numbers of the
best informed inhabitants of the neighbour-
hood have.
"AUTHENTIC ACCOUNT OF A VISIT TO THE
HAUNTED HOUSE AT WlJ,LINGTON.
" Were we to draw an inference from the
number of cases of reported visitations from
the inYisible world that have been made public
c;f late, we might be Jed to imagine that the
M fj
Digitized by Goog[e
126 HAUNTED HOUSES,
days of supernatural agency were about to re-
commence, and that ghosts and hobgoblins
were about to resume their sway over the fears
of mankind. Did we, however, indulge such
an apprehension, a glance at the current tone
of the lit.eratw·e and philosophy of the day,
when treating of these subjects, would show a
measure of unbelief regarding them as scorn-
ful and uncompromising as the veriest atheist
or materialist could desire. Notwithstanding
the prevalence of this feeling amongst the edu-
cated classes, there is a curiosity and interest
manifested in every occurrence of this nature,
that indicates a lurking faith at bottom, which
an affected scepticism fails entirely to conceal.
We feel, therefore, that we need not apologise
to our readers for introducing the following
particulars of a r-isit to a house in this imme-
diate neighbourhood, which had become no-
torious for some years previous, as being
'haunted;' and several of the reputed deeds,
or misdeeds, of its supernatural visitant had
been published far and wide by rumour's
thousand tongues. We deem it as worthy to
be chronicled as the doings of its contem-
porary genii at Windsor, Dublin, Liverpool,
Carlisle, and Sunderland, and which have all
likewi-se hitherto tailed, after public inves.ti-
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSES. 127
gation, to receh·e a solution consistent with a
rejection of spiritual agency.
" We have visited the house in question,
which is well known to many of our readers
as being near a large steam corn-mill, in full
view of Willington viaduct, on the Newcastle
and Shields Railway; and it may not be irre-
levant to mention that it is quite detached
from the mill, or any other premises, and has
no cellaring under it. The proprietor of the
house, who lives in it, declines to make public
the particulars of the distmbance to which he
has been subjected, and it must be understood
that the account of the visit we are about to
lay before our readers is derived from a friend
to whom Dr. Drury presented a copy of his
correspondence on the subject, with power to
make such use of it as he thought proper. Wc
learned that the house had been reputed, at
least one room in it, to have been haunted forty
years ago, and had afterwards been undisturbed
for a long period, during some years of which
quietude the present occupant lived in it un-
molested. We are also informed, that about
the time that the premises were building, viz.,
in 1800 or 1801, there were reports of some
deed of darkness having been committed by
some one employed about them. We should
D1g111Zed by Coogle
128 H.WNTED HOUSES.
extend this account beyond the limits we have
set to ourselves, did we now enter upon a full
account of the strange things which have been
seen and heard about the place by several of
the neighbours, as well as those which are 1·e-
ported to have been seen, heard, aud felt, by
the inmates, whose servants have been
changed, on that account, many times. We
proceed, the1·efore, to give the following letters
which have been passed between individuals
of undoubted veracity; leaving the reader to
draw his own conclusions on the subject.
"(CoPY, No. 1.)
"To Mr. Pl'Octer, 17th June, 1840.
"SIR,-Having heard from indisputable
authority, viz., that of my excelleut friend,
Mr. Davison, of Low Willington, farmer, that
you and your family are disturbed by most un-
accountable noises at night, I beg leave to tell
you that I have read attentively Wesley's
account of such things, but with, I must con-
fess, no great belief; but an account of this
report coming from one of your sect, .which I
admire for candour and simplicity, my curiosity
is excited to a high pitch, which I would fain
satisfy. My desire is to remain alone in the
house all night with no companion but my own
D1g111Zed by Coogle
liAUNTED HOUSES. 129
watch·dog, in which, as far as courage and
fidelity are concerned., I place much more re·
Hance than upon any three young gentlemen I
know of. And it is al11o my hope, that, if I
have a fair trial, I shall be able to unravel this
mystery. Mr. Davison will give you every
satisfaction if you take the trouble to enquire
of him concerning me.
"I am, Sir,
"Yours most respectfully,
"EDWARD DnuRv.
'' At C. C. Embleton's, Surgeon,
"No. 10, Church Street, Sunderland.
"(CoPY, No. 2.)
"Joseph Procter's respects to EdwardDrury,
whose note he recein:d a few days ago, ex-
pressing a wish to pass a night in his bouse,
at Willington. As the family is going from
home on the 23rd instant, and one of
Unthank and Procter's men will sleep in the
house, if E. D. feel inclined to come on or
after the 24th to spen<l a night in it, be is at
liberty so to do, with or without his faithful
dog, which, by the bye, can be of no possible
use, except as company. At the same time,
]; P. thinks it best to inform him, that par-
ticular disturbances are far fmm frequent at
D1g111Zed by Coogle
130 HAUNTED HOUSES.
present, being only occasional, and quite un-
certain, and therefore the satisfaction ofE. D.'s
cmiosity must be considerP.d as problematical.
The best chance will be afforded by his sitting
up alone in the third story, till it be fail'ly
daylight, say two or three, A.M.
•' Willington, 6th mo. 21st, 1840.
"J. P. will leave word with T. Mann, fore·
man, to admit E. D.
" Mr. Procter left home with his family on
the 23rd of June, and got an old servant, who
was then out of place in consequence of HI-
health, to take charge of the house during
their absence. Mr. P. returned alone, on
account of business, on the 8rdof July, on the
evening of which day Mr. Drury and his com-
panion also unexpectedly arril·ed. After the
house had been locked up, every corner of it
was minutely examined. The room out of
which the apparition issued is too shallow to
contain any person. Mr. Drury and his friend
had lights by them, and were satisfied that
there was no one in the house besides Mr. P.,
the servant, and themselves.
"(CoPY, No.3.)
" Monday Morning, July 6, 1840.
"To Mr. Procter.
"DEAR SIR,- I am sorry I was not
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTJW HOUSES. 131
at home to receive you yesterday, when you
kindly called to inquire for me. I am happy to
state that I am really surprised that I have
been so little affected ns I am, after that
horrid and most awful affair. The ouly bad
effect that I feel is a heavy dullness in one of
my ears, the right one. I call it heavy dullnesE<,
because I not only do not hear distinctly, but
feel in it a constant noise. This I never was
affected with before ; Jmt I doubt not it will
go off. I am persuaded that no one went to
your house at any time more disbelieoing in
respect to seeing anytlti'Rg peculiar ; now no
one can be more satisfied than myself. I
will, in the course ofa few days, send you a full
detail ofall I saw and heard. Mr. Spence and
two other gentlemen came down to my house
in the afternoon, to hear my detail ; but, sir,
could I account for these noises from natural
causes, yet, so firmly am I persuaded of the
horrid apparition, that I would affirm that
what I saw with my eyes was a punishment
to me for my scoffing and unbelief; that I am
assured that, as far as the bon-or is concerned,
they are happy that believe and ha¥e not seen.
Let me trouble you, sir, to give me the address
of your sister, from Cumberland, who was
Digitized by GoogIe
132 H.\U:STED HOUSES.
alarmed, and also of your brother. I would
feel a satisfaction in having a line from them;
and, above all things, it will be a great cause
of joy to me, if you never allow your young
family to be in that horrid house again.
Hoping you will write a few lines at your
leisure,
"I remain, dear Sir,
"Yours very truly,
"EDW.o\RD DRURY.
"(CoPr, No.4.)
"Willington, 7th mo. 9, 1840.
"Respected Friend, E. Drury,
" Having been at Sunderland, I did not
receive thine of the 6th till yesterday morning.
I am glad to hear thou art getting well over
the effects of thy unlooked-for visitation. I
hold in respect thy bold and manly assertion
of the truth in the face of that ridicule and
ignorant conceit with which that which is
called the supernatural, in the present day, is
usually assailed.
" I shall be glad to receive thy detail, in
which it will he needful to be very particular
in showing that thou couldst not be asleep, or
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUXTJ,lD HOUSES. 133
attacked by nightmare, or mistake a reflection
of the candle, as some sagaciously suppose.
"I remain, respectfully,
"Thy friend,
"JOSH. PROCTER.
'' P.S.-1 have about thirty witnesses to
vatious things which cannot be satisfactorily
accounted for 011 any other principle than that
of spiritual agency.
"(CoPY, No. 5.)
"Sunderland, July 13, 1840.
"DEAR SIR,-1 hereby, according to pro-
mise in my last letter, forwat·d you a true
account of what I heard and saw at your house,
in which I was led to pass the night from
various rumours circulated by most respect-
able parties, particularly from an account by
my esteemed friend Mr. Davison, whose name
I mentioned to you in a former letter. Having
received your sanction to visit your mystetious
dwelling, I went on the Srd of July, accom-
panied by a. friend of mine, T. Hudson. This
was not according to promise, nor in accord-
ance with my first intent, as I wrote you I
would come alone ; but I felt gratified at your
kindness in not alluding to the liberty I had
VoL. n. N
D1g111Zed by Coogle
134 HAUNTED HOUSES•
taken, as it ultimately proved for the best. I
must here mention that, not expecting you
at home, I had in my pocket a brace of
pistols, determining in my mind to let one of
them drop before the miller, as if by accident,
for fear he should presume to play tricks upon
me; but after my interview with you, I felt
there was no occasion for weapons, and did
not load them, after you hnd allowed us to
inspect as minutely as we pleased every por-
tion of the house. I sat down on the third
story landing, fully expecting to account for
any noises that I mighthear, in a philosophical
manner. This was about eleven o'clock, P.M •.
About ten minutes to twelve we both heard a
noise, as if a numher of people were pattering
with their bare feet upon the floor; and yet, so
singular was the noise, that I could not mi-
nutely determine from whence it proceeded.
A few minutes afterwards we heard a noise,
as if some one was knocking with his knuckles
.among our feet ; this WAi followed by a hollow
cough from the very room from which the
apparition proceeded. The only noise after
this, was as if a person was rustling against the
wallin coming up stairs. At a quarter to one,
I told my friend that, feeling a little cold, I
would like wgo to bed, as we might hear the
o 1
git1
zed byGoogle
H.WNTED HOUSES. 135
noise equally well there; he replied that he
would not go to bed till daylight. I took up
a note which I had accidentally dropped, aud
began to read it, after which I took out my
watch to ascertain the time, and found that it
wanted ten minutes to one. In taking my
eyes from the wu.tch, they became rivetted
upon a closet door, which I distinctly saw
open, and saw also the figure of a female
attired in grayish garments, with the head
inclining downwards, and one hand pressed
upou the chest, as if in pain, and the other,
viz., the right-hand, extended towards the
floor, with the index finger pointing down·
wards. It advanced with an apparently
cautious step across the floor towards me ;
immediately as it approached my friend, who
was slumbering, its right hand was extended
towards him; I then rushed at it, giving, as
Mr. Procter states, a most awful yell; but,
instead of grasping it, I fell upon my friend,
and I recollected nothing distinctly for nearly
three hours afterwards. I have since leamt
that I was canied down stairs in an agony of
fear and terror.
" I hereby certify that the above account is
strictly true and correct in every respect.
"North Shields. " EDWARD DRURY.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
]:36 HAU:STED HOUSES.
"The following more recent case of an appa·
rition seen in the window of the same house
fi·om the outside, by four credible witnesses,
who had the opportunity of scrutinizing it for
more than ten minutes, is given on most un-
questionable authority. One of these witnesses
is a young lady, anearconnexion ofthe family,
who, for obvious reasons, did not sleep in the
hou&e; another, a respectable man, who has
been many years employed in, and is foreman
of, the manufactory; his daughter, aged about
seventeen; and his wife who first saw the object,
and called out the others to view it. The
appearance presented was that of a bareheaded
man, in a flowing robe like a surplice, who
glided backwards and forwards about three
feet from the floor, or level with the bottom of
the second story window, seeming tn enter the
wall on each side, and thus present a side view
in passing. It then stood still in the window,
and a part of the hody came through both the
blind, which was close down, and the window,
as its luminous body intercepted the view of
the framework of the window. It was semi-
transparent, and as bright as a star, diffusing
a radiance all around. As it grew more dim,
it assumed a blue tinge, and gmdually faded
away from the head downwards. The tore-
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSES. 137
man passed twice close to the house under the
window, and also went to inform the family,
but found the house locked up. There was no
moonlight, nor a ray of light vit~ible anywhere
about, and no person near. Had any magic
lantern been useu, it could not possibly have
escaped detection ; and it is obvious no-
thing of that kind could have been ~m­
ployed on the inside, as in that case the light
coultl only have been thrown upon the blind,
and not so as to interct-pt the view both of the
blind and of the window from without. The
owner of the house slept in that room, and
must have entered it shortly after this figure
had disappeared.
" It may well be supposed what a sensation
the report of the visit of Mr. Drury, and its
result must have created. It 6ew far and
wide, and when it appeared in print, still
wider; and what was not a little &ingular, Mr.
Procte1· received, in consequence, a great num-
ber of lettersy from individuals of diiferent
1·anks and circumstances. including many of
rquch property, informing him that their re-
sidences were, and had been for years, subject
to annoyances o£ precisely a simillir character.
" So the ghosts and the hauntings are not
gone, after all ~ We have turned our backs on
N ~
D1g111Zed by Coogle
138 HAUNTED HOUSES.
them, and, in the pride of our philosophy, have
refused to believe in them; but they have per-
siited in remaining, notwithstanding !
"These singular circumstances being at.
various times related by parties acquainted
with the family at Willington, I was curious,
on a tour northward some time ago, to pay this
haunted house a visit, and to solicit a night's
lodgings there. Unfortunately the family was
absent, on a visit to Mrs. Procter's relatives in
Carlisle, so that my principal purpose was
defeated; but I found the foreman and his
wife, mentioned in the foregoing narrative,
li\·ing just by. They spoke of the facts above
detailed with the simple earnestness of people
who had no doubts whatevE"r on the subject.
The noises and apparitions in and about this
house seemed just like any other facts con-
nected with it-as matters too palpable and
positive to be que:stioned, any more than that
the house actually stood, and the mill ground.
They mentioned to me the circumstance of the
young lady, as above statt>d, who took up her
lodging in their house, becausP. she would no
longer encounter the annoyances ofthe haunted
house; and what trouble it had occasioned t.he
fiunily in procuring and retaining servants.
"The wife accompanied me into the honSe,
Digitized by Coogle
HAU:STED HOUSES. 139
\•;hich I found in charge of a recently married
servant and her husband, during the absence
of tb'e family. This young woman, who bad,
previous to her maniage, lived some time in
the house, bad never seen anything, and there-
fore bad no fear. I was shown over the house,
and especially into the mom ou the third story,
the main haunt of the unwelcome visitors, and
where Dr. Drury had 1·eceived such an alarm.
This room, as stated, was, and had been for
some time, abandoned as a bed-room, from its
bad character, and was occupied as a lumber-
l"oom.
"At Carlisle, I again missed Mr. Procter;
he had returned to Willing ton, so that I lost
the opportunity of hearing from him or Mrs.
Procter, any account of these singular matters.
I saw, however, ,·arious membe1·s of his wife's
family, most intelligent people, of the highest
character for sound and practical sense, and
they were unanimous in their confirmation of
the particulars I had heard, and which are
here related.
"One of Mrs. Procter's brothers, a gentle-
man in middle life, and of a peculiarly sensible,
sedate, and candid disposition, a person appa-
rently most unlikely to be imposed on by fic-
titious alarms or tricks, assured me me that. he
had himself, on a visit there, been disturbed
D1g111Zed by Coogle
l.tO .HAU~TED HOUSES.
by the strangest noises. That be had resolved,
before going, that if any such noises occurred
he would speak, and demand of the invisible
actor who he was, and why he came thither.
But the occasion came, and be found himself
unable to fulfil his intention. As be lay in bed
one night, he beard a heavy step ascend the
stairs towards his room, and some one striking,
as it were, with a thick stick on the banisters,
as he went along. It came to his door, and he
essayed to call, bu' his voice died in his
throat. He then sprang from his bed, and
opening the door, fou.nd no one 1here, but now
heard the samt! hea•y steps deliberately de-
scending, taough perfectly invisibly, the steps
before his- face-, and accompanying the descent
with the same loud blows on the banisters.
" My informant now proceeded to the room
door o£ Mr. Procter, who, he found, had also·
beard lhe seuRds, and who now also arose, and
with a light they made a speedy descent be-
low1 and a thorough search there, but without
discovering anything that could account for
the occunence.
"The two young ladies, who, on a Yisit there,
had also been annoyed by this invisible agent,
gave me this account of it :-The first night,
as they were sleeping in the same bed, they
fe]t the bed lifted up beneath them. Of course,
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAU!>ITED HOUSES. 141
they were much alarmed. They feared lest
some one had concealed himself there for the
purpose of robbery. They gM·e an alarm,
search was made, but r.othing was found. ·on
another night, their bed was violently shaken,
and the curtains suddenly hoisted up all round
to the very te~>ter, as if pulled by cords, and
as rapidly let down again, several times.•
Search again produced no evidence of the
cause. The next, they had the curtains totally
removed from the bed, t·esolving to sleep with-
out them, as they felt as though evil eyes were
lmking behind them. The consequences of
this, however, was still more striking and ter-
rific. The following night, as they happened
to awake, and the chamber was light enough-
for it .was summer-to see everything in it,
they both saw a female figure, of a misty sub-
stance, and bluish grey hue, come out of the
wall, at the bed's head, and thmugh the head-
hoard, in a horizontal position, and lean over
them. They saw it most distinctly. They saw
it as a female figure come out of, and again
pass into, the wall. Their tenor became in-
tense, and one of the sisters, from that night,
refu!>ed to sleep any more in the house, but
• It is remarkable that this hoisting ot the bed-curtains
is similar to an incident recorded in the account of the visit
of Lord Tyrone's ghoat to Lady Beresford.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
142 HAUNTED HOUSES.
took refuge in the house of the foreman during
her Mtay ; the other shifting her quarters to
another part of the house. I& was the young
lady who slept at the foreman's who saw, as
above related, the singular apparition of the
luminous figure in the window, along with the
foreman and his wife.
" It would be too long to relate all the forms
in which this nocturnal disturbance is said by
the family to present itself. When a figure
appears, it is sometimes that of a man, as
already described, which is often very luminous,
and passes through the walls as though they
were nothing. This IJ)ale figure is well known
to the neighbours by the name of "Old
Jeffrey!" At other times, it is the figure of a
lady also in gray costume, 1\nd as described by
Mr. Drury. She is sometimes eecn sitting
wmpped in a sort of mantle, with her head
depressed, and herbands crossed on herlap. The
most terrible fact is that she is wi\hout eyes.
"To hear such sober and superior people
gra,·ely relate to you such things. gives you a
very odd feeling. They say that the noise made
is often like that of a paviour with his rammer
thumping on the floor. At otheJ times it is
coming down the stairs, making a similar loud
sound. At others it coughs, sighs, and groans,
D1g111Zed by Coogle
H.-\USTJW HOUSE!:!. 143
like a person in distress ; and, again, there is
the sound of a number of little feet pattering
on the floor of the upper chamber, where the
apparition has more particularly exhibited
itself, and which, for that reason, is solely
used as a lumber room. Here these little foot-
steps may be often heard as if careering a
child's carriage about~ which in bad weather
is kept up there. Sometimes, again, it makes
the most horrible laughs. Nor does it always
confine itself to the night. On one occasion, a
young lady, as she assured me herself, opened
the door in answer to a knock, the housemaid
being absent, and a lady in fawn-coloured silk
entered, and proceeded up stairs. As the
young lady, of coursP., supposed it a neighbour
come to make a morning call on Mrs. Procter,
she followed her up to the drawing-room,
where, however, to her astonishment, she did
not find her, nor was anything more seen
of bet".
" Such are a few of the ' questionable
sl1apes' in which this troublesome guest comes.
As may be expected, the terror of it is felt by
the neighbouring cottagers, though it seems to
confine its malicious disturbance almost solely
to the occupants of this one house. There is a
D1g111Zed by Coogle
144 HAUNTED HOUSES.
well, however, near to which no one ventures
after it is dark, because it has been seen
nearit.
"It is useless to attempt to give any opinion
respecting the real causes of these strange
sounds and sights. How far they may be real
or imaginary, how far they may be explicable
by natural causes or not; thP. only thing which
we ha¥e here to record, is the very singular
fact of a most respectable and intelligent
family having for many years been continually
annoyed by them, as well as their ''isitors.
They express themselves as most anxious to
obtain any clue to the true cause, as may be
seen by Mr. Procter's ready acquiescence in
the experiment of Mr. Drury. So great a
trouble is it to them, that they have contem-
plated the neeessity of quitting the house
altogether, though it would create great incon-
venience as regarded business. And it only
remains to be added, that we have not heard
very recently whether these visitations are still
covtinued, though we have a letter of Mr.
Procter's to a friend of ours, dated September
1844, in which he says, ' Disturbances have
for a length of time been only very unfre-
quent, which is a comfort, &s tbe elder children
D1g111Zed by Coogle
HAUNTED HOUSES. 145
are getting old enough (about nine or ten
years) to be more injuriously affected by any-
thing of the sort.•
" Over these facts let tl1e philosophers
ponder, and if any of them be powerful enough
to exorcise" Old Jeffery,'' or the bluish-grey
and misty lady, we are sure that Mr. Joseph
Procter will hold himself deeply indebted to
them. We ha're lately heard that Mr. Procter
has discovered an old book, which makes it
appear that the very same ' hauntings' took
place in an old house, on the very same spot,
at least two hundred years ago."
To the above information, furnished by
Mr. Howitt, I have to subjoin that the family
of Mr. Procter are now quitting the house,
which he intends to divide into small tene-
ments for the work-people. A friend of mine
who lately visited Willington, and who went
over the house with Mr. Procter, assures me
that the annoyances still continue, though less
frequent than formerly. Mr. P. informed her
that the female figure general1y appeared in a
shroud, and that it had been seen in that guise
by one of the family only a few days before.
A wish being expressed by a gentleman
Tisiting Mr. P. that some natural explanation
VoL. n. o
D1g111Zed by Coogle
146 HAUNTED HOUSES.
of these perplexing circumstances might be
discovered, the latter declared his entire
conviction, founded on an experience of
fifteen years, that no such elucidation was
possible.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
CHAPTER IV.
SPECTRAL LIGHTS, AND APPARITIONS ATTACHED
TO CERTAIN FAMILIES.
IN commencing another chapter, I take the
opportunity of repeating what I have said be-
tore, viz., that in treatingof these phenomena,
I find it most convenieut to assume what I
myself believe, that they are to be explained
by the existenceand appearance of what are
called ghosts; but in so doing, I am not pre-
~;uming to settle the question : if any one will
examine into the facts and furnish a better
explanation of them, I shall be ready to re··
ceive it.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
148 SPECTR.\L LIGHTS, ETC.
In the mean time, assuming this hypothesis,
there is one phenomenon frequently attending
their appearance, which bas given rise to a
great deal of thoughtless ridicule, but which,
in the present state of science, merits very
particular attention. Grose, whom Dr. Hibbert
quotes with particular satisfaction, says, ''I
cannot learn that ghosts calTy tapers in their
hands, as they are sometimes depicted, though
the room in which they appear, even when
without fire or candle, is frequently said to be
as light as day."
Most persons will have heard of this pecu-
liarity attending the appearance of ghosts. In
the case of Professor Dorrien's apparition,
mentioned in a former chapter, Professor
Oeder saw it, when there was no light in the
room, by a flame which proceeded from itself.
When he had the room lighted, he saw it no
longer; the light of the lamp rendering in-
visible the more delicate phosphorescent light
of the spectre; just as the bright glare of the
sun veils the feebler lustre of the stars, and
obscures to our senses many chemical lights,
which are ,·ery perceptible in darkness. Hence
the notion, to>o available to those who satisfy
themselves with scoffing without enquirinK,
that broad daylight banishes apparitions, and
D1g111Zed by Coogle
SPECTRAL LIGHTs, ETC. 149
that the belief in them is merely the offspring
of physical as well as moral darkness.
I meet with innumerable cases in which
this phosphorescent light is ~me of the accom-
paniments, the flame sometimes proceeding
visibly from the figure; whilst in others, the
l'Oom appeared pervaded with light without its
seeming to issue from any pmticular object.
I remember a case of the servants in a
country house, in Aberdeenshire, hearing the
door-bell ring after their mistress was gone to
bed; on coming up to open it, they saw through
a window that looked into the hall, that it was
quite light, and that their master, Mr. F., who
was at the time absent fl'Om home, was there
in his travelling dress. They ran to tell their
mistress what they had seen; but when they
returned, all was dark, and there wai nothing
unusual to be discovered. That night Mr. F.
died at sea, on his voyage to London.
A gentleman, some time ago, awoke in the
middle of a dark winter's night, and perceived
that his room was as light as if it were day.
He awoke his wife and mentioned the circum-
stance, saying he could not help apprehending
that some misf'J1tune had occulTed to his fish-
ing boats, which had put to sea. The boats
were lost that night.
0 5
o;9mzedbyGoogle
150 SPECTR.\L LIGHTII, ETC.
Only last year, there was a very curious cir·
cumstance happened in th~ south of England,
in which these lights were seen. I give the
account, literally, as I extracted it from the
newspaper, and also the answer of the editor
to my further enquiries. I know nothing more
of this story; but it is singularly in keeping
with others proceeding from different quarters.
"A GHosT AT BRISTOL.-We have this week
a ghost story to relate. Yes, a ghost story ; a
real ghost story, and a ghost story without, as
yet, any clue to its elucidation. After the
dissolution of the Calendars, their ancientresi-
dence, adjoining, and almost forming a part
of All Saints' Church, Bristol, was com·erted
into a vicarage-house, and it is still called by
that name>, though the incumb~nts have for
many years ceased to reside there. The pre-
sent occupants are Mr. and Mrs. Jones, the
sexton and sextoness of the church, and one
or two lodgers ; and it is to the former and
their servant-maid, that the strange visitor has
made his appearance, causing such tel'l'or by
his nightly calls, that all three have determined
on quitting the premises, if~ indeed, they have
not already carried their resolution imo effect.
Mr. and Mrs. Jones's description of the dis-
turbance, as given to the landlord, on whom
they called in great consternation, is as distinct
D1g111Zed by Coogle
SPECTRAL LfGHTS, ETC. 151
as any ghost story could be. The nocturnal
visitor is heard walking about the house when
the inhabitants are in bed; and Mr.Jones, who
is a man of by no means nervous constitu-
tion, declares he has several times seen a light
flickering on one of the walls. Mrs. Jones is
equally certain that she has heard a man with
creaking shoes walking in the bed-room above
her own, when no man was on the premises
(or at least ought to be), and " was nearly
killed with the fright." To the servant maid,
however, was vouchsafed the unenvied honour
of seeing this restless nightvisitor; she dec1ares
she has repeatedly had her bed-room door
unbolted at night, between the hours of twelve
and two o'clock-the period when such beings
usually make their promenades-by something
in human semblance; she cannot particularize
his dress, but describes it as something antique,
and of a fashion " lang syne gane," and to
some extent corresponding to that of the
ancient Calendars, the former inhabitants of
thP. house. She further says, he is a "whis-
kered gentleman" (we give her own words),
which whiskered gentleman has gone the
length of shaking her bed, and, she believes,
would have shaken herself also, but that she
invariably puts her head under the clothes
D1g111Zed by Coogle
152 SPECTR.\L LIGHTS, ETC.
when she sees him approach. M1·s. Jones de-
clares she believes iu the appearance of the
whiskered gentleman, and she had made up
her mind, the night before she called on her
landlord, to leap out of the window (and it is
not a trifle that will make people leap out of
windows), as soon as he entered the l"OOm.
The effect of the 'flickering light' on Mr.
Jones was quit~> terrific, causing excessive
trembling, and the complete doubling up of
his whole body into a round ball, like."-
Bristol Times.
" Bristol Times Office,
3rd June, 1846.
''Madam,- In reply to your enquiries re-
specting the ghost story, I have to assure you
that the whole affair remains wrapped in the
same mystery as when chronicled in the pages
of the Bristol Times.
" I am, Madam,
"Yours obediently,
"THE EotTOR.''
I subsequently wrote to Mrs. Jones, who I
found was not a very dexterous scribe, but she
confirmed the above account, adding, howeYer,
that the Rev. Mr.-, the clergyman of the
parish, said I had better write to him about it,
and that he does not believe in su~h things."
D1g111Zed by Coogle
SPECTRAL LiGHTS, ETC. 153
Of cour~e, he does not; and it would have been
useless to have asked his opinion.
There nev~r was, perhaps, a more fearless
human being than Madame Gottfried, the
Empoisonneuse of Bremen ; at least, she felt
no remorse-she feared nothing hut discovery ;
and yet, when after years of successful crime,
she was at length arrested, she related, that
soon after the death of her first husband,
Miltenburg, whom she had poisoned, as she
was standing, iu the dusk of the evening, iu
her drawin!r-room, she suddenly saw a bright
light hovering at no great distance above tile
floor, which advanced towards her bed-room
door and then disappeared. This phenomenon
occurred on three successive evenings. On
another occasion, she saw a shadowy appear-
ance hovering near her, "Ach! clenke ich, dus
ist MiltP.nburg, seine Erscheinung !-Alas !
thought I, that is the ghost of Miltenburg!"
Yet did not this withhold her murderous hand.
The lady who met with the curious adven-
ture in Petersburgh, mentioned in a former
chapter, had no light in her room ; yet she
saw the watch distinctly by the old woman's
light, though of what nature it was, she does
not know. Of the lights seen over graves,
familiarly called corpse candle8, I have spoken
D1g111Zed by Coogle
154 SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC.
elsewhere; as also of the luminous form per-
ceived by Rilling, in the garden at Colmar, as
mentioned by Baron von Reichenbach. Most
people bave beard the story of the Radiant
Boy, seen by Lord Castlereagh, an apparition
which the owner of the castle, admitted to
have been visible to many others. Dr. Kerner
mentions a very similar fact, wherein an advo-
cate and his wife were awakened by a noise
and a light, and saw a beautiful child en-
veloped by the sort of glory that is seen sur-
rounding the beads of saints. It disappeared,
and they never had a repetition of tbe pheno-
menon, wbich they afterwards heard was be-
lieved to recur e,·ery seven years in that bouse,
and to be connected with the cruel murder of
a child by its mother.
To these instances I will add an account of
the ghost &een in C- Castle, copied from the
handwriting of C. M. H., in a book of manu-
script extracts; dated C-Castle, December
22nd, 1824; and furnished to me by a friend
of the family.
" In order to introduce my readers to the
haunted room, I will mention that it forms
part of the old house, with windows looking
into the court, which in early times was deemed
a necessary secUt·ity against an enemy. It ad-
D1g111Zed by Coogle
SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC. 155
joins a tower built by the Romans for defence ;
for C- was propedy more a border tower than
a castle of any consideration. There is a wind-
ing staircase in this tower, and the walls are
from eight to ten feet thick.
'' ·when the times became more peaceable,
our ancestors enlarged the arrow-slit windows,
and added to that part of the building which
looks towards the river Eden ; the view of
which, with its beautiful banks, we now enjoy.
But many additions and alterations have been
made since that.
"To return to the room in question, I must
observe that it is by no means rem'>te or soli-
tary, being surrounded on all sides by chambers
that are constantly inhabited. It is accessible
by a passage cut through a wall eight feE't in
thickness, and its dimensions are twenty-one
by eighteen. One side of the wainscoating is
covered with tapestry, the remainder is deco-
rated with old family pictmes, and some
ancient pieces of embroidery, probably the
handiwork of nuns. Over a press, which bas
doors of Venetian glass, is an ancient oaken
figure, with a battle-axe in his hand, which
was one of those formerly placed on the walls
of the city of Carlisle, to represent guards.
There used to be, also, an old-fashioned bed
D1g111Zed by Coogle
156 SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC.
and some dark furniture in this room ; but, so
many wue the complaints of those who slept
there, that I was induced to replace some of
these articles of furniture by more model'D
ones, in the hope of removing a certain air of
glooom, which I thought might have given
rise to the unaccountable reports of appari-
tions and extraordinary noises which were
constantly reaching us. But I regret to say
I did not succeed in banishing the nocturnal
visitor, which still continues to disturb our
friends.
" I shall pass over numerous instances, and
select one as being especially remarkable, from
the circumstance of the apparition having
been seen by a .clergyman well known and
highly respected in this county, who, not six
weeks ago, repeated the circumstances to a
coinpany of twenty persons, amongst whom
were some who had previously been entire
disbelievers in such appearances.
" The best way of giving you these par-
ticulars, will be by subjoining an extract from
my journal, entered at the time the event
occurred.
"SEPT. 8, 180;3.- Amongst other guests
invited to C- Castle, came the Rev. Henry
A., of Redburgh, and rector ofGreystoke, with
D1g111Zed by Coogle
Sl'ECTitAL LIGHTs, ETC. · 157
Mrs. A. his wife, who was a Miss S., of
Uherstone. According to previous arrange-
ment&, they were to have remained with us
some days; but their visit was cut short in a.
,·ery unexpected manner. On the morning after
their arrival, we were all assembled at break-
fast, when a chaise aurl four rlushed up to the
door in such haste, that it knocked down part
of the fence of my. flower-garden. Our curi-
osity was, of course, awakened to know who
could be arriving at so early an hour ; when,
happening to turn my eyes towards Mr. A., I
observed that he appeared extremely agitated.
'It is our carriage!' said he; ' I am .very sorry,
but we must absolutely leave you this morning.'
"We naturally felt and expressed consider-
able surprise, as well as reg1·ct, at this unex-
pected departure; representing that. we had in-
vited Colonel and Mrs. S., some friends whom
Mr. A. particularly desired to meet, to dine with
us on that day. Our expostulations however
were vain ; the breakfast was no sooner oyer
than they departed, leaving us in consternation
to conjecture what could possibly have oc(!a-
sioned so sudden an alteration in their annnge-
ments. I 1·eally felt quite uneasy lest anything
should have given t.bem offence; and we re-
viewed all the occurrences of the preceding
VLO. 11. p
D1g111Zed by Coogle
158 SPECTRAL LIGHTs, ETC.
evening in order to discover, if offence there
was, whence it had arisen. But our pains were
vain ; and after talking a great deal about it
for some days, other circumstances banished
it from our minds.
" It was not till we some time afterwards
visited the part of the county in which Mr. A.
resides, that we learnt the real cause of his
sudden departure from C-. The relation of
the fact, as it here follows, is in his own
words:-
" Soon after we went to bed, we fell asleep:
it might be between one and two in the morn-
ing when I awoke. I observed that the fire
was totally extinguished; but although that
was the case, and we had no light, I saw a
glimmer in the centre of the room, which sud-
denly increased to a bright flame. I looked
out, apprehending that something had c:-aught
fire ; when, to my amazement, I beheld a
beautiful boy, clothed in white, with bright
locks, r~sembling gold, standing by my bed-
side, in which position he remained some
minutes, fixing his eyes upon me with a mild
and benevolent expression. He then glided
gently away towards the side of the chimney,
where it is obvious there is no possible egress;
and entirely disappeared. I found m~ self
D1g111Zed by Coogle
SPEtTR.\L-LlGHTS, ETC· 159
again in total darkness, and all remained quiet
until the usual hom of 1ising. I declare this
to he a true account of what. I saw at C-
Castle, upon my word as a clergyman."
I am acquainted with some of the family,
and with several of the fdends of Mr. A.,
who is still alive, though now an old man; and
I can most positively assert that his own con-
''iction, with regard to the nature of this
appearance, has remained ever unshaken. The
circumstance made a lasting impression 'Clpon
his mind, and he never wi11ingly speaks of it;
hut when he does, it is always with the greatest
sedousness, and he never shrinks from avowing
his belief, that what he saw admits of no other
interpretation than the one he then put upon it.
Now, let us see whether in this department
of the phenomenon of ghost-seeing, namely,
the lights that frequently accompany the appa-
ritions, there is anything so worthy of ridicule
as Grose, and other such commentators seem
to think.
Of God, the uncreated, we kno\V not.hing ;
hut the created spirit, man, we cannot conceive
of independant of some organism or organ,
however different that organ may be to those
which form our means of apprehensiou and
communication at present. This organ, we
D1g111Zed by Coogle
160 I!PECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC.
may suppose to be that pervadingether, which
is now the germ of what St. Paul calls our
spi1·itual body, the astral spirit of the mystic£,
he nerre-spirit of the clear-seers ; the funda-
mental body, of which the external fleshly
body is but the copy and husk-an organ com-
prehending all those distinct ones, which we
now possess in the one universal, or, as some of
the German physiologists call it, the central
sense, of which we occasionally obtain some
glimpses in somnambulism, and in other
peculiar states of nervous derangement ; espe-
cially where the ordinary senses of sight,
hearing, feeling, &c. are in abeyance; an effect
which Dr. Eunemoser considers to be produced
by a change of polarity, the external periphery
of the nerves taking on a negative state ; and
which Dr. Passavent describes as the retreating
of the ether from the external to the internal,
so that the nerves no longer receive impres-
sions, or convey information to the brain; a
condition which may be produced by l'arious
causes, as excess of excitement, great elevation
of the spirit, as we see in the extatics and
martyrs, over irritation producing consequent
exhaustion; and also artificially, by certain
manipulations, narcotics, aud other influences.
All somnambules of the highest order-and
D1g111Zed by Coogle
SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC. 161
when I make use of this ·expression, I repeat
that I do not allude to the subjects ofmesmeric
experiments, but to those extraordinary cases
of disease, the particulurs of which have been
recorded by various continental physicians of
eminence-all persons in that condition de-
scribe themselves as hearing and Heeing, not
by their 01·dinary organs, but by some means,
the idea of which they cannot convey further
than that they m·e pervaded by light, and that
this is not the ordinarg physical light is evi-
dent, inasmuch as that theygenerally see best in
the dark, a remarkable instance of which I my-
self witnessed. ·
I never had the slightest idea of this in-
ternal light, till in the way CJf experiment,
I inhaled the sulphuric ether; but I am now
very well able to conceive it; for after first
feeling au agreeable warmth pervading my
limbs, my next sensation was to find myself~
1 cannot say in this heavenly light, for the
light was in me-l was pervaded by it; it
was not perceived by my eyes which were
closed, but perceived intemally, I cannot tell
how. Of what nature this heavenly light
was, and I cannot forbear calling it heavenly,
for it was like nothing on earth-! know not,
nor how far it may be related to those lumi-
P 5
o;9mzedbyGoogle
](;2 SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC.
nons emanations occasionally seen around
cxtatics, !aints, martyrs, and dying persons;
o1· to the flames seen by somnambules issuing
from various objects, or to those observed by
Von Reichenbach's vatients proceeding from
the ends of the fingers, &c. But at all events,
since the process which maintains life is of
the nature of combustion, we have no reason
to be amazed at the presence of luminous
emanations; and as we are the subjects of
various electrical phenomena, nobody is sur-
prised when, on combing their hair or pulling
off theit· silk stockings, they hear a crackling
noise or even see spark!!.
Light, in short, is a phenomenon which
seems connected with all forms of life ; and 1
need not here refer to that emitted by glow-
worms, fire-flies and those marine animals,
which illuminate the sea. The eyes also o{
many animals shine with a light which is not
merely a reflected one; as has been ascel'-
tained by Rengger, a German naturalist, who
found himself able to distinguish objects in
the most profound darkness, by the flaming
eyes of a South American monkey.
·'The seeing of a cl~>ar-seer," says Dr.
Passavent, '' may he called a .~olar seeing, for
he lights aml inter-penetrates his object with
D1g111Zed by Coogle
SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC. 163
his ou:n org:mic light, l'iz., his ner\"'ous ether,
which becomes the organ of the spirit; and
under certain circumstances this organic light
becomes visible, as in those above alluded to.
Persons recovering from deep swoons and
trances, frequently describe themselves as
having been in this region of light-this light
of the spirit, if I may so call it-this palace of
light, in which it dwells, which will hereafter
be its proper ligl.t. for the physical or solar
lig-ht, which serves us whilst in the flesh, will
be no longer needed, when out of it, nor pro-
bably he perceived by the spirit, which will
then, 1 repeat, be a light to itself; and as this
organic light, this germ of our future spiritual
body, occasionally becomes partially dsible
now, there cannot, I think, be any great diffi-
culty in conceiving, that it may under given
cireumstance~', be so hereafter.
The use of the word light in the scriptures,
must not be receh'ed in a purely symbolical
sense. We shall dwell in light, or we shall
dwell in darkness, in proportion as we have
shaken off the bonds that chain us to the earth;
according, in short, to our moral state, we
shall be pure and bright, or impure and dark.
Monsieur Arago mentions in his treatise on
lightning and the electrical fluid, that all
D1g111Zed by Coogle
164 SPECTRAL LIGHTs, ETC.
men are not equally susceptible of it; and
that, there are different degrees of receptivity,
verging from total insenRibility to the extreme
opposite ; and be also remat·ks, that animals
are more susceptible to it than men. He says,
the fluid will pass through a chain of persons,
ofwhom, perhaps one; though forming only
the second link, will be wholly insensible of
the shock. Such persons would be rarely
struck by lightning, whilst another would
be in as great danger from a flash, as if he
were made of metal. Thus it is not only the
situation of a man, during a storm, but also
his physical constitution, that regulates the
amount of his pelil. The horse and the dog
are particularly susceptible.
Now, this varying susceptibility, is analogous
to, if not the very same, that causes the varying
susceptibility to such phenomena as I am
treating of; and, accordingly, we know that in
all times, horses and dogs have been reputed
to have the faculty of seeing spirits; and when
persons who have the second sight see a
vision, these animals, if in contact with them,
perceive it also, and frequently evince symp-
toms of great tenor. We also here find the
explanation of another mystery, namely, what
the Germans call ansteckung, and the English,
D1g111Zed by Coogle
,SPECTRAL LIGHTs, ETC. 165
sceptics when alluding to these phenomena,
contagion-meaning simply contagious fear ;
but as when se,·eral persons form a chain, the
shock from an electrical machine, will pass
through the whole of them; so if one per-
sou is in such a state as to become sensible
of an apparition or some similar phenomenon,
he may he able to communicate that power to
another; and thus has arisen the conviction
amongst the Highlanders, that a seer by
_touching a person near him, enables him
frequently tn particip3te in his vision.
A little girl, in humble life, called Mary
Delves, of a highly nervous temperament, has
been frequently punished for saying that the
cat was on fire ; and that she saw flames issuing
from various persons and objects.
With regard to the perplexing subject of
corpse lights, there would he little difficulty
attending it, if they always remained station-
ary o\·er the graves; but it seems very well
established that that is not the case. There
are numerous stories, proceding from very re,
spectable quarters, proving the contrary ; and
I have heard two from a dignitar.r of the
church, born in Wales, which I will relate.
A female relation of his had occasion to go
to Aberystwith, which was about twenty miles
D1g111Zed by Coogle
166 SPECTR.U LIGHTs, ETC,
from her home, on horseback; and she started
at a very early hour for that purpose, with her
father's ser\l<mt. When they had nearly
reached the half-way, fearing the man might be
wanted at home, she bade him return, as she
was approaching the spot where the servant
of the lady she was going to visit, was to meet
her, in order to escort her the other half. The
man had not long left her, when she 11aw a
light coming towards her, the nature of which
she suspected; it moved, according to her rle-
scliption, steadily on, about three feet from the
ground. Somewhat awe-struck, she turned
her horse out of the bridle-road, along which
it was coming, intending to wait till it had
passed; but, to her dismay, just as it came
opposite to her, it stopped, and there remained
perfectly fixed for nearly half an hour ; at the
end of which period, it moved on as before.
The servant presently came up, and she
proceeded to the house of her friend, where
she related what she had seen. A few days
afterwards, the very servant who came to meet
her, was taken ill and died; his body was
carried along that road; and at the very
spot where the light had paused, an accident
occurred. which caused a delay of half an hour.
The other story was as follows :-A servant
o;9mzedbyGoogle
SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC. 167
in the family of Lady Davis, my informant's
aunt, had occasion to start early for market.
Being in the kitchen, about three o'clock in
the morning, taking his breakfast alone, when
everybody else was in bed, he was surprised at
hearing a sound of heavy feet on the stairs
above; and opening the door to see who it
could be, he was struck with alarm at per-
ceiving a great light, much brighter than could
have been shed by a candle, at the same time
that he heard a violent thump, as if some very
heavy body had hit the clock, which stood on
the landing. Awt..re of the nature of the light,
the man did not await its further descent, but
rushed out of the house; whence he presently
saw it issue from the front door, and proceed
on its way to the churchyard.
As his mistress, Lady D., was at that period
in her hed, ill, he made no doubt that her death
impended ; and when he returned from the
market at night, his first question was whether
sh~ was yet alive; and though he was informed
she w~s better, he declared his com·iction that
she would die, alleging as his reason what he
had seen in the morning; a narration which
led e~erybody else to the same conclusion.
The lady however reco,·ered; but within a
fortnight, another member of the family died;
D1g111Zed by Coogle
168 Sl'ECTR.AL LIGHTS, ETC.
and as his coffin was brought down the stain:,
the bearers ran it violently against the clock ;
upon which the man instantly exclaimed,
" That is the very noise I heard !''
I could relate numerous stories wherein the
appearance of a ghost was accompanied by a
iight, but as there is nothing that distinguishes
them from those above-mentioned, l will not
dilate further on this branch of the subject,
on which, perhaps, I have said enough to sug-
gest to the minds of my readers, that although
we know little !tow such things are, we do
know enough of analagous phenomena to en-
able us to believe, at least, their possibility.
I confess I find much less difficulty in con-
ceiving the existence of such facts as those
above described,·than those of another class, of
which we meet with occasional instances.
For example, a gentleman of fortune and
station, in Ireland, was one day walking along
the road, when he met a very old man, appa-
rently a peasant, though well dressed, and
looking as ifhe had on his Sundayhabiliments.
His great age attracted the gentleman's atten-
tion the more, that he could not help wonder-
ing at the alertness of his movements, and the·
ease with which he was ascending the hill.
He consequently accosted him, enquiring his
D1g111Zed by Coogle
SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC. 169
name and residence ; and was answered, that
his name was Kirkpatrick, and that he li'·ed at
a cottage, which he pointed out. Whereupon
the gentleman expressed his surprise that he
should be unknown to him, since he fancied
he had been acquainted with every man on his
estate. " It is odd you have never seen me
before," returned the old man; "for I walk
here-every day."
." How old are you !" asked the gentleman.
"I am one hundred and five," answered the
other; '' and have been he1·e all my liie."
After a few more words, they parted; and the
gentleman proceeding towards some labourers
in a neighbouring field, enquired if they knew
an old man of the name of Kirkpatrick. They
did not; but 011 addressing the question to
some older tenants, they said, "Oh, yes;" they
had known him, and had been at his funeral;
he had lived at the cottage 011 the hill, but had
been dead twenty years.
"How old was he when he died ?"enquired
the gentleman, much amazed.-" He was
eighty-five," said they ; so that the old man
gave the age that he would have reached had
he sun·ived to the period of this rencontre.
This curious incident is furnished by the gen-
tleman himsdf, and all he can say is, that it
VoL. II. Q
D1g111Zed by Coogle
170 SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC.
certainly occurred, and that he is quite unable
to explain it. He was in perfect health at the
time, and had never heard of this man in his
life, who had been dead several years before
the estate came into his possession.
The following is another curious story. The
original will be found in the Register of the
church named, from \vhich it has been copied
for my use:--
Extract from the Register in Bl'isley
Church, Norfolk.
"December 12th, li06.-I Robert Withers,.
M.A. \'icar of Gately, do insert here n story
which I had from undoubted hands; for I h~we
all the moral certainty of the truth of it
possible:-
'' Mr Grose went to see Mr. Shaw on the
2nd of August last. As they sat talking in
the evening, says Mr. Shaw 'On the 21st. of
the last month, as I was smoking a pipe, and
reading in my study, between eleven and
twelve at nigl1t, in comes Mr. Naylor (formerly
Fellow of St. John's College, but had been
dead full four years) When I saw him I was
:(iot much affrighted, and I asked him to sit
down, which accordingly he did for about two
hours, and we talked together. I asked him
how it fared with him? he said 'Very well.'.
o;9,tizea by Coogle
SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC. 171
'Were any of our old acquaintance with him?'
'No!' (at which I was much concerned) 'but
Mr. Orchard will be with me soon and your-
self not long after.' As he was going away I
asked him if hP. would not stay a little longer,
but he refused. I asked him if he would call
again. 'No ;' he had but three days leave of
absence, and he had other business.
.. N.B.-Mr. Orchard died soon after. Mr.
Shaw is now dead, he was formerly Fellow of
St. John's College, an ingenious good man.
I knew him there ; but at his death he had a
college living in Oxfordshire, and here he saw
the apparition."
An extraordinary circumstance occurred
some yearti ago, in which a very pious and
very eminent Scotch minister, Ebenezer
Brown of lnverkeithing was concerned. A
person of ill character in the neighhomhood,
having died, the family very shortly after-
wards came to him to complain, of some ex-
ceedingly unpleasant circumstances connected
with the room in which the dissolution had
taken place, which rendered it uninhabitable;
and requesting his assistance. All that is
known by his family of what followed is, that
he went and entered the room alone ; came
Digitized by Goog[e
172 SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC,
ont again ; in a state of considerable excite-
ment and in a great perspiration; took offhis
coat, and re-entered the room; a great noise,
and, I believe voices were then heard by the
family, who remained during the whole time
at the door; when he came out finally, it was
evident that something very extraordinary had
taken place ; what it was, he said, he could
never disclose ; but that perhaps after his
death some paper might be found upon the
subject. None, however, as far I can learn,
has been discovered.
A circumstance of a very singular nature,
is 1\l;Serted to have occurred, not very many
years back in regard to a professor in the
College of·A-, who had seduced a girl and
afterwards married another woman. The girl
became troublesome to him, and being found
murdered after having been last seen in his
company, he was suspected of being some way
concerned in the crime; hut the strange thing
is, that, from that period, be retired every
evening at a particular hour to a certain room,
where he staid great part of the night, and
where it was declared that her voice was dis-
tinctly heard in conversation with him, A
strange wild story, which I give as I have it,
D1g111Zed by Coogle
SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC. 17.J
without pretending to any explanation of the
belief that seems to have prevailed, that he
was obliged to keep this fearful tryst.
Visitations of this description, which seem
to indicate that the deceased person is still, in
some way incomprehensible to us, an inhabi-
tant of the earth, are more perplexing than
any of the stories I meet with. In the time of
F1·ederick II. of Prussia, the cook of a Catholic
priest, residing at a village named Quarrey,
died, and he took another in her place; hut
the poor woman had no peace or rest from the
interference of her predecessor, insomuch that
she resigned het· situation, and the minister
might almost have done without any servant
at all. The fires were lighted, and the rooms
swept and arranged, and all the needful ser-
vices performed, by unseen hands. Numbers
of people went to witness the phenomena, till,
at length, the story reached the ears of the
King; who sent a captain and a lieutenant of
his guard to investigate the affair. As they
approached the house, they found themseh-es
preceded by a march, though they could see no
musicians, and when they entered the parlour
and witnessed what was going ou, the captain
exclaimed, " If that doesn't beat the de,·il ! "
11pon which he received a smart slap on the
Q .)
Digitized by GoogIe
174 SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC.
face, from the invisible hand that was anang-
ing the furniture.
In consequence of this uffair, the house was
pulled down, by the King's orders, and another
residence built for the minister, at some dis-
tance from the spot.
Now, to impose on Frederick II. would
have been no slight matter, as regarded the
probable consequences; and the officers of his
guard would certainly not have been disposed
to make the experiment; and it is not likely
that the King would have ordered the house to
be pulled down without being thoroughly
satisfied of the truth of the story.
One of the most remarkable stodes of this
class I know, exc~pting indeed the famous
one of the Grecian bride, is that which is said
to have happened at Crossen, in Silesia, in the
yea1· 1659, in the reign of the Princess
Elizabeth Charlotta. In the spring of that
year, an apothecary's man, called Christopher
Monig, a native of Serbest, in Anhalt, died,
and was buried with the usual ceremonies of
the Lutheran Church. But to the amazement
of everybody; a few days afterwards, he, at
least ~hat appeared to be himself, appeared in
the shop, \Vhere he would sit himself down,
and sometimes walk, and take boxes, pots,
D1g111Zed by Coogle
SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC. 175
and glasses from the shelves, and set them
again in other places; sometimes trying and
examining the goodness of the medicines :
weigh them with the scales, pound the dmgs
with a mighty noise; nay, serve the people
that came with bills to the shop, take their
money and lay it up in the counter; in
a word, do all things that a journeyman in
such cases used to do. He looked very ghostly
upon his former companions, who were afraid
to say anything to him, and his master being
sick at that time, he was very troublesome to
him. At last, he took a cloak that bung in
the shop, put it on and walked abroad, but
minding nobody in the streets; he entered into
some of the citizen's houses, especially such as
he had fonnerly known, yet spoke to no one,
but to a maid sen·ant, whom he met with hard
by the churchyard, whom he desired to go
home and dig in a lower chamber of her
master's house, where she would find an in-
estimable treasure. But the girl, amszed at
the sight of him, swooned away; whereupon
he lifted her up, but left a mark upon her in so
doing, that was long visible. She fell sick in
consequence of the fright, and having told
what Monig had said to her, they dug up the
place indicated, but found nothing but a de-
D1g111Zed by Coogle
176 SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC.
cayed pot with an hemarites or bloodstone in
it. The affair making a great noise, the reign-
ing Princess caused the man's body to be
taken up, which being dooe, it was found in a
state of putrefaction, and was re-interred.
The apothecary was then recommended to
remove everything belonging to Mouig; his
linen, clothes, hooks, &c., after which, the
apparition left the house and was seen no more.
The fact of the man's re-appearance in this
manner, was considered to be so perfectly
established at the time, that there was actually
a public disputation on the subject, in the
Academy of Leipsick. With regard to the
importance the apparition attached to the
bloodstone, we do not lmow but that there
may be truth in the persuasion, that this gem
is posset>sed of some occult properties of much
more vahre than its beauty.
The story of the Grecian hride, is still more
wonderful, and yet it comes to us surprisingly
well authenticated, inasmuch as the details
were forwarded by the prefect of the city, in
which the thing occurred, to the pro-consul of
his pl'Ovince ; and by the latter were laid be-
fore the Emperor Hadrian ; and as it was not
the custom to mystify Roman Emperors, we
are constrained to believe that what the prefect
D1g111Zed by Coogle
SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC. 177
and pro-consul communicated to him, they had
good reason for believing themselves.
It appears that a gentleman, called Demos-
tratos, and Charito, his wife, had a daughter
called Philrnnion, who died; and that about
six months afterwanls, a youth named
Machates, who had come to visit them, was
surprised, on retiring to the apartments de-
stined to strangers, by receiving the visits of
a young maiden, who eats and drinks, and
exchanges gifts with him. Some accident
having taken the nurse that way, she,amazed
by the sight, summons her master and mistress
to behold their daughter, who is there sitting
with the guest.
Of course, they do not believe her ; but at
ltngth wea1ied by her importunities the
mother follows her to the guest's chamber;
but the young people are now asleep and the
door closed; but looking through the key-
hole, she perceives what she believes to be
her daughter. Still unable to credit her
senses, she resolves to wait till moming, before
disturbing them ; but when she comes again,
the young lady has departed ; whilst
Machates, ou being interrogated, confesses,
that Philinnion had been with him, but that
she had admitted to him that it was unknown
o;9mzedbyGoogle
178 SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC.
to her parents. Upon this, the amazement
and agitation of the mother were naturally
very great; especially when Machates showed
her a ring which the gi1·l had given him, and
a bodice which she had left behind her; and
his amazement was no less, when he heard the
story they had to tell. He however promised
that if she returned the next night, he would
let them seP. her; for he found it impossible
to believe that his bride was their dead
daughter. He suspected, on the contrary,
that some thieves had stripped her body of
the clothes and ornaments in which she had
been buried, and that the girl who came to
his room, had bought them. When therefore
she arrived, his servant having had orders, to
summon the father and mother, they came;
and perceiving that it was really their
daughter they fell to embracing her, with
tears. But she reproached them for the
intrusion, declariPg- that she had been per-
mitted to spend three days with this stranger,
in the house of her birth ; but that now she
must go to the appointed place; and immedi-
ately fell down dead, and the dead body lay
there visible to all.
The news of this strange event soon spread
abroad, the house was surrounded by crowds
D1g111Zed by Coogle
SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC. 179
of people and the prefect was obliged to take
measures to prevent a tumult. On the fol-
lowing morning at an early hour the inhabi-
tants assembled in the theatre, and from
thence they proceeded to the vault, in order
to ascertain if the body of Philinnion was
where it had been deposited six months
before. It was not; but on the bier there lay
the ring and cap which Machates had pre-
sented to her the first night she visited him ;
showing that she had retumed there in the
interim. They then proceeded to the hGuse
of Democrates, where they saw the body
which it was decreed must now be buried
without the bounds of the city. -'Numerous
religious ceremonies and sacrifices followed,
and the unfortunate Machates, seized with
horror, put an end to his own life.
The following very singular circumstance
occurred in this country towards the latter
end of the last century; and excited, at the
time, considerable attention ; the more so, as
it was asserted by everybody acquainted with
the people nnd the locality, that the remo,·al
of the body was impossible, by any recognized
means ; besides that no one would have had
the hardihood to attempt such a feat:-
"Mr. WilliamCraighead, authorofa popular
Digitized by Goog[e
180 SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC.
system of arithmetic, was parish schoolmaster
of Monifieth, situate upon the estuary of the
Tay, about six miles east from Dundee. It
would appear that Mr. Craighead was then a
young ·man, fond of a frolic, without 'being
very scrupulous about the means, or ca.lculating
the consequences. There being a lykewakein
the neighbourhood, attended by a number of
his acquaintance, according to the custom of
the times; Craighead procured a confederate,
with whom he concerted a plan to draw the
watchers from the house, or at least from the
room where the corpse lay. Having succeeded
in this, he dexterously removed the dead body
to an outer house, while his companion occu-
pied the place of the corpse iu the bed where
it had lain. It was agreed upon between the
confederates, that when the company was re-
assembled, Craighead was to join them, and
at a concerted signal, the impostor was to rise,
shrouded like the dead man, while the two
were to enjoy the terror and alarm of their
companions. Mr. C. came in, and aft~>r being
some time seated, the signal was made, but
met no attention ; he was rather surprised ; it
was repeated, and still neglected. Mr. C., in
his turn, now became alarmed; for he con-
ceived it impossible that his companion could
D1g111Zed by Coogle
SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETO. 181
have fallen asleep in that situation; his un-
easiness became insupportable ; he went to
the bed, and found his friend lifeless !
Mr. C.'s feelings, as may well be imagined,
now entirely overpowered him, and the dread-
ful fact was disclosed; their agitation was
extreme, and it was far from being alleviated
when every attempt to restore anim1ttion to
the thoughtless young man proved abortive.
As soon as their confusion would permit, an
enquiry was made after the original corpse, and
Mr. C. and another went to fetch it in, but
it was not to be found. The alarm and con-
sternation of the company was now redoubled ;
for some time, a few suspected that some hardy
fellow among them had been attempting a
Rowland for an Oliver; but when every know-
ledge of it was most solemnly denied by all
present, their situation can he more easily
imagined than described; that of Mr. C. was
little short of distraction; daylight came with-
out relieving their agitation; no trace of the
corpse could be discovered, and Mr. C. was
accused as the primum mobile of all that had
happened : he was incapable of sleeping, and
wandered several days and nights in search
of the body, which was at last discovered in
the parish of Tealing, deposited in a field about
VoL. JJ. R
o;9mzedbyGoogle
182 SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC.
six miles distant from the place from whence
it was removed."
"It is related, that this extraordinary affair
had a strong and lasting effect upon Mr. C.'s
mind and conduct; that he immediately be-
came serious and thoughtful, and ever after
conducted himself with great prudence and
sobriety."
Amongst what are called superstitions, there
are a great many curious ones, attached to
certain families; and from some members of
these families, I have been assured, that ex-
perience has rendered it impossible for them
to forbear attaching importance to these
persuasions.
A very remarkable circumstance occurred
lately in this part of the world, the facts of
which I had an opportunity of being well nc.
quainted with.
One evening, somewhere about Christmas,
of the ·year 1844, a letter was sent for my
perusal, which had been just received fmm a
member of a distinguished family, in Perth-
shire. The friend who sent it me, an eminent
literary man, said, " Read the enclosed ; and
we shall now have an opportunity of observing
if any event follows the prognostics." The in-
timnation, contained in the letter, was to the
following effect:-
D1g111Zed by Coogle
SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC. 183
Miss D. a relative of the present Lady C.,
who had been staying some time with the Earl
and Countess, at their seat, near Dundee, was
invited to spend a few days at C- Castle, with
the Earl and Countess of A. She went: and
whilst she was dressing for dinner, the first
evening of her arrival, she heard a strain of
music under her window, which finally resolved
itself into a well defined sound of a drum.
When her maid came up stairs, she made some
enquiries about the drummer that was playing
near the house ; but the maid knew nothing
on the subject. For the moment, the circum-
stance passed from Miss D.'s mind; but re-
cun·ing to her again during the dinner, she
said, addressing Lord A., "My Lord, who is
your drummer?" upon which his lordship
turned pale, Lady A. looked distressed, and
several of the company, who all heard the
question, embarrassed; whilst the lady, per-
ceiving that she had made some unpleasant
allusion, although bhe knew not to what their
feelings referred, forebore further enquiry till
she reached the drawing-room; when, having
mentioned the circumstance again to a member
of the family, she was answered, "What !
have you never heard of the drummer-boy !"
"No;" replied Miss D.," who in the wol"ld is
he?" " Why," replied the other," he is a per-
Digitized by Goog[e
Ie4 SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC.
son who goes about the house playing his
drum, whenever there is a death impending in
the family. The last time he was heard, was
shortly before the death of the last Countess
(the Earl's former wife), and that is why Lord
A. became so pale when you mentioned it.
The drummer is a very unpleasant subject in
this family, I assure you!"
Miss D. was naturally much concerned and,
indeed, not a little frightened at this expla-
nation, and her alarm being augmented by
hearing the sounds on the following day, she
took her departure fl'om C- Castle and
returned to Lord C.'s, stopping on her way to
call on 15ome friends, where she related this
strange circumstance to the family, through
whom the information reached me.
This affair was very generally known in the
north, and we awaited the event with interest.
The melancholy death of the Countess about
fiveorsix months afterwards, at Brighton,sadly
verified the prognostic. I have heard that a
paper was found in her desk after her death,
declaring her conviction that the dream was
for her ; and it has been suggested that pro-
bably the thing preyed upon her mind and
caused the catastrophe ; but in the first place,
from the mode _of her death, that does not
D1g111Zed by Coogle
SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC. 185
appear tc. he the <.'ase; in the second, even if
it were, the fact of the verification of the
prognostic remains unaffected; besides, whi<.'h
those who insist upon taking refuge in this
hypothesis, are bound to admit, that before
people living in the world, like Lord and
Lady A., could attach so much importance to
the prognostic as to entail such fatal effects,
they must have had very good reason for
believing in it.
The legend connected with the drummer is,
that either himself, or some officer whose
emissary he was, had become an object of
jealousy to a former Lord A., and that he was
J>Ut to death by being thrustinto his own drum
and flung from the window of the tower in
which Miss D's room was situated. It is
said, that he threatened to haunt them if they
took his life ; and he seems to have been as
good as his word, having been heard several
times in the memory of persons yet living.
There is a curious legend attached to the
family of G. of R., to the effect, that when a
lady is confined in that house, a little old
woman enters the room when the nurse is
absent and strokes down the bed-clothes; after
which, the patient according to the technical
phrase " never does any good," and dies.
R 5
D1g111Zed by Coogle
186 SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC.
Whether the old lady has paid her vi.iits or
not, I do not know; but it is remarkable, that
the results attending several late confine-
ments there, have been fatal.
There was a legend in a certain family,
that a single swan was always seen on a par-
ticular lake before a death. A member of
this family told me, that on one occasion, the
father, being a widower, was about to enter
into a second marriage. On the wedding day,
his son, appeared so exceedingly distressed,
that the bridegroom was offended, and expos·
tulating with him, was told by the young man,
that his low !ipirits were caused by his having
seen the swan. He, the son, died that night
quite unexpectedly.
Besides Lord Littleton's dove, there are a
great many very curious stories 'recorded in
which birds have been seen in a room when
a death was impending ; but the most extra-
mdinary prognostic I know is that of the
black dog, which seems to be attached to
some families :-
A young lady of the name of P. not long
since was sitting at work, well and cheerful,
when she saw to her great surprise a large
black dog close to her. As both door and
window were closed, she could not understand
D1g111Zed by Coogle
SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC. 187
how he bad got in, but when she started up
to put him out, Rhe could no longer see him.
Quite puzzled and thinking it must be some
strange illusion, she set down again and went
on with her work, when, presently, he was
there again. Much alarmed she now ran
out and told her mother, who said she must
ha,•e fancied it, or be ill. She declared neither
was the case, and to oblige her, the mother
agreed to wait outside the door, and if she
saw it again, she was to call her. Miss P.
re-entered the room and presently there was
the dog again; but when she called her mother,
he disappeared. Immediately afterwards, the
mother was taken suddenly i.ll and died.
13efore she expired, she said to her daughter,
"Remember the black dog!"
I confess, I should have hem much dis·
posed to think this a spectral illusion, were
it not for the number ofcorroborative instances;
and I have only this morning read in the
review ofa work called " The Unseen World,''
just published, that there is a family in Com-
wall who are also warned of an approaching
death by the apparition of a black dog, and n
very curious example is quoted, in which a
lady newly married into the family, and
knowing nothing of the tradition, came down
D1g111Zed by Coogle
]88 SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC.
from the nursery to request her husband
would go up and drive away a black dog that
was lying on the child's bed. He went up
and found the child dead.
I wonder if this phenomenon is the origin
of the French phrase b~te noire, to express an
annoyance, or an augury of evil.
Mo11t persons wi1l remember the story of
Lady Fanshawe, as related by herself; namely
that whilst paying a visit to Lady Honor
O'Brien, she was awakened the first night she
slept there, by a voice, and on drawing back
the curtain she saw a female figure standing
in the recess of the window attired in white,
with red hair and a pale and ghastly aspect;
"She looked out of the window," says Ladv
Fanshawe," and cried in a loud voice, such as I
never before heard, ' A Horse ! A Horse ! A
Horse !' and then with a sigh, which rather
resembled the wind than the voice of a human
being, she disappeared. Her body appeared
to me rather like a thick cloud than a real
solid substance. I was so frightened," shP-
continues, ''that my hair stood on end and my
night cap fell off. I pushed and shook my
husband, who had slept all the time, and who
was very much surprised to find me in such a
fright, and still more so when I told him the
D1g111Zed by Coogle
SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC. 189
cause of it and showed him the open window.
Neither of us slept any more that night, but
he talked to me about it, and told me how
much more frequent such apparitions were in
that country than in England.'' This was,
however, what is called a Banshee, for in the
morning Lady Honor came to them, to say,
that one of the family had died in the 'night,
expressing a hope that they had not been
disturbed ; for said she, whenever any of the
O'Briens is on his deatl1-bed it is usual for a
woman to appear at one of the windows every
night till he expires; but when I put you into
this room I did not think of it." This appa-
rition was connected with some sad tale of
seduction and murder.
I could reiate many more instances of this
kind, but I wish as much as possible to avoid
repeating cases already in print; so I will con-
clude this chapter with the following account
of Pearlin Jean,whose perse,·ering annoyances,
at Allanbank were so thoroughly belie,•ed and
established, as to have formed at various times
a considerable impediment to letting the place.
I am indebted to Mr. Charles Kirkpatrick
Sharpe for the account of Jean and the anec-
dote that follows.
A housekeeper, called Betty Nor.rie, that
Digitized by Goog[e
190 SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC;
lived many years at Allanbank, declared she
and various other people had frequently seen
Jean, adding, that they were so used to her,
as to be no longer alarmed at her noises. .
" In my youth," says Mr. Sharpe, " Pearlin
Jean was the most remarkable ghost in Scot-
land,and my terror when a child. Our old nurse,
Jenny Blackadder, had beenaservantatAllan-
bank, and often beard her rustling in silks up
and down stairs, and along the passage. She
never saw her; but her husband did.
" She was a French woman, whom the firs'
baronet of Allanbank, then Mr. Stuart, met
with at Paris, during his tour to finish his
education as a gentleman. Some people said
she was a nun; in which case she must have
been a Sister of Charity, as she appears not to
have been confined to a cloister. After some
time, young Stuart either became faithless to
the lady, or was suddenly recalled to Scot-
land by his parents, and had got into his car-
riage, at the door of the hotel, when his Dido
unexpectedly made her appearance, and step-
ping on the fore-wheel of the coach to address
her lover, he ordered the postilion to drive on;
the consequence of which was that the lady
fell, andone of the wheels going over her fore-
head, killed her.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC. 191
"In a dusky autumnal evening, when Mr.
Stuart drove under the arched gateway of
Allanbank, he perceived Pearlin Jean sitting
on the top, her head and shoulders co,·ered
with blood.
"After this, for many years, the house was
haunted; doors shut and opened with great
noise at midnight; the rustling of silks, and
pattering of high-heeled shoes were heard in
bed-rooms and passages. Nurse Jenny said
there were seven ministers called in together
at one time, to lay the spirit; 'but they did
no mickle good, my dear.'
"The picture of the ghost was hung between
those of her lover and his lady, and kept her
comparatively quiet; but when taken away,
she became worse natured than ever. This
portrait was in the present Sir J. G.'s pos-
session. I am unwilling to record its fate.
"The ghost was designated Pearlin, from al-
ways wearing a great quantity of that sort of
lace.*
"Nurse Jenny told me that when Thomas
Blackadder was her lover (I remember Thomas
very well), they made an assignation to meet
one moonlight night in the orchard at Allan-
• A specie& of lace made of thread. Jamie~tm.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
192 SPECTR.U LIGHTS, ETC.
bank. True Thomas, of cout·se, was the first
comer; and seeing a female figure, in a light
coloured dress, at some distance, he ran for·
ward with open arms to embrace his Jenny ;
lo, and behold! as he neared the spot where
the figure stood, it vanished; and presently he
saw it again at the very end of the orchard, a
considerable way off. Thomas went home in
a fright; but .Tenny, who came last, and saw
nothing, forgave him, and they were married.
"Many years after this, about the year 1790,
two ladies paid a visit at Allanbank-1 think
the house was then let-and passed a night
there. They had never heard a word about the
ghost; but they were disturbed the whole
night with something walking backwards and
forwards in their bed-chamber. This I had
from the best authority.
" Sir Robert Stuart was created a baronet
in the year 1687.
" Lady Stapleton, grandmother of the late
Lord Le Despencer, told me, that the night
Lady Susan Fane, Lord Westmoreland's
daughter, died in London, she appeared to her
father, then at Merriworth, in Kent. He was
in bed, but had not fallen asleep. There was
a light in the room; she came in, and sat
down on a chair at the foot of the bed. He
D1g111Zed by Coogle
SPECTRAL LIGHTS, ETC. 198
said to her, 'Good God, Susan! how came you
here ? What has brought you from town ?'
She made no answer; but rose directly, and
went to the door, andlooked back towards him
very earnestly ; then she retired, shutting the
door behind her. The next morning he had
notice of her death. This, Lord Westmore-
land himself told to Lady Stapleton, who was
by birth a Fane, and his near relation."
Vot. rr. s
D1g111Zed by Coogle
CHAPTER V.
APl'ARITIONS SEEKING THE PRAYERS OF THE
LIVING.
WITH 1·egard to the appearance of ghosts, the
frequency of haunted houses, presentiments,
prognostics, and dreams, if we come to enquire
closely, it appears to me that all parts of the
world are much on an equality, only that where
people aremost engaged in businessor pleasure
these things are, in the first place,less thought
of, and less believed in, consequently less ob-
served; and when they are observed, they are
readily explained away : and, in the second
place, where the external life-the life of the
brain, wholly pre\'ails, either they do not
D1g111Zed by Coogle
APPARITIONS SEEKING PRAYERS, ETC. 195
happen, or they are not perceived-the rapport
not existing, or the receptive faculty being ob-
scured.
But although the above phenomena seem
to be equally well known in all countrit's, there
is one peculiar class of apparitions, of which I
meetwitbnorecords butin Germany. I allude to
ghosts, who, like thosedescribedin the" Seeress
of Prevorst," seek the prayers of the living. ln
spite of the positive assertions of Kerner,
Eschenmayer, and others, that after neglecting
nomeans to investigate the affair, they had been
forced into the conviction, that the spectres that
frequented Frederica Hauffe were not sub-
jective illusions, but real outstanding forms,
still, as she was in the somnambulic state,
many persons remain persuaded that the whole
thing was delusion. It is true, that as those
parties were not there, and as all those who did
go to the spot, came to a different conclusion,
this opinion being only the result of precon-
eeived notions or prejudices, and not of calm
im·estigation, is of no value whatever; never-
theless, it is not to be denied, that these nana-
tions arc very extraordinary; hut perplexing
as they are, they by no means stand alone. I
find manysimilar ones noticed in various works,
where there has been no somnambule in ques-
o'9'''zedbyGoogle ~·
J96 APPARITIONS SEEKING
tion. In all cases, these unfortunate spirits
appear to hal"e been waiting for some one with
whom they could establish a rappo1·t, so as
to be able to communicate with them; and
this waiting has sometimes endured a century
or more. Sometimes, they are seen by only
one person, at other times, by several, with
varying degrees of distinctnesA, appearing to
one as a light, to another as a shadowy figure,
and to a third as a defined human form. Other
testimonies of their presence, as sounds, foot-
steps, lights, visible removing of solid articles
without a visible agen~, odours, &c. are gene-
rally perceived by many; in short, the sounds
seem audible to all who come to the spot, with
the exception of the voice, which, in most in-
stances, is only heard by the person with whom
the rapport is chiefly established. Some cases
are related, where a mark like burning is left
on the articles seen to be lifted. This is an old
persuasion, and has given rise to many a joke;
but upon the hypothesis I have offered, the
thing is simple enough; the mark will probably
be of the same nature as that left by the elec-
trical fluid; and it is this particular, and the
lights that often accompany spirits, that have
caused the notion of material flames, sulphur,
brimstone, and so fonh, to be connected with
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE PRAYERS OF THE LIVING. 197
the idea of a future stab~. According to our
views, there can be no difficulty in conceiving,
that a happy and blessed spirit would emit a
mild radiance; whilst anger or malignity
would necessarily alter the character of the
effulgence.
As whoever wishes to see a number ofthese
cases may have recourse to my translation of
the "SeeressofPrevorst," I will hereonly relate
one, of a very remarkable nature, thatoccurred
in the prison of Weinsberg, in the year 1835.
Dr. Kerner, who has published a little
volume, containing a report of the circum-
stances, describes the place where the thing
happened, to be such. an one as negatives, at
once, all possibility of trick or imposture. It
was in a sort of blork-house or fortress---a
prison within a prison-with no windows but
what looked into a narrow court or passage,
which passage was closed with several doors.
It was on the second floor; the windows
b'eing high up, heavily barred with iron, and
immoveable without considerable mechanical
force. The external prison is surrounded by
a high wall and the gates are kept closed day
and night. The prisoners in different apart-
ments are of course, never allowed to com-
muuicate with each other, and the deputy-
s 5
o;9mzedbyGoogle
198 APPARITIO~S SEEKING
governor of the prison and his family, con-
sisting of a wife and niece, and one maid-ser-
vant, are described as people of unimpeach-
able respectabilityand veracity. As depositions
regarding this affair were laid befot·e the
magistrates; it is on them I found my
narration.
On the 12th September, 1835, the deputy-
governor, or keeper, of the jail, named Mayer,
sent in a report to the magistrates, that a
wo1Jlan called Elizabeth Eslinger, was every
night visited by a ghost, which generally came
about eleven o'clock, and which left her no
rest, as it said, she was destined to release it ;
and it always invited her to follow it; and as
she would not, it pressed heavily on her neck
and side, till it ga,·e her pain. The persons
confined with her, pretended also to have seen
this apparition.
(Signed) " MAYKR."
A woman named Rosina Schahl, condemned
to eight days' confinement for abusive lan-
guage, deposed, that about eleven o'clock,
Eslinger began to breathe hard, as if she was
suffocating; she said, a ghost was with her,
seeking his salvation. "I did not trouble myself
about it, but told her to wake me when it
came again. Last night I saw a shadowy
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE PRAYERS OF THE LIVING. 199
fonn, between four and five feet high, standing
near the bed; I did not see it move. Eslin-
ger breathed very hard, and complained of a
pressure on the side. For several days she
bas neither ate or drank any thing.
(Signed) "ScBAHL."
" COURT RESOLVES
"That Eslinger is to be visited by the prison
physician, and a report made as to her mental
and bodily health.
" Signed by the Magistrates,
"REPORT.
" EcKHARDT.
"THEURER.
"KNORR.
"Having examined the prisoner, Elizabeth
Eslinger, confined here since the beginniug of
Septemher, I found her of sound mind, but
possessed with one fixed idea, namely, tbat she
is, and has been for a considemble time,
troubled by an apparition, which leaves her
uo rest, coming chiefly by night, and re-
quiring her prayers to release it. It visited
her before she came to the prison, and was
the cause of the offence that brought her here.
Having now, in compliance with the orders of
the Supreme Court, observed this woman for
D1g111Zed by Coogle
200 APPARITIONR SEEKI:SG
eleven weeks, I am led to the conclusion that
there is no deception in this case, and also that
the persecution is not a meremonomaniacalidea
of her own, and the testimony not only of her
fellow prisoners, but that of the deputy-
governor's family, and even of persons in
distant houses, confirms me in this persuasion.
"Eslinger is a widow, aged thirty-eight
years, and declares that she never had any
sickness whatever ; neither is she aware of any
at present; but she has always been a ghost-
seer, though never till lately had any commu-
nication with them. That, now, for eleven
weeks that she has been in the prison, she is
nightly disturbed by an apparition, that had
previously visited her in her own house, and
which had been once seen, also, by a girl of
fonrteen, a statement which this girl confirms. .
When at home, the apparition did not appear
in adefinedhuman form, but as a pillar ofcloud,
outofwhich proceededa hollow voice,signifying
to her that she was to release it, by her prayers
from the cellar of a woman in Wimmenthal,
named Singhaasin, whither it was banished,
or whence it could not free itself. She, Es-
linger, says that she did not then venture to
speak to it, not knowing whether to address it
as Sie, Ikr, or Du, (that is, whether she
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE PRAYERS OF THE LIVING. 201
should address it in the second or third person,
which custom, amongst the Germans, has ren-
dered a very important point of etiquette.
It is to be remembered that this woman was
a peasant, without education, who had been
brought into trouble by taking to treasure-
seeking, a pursuit iu which she hoped to he
assisted by this sp1nt. This digging for
buried treasure is a strong passion in
Germany).
" The ghost now comes in a perfect human
shape, and is dressed in a loose robe, with a.
girdle, and has on its bead a four-cornered
cap. It bas a projecting chin and forehead,
fiery, deep-set eyes, a long beard, and high
cheek bones, which look as if they were
covered with parchment. A light radiates
about and above his head, and in the midst of
this light she sees the outlines of the spectre.
" Both she and her fellow-prisoners declare,
that this apparition comes several times in a
night, but always between the evening and
morning bell. He often comes through the
closed door or window, but they can thf'n see
neither door or window, or iron bars, they often
hear the closing of the door, and can see into
the passage when he comes in orout that way,
so that if a piece of wood lies there, they see
it. They hear a shuffling in the passage as,
D1g111Zed by Coogle
202 APPARITIONS SEEKING
he comes and goes. He most frequently
enters by the window, and they then bear a
peculiar sound there. He comes in quite
erect. Although their cell is entirely closed,
they feel a cool wind* when he is near them.
All sorts of noises are heard, particularly a
crackling. When he is angry, or in great
trouble,. they perceive a strange mouldering,
earthy smell. He often pulls away the coverlit,
and sits on .the edge of the bed. At first the
touch of his hand was icy cold, since he
became brighter, it is warmer; she first saw
the brightness at his finger-ends, it after-
wards spread further. Ifshe stretches out her
hand she cannot feel him, but when he touches
her, she feels it; he sometimes takes her bands
and lays them together, to make her pray.
His sighs and groans are like a person in
despair ; they are heard by others as well as
Eslinger. Whilst be is making these sounds,
she is often praying aloud, or talking to her
companions, so they are sure it is not she who
makes them. She does not see his mouth
move when he speaks. The voice is hollow
and gasping. He comes to her for pmyers, and
he seems to her like one in a mortal sickness,
who seeks comfort in the prayers of others.
• It is to be observed that this is the sensation asserted to be
felt by Reichenbach's patients on the approach of the magnet.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE PRAYERS OF THE LIVING. 203
Hesaysbe wasaCatholicpriest inWimmenthal,
and lived in the year 1414."
(Wimmenthal is still Catholic; the woman
Eslinger herself is a Lutheran, and belongs to
Backnang.)
"He says, that amongst othercrimes, a fraud
committed conjointly with his father, on his
brothers, presses sorely on him ; he cannot get
quit of it; it obstructs him. He always en-
treated her to go with him to Wimmenthal,
whither he was banished, or consigned, aud to
pray there for him.
"She says, she cannot tell whether what he
says istrue; and does not deny that shethought
to find treasures by his aid. She has often
told him that the prayers of a sinner, like her~
self, cannot help him, and that be should seek
the Redeemer; but he will not forbear hie en-
treaties. When she says these things, he is
sad, and presees nearer to her, and lays his
head so close that she is obliged to pray into
his mouth. He seems ltungrv for prayer.,,
She has often felt his tears on her cheek and
neck ; they felt icy cold ; but the spot soon
after bums, and they have a bluish red mark.
(These marks are visible on her skin.)
"One night this apparition brought with
him a large dog, which leapt on the beds,
D1g111Zed by Coogle
204 APPARITIONS SEEKI~G
and was seen by her fellow prisoners also, who
were much terrified, and screamed. The ghost
however spoke, and said, ' Fear not; this is my
father.' He had aince brought the dog with
him again, which alarmed them dreadfully,
and made them quite ill.
'' Both Mayer and the plisoners asserted,
that Eslinger was scarcely seen to sleep, either
by night or day, for ten weeks. she ate very
little, prayed continually, and appeared very
much wasted and exhausted. She said that
she saw the spectre alike, whether her eyelj
were open or closed, which showed that it was
a magnetic perception, and not 8eeing ·by her
bodily organs. It is remarkable that a cat be-
longing to the jail, being shut up in this
room, was so frightened when the apparition
came, that it tried to mtLke its escape by dying
against the walla ; and finding this impossible,
it crept under the coverlet of the bed, in ex-
treme terror. The experiment was made again,
with the same result; and after this second
time, the animal refused all nourishment,
wasted away, and died.
" In order to satisfy myself," says Dr.
Kerner, "of the truth of these depositions, I
went to the prison on the night of the 15th
October, and shut myself up without light in
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE PRAYERS OF THE LIVING. 2C5
Eslinger's cell. About half-past eleven I heard
a sound as of some hard body being flung
down; butnoton theside wbe1·ethe woman was,
but the opposite ; she immediately began to
breathe hard, and told me the spectre was there.
I laid my hand on her head, and adjured it as
an evil spirit to depart. I had scarcely spoken
the words when there was a strange rattling,
cracklingnoise ull round the walls, which finally
seemed to go out through the window ; and the
woman said that the spectre had departed.
"On the following night it told her, that it
was grieved at being addressed as an evil spirit,
which it was not; but one that deserved pity;
and that what it wantt!d, was p1·ayers and re-
demption.
"On the 18th October, I went to the cell
again, between ten and eleven, taking with
me my wife, and the wife of the keeper,
Mudnme Mayer. When the woman's breath-
ing .showed me the spectre was there, I laid
my hand on her, and adjured it, in gentle
terms, not to trouble her further. The same
sort of sound as before commenced, but it
was softer, and this time continued all along
the passage, where there was certainly nobody.
We all heardit.
"On the night of the 20th, I went again,
VoL. n. T
o;9mzedbyGoogle
206 APPARITIONS SEEKJ~G
with Justice Heyd. We both heard sounds
when the spectre came, and the woman could
not conceive why we did not see it. We could
not; but we distinctlyfelt a cool wind blowing
upon us, when, according to her account it was
near, although there was no aperture by which
air could enter."
On each of these occasions, Dr. K. seems to
have remained about a couple of hours.
Madame Mayer now resolved to pass a night
in the cell, for the purpose of observation;
nnd she took her niece, a girl aged nineteen,
with her ; her report is as follows :
"It was a rainy night, and in the prison
pitch dark ; my niece slept sometimes ; I re-
mained awake all night, and mostly. sitting up
in bed.
"About midnight, I saw a light come in at
the window; it was a yellowish light and
moved slowly ; and though we were closely
shut in, I felt a cool wind blowing on me. I
said to the woman, ' The ghost is here, is he
not?' She said, 'Yes,' and continued to pray,
as she had been doing before. The cool wind
and the light now approached me; my cover-
let was quite light, and I could see my hands
and arms, and at the same time I perceived an
indescribable odour of putrefaction, my face
felt as if ants were running on:r it. (Most of
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE ·PIUYERS OF THE LIVING. 207
the prisoners described themselves as feeling
the same sensation when the spectre was
there.) Then the light moved about, and went
up and down the room ; and on the door of the
cell, I saw a number of little glimmering
stars, such as I hacl never before seen. Pre·
sently, I and my niece heard a voice which I
can compare to nothing I ever heard before. It
was not like a human voice. The words and
sighs sounded as ifthey were drawn up out ofa.
deep hollow, and appeared to ascend from the
floor to the roof in a column; whilstthis voice
spoke, the woman was praying aloud: so I was
sure it did not proceed from her. No one could
produce such a sound. They were strange
superhuman sighs, and entreaties for prayers
and redemption.
'' It is very extraordinary, that whenever the
ghost spoke, I always felt it bejoreltand.
(Pl'Oving that the spirit had been able to esta·
blish a rapport with this person. She was in a
magnetic relation to him.) We heard a
crackling in the room also ; I was perfectly
awake, and in possession of my senses, and we
are ready to make oath to having seen and
beard these things."
On the 9th of December Madame Mayer
spent the night again in the cell, with her
D1g111Zed by Coogle
208 APP.c\RITIONS SEEKING
niece and her maid-servant; and her report is
as follows:
" It was moonlight, and I sat up in bed all
night, watching Eslinger. Suddenly I saw a
white shadowy form, like a small animal, cross
the room. I asked her what it was ; and she
answered, 'Don't you see its a lamb ? It often
comes with the apparition.' We then saw a
stool,that was near us, lifted andset down again
on its legs. She was in bed, alld praying the
whole time. Presently, there was such a uoise
at the window that I thought all the panes
were broken. She told us it was the ghost,
and that he was sitting on the stool. We then
heard a walking and shufiling up and down,
although I could not see him; but presently, I
felt a cool wind blowing on me, and out of
this wind the same hollow voice I had heard
,before, said,' In the name ofJesus, look on me~·
''Before this, the moon was gone, and it was
quite dark; bnt when the voice spoke t.o me, I
saw a light around u&, though still no form.
Then there was a sound of walking towards
the opposite window, and I heard the voice
say, ·' Do you see me now ?' And then for
the first time I saw a shadowy form, stretching
up as if to make itself visible to us, but could
distinguish no features.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE PRAYERS OF THE LIVING. 209
"During the rest of the night, I saw it re-
peatedly, sometimes sitting on the stool, and
at others moving about ; and I am perfectly
certain that there was no moon-light now, nor
any other light from without. How I saw it,
I cannot te11 ; it is a thing not to be described.
" Eslinger prayed the whole time, and the
more earnestly she did so, the closer the spectre
went to her. It sometimes sat upon her bed.
"About five o'clock, when he came near to
me, and I felt the cool air, I said, 'Go to my
husband, in his chamher, and ]eave a sign that
you have been there!' He answered distinctly,
'Yes.' Then we heard the door, which was
fast locked, open and shut; and we saw the
shadow 6oat out (for he Boated rather than
walked), and we heard the shuffling along the
passage.
"In a quarter of au hour we saw him return,
entering by the window; and I asked him if
he had been with my husband, and what he
had done. He answered by a sound like a
short, low, hollow laugh. Then he hovered
about without any noise, and we heard him
speaking to Eslinger, whilst she still prayed
aloud. Still, as before, I always knew when
he was going to speak. After six o'clock, we
saw him no more. · In the morning, my bus-
T 5
D1g111Zed by Coogle
210 APPARITIO:SS SEEKING
band mentioned with great surprise that his
chamber door, which he was sure be had fast
bolted and locked, even taking out the key
when he went to bed, he bad found wide open."
On the 24th, Madame Mayer passed the
night there again, but on this occasion she
only saw a white shadow coming and going,
and standing by the woman, who prayed un-
ceasingly. She also heru:d the shuffiing.
Between prisoners and the ·persons in au-
thotity who went to observe, the number of
those who testify to this phenomenon is con-
siderable ; and, although the amount of what
was perceived varied according to the recep-
tivity of the subject in each case. the evidence
of all is perfectly coincident as to the charac-
ter of the phenomena. Some saw only the
light ; others distinguished the form in the
midst of it; all heard the sound, and per-
ceived the mouldering earthy smell.
That the receptivity of the women was
greater than that of the men, after what I ha\'e
elsewhe1·e said, should excite no surprise; the
preponderance of the sympathetic system in
them being sufficient to account for the differ-
ence.
Frederica Follen, from Lowenstein, who
was eight weeks in the same cell with
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE PRAYERS OF THE LIVING. 211
Eslinger, was witness to all the phenomena,
though she only once arrived at seeing the
spectre in its perfect human form, as the latter
saw it. But it frequently spoke to her, bidding
her amend her life; and remember that it was
one who had tasted of death that give her this
counsel. This circumstance had a great effect
upon her.
When any of them swore, the apparition
always evinced much displeasure, grasped them
by the throat, and forced them to pray. Fre-
queutly, when he came or went, they said it
.sounded like a flight of pigeon!'.
Catherine Sinn, from Mayenfels, was con-
fined in an adjoining room fora fortnight. After
her release, she was inteJTogated bythe minister
of her parish, and deposed that she had known
-nothing of Eslinger, or the spectre, " but
every night, being quite alone, I heard a
rustling and a noise at the window, which
looked only into the passage. I felt and heard,
though I could not see anybody, that some one
was moving about the room; these sounds
were accompanied by a cool wind, though the
place was dosely shut up. I heard also a
crackling, and a shuffiing, and a sound as if
gravel were thrown ; but could find none in
the morning. Once it seemed to me that a
D1g111Zed by Coogle
212 APPARITIONS SEEKING
hand was laid ~Softly ou my forehead. I did
not like staying alone, on account of these
things; and begged to be put into a room with
others; t~o I was placed with Eslinger and
Follen. The same things continued here, and
they told me about the ghost; but not being
alone, I was not so frightened. I oftf'n heard
him speak; it was hollow and slow; not like
a human voice; but I could seldom catch the
words; when be left the prison, which was
generally about five in the moming, he used to
say, 'Pray!' and when he did so, he would
add,' God reward you!' I never saw him dis•
tinctly till the last morning 1 was there; then,
I saw a white shadow standing by Eslinger's
bed. (Signed) CATHERINE SrNN,
" Minister Binder, Mayenfels."
It would be tedious were I to copy the de-
positions of all the prisoners ; the expc1ience
of most of them being similar to the above.
I will therefore content myself with giving an
abstract of the most remarkable particulars.
Besides the crackling, rustling as of paper,
walking, shuflling, concussions of the windows,
and of their beds, &c. &c. they heard some-
times a fearful cry ; and not unfrequently the
bed-coverings were pulled from them ; it
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE PRAYERS OF THE LIVING. 213
appearing to be the object of the spirit to
manifest himself thus to those to whom he
could not make himself visible; and as I find
this pulling off the bed-clothes and heaving up
the bed, as if some one were under it, repeated
in a ''ariety of cases, foreign and English, I
conclude the motive to be the same. Several
of the women heard him speak.
All these depositions are contained in Dr.
Kerner's report to the magistrates; and he
concludes. by saying, that there can be no
doubt of the fact of the woman Elizabeth
Eslinger suffering these annoyances, by what-
e,·ername people may choose to call them.
Among'lit the most remarkable phenomena,
is the real or apparent opening of the doot· ; so
that they could see what was in the passage.
Eslinger said that the spirit was often sur-
rounded by a light, and his eyes looked fiery,
and there sometimes came with him two Jambs,
which occasionally appeared as stars. He often
took hold of Eslinger, and made her sit up, put
her bands together, that she might pray; and
once he appeared to take a pen and paper from
under his gown, an<l wrote, laying it on her
coverlet.
It is extremely curious, that on two occa-
sions Eslinger saw Dr. Kerner and Justice
D1g111Zed by Coogle
214 APPARITIONS SEEKING
Heyd ent.er with the ghost, when they were
not there in the body, and both times Heyd
was enveloped in a black cloud. The ghost,
on being asked, told Eslinger that the cloud
indicated that trouble was impending. A few
days afterwards, his child died very unexpec-
tedly, and Dr. Kerner now remembered, that
the first time Eslinger said she had seen Heyd
in this way, his father had died directly after-
wards. Kerner attended both patients, and
was thus associated in the symbol. Follen
also saw these two images, and spoke, be-
lieving the one to be Dr. Kerner himself.
On other occasions, she saw strangers come
in with the ghost, whom afterwards, when
they really came in the body, she recognised ;
this seems to have been a sort of second sight.
Dr. K. says, I think justly enough, that if
Eslinger had been feigning, she never would
have ventured on what seemed so improbable.
Some of the women, after· the spectre had
visibly leant over them, or had spoken into
their ears, were so affected by the odour he
diffused, that they vomited, and could not eat
till they had taken an emetic, and those parts
oftheir persons that he touched became painful
and swollen, an effect I find produced in
numerous other instances.
Digitized by Goog[e
THE PRAYERS OF THJ!: LIVING. 215
The following particulars are worth ob-
sen·ing, in the evidence of a girl Rixteen years
of age, called Margaret Lnibesberg, who was
confined for ten days for plucking some grapes
in a vineyard. She snys, she knew nothing
about the spectre, but that she was greatly
alarmed, the first night, at hearing the door
burst open, and something come shufiling in.
Eslinger bade her not fear, and said that it
would not injure her. The girl, however,
being greatly terrified eYery night, and biding
her head under the bed-clothes, on the fourth
Eslinger got out of her own bed, and coming
to her, said, "Do, in the name of God, look at
him ! He will do you no harm, I assure you."
"Then," says the girl, "I looked out from
under the clothes, and I saw two white forms,
like two lambs-so beautiful that I could have
looked at them for ever. Between them
stood a white, shadowy form, as tall ao a man,
but I was not able to look longer, for my eyes
failed me.'' The terrors of this girl were so
great, that Eslinger had repeatedly occasion
to get out of bed and fetch her to lie with
herself. When she could be induced to look,
she always saw the figure, and he bade her
also pray for him. Whenever he touched her,
which be did on the forehead and eyes, she
D1g111Zed by Coogle
216 APPAUITIONS SEEKI~G
felt pain, but says nothing of any subsequent
swelling. Both this girl and another, called
Neidhardt, who was brought in on the last
clay of Margaret L.'il imp1isonment, testified,
that, on the previous night, they bad beard
Eslinger ask the ghost, " Why he looked so
angry ?" And that they had heard him
answer, that it was " Because she bad, on the
preceding night, neglected to pray for him as
much as usual," which neglect arose from two
gentlemen having passed the night in the cell.
When on the tenth day the girl Margaret L.
was released, she said that there was some-
thing so awful to her in this apparition, that
she had firmly resolved and vowed to be
pious, and lead, hen('eforth, a virtuous life.
Some of them seem to have felt little alarm ;
Maria Bar, aged forty-one, said," I was not
afraid, for I have a good conscience.'' The
offences for which these women \vere confined
appear to have been very slight ones, such as
quarrelling, and so forth.
In a room that opened into the same pas-
sage, men were shut up for disputing with the
police, neglect of regulations, and similar mis-
demeanours. These persons not only heard
the noises as above described, such as the
walking, shuffling, opening and shutting
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE PRAYERS OF THE LIVING. 217
the door, &c. &c., but some of them saw
the ghost. Christian Bauer deposed, that he
bad never beard anything about the ghost, but
that, being disturbed by a knocking and rust-
ling towards three o'dock on the second
morning of his incarceration, he looked up,
and saw a white figure bending over him, and
heard a strange hollow voice say," You must
needs have patience !" He said, he thought
it must be his grandfather, at which Stricker,
his companion, laughed. Stricker deposed,
that he heard a hollow voice say, " You must
nP.eds have patience," and that Bauer told him
that there was a white apparition near him,
and that he supposed it was his grandfather.
Bauer said, that he was frightened the first
night, but got used to it, anO. did not mind.
It is worthy of observatiou, that when they
heard the door of the women's room open, they
also heard the voice of Eslinger praying, which
seems as if the door not only appeared to open,
but actually did so. We have already seen
that thia spirit could open doors. In the
'' Seeress of Prevorst," the doors were cou-
stantly ri&ibly and audibly opened, as by au
unseen hand, when she saw a spectre enter;
and I know to an absolute certainty, that the
same phenomenon takes place in a house not
VoL. n. u
D1g111Zed by Coogle
218 APPARITIONS SEEKING
far from where I am writing; and this, some-
times, when there are two people sleeping in
the room-a lady and gentleman. The door
ha,·ing been fast locked when they went to
bed, the room thoroughly examined, and every
possible precaution taken, for they are un-
willing to believe in the spiritual character of
the disturbances that annoy them-they are
aroused by a consciousness that it is opening,
and they do find it wide open, on rising to
investigate the fact.
One of the most remarkable proofs, either of
the force of volition or of the electrical powers
of the apparition that haunted Eslinger, or
else of his power to imitate sounds, was the
real, or apparent, vi•>lent shaking of the heavy,
iron-barred window, which it is asserted the
united efforts ofsix men could not shake at all,
when they made the experiment.
The Supreme Court having satisfied itself
that there was no imposture in this case, it
was p10posed that some men of science should
be invited to investigate the strange pheno-
menon, and endeavour, if possible, to explain
it. Accordingly, not only Dr. Kerner him-
self and his son, but many othe1·s, passed
nights in the prison, for this purpose.
Amongst these, besides some ministers of the
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE PRAYERS OF THE LIVING. 219
Lutheran Church, there was an engraver, called
Duttenhofer; Wagner, an artist; Kapff, pro-
fessor of mathematics at Heilbronn ; Fraas, a
barrist41r; Doctors Seyffer and Sicherer, phy-
sicians; Heyd, a magistrate ; Baron von Hugel,
&c. &c.; hut their perquisitions elicited no
more than has been already narrated ; all
heard the noises, most of them saw the lights,
and some saw the figure. Duttenhofer and
Kapff saw it without a defined outline ; it
was itself bright, but did not illuminate the
room. Some of the sounds appeared to them
like the discharging of a Leyden jar. There
was also a throwing of gravel, and a heavy
dropping of water, but neither to be found.
Professor Klapff says, that be was quite cool
and self-possessed, till there was such a
violent concussion of the heavy barred win-
dow, that he thought it must have come in;
then both he and Duttenhofer felt horror-
struck.
As they could not see the light emitted by the
spectre when the room was otherwise lighted,
they were in the dark; but they took every care
to ascertain that Eslinger was in her bed whilst
these things were going on. She prayed aloud
the whole time, unless when speaking to them.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
220 APPARITIONS SEEKING
By the morning, she used to be dreadfully ex-
ha\]sted, from this continual exertion.
It is also mentioned, that the straw on which
she lay was frequently changed and examined,
and every means taken to ascertain that the1·e
was nothing whatever in her ¥09Session that
could enable her to perfonn any sort ofjugglery.
Her fellow prisoners were also invited to tell
all they knew or could discover; and a remission
of their sentences promised to those who would
make known the imposition, if there were one.
Dr. Sicherer, who was accoJDpanied by Mr.
Frass, says, that having heard of these pheno-
mena, which he thought the more unaccount-
able from the circumstances of the woman's age
and condition, &c., she being a healthy hard-
working person, aged thirty-eight, who had
never known sickness, he was very desirou&
of enquiring personally into the affair.
Whilst they were in the comt of the prison,
waiting for admittance, they heard extraordi-
nary noises, which could not be accounted for,
and dm·ing the night there was a repetition of
those above described; especially the apparent
throwing of gravel, or peas, which seemed to
fall so near him that he involuntarily covered
his face. Then followed the feeling of a cool
Digitized by Goog[e
THE PRAYERS OF THE LIVING. 221
wind; and then the oppressive odour, for
which, he says, he can find no comparison,
and which almost took away his breath. He
was perfectly satisfied that it wa~ no smell ori-
ginating in tha locality or the state of the
prison. Simultaneously with the perception
of this odour, he saw a thick grey cloud, of no
defined shape, near Eslinger's bed. When this
cloud disappeared, the odour was no longer
pP-rceptible. It was a fine moonlight night,
and there was light enough in the room to
distinguish the beds, &c. The same pheno-
mena recurred several times during the night;
Eslinger was heard, each time the ghost was
there, praying and reciting hymns. They also
l1eard her say," Don't press my hands so hard
together!" "Don't touch me!'' and so forth.
The voice of the spirit they did not hear. To-
wards three or four o'clock, they heard heavy
blows, footsteps, opening and shutting of the
door, and a concussion of the whole house,
that made them think it was going to fall on
their heads. About six o'clock, they saw the
phantom again; and altogether these pheno-
mena recurred at least ten times in the course
of the night.
Dr. Sicherer concludes by saying, that he
had undertaken the investigation with a mind
u ~
D1g111Zed by Coogle
222 APPARITIONS SEEKING
entirely unprepossessed; and that in the re-
port he made, at the desire of the Supreme
Court, he had recorded his observations as
conscientiously as if he had been upon a jury.
He adds, that he had examined everything;
and that neither in the person of the woman,
nor in any other of the inmates of the prison,
could he find the smallest grounds for sus-
picion, nor any clue to the mystery, which, in
a scientific point of view appeared to him
utterly inexplicable. Dr. Sicherer's report is
dated Heilbronn, January 8, 1836.
Mr. Fraas, who accompanied him, confinns
the above statement, in every particular ; with
the addition, that he several times saw a light
of a varying circumference, moving about the
room ; and that it was whilst he saw this, that
the woman told him the ghost was there. He
also felt an oppression of the breath and a
pressure on his forehead each time before the
apparition came, especially once, when al-
though he had carefully abstained from men-
tioning his sensations, she told him it was
standing close at his head. He stretched out
his hand ; but perceived nothing, except a co<)l
wind and an overpowering smell.
Dr. Seyffer being there, one night, with Dr.
Kerner, in order to exclude the possibility of
o;9mzedbyGoogle
TBE PRAYERS OF TBE LIVING. 221
light entering through the window, they
stopped it up. They, however, saw the phos-
phorescent light of the spectre, as before. It
moved quietly about; and remained a quarter
of an hour. The room was otherwise perfectly
dark; the sounds accompanying it were like
the dropping of water and the discharge of a
Leyden jar. They fully ascertained that these
phenomena did not proceed from the woman.
I have already given the depositions of
Madame Mayer, the wife of the deputy-
governor, or keeper of the prison, who is
spoken of as a highly respectable person.
Mayer him~elf, however, though quite unable
to account for all these extraordinary pro-
ceedings, found great difficulty in believing
that there was anything supernatural in the
affair ; and he told Eslinger that if she wished
him to be com·inced, she must send the ghost
to do it.
He says, "The night after I bad said this, I
went to bed and to sleep, little expecting such
a visitor; but towards midnight, I was
awakened by something touching my left
elbow, this was followed by a pain ; and in the
morning, when I looked at the place, I saw
several blue spots. I told Eslinger that this
was not enough, and that she must tell the
D1g111Zed by Coogle
224 APPARITIONS SEEKING
ghost to touch my other elbow. This was
done on the following night, and, at the same
time, I perceived a smell like putrefaction.
The blue spots followed." (It will be remem-
bered that Eslinger had blue spots also.)
Mayer continues to say, that the spectre
made known its presence in his chamber by
various sounds, such as were beard in the
other part of the housP.. He never saw the
figure distinctly, but his wife did; she always
prayed when it was there. He, however, felt
the cool wind that they all described.
The ghost told Eslinger that he should con-
tinue his visits to the prison after she had
quitted it, and he did so. The second night
after her release, they felt his approach,
especially from the cool wind, .and Madame
Meyer desired him to testify his presence
to her husband. Immediately there were
sounds like a wind instrument, and thejjle were
repeated at her desire.
The prisoners also heard and felt the appa-
rition after Eslinger's departure, and Mayer
says he is perfectly assured, that in this jail,
where the inmates were frequently changed,
everybody was. locked up, and every place
thoroughly examined, it was utterly impos-
sible for any trick to be played. Besides
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE PRAYERS OF THE LIVING. 225
which, all parties agreed that the sounds were
often of a description that could not have been
produced by any known means.
But it was not to the prison alone that this
apparition confined his visits. To whomsoever
Eslinger sent him, he went, testifying his
presence by the same signs as above described.
He visited the chambets of se,·eral of the
magistrates, of a teacher called Neuffer, of the
Referendary Burger, of a citizen n umed
Rummel, and many others. Of these, some
only perceived his presence by the noises, the
cool air, the smell, or the touch; othet·s saw
the light also, and others perceived the figure
with more or less distinctness.
A Mr. Dorr,of Heilbronn, seems to have
scoffed Yery much at these rumours, and Dr.
Kerner bade Eslinger ask the ghost to con-
vince him, which she did.
Mr. Dorr says, "When I beard these things
talked of, I always laughed at them, and was
thought very sensible fol' so doing; now I shall
be laughed at in my turn, no doubt."
He then l'elates that, on the morning of the
30th December, 1835, he awoke, as usual, about
five o'clock, and was thinking of some business
he had in band, when he became conscious
that there was something near him, and he
D1g111Zed by Coogle
226 APPARITIONS SEEKING
felt as if it blew cold upon him. He started
up, thinking some animal had got into his
room, but could find nothing. Next he heard
a noise, like sparks from au electrical machine,
and then a report clo~e to his right ear. Had
there been anything visible, it was light
enough to see it. This report was frequently
heard in the prison.
Wherever the apparition once made a visit,
he generally continued to go for several suc-
cessive nights. He also visited Professor
Kapff, at Heilhronn, and Baron von Hugel at
Eschenau, without being desired to do so by
Eslinger; and Neuffer, whom he also went to,
she knew nothing of.
When he visited Dr. Kerner's chamber, his
wife, who had prided herself on her incre-
dulity, and boasted of being born on St.
Thomas's Day, was entirely converted, for she
not only heard him, but saw him distinctly.
He visited them for several nights, accom-
panied by the noises and the light.
One night, whilst lying awake obsening
these phenomena,they fancied they heard their
horse come out of his stable, which was under
their room. In the morning, he was found
standing outside, with his halter on; it was
not broken, and it was evident that the horse
o;9mzedbyGoogle
THE PRAYERS OF THE LIVING. 227
had not got loosfl by any violence. Moreover,
the door of the stable wa!l closed behind him,
as it had been at night, when he was shut up.
Dr. K.'s sister, who came from a distance
to visit them, had heard very little about this
affair, yet she was awakened by a sound that
seemed like some one trying to speak into her
ear ; and, looking up, she saw two stars, like
those described by Margaret Laibesberg. She
observed that they emitted no rays; She also
felt the cool air, and perceived the corpse-like
odour. This odour accompanied the ghost
even when he appeared at Heilbronn.
It is remarkable that some of these persons,
both men and women, felt themselves unable
to move or call out, whilst the spectre was
there ; and that they were relieved the moment
he went away. They appeared to be magnet-
ised ; but this feeling was by no means uni-
versal. Many were perfectly composed and
self-possessed the whole time, and made their
observations to each other. All agreed that
the speaking of the apparition seemed like
that of a person making efforts to speak. Now,
as we are to presume that he did not speak hy
means of organs, as we do, but that he imi-
tated the sounds of words as he imitated other
sounds, by some means with which we are un-
o,9itized byGoogle
228 APPARITIOSS SEEKIXG
acquainted-for since the noises were heard
hy everybody within bearing, we must suppose
that they actually existed-we, who know the
extreme difficulty of imitating human speech,
may conceive how this imitation should be
very defective.
Dutthenhofer and others remarked, that
there was no echo from the sounds, as well as
that the phosphorescence shed no light around;
and though the spectre could touch them, or
produce the sensation that he did, they could
not feel him ; but, as in all similar cases, could
thrust their hands through what appeared to be
his body. The sensation of his falling tears,
and the marks they left, seem most unac-
countable ; and yet, in the records of a ghost
that haunted the Countess of Eberstein, in
1685, we find the same thing asserted. This
account was made public by the authority of
the Consistorial Court, and with the consent of
the family.
At length, on the 1ltb of February, the
ghost took his departure from Eslinger; at
least, after that day he was no more seen or
heard by her or anybody else. He had always
entreated her to go to Wimmenthal, where he
had formerly lived, to pray for him ; and, after
she was released from the jail, by the advice of
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE PRAYERS OF THE LIVING, 220
her friends, she did it. Some of them accom-
panied her; and they saw the apparition near
her whilst she was kneeling in the open air,
though not all with equal distinctness. A very
respectable woman, called Womer, a stranger
to Eslinger, whom she says she never saw or
s~ke to till that day, offered to make oath,
that she bad accompanied her to Wimmenthal,
and that wit'b the other friends, she had stood
about thirty paces off, quite silent and still,
.whilst the woman knelt and prayed ; and that
she had seen the apparition of a man, accom-
panied by two smaller spectres, hovering near
her. " When the prayer was ended, he went
close to her, and there was a light like a fall-
ing star; then I saw something like a white
cloud, that seemed to float away; and after
that, we saw no more."
Eslinger had been very unwilling to under-
take this expedition: she took leave of her
children before she started, and evidently ex-
pected mischief would befall her; and now, on
approaching her, they found her lying cold
aud insensible. When they had re,·ived her,
she told them, that on bidding her farewell,
before he ascended, which he did, accom-
panied by two bright infantine forms, the ghost
had asked he1· to give him her hand; and that
VoL. 11. x
D1g111Zed by Coogle
230 APPARITIONS SEEKING
after wrapping it in her handkerchief, she had
complied. A small flame had arisen from the
handkerchief when he touched it; and we
found the marks of his fingers like burns, but
without any smell. This, however, was not
the cause of her fainting; but she had been
terrified by a troop of frightful animals that
she saw rush past her, when the spirit floated
away.
From this time, nobody, either in the prison
or out of it, was troubled with this apparition.
This is certainly a very extraordinary story;
and what is more extraordinary, such cases do
not seem to be very uncommon in GermanJ. I
meet with many recorded: and an eminent
German scholar, of my acquaintance, tells me
that he has also heard of several, and was sur-
prised that we have no similar instances here.
If these things occuned merely amongst the
Roman Catholics, we might be inclined to
suppose they had some connexion with their
notion of purgatory: but, on the contrary, it
appears to be amongst the Lutheran popn·
lation they chiefly occur; insomuch that it
has even been suggested, that the omission of
prayers for the dead, in the J...utheran Chmch,
is the cause of the phenomenon. But, on the
other hand, as in the present case, and in se.
;9mzedbyGoogle
THE PRAYERS OF THE LIVING. 231
veral others, the person that revisits the earth
was of the Catholic persuasion when alive, we
are bound to suppose that he had the benefit of
his own Church's prayers. I am here ns-
i!'lltning that all the a.bo,·e strange phenomena
were really produced by the agency of an appa-
rition : if they were not, what were they ? The
three physicians, who were amongst the
visitors, must have been perfectly aware of the
contagious nature of some forms of nervous
disorder, and from the previous incredulity of
two of them they must have been quite pre-
pared to regard these phenomena fmm that
point of view; yet they seem unable to bring
them under the category of sensuous illusions.
The apparentlyelectrical nature ofthe lights,
and of several of the. sounds, is very remark-
able, as are also the swellings produced on some
of the persons by the touch of the ghost,which
remind us of Pmfessor Hofer's case, mentioned
in a former chapter. The apparitions of the
dog and the lambs also, strange as they are,
are by no means isolated cases. These appear-
ances seem to be symbolical : the father bad
been evil, and had led his son to do evil, and
he appeared in the degraded form of a dog;
and the innocence of the children who had
been, probably, in some way wronged, was
D1g111Zed by Coogle
2.32 APPARITIONS SEEKING
symbolised by their appearing as lambs. "If
I had lived as a beast," said an apparition to
the Seeress of Prevorst, "I should. appear
as a beast.'' These symbolical transfigurations
cannot appear very extravagent to those who
accept the belief of many theologians, that the
serpent ofthe garden of Eden waa an evil spirit
incarnated in that degraded form.
How far the removal of the horse out of
his stable was connected with the rest of the
phenomena, it is impossible to say; but a
similar circumstance has very lately occurred
with regard to a dog that was locked up in the
house in this neighbourhood, which I have
se,·eral times alluded to, where footsteps and
rusdings are heard, doors are opened, and a
feeling that some one is blowing, or breathing
upon them, is felt by the inhabitants.
The holes burnt in the handkerchief are
also quite in accordance with many other re-
lations of the kind, especially that of the
maid of Orlach, and also that of the Ham-
merschan family, mentioned in "Stilling's
Pneumatology," when a ghost who had beeQt
as he said, waiting one hundred and twenty
years for some one to release him by their
prayers, was seen to take a handkerchief, on
which he left the marks of his five finger~;,
appearing like burnt spots. A Bible he
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE PR.\YERS OF THE LIVING. 2!.$3
touched was marked in the same manner, and
these two memento's of the apparition were
carefully retained in the family. This par-
ticularity, also, reminds us of Lord Tyrone's
leaving the marks of his hand on Lady Beres-
ford's wrist, on which she ever afterwards wore
a black ribbon. In several instances I find it
reported that when an apparition is requested
to render himself visible to, or to enter into
communication with, other persons, besides
those to whom he addresses himself, he
answers that it is impossible ; and in other
cases that he could do it, but that the conse-
quences to those persons would be pernicious.
This, together with the circumstance of their
waiting so long for the right person, tends
strongly to support the hypothesis that an
intense magnetic rapport is necessary to any
facility of intercourse. It also appears that
the power of establishing this.rapport with one
or more persons, varies exceedingly amongst
these denizens of a spiritual world, some being
only able to render themselves audible, others
to render themselves visible to one person,
·whilst a few seem to possess considerably
greater powers, or privileges.
Another particular to be observed is, that in
many instances, if not in all, these spirits are
x:)
Digitized by GoogIe
234 APPA_RITIONS SEEKING
what theGermans call gebannt, that is, ban11ed,·
or proscribed, or, as it were, tetltered to a cer-
tain spot, which they cau occasionally leave, as
Anton did the ct-llar at Wimmenthal, to which
he was gebannt, but from which they cannot
f1·ee themselves. To this spot they seem to be
attached, as by an invisible chain, whether by
the:memoryof a crime committed there, or by
a buried treasure, or even by its being the
receptacle of their own bodies. In short, it
tieems perfectly clear, admitting them to be
apparitions of the dead, that, whatever the
bond may be which keeps them down, they
cannot quit the ea1th ; they are, as St. Martin
says, remainers, not returners, and this seems
to be the explanation ofhauuted houses.
In the year 1827, Ch1istian Eiseugrun, a
respectable citizen of Neckarsteinach, was
visited by a ghost of the above kind, and the
particulars were judicially recorded. He was
at Eherbach, in Baden, working ns a potter,
which was his trade, in the manufactory of
Mr. Gehrig, when he was one night awakened
by a noise in his chamber, and, on looking up,
he saw a faint light, which presently assumed
a human form, attired in a loose gown; he
could see no head. He had his own head
under the clothes; but it presently spoke, and
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE PRAYERS OF THE LIVING, 235
'told him that he was destined to release it, and
that for that purpose he must go to the
Catholic churchyard of Neckarsteinach, and
there, for twenty-one successive days, repeat
the following verse from the New Testament,
before the stone sepulchre there :- ·
" For what man knoweth the things of a
man, save the spirit of man which is in him ?
~o the things of God knoweth no man, but
the spirit of God."-1 Cor. ii. 11.
The ghost having repeated his visits and
his request, the man consulted his master
what he shou]d do, and he advised him not
to trifle with the apparition, but to do what he
required, adding that he had known many
similar instances. Upon this, Eisengrun went
to Neckarsteinach, and addressed himself to
the Catholic priest there, named Seitz, who
gave him the same counsel, together with his
blessing, and also a hymn of Luther's, whi~h
he bade him learn and t·epeat, as well as the
verse, when he visited the sepulchre.
As there was only one stone sepulchre in
the churchyard, Eisengrun had no difficulty in
finding it; and whilst he performed the set·-
vice imposed on him by the ghost, the latter
stood on the grave with his hands folded, as if
in prayer; but when he repeated the hymn, he
D1g111Zed by Coogle
2:36 APPARITIOl\8 SEEKING
moved rapidly backwards and forwards, but
still not overstepping the limits of the stone.
The man,_though very frightened, persevered
in the thing for the time imposed, twenty-one
days; and duriug this period he saw the perfect
form of the apparition, which had no covering
on its head except very whitP. hair. It always
kept its hands folded, and had large eyes, in
which he never perceived any motion ; this
filled him with horror. Many persons went to
witness the ceremony.
The surviving nephews and nieces of the
apparition brought an action against Eisen-
grun, and they contrived to have him seized
and carried to the magistrate's house, one day,
at the time he should have gone to the church-
yard. But the ghost came and beckoned, and
made signs to him to follow him, till the man
was so much affected and terrifit>d, that he
hurst into tears. The two magistrates could
not see the spectre, but feeling themselves
seized with a cold shudder, they consented to
his going.
He was then publicly examined in court,
together with the offended family and a num-
ber of witnesses, and the result was, that he
was permitted to continue the service for the
twenty-one days, after which he never saw or
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE PRAYERS OF THE LIVING. 237
heard more of the ghost, who had been for-
merly a rich timber-merchant. The tE'nor and
anxiety attendant on these daily visits to the
churchyard, affected Eisengrun so much, that
he was some time before he recovered his usunl
health. He had all his life been a ghost-seer,
but had never had communication with any
before this event.
The Catholic priest, in this instance, appears
to have been more liberal than the deceased
timber-merchant, for the latter did not seem to
like the Lutheran hymn, which the former
prescribed. His dissatisfaction, however, may
have arisen from their making any addition to
the formula be bad himself indicated.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
CHAPTER VI.
THE POLTERGEIST OF THE GERMANS, AND
POSSESSION.
WITH regard to the so-called hauntings, re·
felTed to in the preceding chapter, there seems
reason to belie,·e that the invisible guest was
formerly a dweller upon earth, in the flesh, who
is prevented by some circumstance which we
are not qualified to explain, from pursuing the
d~stiny of the human race, by entering freely
into the next state prepared for him. He is
like an unfortunate caterpillar that cannot en-
tirely free itself from the integuments of its
reptile life which chain it to the earth, whilst
its fluttering wings vainly seek to bear it into
D1g111Zed by Coogle
THE POLTERGEiST OF THE GERMANS, ETC. 230
the region to which it now belongs. But there
is another kind of haunting, which is still more
mysterious and strange, though by no means
unfrequent, and which, from the odd, sportive
mischievous nature of the disturbances created,
one can scarcely reconcile to our notions of~
what we understand by the term glwst. :For
in those cases where the unseen visitant appears
to be the spirit of a person deceased, we see
evidences of grief, remorse, and dissatisfaction,
together with, in many instances, a disposition
to repeat the acts of life, or~ at least, to simulate
a repetition of them: but there is nothing
sportive or mischievous, nor, except where au
injunction is disobeyed, or a request refused,
are there generally any evidences of anger or
malignity. But in the other cases alluded to,
the annoyances appear rather like the tricks of
a mischievous imp. I refer to what the Ger-
mans call the Poltergeist, or racketing spectre,
for the phenomenon is known in all countries,
and has been known in all ages.
Since hearing of the phenomenon of the elec-
tric girl, which attracted so much attention and
occasioned so much controversy in Paris lately,
and other similar cases, which have since,
reached me, I feel doubtful whether some of
these strange circumstances may not have been
D1g111Zed by Coogle
240 THE POLTERGEIST
connected. with electricity in one form or
another. The famous story of what is fami-
liarly called the Stockwt>ll Ghost, for ex-
ample, might possibly be brought under this
category. I have heard some people assert,
that the mystery of this affair was subsequently
explained away, and the whole found to be a
trick. But that is a mistake. Some years ago,
I was acquainted with persons whose parents
were living on the spot at the time, who knew
all the details, and to them it remained just as
g1·eat a mystery as ever. Nut the smallest light
had ever been thrown upon it. People are t;O
glad to get rid of tmuhlesome mysteries of this
description, that they; are always ready to say,
".The trick has been found out!'' and those
who pride themselves on not believing idle
stories, are to the last degree credulous when
" the idle story" flatters their scepticism.
The circumstances of the so-called Stock-
well Ghost, which I extract from a report pub-
li~hed at the time, are as follows.
Th~ pamphlet was entitled-
" An Authentic, Candid, and Circumstantial
Narrative, of the astonishing Transactions
at Stockwell, in the County of Sun-ey, on
Monday and Tuesday, the 6th and 7th days
of January, 1772, containing a Series of the
o 1
git1
zed byGoogle
OF THE GERMANS, ETC. !~ 1
most surprising a.nd unaccountable Events
that ever happened, which continued from
first to last, upwards of Twenty Hours, and
at different places.
" Published with the consent and approbation
of the family and other parties concerned, to
authenticate which, the original copy is
signed by them.
"Before we enter upon a description of the
most extraordinary transactions that perhaps
ever happened, we shall begin with an account
of the parties who werE' principally concerned,
and in justice to them, give their characters,
by which means the impartial world may see
what credit is due to the following narrative.
" The events indeed are of so strange and
singular a nature, that we cannot be at a11
surprised the public should be doubtful of the
truth of them, more especially as there have
been too many impositions of this sort; but,
let us consider. here are no sinist~r ends to be
answered, no contributions to be wished for,
nor would be accepted, as the parties are in
reputable situations and good circumstances,
particularly Mrs. Golding, who is a lady of an
independent fortune: Richard Fowler and his
wife might be looked upon as an exception to
this assertion; but as their loss was trivial, they
VoL. n. Y
D1g111Zed by Coogle
242 THE POJ,TERGEIST
must be left out of the question, except so far
as they appear corroborating evidences.
'' Mr. Pain's maid lost nothing.
" How or by what means these transactions
were brought about has never transpired: we
have only to rest our confidence on the veracity
of the parties, whose descriptions have been
most strictly attended to, without the least de-
,·iation : nothing here offered is either exagge-
rated or diminished, the whole stated in the
clearest manner, justas they occurred : as such
only we lay them before the candid and im-
partial public.
"Mrs. Golding, an elderly lady, at Stock-
well,in Surrey,at whose house the transactions
began, was born in the same parish (Lambeth)
has lived in it e,·er since, and has always been
well known, and respected as a gentlewoman
of unblemished honour and character. Mrs.
Pain, a niece of Mrs. Golding, has been mar-
t·ied several years to Mr. Pain, a farmer, at
Brixton Causeway, a little above Mr. Angel's,
has several children, and is well known and
respected in the parish. Mary Martin, Mr.
Pain's servant, an elderly woman, has lived two
years with them, aud four years with Mrs.
Golding, where she came from. Richard Fowler
lives almost opposite to Mr. Pain, at the Brick
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMANR, ETC. 248
Pound, an honest, industrious and sober man.
And Sarah Fowler, wife to the a'bove, is an in-
dustrious and sober woman.
" These are the subscribing evidences that
we must rest tha truth of the facts upon : yet
there are numbers of other persons who were
• eye-witnesses of many of the transactions,
during the time they happened, all of whom
must acknowledge the truth of them.
" Another person who bore a principal part
in these scenes was Anu Robinson, Mrs. Gold-
ing's maid, a young woman, about twenty years
old, who had liver! with her but one week and
three days. So much for the Histori<e Per-
son<£, and now for the narrative.
"On Monday, January the 6th, 1772, about
ten o'clock in the forenoon, as Mrs. Golding
was in her parlour, she heard the china and
glasses in the back kitchen tumble down and
break ; her maid came to her and told her the
stone plates were falling from the shelf; Mrs.
Golding went into the kitchen and saw them
broke. Presently after, a row of plates from
the next shelf fell down likewise, while she
was there, and nobody near them ; this aston-
ished her much, and while she was thinking
about it, other things in different places began
to tumble about, some of them breaking, at-
D1g111Zed by Coogle
244 THE POLTERGElST
tended with violent noises all over the house.
'
a clock tumbled down and the case broke ; a
lanthom that ln?-ng on the stair-case was
thrown uown and the ~lass broke to pieces;
an earthen pan of salted beef broke to pieces,
and the beef fell about: all this increased her
surprise, and brought several persons about
her, among whom was Mr. Rowlidge, a car-
penter, who gave it as his opinion, that the
foundation was giving way and that the house
was tumbling down, occasioned by the too
great weight of an additional room erected
above: so ready are we to discover natural
causes for everything! But no such thing
happened as the reader will find, for whatever
was the cause, that cause ceased almost as
soon as Mrs. Golding and her maid left any
place, and followed them wherever they went.
Mrs. Golding ran into Mr. Gresham's house,
a gentleman living next door to her, where
she fainted.
"In the interim, Mr. Rowlidge and other
persons were removing Mrs. Golding's effects
from her house, tor fear of the consequences
he had prognosticated. At this time all was
quiet; Mrs. Golding's maid remaining in her
house, was gone, up stairs, and when called
upon several times to come down, for fear of
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMANS, ETC. 245
the dangerous situation she was thought to be
in, she answered very cooly, and after some
time come down as deliberately, without any
seeming fearful apprehensions.
"Mrs. Pain was sent for from Brixton Cause-
way, and desired to come directly, as her aunt
was supposed to be dead ;-this was the mes-
sage to her. When Mrs. Pain came, Mrs.
Golding was come to herself, but very faint.
"Among the persons who were present, was
Mr. Gardner, a surgeon, of Clapham ; whom
Mrs. Pain desired to bleed her aunt, which he
did; Mrs. Pain asked him if the blood should
be thrown away; he desired it might not, as
he would examine it when cold. These
minute particulars would not be taken notice
of, but as a chain to what follows. For the
next circumstance is of a more astonishing
nature than anything that had preceded it;
the blood that was jnst congealed, sprung out
of the basin upon the floor, and presently after
the basin broke to piecP.s: this china basin
was the only thing broke belonging to Mr.
Gresham: a bottle of rum that stood by it,
broke at the same time.
" Amongst the things that were removed to
Mr. Gresham's, was a tray full of china, &c. a
:japan bread basket, some mahogany waiters,
.• y 5
Digitized by Goog[e
2.!6 THE POLTJ<.:RGEIST
with some bottles of liquors, jars of pickles,
&c. and a pier glass, which wn8 taken down
by Mr. Saville, (aneighbour of Mrs. Golding's);
he gave it to one Robert Hames, who laid it
on the grass-plat at Mr. Gresham's: but
before he could put it out of his bands, some
parts of the frame on each side flew off: it
rained at that time, Mrs. Golding desired it
might be brought into the parlour, where it
was put under a side-board, and a dressing-
glass along with it: it had not been there long
before the glasses and china which stood on
the side-board, began to tumble about and fall
down, and broke both the glasses to pieces.
Mr. Saville and others being asked to drink a
glass of wine or rum, both the bottles broke in
pieces before they were uncorked.
''Mrs. Golding's surprise and fear increasing,
she did not know what to do, or where to go;
wherever she and her maid were, these strange
destructive circumstances followed her, and
how to help or free herself from them, was not
in her power or any other person's present :
her mind was one confused chaos, lost to her-
self and everything about her, drove from her
own home, and afraid there would be none
other to receive her : at last she left Mr.
·Gresham's, and went to Mr. Mayling's, a
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERlUNS, ETC. 247
gentleman nt the next door, here she staid
about three quarter& of an hour, during which
time nothing happened. Her maid staid at
Mr. Gresham's, to put up what few things re-
mained unbroke of her mistress's, in a back
apartment, when a jar of pickles that stood
upon a table turned upside dow~ then a jar
of raspberry jam broke to pieces, next two
mahogany waiters and a quadrille-box like-
wise broke in pieces.
" Mrs. Pain, not choosing her aunt should
stay too long at Mr. Mayling's, for fear of
being troublesome, persuaded her to go to her
house at Rush Common, near Brixton Cause-
way, where she would endeav.,ur to make her
as happy as she could, hoping by this time all
was over, as nothing had happened at that
gentleman's house while she was there. This
was ahout two o'clock in the afternoon.
"Mr. and Miss Gresham were at Mr. Pain's
house, when Mrs. Pain, Mrs. Golding, and her
maid went there. It being about dinner time,
they all dined together; in the interim, Mrs.
G<'lding's servant was sent to her house to see
how things remained. When she returned,
she told them nothing had happened since
they left it. Some time after, Mr. Gresham
and Miss went home, everything remaining
D1g111Zed by Coogle
218 THE POLTERGEIST
quiet at Mr. Pain's: but about eight o'clock
in the evening a fresh scene began ; the first
thing that happened, was a ,whole row of
pewter dishes, except one, ft:ll from off a shelf
to the middle of the floor, rolled about a little
while, then settled; and, what is almost
beyond belief, as soon as they were quiet,
turned upside down ; they were then put on
the dresser, and went t.hrough the same a
second time ; next fell a whole row of pewter
plates from off the second shelf over the dresser
to the ground, and being taken up and put on
the dresser one in another, thPy were thrown
down again.
"The next thing was two· eggs that were
upon one of the pewter shelves, one of them
flew off, crossed the kitchen~ struck a cat on
the head, and then broke in pieces.
" Next, Mary Martin, Mrs. Pain's servant,
went to stir the kitchen fire, she got to the
right hand side of it, being a large chimney,
as is usual in fat·m houses, a pestle anJ mortar
that stood nearer the left hand end of the
chimney shelf, jumped about six feet on the
floor. Then went candlesticks and other
brasses, scarce anything remaining in its place.
After this, the glasses and china were put down
on the floor for fear of undergoing the same
o;g, ,zed by Coogle
OF T.HE GERlB.NS, ETC. 249
fate, they presently began to dance and tumble
about, and then broke to pieces. A tea-pot
\hat was among them, flew to Mrs. Golding's
maid's foot, and struck it.
"A glas'i tumbler that was put on tb~ floor,
jumped about two feet and then hroke.
Another that stood by it jumped about at the
~arne time, but did not break till some bouts
after, when it jumped again, and then broke.
A china bowl that stood in the parlour jumped
from the floor to behind a table that stood
there. This was most astonishing, as the dis-
tance from where it stood was between seven
and eight feet, but was not broke. It was put
back by Richard Fowler to its place, where it
remained some time, and then flew to pieces.
"The next thing that followed was a mustaid
}JOt, that jumped out of a closet and was broke.
A single cup that stood upon the table (almost
the only thing remaining) jumped up, flew
across the kitchen, ringing like a bell, and
then was dashed to pieces against the dresser.
A candlestick that stood on the chimney-shelf
flew across the kitchen to the parlour aoor,
at about fifteen feP-t distance. A tea-kettle
under the dresser, was thrown out about two
feet; another kettle that stood at one end of
the range, was thrown against the iron that is
D1g111Zed by Coogle
250 THE POLTERGEIST
fixed to prevent children falling into the fire..
A tumbler with rum and water in it, that stood
upon a waiter upon a table in the parlour,
jumped about ten feet, and was broke. The
table then fell down, and along with it a silver
tankard belonging to Mrs. Golding, the waiter
in which stood the tumbler and a candlestick.
A case bottle then flew to pieces.
"The next circumstance was a ham that
hung in one side of the kitchen chimney, it
raised itselffrom the hook and fell down to the
ground. Some time after, another ham that
hung on the other side of the chimney, like-
wise underwent the same fate. Then a flitch of
bacon which hung up in the same chimney fell
down.
"All thP. family were eye-witnesses to these
circumstances, as well as other persons, some of
whom were so alanned and shocked, that they
could not bear to stay, and were happy in
getting away, though the unhappy family were
left in the midst of their distresses. Most of
the genteel families around were continually
sending to inquire after them, and whether
all was over or not. Is it not surprising that
some among them had not the inclination
and resolution to try to unravel this most
intricate affair, at a. time when it would hare
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMANS, ETC. 261
been in their power to have done so; there
certainly was sufficient time for so doing, ns
the whole, from first to last, continued upwards
of twenty hours.
"At all the times of action, Mrs. Golding's
servant was walking backwards and forwards,
either in the kitchen or parlour, or wherever
some of the family happened to be. Nor could
they get her to sit down five minutes together,
except at one time for about half an hour to-
wards the morning, when tht'! family were at
prayers in the parlour; then all was quiet:
but in the midst of the greatest confusion, she
was as much composed as at any other time,
and with uncommon coolness of temper ad-
vised her mistress not to be alarmed or uneasy,
as she said, these things could not be helped.
Thus she argued, as if they were common oc-
currences which must happen in m·ery family.
" This advice surprised and startled her mis-
tress, almost as much as the circumstances that
occasioned it. For how can we suppose that a
girl of about twenty years old (an age when
female timidity is too often assisted by super-
stition) could remain in the midst of such cala-
mitous circumstances (except they proceed
from causes best known to herself) and not he
struck with the same terror as every other per-
D1g111Zed by Coogle
252 THE POLTERGEIST
son was who was present. These reflections led
Mr. Pain, and at the end of the transactions,
likewise Mrs. Golding, to think that she was
not altogethf'r so unconcerned as she appeared
to be. But hitherto, the whole remains mys-
terious and unravelled.
"About ten o'clock at night, they sent over
the way to Richard Fowler, to desire he would
come and stay with them. He came and con-
tinued till one in the morning, and was so ter-
rified that he could remain no longer.
" As Mrs. Golding could not be perRuaded
to go to bed, Mrs. Pain at that time (one
o'clock) made an excuse to go up stairs to her
youngest child, under pretence of getting it to
sleep, but she really acknowledges it was
through fear, as she declares she could not sit
up to see such strange things going on, as
everything, one after another, was broke, till
there was not above two or three cups and
saucers remaining out of a considt"rable quan-
tity of china, &c., which was destroyed to
the amount of some pounds.
"About five o'clock on Tuesday morning,
Mrs. Golding went up to her niece, and
desired her to get up, as the noises and
destruction were so great, she could continue
in the house no longer. At this time all t:he
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMANS, ETC. 268
tables, chairs, drawe1·s, &c., were tumbling
about. When Mrs. Pain came down, it wa
amazing beyond all description. Their only
security then was to quit the house for fear of
the same catastrophe, as had been expected
the morning before, at Mrs. Golding's; in
consequence of this resolution, Mrs. Golding
and her maid went over the way to Richard
Fowler's. When Mrs. Golding's maid had
seen her safe to Richard Fowler's, she came
back to Mrs. Pain, to help her to dress the
children in the bam, where she had carried
them for fear of the house falling. At this
time all-was quiet ; they then went to Fowler's,
and then began the same scene as had hap-
pened at the other places. It must be re-
marked, all was quiet here as well as elsewhere,
till the maid returned.
''When they got to Mr. Fowler's, he began
to light a fire in his back room. When done,
he put the candle and candlestick upon a
table in the fore room. This apartment Mrs.
Golding and her maid had passed through.
Another candlestick with a tin lamp in it, that
stood by it, were both dashed together, and
fell to the ground. A lanthorn with which
Mrs. Golding was lighted with cross the road,
sprung from a hook .Ito the ground, and a
VoL. n. z
o;9mzedbyGoogle
254 THE POLTERGEIST
quantity of oil spilled on the floor. The last
thing was the basket of coals tumbled over;
the coals ·rolling about the room ; the maid
then desired Richard Fowler not to let her
mistress remain there, as she said, wherever
she was, the same things would follow. In
consequence of this advice, and fearing greater
losses to himself, he desired she would quit
his house ; but first begged her to consider
within herself, for her own and the public's
sake, whether or not she had not been guilty
of some atrocious crime, for which Providence
was determined to pursue her on this side of
the grave, for he could not help thinking, she
was the object that was to be made an ex-
ample to posterity, by the AU-seeing eye of
Providence, for crimes which but too often
none but that Providence can penetrate, and
by such means as these bring to light.
"Thus was the poor gentlewoman's mea-
sure of affliction complete, not only to have
undergone all which has been related, but to
have added to it the character of a bad and
wicked woman, when till this time, she was
esteemed as a most deserving person. In
candour to Fowler, he could not be blamed;
what could he do? what would any man have
done that was so circumstanced ? Mrs.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMANS, ETC, 255
Golding soon satisfied him ; she told him she
would not stay in his house, or any other
person's, as her conscience was quite clear,
and she could as well wait the will of Provi-
dence in her own house as in any other place
whatever; upon which she and her maid went
home. Mr. Pain went with them. After
they had got to Mrs. Golding's the last time,
the same transactions once more began upon
the remains that were left.
"A nine gallon cask of beer, that was in
the cellar. the door being open, and no person
near it, turned upside down. A pail of water
that stood on the floor, boiled like a pot. A
box of candles fell from a shelf in the kitchen
to the floor; they rolled out, but none were
broke: and a round mahogany table overset
in the parlour.
"Mr. Pain then desh·ed Mrs. Golding to
send her maid for his wife to come to them ;
when she was gone, all was quiet; upon her
return she was immediately discharged, and
no disturbances have happened since; this
was between six and seven o'clock on Tues-
day morning.
"At Mrs. Golding's were broke the quantity
of three pails-full of glass, china, &c. At Mrs.
Pain's they filled two pails.
Digitized by Goog[e
256 TH B POLT.!!:RGEIST
'' Thus ends the narrative: a true, circum-
stantial, and faithful accountof which we have
laid before the public; and have endeavoured
as much as possible, throughout the whole, to
state only facts, without presuming to obtrude
any opinion on them. Ifwe have iu part hinted
anything that may appear unfavourable to the
girl, it is not from a determination to charge
her with the cause, right or wrong, but only
from a strict adherence to truth, most sincerely
wishing this extraordinary affair may be un-
ravelled.
"The above narrative is absolutely and
strictly true, in witness whereof we have set our
bands this eleventh day of January, 1772.
" MARY GoLDING
·'JoaN PAIN
"MARY PAIN
" RicHARD FowLER
" SARAH FowLER
"MARY MARTIN.
" The original copy of this narrative, signed
as above, with the partiPs own hands, was put
into the hands of Mr. Marks, bookseller~ in
St. Martin's Lane, to satisfy persons who
choose to inspect the same."
Such phenomena as this of the Stockwell
Ghost, are by no means uncommon, and I am
Digitized by Goog[e
OF THE GERMANS, ETC. 257
acquainted with many more instances than I
can allude to here. One occurred very lately
in the neighbourhood of London, as I learnt
from the following newspaper paragraph. I
subsequently heard that the little girl had been
sent away, but whether the phenomeua then
ceased, or whether she carried the disturbance
with her, I bave not been able to ascertain, nor
does it appear certain that she had anything
to do with it:-
"A MisCHIEvous AND MYsTERious GHosT.
(From a Correspondent.)-The whole of the
neighbourhood of Black Lion-lane,Bay'swater,
is ringing with the extraordinary occurrences
that have t•ecently happened in the house of a
Mr. Williams, in the Moscow-road, and which
bear a strong resemblance to the celebrated
Stockwell ghost affair in 1772. The house is
inhabited by Mr. and Mrs. Williams, a grown
up son and daughter, and a little girl between
ten and eleven years ofage. On the first day,
the family, who are remarkable fortbeir })iety,
were startled all at once by a mysterious move-
ment among the things in the sitting-rooms
and kitchen, and other parts of the house. At
one time, without any visible agency, one of
the jugs came off the book over the dresser,
and was broken ; then followed another, and
z 5
D1g111Zed by Coogle
2b8 THE POLTERGEIST
next day another. A china tea-pot, with the
tea just made in it, and placed on the mantel-
piece, whisked off on to the floor, and was
smashed. A pewter one, which had been sub-
stituted immediately after, did the same, and
when put on the table, was seen to hop about
as if bewitched, and was actually held down
while the tea. was made for Mr. Williams's
breakfast, before leaving for his place of
business. When for a time all had been quiet,
off came from its place on the wall, a picture
in a heavy gilt frame, and fell to the floor
without being broken. All was now amaze-
ment and terror, for the old people are very
superstitious, and ascribing it to a supernatural
agency, the other pictures were remo\·ed, and
stowed away on the floor. But the spirit of
locomotion was not to be arrested. Jugs and
plates continued at intervals to quit tlteir posts,
and skip off their hooks and shelves into the
middle of the room, as though they were
inspired by the magic flute, and at supper,
when the little girl's mug was filled with beer,
the mug slided off the table on to the
floor. Three times it was replenished and
replaced, and three times it moved off again.
It would be tedious to relate the fantastic tricks
which have been played by household articles
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMANS, ETC. 259
of every kind. An Egyptian vase jumped off
the table suddenly when no soul was near, and
was smashed to pieces. The tea-kettle popped
off the fire into the grate as Mr. Williams had
filled the teapot, which fell off. the chimney-
piece. Candlesticks, after a dance on the table,
flew off, and ornaments from the shelves, and
bonnets and cap-boxes flung about in the
oddest manner. A looking-glass hopped off
a dressing-table, followM by combs and
brushes and l!evtlral bottles, and a great pin-
cushion has been remarkably conspicuous for
its incessant jigs from one part to another.
The little girl, who is a Spaniard, and under
the care of Mr. and Mrs. Williams, is supposed
by theidriends to be the cause of it 11.11, bow-
ever extraordinary it may seem in one of her
age, but up to the present time it continues a
mjstery, and the modus ()perandi is invisible."
-ldorning Post.
To imagine that these extraordinary effects
were produced by the voluntary agency of the
child,furnishes one of those remarkable instan-
ces of the credulity of the sceptical, to which
I have referred. But when we read a true
statement of the effects involuntarily exhibited
by Angelique Cottin, we begin to see that it is
D1g111Zed by Coogle
260 THE POLTERGEIST
just possible the other strange phenomena may
be provided by a similar agency.
The French Academy of Sciences had de.
termined, as they had formerly done by
Mesmerism, that the thing should not be true,
and Monsieur Arago was nonsuited ; but
although it is extremely possible that either
the phenomenon had run its course and
arrived at a natural termination, or that the
removal of the girl to Paris had extinguished
it, there appears no doubt that it bad pre-
viously existed.
Angelique Cottin was a native of La
Perriere, aged fourteen, when on the 15th
January, 1846, at eight o'clock in the evening,
whilst weaving silk gloves at an oaken frame,
in company with other girls, the frame began
to jerk and they could not by any efforts keep
it steady. It seemed as if it were alive, and
becoming alarmed, they called in the neigh-
bours, who would not believe them ; but
desired them to sit down and go on with their
work. Being timid, they went one by one,
and tlte frame remained still,. till Angelique
approached, when it recommenced its move-
ments, whilst she was also attracted by the
fntme : thinking she was bewitched or pos-
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMANS, ETC. 261
sessed, her parents took her to the Presbytery
that the spirit might be exorcised. The
curate however, being a sensible man, refused
.to do it; but set himself, on the contrary, to
observe the phenomenon; and being perfectly
satisfied of the fact, he bade them take her
to a physician.
Meanwhile, the intensity of the influence,
whatever it was, augmented; not only articles
made of oak, but all sorts of things were acted
upon by it and reacted upon her, whilst per-
sons who were near her, even without contact,
frequently felt electric shocks. The effects,
which were diminished when she was on a
carpet or even a waxed cloth, were most
remarkable when she was on the bare earth.
They sometimes entirely cellsed for two or
three days, and then recommenced. Metals
were not. affected. Anything touched by her
apron or dress would fly off, although a person
held it; and Monsieur Hebert whilst seated on
a heavy tub or trough, was raised up with it.
In short, the only place r;she could repose on,
was a stone covered with cork ; they also kept
her still by isolating her. When she was
fatigued the effects diminished. A needle
t;uspended horizontally, oscillated rapidly with
the motion of her arm without contact, or
D1g111Zed by Coogle
262 THE POJ.TERGEIST
remained fixed, whilst deviating from the
magnetic direction. Great numbers of en-
lightened medical and scientific men witnessed
these phenomena, and investigated them with
every precaution to prevent imposition. She
was often hurt by the violent involuntary
movements he was thrown into, and was
evidently affiicted by chorea.
Unfortunately, her parents poor and ig-
norant, insisted much against the advice of
the doctors, on exhibiting her for money ; and
under these circumstances, she was brought
to Paris ; and nothing is more probable, than
that after the phenomena had reallyceased, the
girl may have been induced to simulate, what
had originally been genuine, the thing avow-
edly ceased altogether on the evening of the
lOth April, and there has been no return of it.
In 1831, a young girl, also aged fourteen,
who lived as under nursE>ry-mn.id in a French
family, exhibited t.he same phenomena; and
when the case of Angelique Cottin was made
public, her master published hers. He says
that things of such an extraordinary nature
occurred as he dare not repeat, since none but
an eye-witness could believe them. The thing
lasted for three years, and there was ample
time for observation.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMANS, ETC. 263
In the year 1686, a man at Brussels, called
Breekmans was similr.rly effected. A com-
mission was appointed by the magistrates tu
investigate his condition; and, being pro-
nounced a sorcerer, he would have been burnt,
had he not luckily made his escape.
Many somnambulic persons are capable of
giving an electric shock; and I have met
with one person, not somnambulic, who
infom1s me that he has frequently been able
to do it by an effort of the will.
Dr. Ennemoser relates the case of a Made-
moiselle Emmerich, sister to the professor of
theology at Strasburg, who also possessed this
po,'fer. This young lady, who appears to have
been a person of very rare merit and endow-
ments, was afflicted with a long and singulaT
malady, originating in a fright, in the course
of which she exhibited many very curious
phenomena, having fallen into a state of
natural somnambulism, accompanied by a high
degree of lucidity. Her body became so sur-
charged with electricity, that it was necessary
to her reliefto discharge it; and she sometimes
imparted a complete battery of shocks to her
brother and her physician, or whoever was
near, and that, frequently, when they did not
touch her. Professor Emmerich mentions
D1g111Zed by Coogle
264 THE POLTERGEIST
also, that she sent him a smart shock, one day,
when he was several rooms off. He started up
and rushed into her chamber, wht"re she was
in bed, and as soon as she saw him she said,
laughing, "Ah, you felt it, did you ?'' Made-
moiselle Emme1;ich's illness terminated in
death.
Cotugno, a surgeon, relates that havin~
touched with his scalpel, the intercostal
nerve of a mouse that had bitten his leg, he
received an electric shock; and whf>re the
torpedo abounds, the fishermen, in pouring
water over the fish they have caught for the
purpose of washing them, know if one is
amongst them by the shock they sustain.
A very e~traordinary circumstance, which
we may possibly attribute to some such in-
fluence as the above occurred at Rambouillet,
in November, 1846. The particulars are fur-
nished by a gentleman residing on the spot at
the time, and were published by the Baron
Dupotel; who however attempts no expla-
nation of the mystery.
One morning, some travelling merchants,
or p.edlars, came to the door of a farm house,
belonging to a man named Bottel, and asked
for some bread, which the maid servant gave
them and they went away. Subsequently one
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GER:O.USS ETC. . 2G;j
of th~ party returned to ask for more and was
refused. The man I believe expressed some
resentment, and uttered vague threats, but
she would not give him anything; and he
departed. That night at supper the plates
began todance and to roll off the table, without
any visible cause, and several other unaccount-
able phenomena occurred ; and the girl going
to the door and chancing to place herselfjust
where the pedlar had stood, she was seized
with convulsions and an extraordinary rota-
tory motion. The carter who was standing
by, laughed at her, and out of bravado, placed
himself on the same spot, when he felt almost
suffocated, and was so unable to command his
movements, that he was overturned into a
large pool that was in front of the house.
· Upon this, they rushed to the cme of the
parish·ft>T assistance, but he had scarcely said
a prayer or two, before he was attacked in the
same manner, though in his .. own house, and
his furniture beginning to oscillate and crack
as if it were bewitched, the poor people were
frightened out of their wits.
By and by the phenomena intermitted, and
they hoped all was over; but presently it
began again ; and this oecurredzmore than
once before it subsided wholly.
VoL. n. 2 A
D1g111Zed by Coogle
266 THE POLTERGEIST
On the 8th December, J886, at Stuttgard,
Carl Fischer, a baker's hoy, aged seventeen, of
~;teady habits and good character, was fixed
with a basket on his shoulders in some unac-
countable way in front of his master's house.
He foresaw the thing was to happen when he
went out very early, with his bread in the
morning; earnestly wished that the day was
over, and told his companion that if he could
only cross the threshold, on his return, he
should escape it. It was about six when he
did return ; and his master hearing a fearful
noise, which he could not describe, " as if
proceeding from a multitude of beings,'' looked
out of the window, where he saw Carl vio-
lently struggling and fighting with his apron,
though his feet were immoveably fixed to one
spot. A hissing sound proceeded from his
mouth and nose, and a voice which was neither
his nor that of any person present, was heard
to cry, "Stand fast, Carl !" The master says,
that he could not have believed such a thing;
and he was so alarmed that he did not venture
into the street, where numerous persons were
assembled. The boy said he must remain
there till ele,·en o'clock: and the police kept
guard over him till that time, as the physician
said he must not be interfen~d with, and the
people sought to push him from the spot.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GER:\IA~s, ETC. 267
When the time had expired, he was carried to
the hospital, where he seemed exceedingly ex-
hausted, and fell into a profound sleep.
I meet with numerous extraordinary records
of a preternatural ringing of all the bells in a.
house; sometimes occurring periodically for a
considerable time; and continuing after pre-
cautions have been taken which precluded the
possibility of trick or deception, the wires
being cut, and vigilant eyes watching them ;
and yet they rung on by day or night,just the
same.
It is certainly very difficult to conceive, but
at the same time it is not impossihle, that such
strange phenomena as that of the Stockwell
Ghost and many similar ones, may be the
manifestations of some extraordinary electrical
influence; but there are other cases of polter-
geist, which it is impossible to attribute to
the same cause, since they are accompanif.d
by evident manifestations of will and intelli-
gence. Such was the instance related in
Southey's life of Wesley, which occurred in
the year 1716, beginning with a groaning, and
subsequently proceeding to all manner of
noises, liftingoflatches, clatteringof windows,
knockings of a most mysterious kind, &c. &c.
The family were not generally frightened, but
the young children, when asleep, showed
o;9mzedbyGoogle
268 THE POLTERGEIST
symptoms of great terror. This annoyance
lasted, I think, two or three months, and then
ceased. As in most of these cases, the dog
was extremely frightened, and hid himself
when the visitations commenced.
In the year 18J8, a circumstance of the same
kind occuned in Paris, in the Rue St. Honore,
and not -rery along ago, there was one in
Caithness, in which most unaccountable cir-
cumstances transpired. Amongst the rest,
stones were flung, which never hit people, but
fell at their feet,in rooms perfectly closed on all
sides. A gentleman who witnessed these ex-
traordinaty phenomena, related the whole
story to au advocate of my acquaintance ; who
assured me, that however impossible he found
it to credit such things, he should certainly
place entire reliance on that gentleman's word
in any other case.
Then there is the famous story of the
Drummer of Tedworth;* and the persecution
of Professor Sclmppart, at Giessen, in Upper
Hesse, which continued with occasional inter-
mission for six years. This affair began with
• There was also a remarkable case of this sort at Mr.
Chaves, in Devonshire, in the year 1810, where affidavits
were made before the magistrates attesting the facts, and
large rewards offered for discovery; but in vain. The phe.
nomena continued several months, and the spiritual agt>nt
was frequently seen in the form ofsome strange animal.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMANS, ETC. 269
a violent knocking at the door one night ; next
day stones were sent whizzing through closed
rooms in all directions; so that although no
one was struck, the windows were all broken ;
and no sooner were uew panes put in, than
they were broken again. He was persecuted
with slaps on the face by day and by night, so
that he could get no rest; and when two per-
sons were appointed by the authorities to sit
by his bed to watch him, they got the slaps
also. When he was 1·eading at his desk, his
lamp would suddenly rise up and remove to
the other end of the room-not as if thrown,
but evidently carried : his hooks were torn to
pieces and fiung at his feet, and when he was
lecturing, this mischievous sprite would tear
out the leaf he was reading; and it is very re-
markable that the only thing that seemed
availablP-, as a protection, was a drawn sword
brandished over his head by himself, or others,
which was one of the singularities attending
the case of the Drummer ofTedworth. Schup-
part narrated allthese circumstances in his pub-
lic lectures, and nobody ever disputed the facts.
A remarkable case of this sort occurred in
the year 1670, at Keppock, near Glasgow ;
there also stone!! were thrown which hit no-
body; but the annoyance only continued eight
2 A 5
o;9mzedbyGoogle
270 THE POI.TERGEIST
days ; and there are several more to be found
rec01·ded in works of that period. The dis-
turbance that happened in the house of Gilbert
Cambell, at Glenluce, excited considerable
notice. Here, as elsewhere, stones were thrown;
but as in most similar instances I meet with,
no human being was damaged ; the licence
of these spirits or goblins, or whatever they
be, seeming to extend no further than worry-
ing and tormenting their victims. In this
case, however, the spirit spoke to them, though
he was never seen. The annoyance com-
menced in November, of the year 1654, I think,
and continued till April, when there was some
intermission till July, when it recommenced.
The loss of the family f1·om the things de-
stroyed was ruining ; for their household goods
and chattels were rendered useless, their food
was polluted and spoiled, and their very clothes
cut to pieces whilst on their backs by im·isible
hands ; and it was in vain that all the ministers
about the country assembled to exorcise this
troublsesome spirit, for whoever was there the
thing continued exactly the same.
At length, poor Cambell applied to the
Synod of Presbyters for advice, and a meeting
was convened in October, 1655, and a solemn
day of humiliation was imposed through the
whole bounds of the Presbytery, for the sake
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMANS, ETC. 2il
of the affiicted family. Whether it was owing
to this or not, there ensued an alleviation from
that time till April ; and from April till August
they were entirely free, and hoped all was over;
but then it began again worse than ever, and
they were dreadfully tormented through the
autumn; after which the disturbance ceased,
and although the family lived iti the house
many years afterwards, nothing of the sort
e\·er happened again.
There was another famous case, which
occurred at a place called Ring-Croft, in Kirk-
cudbright, in the year 1695. The affiicted
'ffi.mily bore the name of Mackie. In this
instance, the stones did sometimes hit them,
and they were beaten as if by staves; they, as
well as strangers who came to the house,
were lifted off the ground by their clothes,
their bed coverings were taken off their beds ;
things were visibly carried about the house
by invisible hands; several people were hurt,
even to the effusion of blood, by stones and
blows ; there were fire balls seen about the
house, which was several times actually
ignited; people, both of the family and others,
felt themselves grasped as if by a hand; then
there was groaning, crying, whistling, and a
voice that frequently spoke to them; crowds
of people went to the house, but the thing
D1g111Zed by Coogle
!.!72 THE POLTERGEIST
continued just the same whether the1·e were
many or few, and sometimes the whole build-
ing shook as if it were coming down.
A day of humiliation was appointed in this
case also, but without the least effect. The
disturbance commenced in Fehmary, and
ended on the 1st of May. Numberless people
witnessed the phenomena, and the account of
it is attested by fourteen ministers and
gentlemen.
The same sort of thing occurred in the year
1659, in a place inhabited by an Evang~lical
. bishop, called Schlotterbeck. It began in the
same manner by throwing of stones and other
things, many of which came through the
roof; insomuch that they believed at first that
some animal was concealed there. Howevtr,
nothing could he found, and the invisible guest
soon proceeded to other annoyances similar to
those above-mentioned; and though they could
not see him, his footsteps were for ever heard
about the house. At length, wearied out, the
bishop applied to the Government for aid, and
they sent him a company of soldiers to guard
the house by day and night, out of which he
and his family retired. But the goblin cared
no more for the soldiers than it had done for
the city watch ; the thing continued without
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GE.RMANS, ETC. 273
·intermission, whoever was there, till it ceased
M its own accord. There was 1\ house at Aix
la Chapelle, that was for se\'eral years quite
uninhabitable from a ~imilar cause.
I could mention many other cases, and, as
I have said before, they occur in all countries,
but these will suffice as specimens of the class.
It is in vain for people who were not on the
spot to laugh, and assert that these were the
mischievous tricks of servants, or others, when
those who were there, and who had such a
.deep interest in unravelling the mystery, and
such abundance of time and opportunity for
doing it, could find no solution whatever. In
many of the abo\·e cases, the cattle were un-
loosed, the horses were turned out of their
stables, and uniformly all the animals, in the
way, exhibited great terror, sweating and
trembling whilst ~he visitation continued.
Since we cannot but believe that man forms
hut one class in an immense range of exist-
ences,do not these strange occurrences suggest
the idea, that occasionally some individual out
of this gamut of beings comes into rapport
with us, or crosses our path like a comet, and
that, whilst certain conditions last, it can hover
about us, and play these puckish, mischievous
tricks, till the charm is broken, and then it
D1g111Zed by Coogle
274 THE POLTERGEIST
re-enters its own sphere, and we are cognizant
of it no more ! '
But one of the most extraordinary examples
of this kind of annoyance, is that which
occurred in the year 1806, in the castle of
Prince Hohenlohe, in Silesia. The account is
given at length by Councillor Hahn, of Ingel-
fingen, who witnessed the circumstances; and,
in consequence of the various remarks that
have been since made on the subject, in
different publications, he has repeatedly re-
asserted the facts in letters which have been
printed and laid before the public. I cannot,
therefore, see what right we have to disbelieve
a man of honour and character, as he is said
to be, merely because the circumstances he
narrates are unaccountable, more especially as
the story, strange as it is, by no means stands
alone in the annals of demonology. The fol-
lowing details were w1;tten down at the time
the events occurred, and they were communi-
cated by Councillor Hahn to Dr. Kerner in
the year 1828.
"After the campaign ofthe Prussians against
the French in the year 1806, the reigning
Prince of Hohenlohe gave orders to Councillor
Hahn, who was in his senice, to proceed to
Slawensick, and there to wait his return.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF' THE GERI\f.\NS, ETC. 275
His Set·ene Highness advanced from Leignitz
towards his principality, and Hahn also com-
menced his journey towards Uppe1· Silesia on
the 19th November. At the same period,
Chat·les Kern, of Kuntzlau, who had fallen
into the hands of the French, being released on
parole, and arriving at Leignitz, in an infirm
condition, he was allowed to spend some time
with Hahn, whilst awaiting his exchange.
" Hahn and Kern had been friends in their
youth, and their destinies having brought them
both at this time into the Prussian States, they
were lodgE'd together in the same apartment of
the castle,which was one on the first floor, form-
ing an angle at the hack of the building, one
&ide looking towards the north, and the other to
the £ast. On the right of the door of this room
was a glass door, which led into a chamber
divided from those which followed by a wains-
coat partition. The door in this wainscoat,
which communicated to those adjoining rooms,
was eQtirely closed up, because in them all sorts
of household utensils were kept. Neither in
this chamher, nor in the sitting-room which
preceded it, was there any opening whatever
which could furnish the means of communi-
cation from without; nor was there any body
in the castle besides the two friends, except
D1g111Zed by Coogle
276 THE POLTI>RGEIST
the Plince's two coachmen and Hahn's servant.
The whole party were fearless people; and as
for Hahn and Kern, they believed in nothing
less than ghosts or witches, nor had any pre·
vious experience induced them to turn their
thought8 in that direction. Hahn, during his
collegiate life, had been much given to philo-
sophy-had listened to Fichte, and earnestly
studied the writings of Kant. The result of
his reflections was a pure matelialism ; and he
looked upon created man, not as an aim, but
merely as a means to a yet undeveloped end.
These opinions he has since changed, like
many others who think very differently in
their fortieth year to 'vhat they did in their
twentieth. The particulars here given are
necet:sary in order to obtain credence for .the.
following extraordinary narrath·e; tmd . to·
establish the fact that the phenomena. \vere·
not merely accepted by ignorant superstition,
but coolly and courageously investigated by
enlightened minds. During the:fi~st days of
their residence in the castle, the two friends,.
living together in solitude, amused their long
evenings with the works of Schiller, of whom
they were both great admirers ; and Hahn
usually read aloud. Three days had thus
passed quietly away, when, as they were sit-
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMANS, ETC. 277
ting at the table, which stood in the middle of
the room, about nine o'clock in the evening,
their reading was interrupted by a small
shower oflime, which fell around them. They
looked at the ceiling, conc1uding it must have
come thence, but could perceive no abraded
parts; and whilst they were yet seeking to
ascertain whence the lime had proceeded,
there suddenly fell several larger pieces, which
were quite cold, and appeared as if they had
belonged to the external wall. At length
concluding the lime must ha\·e fallen from
some part of the wall, and giving up further
enquiry, they went to bed, and slept quiP.tly
till morning, when, on awaking, the1 were
somewhat surprised at the quantity which
strewed the floor, more esp('cia11y as they
could still discover no part of the walls or
ceiling from which it could have fallen. But
they thought no more of the matter till even-
ing, when, instead ofthe lime falling as before,
it was thrown, and severn} pieces struck Hahn ;
At the same time they heard heavy blows,
sometimes below, and sometimes over their
heads, like the sound of distant guns; still
attributing these sounds to natural causes,
they went to bed as usual, but the uproar
prevented their sleeping, and each accused the
VoL. u. 2 s
D1g111Zed by Coogle
278 THE POLTERGEIST
other of occasioning it by kicking with his feet
against the foot-board of his bed, till, finding
that the noise continued when they both got
out and stood together in the middle of the
room, they were satisfied that this was not the
case. On the following evening, a third noise
was added, which resembled the faint and dis-
tant beating of a drum. Upon this, they
requested the governess of the castle to send
them the key of the apartments above and
below, which was brought them by her son;
and, whilst he and Kern went to make their
investigations, Hahn t·emained in their own
l'Oom. Above, they found an empty) room;
belowt a kitchen. They knocked, but the
noise they made was very different to that
which Hahn continued all the while to hear
around him. When they returned, Hahn said
jestingly, ' The place is haunted !' On this
night, when they went to bed with a light
buming, they heurd what seemed like a per-
son walking about the room with slippers on,
and a stick, with which he struck the floor as
he moved step by step. Hahn continued to
jest, and Kern to laugh, at the oddness of these
ch·cumstances for some time, when they both,
as usual, fell asleep, neither in the slightest
degree disturbed by these e\'ents, nor inclined
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMANS, ETC. 279
to attribhte them to any supernatural cause.
But on the following evening the affair became
more inexplicable ; various articles in the room
were thrown about; knives, forks, brushes,
caps, s1ippers, padlocks, fum1el, snuffers, soap
-everything, in short, that was moveable;
whilst lights darted from comer, and every-
thing was in confusion; at the same time the
lime fell, and the blows continued. Upon this,
the two friends called up the servants, Knittel,
the castle watch, and whoever else was at hand,
to be witnesses of these mysterious operations.
In the morning all was quiet, and generally
continued so till about an hour after midnight.
One evening, Kern going into the above-men-
tioned chamber to fetch something, and hear-
ing such an uproar that it almost drove him
backwards to the door, Hahn caught up the
light, and both rushed into the room, where
they found a large piece of wood, lying close to
the wainscoat. But supposing this to be the
cause of the noise, who had set it in motion?
For Kern was sure the door was shut, even
whilst the noise was making; neither had there
been any wood in the room. Frequently, before
their eyes, the knives and snuffers rose from
the table, and fell, after some minutes, to the
ground; and Hahn's large shears were once
D1g111Zed by Coogle
280 THE POLTERGEIST
lifted in this manner between him and one of
the Prince's cooks, and, falling to the ground,
stuck into the floor. As some nights, however,
passed quite quietly, Hahn ~as determined not
to leave the rooms; but when, for three weeks,
the disturbance was so constant that they
could get no rest, they resolved on removing
their beds into the large room above, in
hopes of once more enjoying a little quiet
sleep. Their hopes were vain-the thump-
ing continued as before; and not only so,
but articles flew about the room, which they
were quite sure they bad left below. 'They
may fling as they will,' cried Hahn, 'sleep I
must;' whilst Kern began to undress, pon-
dering on these matters as he walked up and
down the room. Suddenly Hahn saw him
stand, as if transfixed, before the looking glass,
on which be bad accidently cast his eyes. He
had so stood for some minutes, when he was
seized with a violent trembling, and turned
from the mirror with his face as white as
death. Hahn, fancying the cold of the unin-
habited room had seized him, hastened to
throw a cloak over him; when Kern, who was
naturally very courageous, recovered himself,
and related, though with trembling lips, that,
as he bad accidently looked in the glass, he
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERM.\NS ETC. 281
had seen a white female figure looking out of
it; she was in front of his own image, which
he distinctly saw behind her. At first he
could not believe his eyes; be thought it must
be fancy, and for that reason he bad stood so
long ; but when he saw that the eyes of the
figure moved, and looked into his, a shud-
der had seized him, and be had turned away.
Hahn upon this advanced with firm steps to
the front of the mirror, and called upon the
apparition to show itself to him; but he saw
nothing,although he remained a quarter of an
hour before the glass, and frequently repeated
his exhortation. Kern then further related
that the features of the apparition were very
old,but not gloomy or morose; the expression
indeed was rather that of indifference ; but tht>
face was very pale, and the head was wrapped
· .in a cloth which left only the features visible.
"By this time it was four o'clock in the morn-
ing-sleep was banished from their eyes,-aml
they resolved to return to the lower room, and
have their beds brought back again; but the
people who were sent to fetch them returned,
declaring they could not open the door, al-
though it did not appear to be fastened. They
were sent back again ; but a second and a
third time they returned with the same answer.
2 B 5
D1g111Zed by Coogle
282 THE POt.TERGEIST
Then Hahn went himself, and opened it with
the greatest ease. The four servants, bow-
ever, solemnly declared, that all their united
strengths could make no impression on it.
"In this way amonthhad elapsed: thestrange
events at the castle had got spread abroad ;
and amongst others who desired to convince
themselves of the facts, were two Bavarian
officers of dragoons, namely, Captain Cornet
aud Lieutenant Magerle, of the regiment of
Minuci. Magerle offering to remain in the
room alone, the others left him, but scarcely
had they passed into the next apartment,when
they heard Magerle storming like· a man in a
pas;;ion, and cutting away at the tables and
chairs with his sabre, whereupon the Captain
thought it advisable to return, in order to .
rescue the furniture from his rage. They
found the door shut, but he opened it on their
summons, and related, in great excitement,
that as soon as they had quitted the room,
some cursed thing had begun to fling lime, and
other matters, at him ; and, having examined
every part of the room without being able to
discover the agent of the mischief, he had fallen
into a rage and cut madly about him.
" The party now passed the rest of the
evening together in the xoom, and the twa
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMANs, ETC. 283
Bavatians closely watched Hahn and Kern, in
order to satisfy themselves that the mystery
was no tiick of theirs. All at once, as they
were quietly sitting a.t t.he table, the snuffers
rose into the air, and fell again to the ground,
behind Magerle ; and a leaden ball fiew at
Hahn, and hit him upon the breast, and pre·
sently afterwards they heard a noise at the
glass door, as if somebody had struck his fist
through it, together with a sound of falling
glass. On investigation, they found tlte door
entire, but a broken dtinking-glass on the fioor.
By this time the Bavarians were convinced,
and they retired from the room to seek repose
in one more peaceful.
'' Amongst other strange circumstances, the
following, which occurred to Hahn is remark-
able. One evening, about eight o'clock, being
about to shave himself, the implements for the
purpose, which were lying on a pyramidal
stand in a comer of the room, fiew at him, one
after the other-the soap-box, the razor, the
brush and the soap-and fell at his feet, al•
though he was standing severa~ paces from the
pyramid. He and Kern, who was sitting at
the table, laughed, for they were now so ac-
customed to these events that they only made
them subjects of diversion. In the mean
o'9'''zedbyGoogle -
284 THE POLTERGEIST
time, Hahn poured some Wllter, which had
been standing on the stove, in a basin, observ-
ing as he dipped his finger into it, that it was
of a nice heat for shaving. He seated himself
before the table, and strapped his razor ; hut
when he attempted to prepare the lather, t.he
water had clean vanished out of the basin.
Another time, Hahn was awakened by goblins
throwing at him a squeezed-up piece of sheet-
lead, in which tobacco had been wrapped ; and
when he stooped to pick it up, the self-same
piece was flung at him again. When this was
repeated a third time, Hahn flung a heavy
stick at his invisible assailant.
"Dorfel, the book-keeper, was frequently a
witness to these strange events. He once laid
his cap on the table by the~ stove; when, being
about to depart, he sought for it, it had van-
ished. Four or five times he examined the
table in vain; presently afterwards he saw it
lying exactly where he had placed it when he
came in. On the same table, Knittel having
once placed his cap, and drawn himself a seat,
suddenly-although there was nobody nearthe
table-he saw it flying through the room to
his feet, where it fell.
" Hahn now determined to find out the
secret himself; and for this purpose seated him-
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMANS, ETC. 28~
self, with two lights before him, in a position
where he could see the whole of the room, and
all the windows and doors it contained ; but
the same things occurred even when Kern was
out, the servants in the stables, and nobody in
the castle but himself; and the snuffers were
as usual flung about, although the closest ob-
servation could not detect by whom.
''The forest-master, Radzensky, spent
a night in the room ; but although the
two friends slept, he could get no rest. He
was bombarded without intermission ; and in
the morning, his bed was found full of all
manner of household articles.
''One evening, in spite of all the drumming
and flinging, Hahn was determined to sleep ;
but a heavy blow on the wall, close to his bed,
soon waked him from his slumbers. A second
time he went to sleep, and was awaked by a
sensation, as if some person had dipped his
finger in water, and was sprinkling his face
with it. He pretended to sleep again, whilst
he watched Kern and Knittel,who were sitting
at the table, the sensation of sprinkling re-
turned; but he could find no water on his face.
"About this time, Hahn had occasion to
make a journey as far as Breslau; and when
he returned he heard the strangest story of all-
D1g111Zed by Coogle
286 THE POLT.b:RGEIST
In order not to be alc.ne in this mysterious
chamber, Kern had engaged Hahn's sen·aut, a
man of about forty years of age, and of entire
singleness of character, to stay with him. One
night as Kern lay in his bed, and this man:was
standing near the glass door in conversation
with him, to his utter amazement be beheld a
jug of beer, which stood on a table, in the
room, at some distance from him, slowly lifted
to a height of about three feet, and the con-
tents poured into a glass, that was standing
there also, until the latter was half full. The
jug was then gently replaced, and the glass
lifted and emptied, as by some one drinking;
whilst John, the servant, exclaimed, in terrified
surprise, ' Lord J etsus ! it swallows !' The
glass was quietly replaced, and not a drop of
beer was to be found on the floor. Hahn was
about to require an oath of John, in con-
firmation of this fact; but forbore, seeing how
ready the man was to take one, and satisfied of
the truth of the relation.
" One night Knetsch, an inspector of the
works, passed the night with the two friends,
and,in spiteof the unintermitting flinging, they
all three went to bed. There were lights in
the room, and presently all three saw two
napkins, in the middle of the room, rise
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMANS, ETC. 287
slowly up to the ceiling, and, having there
spread themseh·es out, flutter down again.
The China bowl of a pipe, belonging to Kern,
flew about and was broken. Knives and
forks were flung; and at last one of the latter
fell on Hahn's head, though, fortunately, with
the handle downwards; and, having now en-
dured this annoyance for two months, it was
unanimously resolved to abandon this mys-
terious chamber, for this night at all events.
John and Kern took up one of the beds, and
carried it into the opposite room, but they
were no sooner gone than a pitcher for holding
chalybeate-water flew to the feet of the two
who remained behind, although no door was
open, and a brass candlestick was flung to the
ground. In the opposite room the night
passed quietly, although some sounds still
issued from the forsaken chamber. After this,
there was a cessation to these strange pro-
ceedings, and nothing more remarkable oc-
curred, with the exception of the following
circumstance. Some weeks after the above-
' mentioned removal, as Hahn was returning
home, and crossing the bridge that leads to the
castle gate, he heard the foot of a dog behiml
him. He looked round, and called repeatedly
on the name of a greyhound that was much
Digitized by Goog[e
288 THE POLTERGEIST ·'t
attached to him, thinking it might be 11he,
but, although he still heard the foot, even when
he ascended the stairs, as he could see nothing,
he concluded it was au illusion. Scarcely,
however, had he set his foot within the
room, than Kern advanced and took the door
out of his hand, at the same time calling the
dog by name; adding, however, immediately
that he thought he had seen the dog, but that
he had no sooner called her than she disap- ·
peared. Hahn then inquired, if be had really
seen the dog. 'Certainly I did,' replied Kern ;
"she was close behind you-half within the
door-and that wall the reason I took it out of
your hand, Jest, not obsen-ing her you should
have shut it suddenly, and crushed her. It
was a white dog, and I took it for Flora.'
Search was immediately made for the dog, but
she was found locked up in the stable, and had
not been out of it the whole day. It is cer-
tainly remarkable-even supposing Hahn to
have been deceived with respect to the foot-
steps-that Kern should have seen a white
dog behind him, before he had heard a word.
on the subject from his friend, especially as
there was uo such animal in the neighbour-
hood; beside~t,. it was not yet dark, aud Kern
was very sharp-sighted.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMANS, ETC. 289
" Hahn remained in the casde for half-a-
year after this, without experiencing any-
thing extraordinary ; and even persons who
had possession of the mysterious chambers,
were not subjected to any annoyA.nce.
"The riddle, however, in spite of all the
perquisitions and investigatious that were set
on foot remained unsolved-:-no explanation
of these strange events could be found; and
even supposing any motive could exist, there
was nobody in the neighbourhood clever
enough to have carried on such a system of
persecution, which lasted so long, that the in-
habitants of the chamber became almost
indifferent to it.
•, In conclusion, it is only necessary to add,
that Councillor Hahn wrote down this account
for his own satisfaction, with the strictest
regard to truth. His words are :-
,, 'I have described these events exacdy as
I heard and saw them; from beginning to end
I obierved them with the most entire self-
possession. I had no fear, nor the slightest
tendency to it; yet the whole thing remains to
me perfecdy inexplicable. W1·itten the 19th
November, 1808.
"'AuGUsTus HAHN, Councillor.'
"Doubdess many natural explanations of
VoL. u. 2 c
D1g111Zed by Coogle
!.!90 THE POLTERGEIST
these phenomena will be suggested, by those
who consider themselves above the weakness
of crediting stories of this description. Some
say that Kern was a dextrous juggler, who
contrived to throw dust in the eyes of his
friend Hahn ; whilst others affirm that both
Hahn and Kern were intoxicated every even-
ing. I did not fail to communicate these
objections to Hahn, and here insert his
answer.
"'After the events alluded to, I resided with
Kern for a quarter of a year in another part of
the Casde of Slawensick (which has been
since struck by lightning, and burnt), without
finding a solution of the mystery, or experi-
encing a 1·epetition of the annoyance, which
discontinued from the moment we quitted
those particular apartments. Those pe1·sons
must suppose me Yery weak, who can imagine
it possible, that with only .one companion, I
could have been the subject of his sport for
two months without detecting him. As for
Kern himself, he was, from the first, very
anxious to leave the rooms; but as I was un·
willing to resign the hope of discovering some
natural cause for these phenomena, I persisted
in remaining ; and the thing that at last in-
dueed me to yield to his wisheR was his
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMANS, ETC. 291
vexation at the loss of his China pipe, which
had been flung against the wall and broken.
Besides, jugglery requires a juggler, and I was
frequently quite alone when these events
occurred. It is equally absurd to accuse us of
intoxication. The wine there was too dear
for us to drink at all ; and we confined our-
selves wholly to weak beer. All the circum-
stances that happened are not set down in the
nan·ation ; but my recollection of the whole is
as vivid as if it had occurred yesterday. We had
also many witnesses, some of whom have been
mentioned. Councillor Klenk also visited me
at a later period, with every desire to investi-
gate the mystery; and when, one monaing, he
bad mounted on a table, for the purpose of
doing so, and was knocking at the ceiling
with a stick, a powder horn ft>ll upon him,
which he had just before left on the table in
another room. At that time Kern had been
for some time absent. I neglected no possible
means that could have led to a discovery of
the secret ; and at least as many people have
blamed me, for my unwillingness to believe in
a supernatural cause as the reverse. Fear is
not my failing, as all who are acquainted with
me know; and to avoid the possibility of error,
I frequently asked others what they saw when
D1g111Zed by Coogle
292 THE POI.TERGEIST
I was myself present; and their answers
always coincided with what I saw myself.
From 1809 to 1811 I lived in Jacobswald,
very near the castle where the Prince himself
was residing. I am aware that some singular
circumstances occurred whilst he,was there;
but as I did not witness them myself, I cannot
speak of them more particularly.
" ' I am still as unable as ever to account
for those events, and I am content to submit
to the hasty remarks of the world, knowing
that I have only related the truth, and what
many persons now ali-re witnessed, as well as
myself. "'CoUNCILLOR HAHN.
" 'Ingelfinger, 24th August, 1828.*'"
The only key to this mystery everJiscov~red
was, that after the destruction of the castle
by lightning, when the ruins were removed,
there was found the skeleton of a man without
a coffin. His skull had been split, and a
sword lay by his side.
Now, I am very well aware bow absurd and
impossible these events will appear to many
people, and that they will have recourse to any
explanation rather than admit them for facts.
Yet,so late as the year1835,a suit was brought
before the Sheriff of Edinburgh,in which Cap-
• Translated from theoriginal German.-C. C.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMANs; ETC. 293
tain Molesworth was defendant, and the land-
lord of the house he inhabited (which was at
Trinity,aboutacoupleofmilesfromEdinburgh}
was plaintiff, founded upon circumstances not
so varied, certainly, but quite as inexplicable.
The suit lasted two years, and I have been
favoured with the particulars of the case by
Mr. M. L., the advocate employed by the
plaintiff, who spent many hours in examining
the numewus witnesses, several of whom
were officers of the army, and gentlemen of
undoubted honour and capacity for obser-
vation.
Captain Molesworth took the house of a
Mr. Webster, who resided in the adjoining one,
in May or June, 1835 ; and when be had been
in it about two months, he began to complain
of sundry extraordinary noises, which, finding
it impossible to account for, he took it into his
hen.d, strangely enough, were made by Mr.
Webster. The latter naturally represented
that it was not probable be should desire to
damage the reputation of his own house, or
drive his tenant out of it, and retorted the
accusation. Still, as these noises and knock-
ings continued, Captain M. not only lifted the
boards in the room most infected, but actually
made boles in the wall which divided his resi-
2 c 5
D1g111Zed by Coogle
294 THE POLTERGEIS'f
dence from Mr. W.'s, for the purpose of
detecting the delinquent-of course without
success. Do what they would, the thing wen'
on just the same ; footstt'ps of invisible feet,
knockings,and scratchings, and rustlings, first
on one side, and then on the other, were heard·
daily and nightly. Sometimes this unseen
agent seemed to be knocking to a certain tune,
and if a question were addressed to it which
could be answered numerically, as, "How
many people are there in this room?" for
example, it would answer by so many knocks.
The beds, too, were occasionally heaved up,
as if somebody were underneath, and where
the knockings were, the wall trembled visibly,
but, search as they would, no one could be
found. Captain Molesworth had had two
daughters, one of whom, named Matilda, had
lately died; the other, a girl between twelve.
and thirteen, called Jane, was sickly, and
generally kept her bed; and, as it.was ob-
served that, wherever she was, these noises
most frequently prevailed, Mr. Webster, who
did not like the malafama that was attaching
itself to his house, declared that she made
them, whilst the people in the neighbourhood
believed that it was the ghost of Matilda,
warning her sister that she was soon to follow.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMANI!, ETC. 295
Sheriff's officers, masons, justices of peace, and
the officers of the regiment quartered at Leith,
who were friends of Captain M., all came to
his aid, in hopes of detecting or frightening
away his tormenter, but iu vain. Sometimes
it was said to be a trick of somebody outside
the house, and then they formed a cordon round
it; and next, as the poor sick gil'l was sus-
pected, they tied her up in a bag, but it was
all to no purpose.
At length, ill and wearied out by the annoy-
ances and th~ anxieties attending the affair,
Captain M. quitted the house, and Mr. W.
brought an action against him for the damages
committed, by lifting the boards, breaking the
walls, and firing at the wainscoat, as well as
for the injury done to his house by saying it
was haunted, which prevented other tenants
taking it.
The poor young lady died, hastened out of
the world, it is said, by the severe measures
used whilst she was under suspicion; and the
persons that have since inhabited the house
have experienced no repetition of the annoy-
ance.
The manner in which these strange perse-
cutions attach themselves to certain persons
and places, seems somewhat analogous to
Digitized by Goog[e
296 THE POLTERGEIST
another class of cases, which bear a great
similarity to what was formerly called pos-
session; and I must here observe, that many
German physicians maintain, that to this day
instances of genuine possession occur, and there
are several works published in their language
on the subject; and for this malady tl1ey con-
sider magnetism the only remedy, all others
being worse than useless. Indeed, they look
upon possession itself as a demono-magnetic
state, in which the patient is in rapport with
mischievous or evil spirits ; as in the Agatbo
(or good) magnetic state, which is the oppo-
site pl)le, be is in rapport with good ones ; and
they particularly warn their readers against
confounding this infliction with cases of epi-
lepsy or mania. They assert that although in-
stances are comparatively rare, both sexes and
all ages are equally subject to this misfortune;
and that it is quite an error to suppose, either,
that it has ceased since the Resurrection of
Christ, or that the expression used in the
Scriptures, ''possessed by a devil,'' meant
merely insanity or convulsions. This disease,
which is not contagious, was well known to
the Greeks ; and in later times Hofman has
recorded several well established instances.
Amongst the distinguishing symptoms, they
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMANS, ETC. 297
reckon the patient's speaking in a voice that is
not his own, frightful convulsions and motions
of the body, which arise Ruddenly, without any
previous indisposition-blasphemous and ob-
scene talk, a knowledge of what is secret, antl
of the future-a vomiting of extraordin~ry
things, such as hair, stones, pins, needles, &c.
&c. I need scarcely observe that this opinion
is not universal in Germany; still, it obtains
amongst many who have had considerable
opportunities for observation.
Dr. Bardili had a case in the year 1830,
which he considered decidedly to be one of
possession. The patient was a peasant
woman, aged thirty-four, who never had any
sickness whatever; and the whole of whose
bodily functions continued perfectly regular
whilst she exhibited the following strange
phenomena. I must observe that she was
happily married, had three children ; was not
a fanatic, and bore an excellent character for
regularity and industry, when, without any
warning or perceptible cause, she was seized
with the most extraordinaryconvulsions, whilst
a strange voice proceeded from her, which as-
sumed to he that of an unblessed spirit, who
hnd formerly inhabited a human form. Whilst
these fits were on her, she entirely lost her own
D1g111Zed by Coogle
298 THE POLTERGEIST
individuality, and became this person; on re·
turning to herself, her understanding an<l
character wert> as entire as before. The blas-
phemy and cursing, and barking and screech·
ing, were dreadful. She was wounded and in-
jured severely by the violent falls and blows
she gave herself; and when she had an inter·
mission, she could do nothing but weep over
what they told her had passed, and the state in
which she saw herself. She was moreover
reduced to a skeleton; for when she wanted
to eat, the spoon was turned round in her
hand, and she often fasted for days together.
This afB.iction lasted for three years; all reme-
dies failed,and the onlyalleviation she obtained
was by the continued and earnest prayers of
those about her and her own; for although
this demon did not like prayers, and violently
opposed her kneeling down, even forcing her
to outrageous fits of laughter, still they had a
po\ver over him. It is remarkable that preg-
nancy, confinement, and the nursing he1· child,
made not the least difference in this woman's
condition. All went on regularly, but the
demon kept his post. At length, being tJ\ag-
netised, the patient fell into a partially som-
nambulic state, in which another voice was
beard to proceed from her, being that of her
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMANS ETC. 299
protecting spirit, which encouraged her to
patience and hflpe, and promised that the evil
guest would be obliged to vacate his quarters.
She often now fell into a magnetic state
without the aid of a magnetiser. At the end
of three years she was entirely relieved, and as
well as ever.
In th'! case of Rosina Wildin, aged ten years,
which occurred at Pleidelsheim, in 1834, the
demon used to announce himself by crying out,
" Here I am again !" Whereupon the weak,
exhausted child, who ha~ been lying like one
dead, would rage and storm in a voice like a
man's, perform the most extraordinary move-
ments and feats of violence and strength, till
he would cry out" Now I must be off again!''
This spi1it spoke generally in the plural
number, for he said, she had another besides
himself, a dumb devil, who plagued her most.
" He it is that twirls her round and round, dis-
torts her features, turns her eyes, locks her
teeth, &r. What he bids me, I must do !"
This child was at length cured by magnetism.
Barbara Rieger, of Steinbach, aged ten, in
1834, was possessed by two spirits, who spoke
in two distinctly different male voices and
dialects; one said he had formerly been a
mason, the other gave himself out for a de-
Digitized by Goog[e
•
300 THE POLTERGEIST
ceast'!d provisor; the latter of whom was much
the worst of the two. When they spoke, the
child closed her eyes, and when she opened
them again, she knew nothing of what they
had said. The mason confessed to have been
a great sinner, hut the provisor was proud and
hardened, and would confess nothing. They
often commanded food, and made her eat it,
which. when she recovered her individuality,
she felt nothing of, but was very hungry. The
mason was very fond of brandy, and drank a
great deal; and if not brought when he
ordered it, his raging and storming was
dreadful. In her own individuality, the child
had the greatest aversion to this liquor. They
treated her for worms, and other disorders,
without the least effect; till at length, by
magnetism, the mason was cast out. The pro-
visor was more tenacious, but, finally, they got
rid of him, too, and the girl remained quite
well.
In 1835, a respectable citizen, whose full
name in not given, was brought to Dr. Kerner.
He was aged thirty-seven, and till the last
seven years had been unexceptionable in con-
duct and character. An unaccountable change
bad, however, come over him in his thirtieth
year, which made his family very unhappy;
D1g111Zed by Coogle
•
OF THE GERMANS, ETC. 301
and at length; one day, a strange voice sud-
denly spoke out of him, saying that he was the
late magistrate, S., and that he had been in
him for six years. When this spirit was
driven oqt, by magnetism, the man fell to the
earth, and was almost tom to pieces by the
violence Qf the struggle; he then lay for a space
as if dead, and arose quite well and free.
In another case, a young woman at Grup-
penbach, was quite in her senses and heard the
voice of her demon (who was also a deceased
· person), 1peak out of her, without having any
power to suppress it.
In short, instances of this descJ;iption seem
by no means rare ; and if snob a phenomenon
as possession ever did exist, I do not see what
right we have to assert that it exists no longer,
since, in fp.ct, we know nothing about it; only,
that being determined to admit nothing so con-
trary to the ideas of the present day, we set
out by deciding that the thing is impossible.
Since these cases occur in other countries,
no doubt they must do so in this ; and, indeed,
I have met with one instance much more re-
markable in its details than any of those above-
mentioned, which occurred at Bishopwear-
mouth, near Sunderland, in the year 1840; and
as the particulars of this case have been pub-
VoL. u. 2 D
D1g111Zed by Coogle
30!l THE POLTERGEIST
lisbed and attested by two physicians and two
surgeons, not to mentil}n the evidence of nu-
merous other persons, I think we are bound to
accept the factc;, whatever interpretation we
may choose to put upon them.
The patient, named Mary Jobson, was be-
tween twelve and jthirteen years of age; her
parents, respectable people in humble life, and
herself an attendant on a Sunday school. She
became ill in November, 1889, and was soon
afterwards seized with terrific fits, which con-
tinued, at intervals, for eleven weeks. It was·
during this period that the family first ob-
served a strange knocking, which they could
not account for. It 'vas sometimes in one
place, and sometimes in another; and E-ven
about the bed, when the girl lay in a quiet
sleep, with her hands folded outside the
clothes. They next heard a strange voice,
which told them circumstances they diu not
know, but which they afterwards found to be
CQrrect. Then there was a noisP. like the
clashing of arms, and such a rumbling that
the tenantbelow thought the bouse was coming
down; footsteps where nobody was to be seen,
water falling on the floor, no one knew whence,
locked doon; opened, and above all, sounds
of ineffably sweet music. The doctors and
o;9mzedbyGoogle
OF THE GERMANS, ETC. 303
the father were suspicious, and every pre-
caution was taken, but no solution of the
mystery could be found. This sphit however
was a good one, and it preached to them, and
gave them a great deal of good advice. Many
persons went to witness this strange pheno-
menon, and some were desired to go by the
voice, when in their owu homes. Thus
Elizabeth Gauntlctt, whilst attending to some
domestic affairs at home, was startled by hear-
ing a voice say," Be thou faithful, and thou
shalt see the works of thy God, and shalt hear
with thine ears!" She cried out, " My God !
what can this be !" and presently she saw a
large white cloud near her. On the same
evening, the voice said to her, "Mary Jobson,
one of your scholars ia sick; go and see her;
and it will be good for you.'' This person did
not know where the child lived; but having
enquired the address, she went: and at the
door she heard the same voice bid her go up.
On entering the room, she beard another voice,
soft and beautiful, which bade her be faithful,
and said," I am the Virgin Mary." This voice
promised her a sign at home ; and accordingly
that night, whilst reading the Bible, she heard
it say, "Jemima, be not afraid; it is I: if you
keep my commandments, it shall be well with
D1g111Zed by Coogle
304 THE POLTERGEIST
you." When she repeated her visit, the same
things occurred, and she heard the most ex·
quisite music.
The same sort of phenomena were witnessed
by every body who went-the immoral were
rebuked, the good encouraged. Some were
hidden instantly depart, and were forced to go.
The voices of several dect>.ased persons of the
family were also heard, and made revelations.
Once,the voice said, "Look up, and you shall
see the sun aud moon on the ceiling !" and im-
mediately there appeared a beautiful repre-
sentation of these planets in lively colours, viz.,
green, yellow, and orange. Moreover, these
figures were permanent; but the father, who
was a long time sceptical, insisted on white-
washing them over ; however, they still re-
mained visible.
Amon[lSt other things, the voice said, that
though the child appeared to suffer, that she
did uot; that she did not know where her body
was, and that her own spirit had left it, and
another had entered; and that her body was
made a speaking-trumpet. The voice told the
family and visitors many things oftheir distant
friends, which proved true.
The girl twice saw a divine form standing
by her bed-side who spoke to her, and Joseph
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMANS, ETC. 301>
Ragg, one ofthe persons who had been invited
by the voice to go, saw a beautiful and
heavenly figure come to his bedside about
eleven o'clock at night, on the 17th January. It
was in male attire, sunounded by a radiance ;
it came a second time on the same night. On
each occasion it opened his curtains and looked
at him benignantly, remaining about a quru·ter
of au hour. When it went away, the curtains
fell back into their former position. One day
whilst in the sick child's room, Margaret
Watson saw a lamb, which passed through the
door and entered a place where the father,
John Jobson, was; but he did not see it.
One of the most remarkable features in this
case, is the beautiful music which was beard
by all parties, as well as the family, including
the unbelieving father, and, indeed, it seems to
have been, in a great degree, this that con-
verted him at last. This music was heard re-
peatedly during a space of sixteen weeks;
sometimes it was like an organ, but more
beautiful ; at others, there was singing of holy
songs, in. parts, and the words distinctly
heard. The sudden appearance of water in
the room, too, was most unaccountable ; for
they felt it, and it was really water. When the
voice desired that water should be sprinkled,
2 D 5
D1g111Zed by Coogle
306 THE POLTERGEIST
it immediately appeared as if sprinkled. At
another time a sign being promised to the
sceptical fatht>r, water would suddenly appear
on the floor; this happened "not once, but'
twenty times."
During the whole course of this affair, the
voices told them that there was a miracle to be
wrought on this child; and accordingly on the
22nd of June, when she was as ill as ever, and
they were only praying for her death, at five
o'clock the voice ordered that her clothes
should be laid out, and that everybody should
leave the room, except the infant which was
two years and a half old. They obeyed; and
having been outside the door a quarter of an
hour, the voice cried "Come in ! " and when
they entered, they saw the girl completely
dressed and quite well, sitting in a chair with
the infant on her knee, and she had not had an
hour's illness from that time till the report was
published, which was on the 30th of January,
1841.
Now', it is very easy to laugh at all this,
and assert that these things never happened,
because they are absurd and impossible; but
whilst honest, well-meaning, and intelligent
people, who were on the spot, assert that they
did, I confess I find myself constrained to
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMA:SR, ETC. 307
believe them, howe,·er much I find in the
case which is discrepent with my notions. It
was not an affair of a day or an hour ; there
was ample time for observation, for the
phenomena continued from the 9th of Feb-
ruary to the 22nd ofJ nne ; and the determined
unbelief of the father, with regard to the pos-
sibility of spiritual appearances, insomuch,
that he ultimately expressed great regret for
the harshness he had used-is a tolerable
security against imposition. Moreover, they
pertinaciously t·efused to receive any money
or assistance whatever, and were more likely
to suffer in public opini(ln than otherwise by
the avowal of these circumstances.
Dr. Reid Clanny, who publishes the report,
\vith the attestations of the witnesses, is a
physician of many years experience, and is
also, I believe, the inventor of the improved
Davy Lamp ; and he declares his entire con-
viction of the facts, assuring his readers, that
" many persons holding high rank in the
Established Church, ministers ofother denom-
inations, as well as many lay-members of
society, highly respected for learning and
piety, are equally satisfied." When he first
saw the child lying·on her back, apparently
insensible, with her eyes suffused with florid
Digitized by Goog[e
808 THE POLT.I!!RGEIST
blood, he felt assured that she had a disease
of the brain ; and he was not in the least dis-
posed to believe in the mysterious part of the
affair, till subsequent investigation compelled
him to do so ; and that his belief is of a very
decided character we may feel assured, when
he is content to submit to all the obloquy he
must incur by avowing it.
He adds, that since the girl has been quite
well, both her family and that of Joseph
Rugg, have frequently heard the same
heavenly music, as they did during her illness;
and a Mr. Torbock, a surgeon, who expresses
himself satisfied of the truth of the above par-
ticulars, also mentions another case, in which
he, as well as a dying person he was attending,
heard divine music just before the dissolution.
Of this last phenomenon, namely, sounds
as of heavenly music, being heard when a
death was occurring, I have met with nu-
merous instances.
From investigation of the above case, Dr.
Clanny has arrived at the conviction that the
spiritual world do occasionally identify them-
selves with our affairs; and Dr. Drury asserts
that besides this instance he has met with
another circumstance which has left him
firmly convinced that we live in a world of
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMA~S, ETC. 309
spirits, and that he has bet>n in the presence
of au unearthly being, who had " pP-ssed that
bourne, from which (it is said) no traveller
returns." *
Rut the most extraordinary case I have yet
met with is the following ; because it is one
which cannot by any possibility be attributed
to disease or illusion. It is furnished to me
from the most undoubted authority, and I give
it as I received it, with the omission of the
.names. I have indeed, in this instance, thought
~t right to change the initial, and substitute G.
for the right one, the particulars being of a
nature which demand the greatest delicacy, as
regards the parties concerned :-
" Mrs. S. C. Hall, in early life, was intimately
acquainted with a family, named G., one
of whom, Richard G., a young officer in the
army, was subject to a harrassing visitation
of a kind that is usually regarded as super-
natural. Mrs. H. once proposed to pay a visit
to her particular friend, Catherine G., but was
told that it would not be convenient exactly at
that time, as Richard~was on the point of com-
ing home. She thought the inconvenience con-
sisted in the want of a bed-room, and spoke of
sleeping with Miss G., but found that the ob-
jection really lay in the fact of Richard being
* Alluding, I conclude, to the afi'air at Willington.
o'9'''zedbyGoogle ...
810 THE POLTERGEIST
" haunted," which rendered it impossible for
anybody else to be comfortable in the same
house with him. A few weeks after Richard's
return, Mrs. H. heard of Mrs. G.'s being ex-
tremely ill; and found, on going to call, that it
was owing to nothing but the distress the old
lady suffered in consequence of the strange
circumstance connected with her son. It ap-
peared that Richard, wherever he was, at home,
in camp, in lodgings, abroa<l or in his own
country, was liable to be visited in his bed-
room at night by certain extraordinary noises.
Any light he kept in the room, was sure to be
put out. Something went beating about the
walls and his bed, making a great noise, and
often shifting close to his face, but never be-
coming visible. If a cage-bird was in his
room, it was certain to be found dead in the
morning. If he kept a dog in the apartment, it
would make away from him as soon as released,
and never came near him again. His brother,
even his mother, had slept in the room ; but
the visitation took place as usual. Accord-
ing to Miss G.'s report, she and other members
of the family would listen at the bed-room door
after Richard had gone to sleep, and would
hear the noises commence; and they would
then hear him sit up and express his vex-
D1g111Zed by Coogle
OF THE GERMANS ETC. 311
ation by a few military execrations. The
young man, at length, was obliged by
this pest to quit the army, and go upon
half-pay. Under its influence he became
a Mort of Cain ; for wherever he lived, the
annoyance was so great that he was quick~y
obliged to remove. Mrs. H. heard of him
having ultimately gone to settle in Ireland,
where, however, according to a brother whom
she met about four years ago, the visitation
which afilicted him in his early years, was in
no degree abated."
This cannot be called a case of poRsession ;
but seems to be one of a rapport, which at-
taches this invisible tormentor to his victim.
o;g, ,zed by Coogle
CHAPTER VII.
MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMENA.
IN a former chapter, I alluded to the forms
seen floating over graves, by Billing,
Pfeffel's amanuensis. By some persons, this
luminous form is seen only as a light, just as
occurs in many of the apparition cases I have
related. How far Baron Reichenbach is cor-
rect in his conclusion, that these figures are
merely the result of the chemical process going
on below, it is impossible for any one at pre-
sent to say. The fact that these lights do not
always ho\·er over the graves, but sometimes
move from them, militates against this
•
D1g111Zed by Coogle
MISCELLA~EOUS PHENOMENA. 313
opinion, as I have before observed; and the
insubstantial nature of the form which recon-
structed itself after Pfeffel had passed his
stick through it, proves nothing; since the
same thing is asserted of all apparitions I
meet with, let them be seen where they may,
except in such very extraordinary cases as that
of the Bride of Corinth, supposing that story
to be tme.
At the same time, although these cases are
not made out to be chemical phenomena,
neither are we entitled to class them under
the head of what is commonly understood by
the word gltost; whereby we comprehend a
shadowy shape, informed by an intelligent
spirit. But there are some cases, a few of
which I will mention, that it seems extremely
difficult to include under one category or the
other.
The late Lieutenant-General Robertson of
Lawers, who served during the whole of the
American war, brought home with him, at its
termination, a negro, who went by the name
ofBlack Tom, and who continued in his service.
The room appropriated to the use of this man
in the General's town residence-! speak of
Edinburgh-was on the ground floor ; and he "-.....
was heard frequently to complain that he
VoL. n. 2 E
D1g111Zed by Coogle
314 MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMENA.
r.ould not rest in it, for that every night the
figure of a headless lady, with a child in her
at·ms, rose out of the hearth and frightened
him dreadfully. Of course nobody believed
this story, and it was supposed to be the dream
of intoxication, as Tom was not remarkable
for sobriety; but strange so say, when the old
mansion was pulled down to build Gillespie's
Hospital, which stands on its site, there was
found under thehearth-stone in that apartment,
a box containing the body of a female, from
'"hich the head had been severed; and beside
her lay the remains of an infant wrapt in a
}Jillow case, trimmed with lace. She nppeared,
poor lady, to have been cut off in the "1 blos-
som of her sins;" for she was dressed, and her
scissars were yet hanging by a ribbon to her
side, and her thimble was also in the box,
having, apparently, fallen from the shrivelled
finger.
Now, whether we are to consider this a
ghost, or a phenomenon of the same nature as
that seen by Billing, it is difficult to decide.
Somewhat similar is the following case,which
I have borrowed from a little work entitled
"Superuaturalism in New England." Not
only does this little extraet prove th~t the
same phenomena, be they interpreted as they
D1g111Zed by Coogle
MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMENA, 315
may, exist in all parts ofthe world, but I think
it will be granted me, that although we have
not here the confirmation that time furnished
in the former instance, yet, it is difficult to
suppose that this unexcitable person should
have been the subject of so extraordinary a
spectral illusion.
" Whoever has seen Great Pond, in the
East parish of Haverhill, has seen one of the
very loveliest of the thousand little lakes or
ponds of New England. With its soft slopes
of greenest verdure-its wbite and sparkling
sand-rim-its southern hem of pine and maple,
mirrored, with spray imd leaf, in the glassy
water-;-its gracefal bill-sentinels round about,
white with the orchard-bloom of spt;ng, or
tasselled with the com of autumn-its long
sweep of blue waters, broken here and there
by picturesque headlands-it would seem a
spot, of all others, where spirits of evil must
shrink, rebuked and abashed, from the pre-
sence of the beautiful. Yet here, too, has the
shadow of the supernatural fallen. A lady of
my acquaintance, a staid, unimaginative
church member, states that a few years ago,
she was standing in the angle formed by two
roads, one of which traverses the pond shore,
the other leading over the hill which rises nb-
D1g111Zed by Coogle
316 MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMENA.
ruptly from the water. It was a warm Rummer
e\·ening, just at sunset. She was startled by
the appearance of a horse and cart of the kind
used a century ago in New England, drh·ing
rapidly down the steep bill-side, and crossing
the wall a few yards before her, without noise
or displacing of a stone. The driver sat
sternly erect, with a fierce countenance, grasp-
ing the reins tightly, and looking neither to
the right nor the left. Behind the cart, and
apparently lashed to it, was a woman of
gigantic size, her countenace convulsed with a
blended expression of rage and agony,wt-ithing
and struggling, like Laocoon in the folds of
the serpent. Her head, neck, feet, and arms
were naked ; wild locks of grey hair streamed
back from temple~:~ corrugated and darkened.
The horrible cavalcade swept by across the
street, and disappeared at the margin of the
pond."
Many persons will have heard of the" Wild
Troop of Rodenstein,"but few are aware of the
curious amount of el'idence there is in favour
of the strange belief which prevail& amongst
the inhabitants of that region. The story
goes, that the former possessor of the Castle
of Rodenstein and Schnellert, were robbers
and pirates, who committed, in conjunction,
Digitized by Goog[e
MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMENA. 317
all manner of enormities; and that, to this
day, the troop, with their horses and carriages
and dogs are heard, every now and then, wildly
rushing along the road betwixt the two
castles. This sounds like a fairy tale ; yet sn
much was it believed, that up to the middle of
the last century regular reports were made to
the authorities in the neighbourhood, of the
periods when the troop had passed. Since
that, the Landgericht or Court Leet, has been
removed to Furth, and they trouble them-
selves no longer about the Rodenstein Troop;
but a tra,·eller named Wirth, who a few years
ago undertook to examine into the affair,
declares the people assert that the passage of
the visionary cavalcade still continues; and
they assured him that certain houses that he
saw lying in ruins, were in that state, because,
as they lay directly in the way of the troop,
they were uninhabitable. There is seldom
anything seen, but the sound of carriage
wheels, horses feet,smacking ofwhips, blowing
of horns, and the voice of these fierce hunters
of men urging them on, are the sounds by
which they recognize that the troop is passing
from one castle to the other; and at a spot
which was formerly a blacksmith's, but is now a
carpenter's, the invisible Lord of Rodenstein
2 E f)
D1g111Zed by Coogle
318 MISCELLANEOUS PHnlO!\fENA.
still stops to have his horse shod. Mr. With
copiedseveral ofthe depositions outof the court
records, and they are brought down to June
1764. This is certainly a strange story; but
it is not much more so than that of the black
man, which I know to be true.
During the seven years war in Germany, a
drover lost his life in a dmnken squabble on
the high road.
For some time there was a sort of rude tomb-
stone, with a cross on it, to mark the spot
where his body was inteiTed; but this has long
fallen, and a mile-stone now fiBs its place.
Nevertheless, it continues commonly asserted
by the country people, and also by various
travellers, that they have been deluded in that
spot by seeing, as they imagine, herds of
beasts, which on investigation prove to be
merely visionary. Of course, many people
look upon this as a superstition; but a very
singular confirmation of the story occurred in
the year 1826, when two gentlemen and two
ladies were passing the spot in a post carriage.
One of these was a clergyman, and none of
them had ever heard of the phenomenon said to
be attached to the place. They had been dis-
cussing the prospects of the minister, who was
on his way to a vicarage, to which he had just
D1g111Zed by Coogle
1USCELL.\NEOUS PHENOMENA, 3:9
been appointed, when tl1ey saw a large flock
of sheep, which stretched quite across the road,
and was accompanied by a shephe1·d and a long
haired black dog. As to meet cattle on that
road was nothing uncommon, and indeed thPy
had met several dwves in the course of the day,
no remark was made at the moment, till sud~
denly each looked at the other and said,
" \Vhatisbecomeofthesheep?" Quiteperplexed
at theirsudden disappearance, they called to the
postilion to stop, and all got out, in order
to mount a little elevation and look around,
hut still unable to discover them, they now be-
thought themselves of asking the postilion
where they were; when, to their infinite sur-
prise, they learnt that he had not seen them.
Upon this, they bade him quicken his pace,
that they might overtake a carriage that had
passed th,em shortly before, and enquire if that
party had seen the sheep; but they had not.
Four years later, a postmaste1·, named J.,
was on the flame road, d1iving a carriage, in
which were a clergyman and his wife, when he
saw a large flock of sheep near the same spot.
Seeing they were very fine wethers, and sup-
posing them to have been hought at a sheep-
fair that was then taking place a few miles off,
J. drew up his reins and stopped his horses,
D1g111Zed by Coogle
320 MISCELLA~EOUS PHENOliESA,
turning at the same time to the clergyman to
say, that he wanted to enquire the pt·ice of the
sheep, as he intended going next day to the
fair himself. Whilst the minister was asking
him what sheep he meant, J. got down and
found himself in the midst of the animal<;, the
size and beauty of which astonished him. They
passed him at an unusual rate, whilst he made
his way through them to find the shepherd,
when on getting to the end of the flock, they
suddenly disappeared. He then first learnt
that his fellow traYellers had not seen them
at all.
Now, if such cases as these are not pure
illusions, which I confess I find it difficult
to believe, we must suppose that the animals
and all the extraneous circumstances are pro-
duced by the mgical will of the spirit, either
acting on the constructive imagination of the
seers, or else actually constructing the etherial
forms out of the elements at its command;
just as we have supposed an apparition able
to present himself with whate,·er dress or
appliances he conceives; or else we must con-
clude, these forms to have some relation to the
mystery called PALINGNESIA which I have
previously alluded to; although the motion
a.nd change ofplace renders it difficult to bring
D1g111Zed by Coogle
MISCELLANEOUA PHE:NOl\IENAe 321
them unde,r this category. As for the animals,
although the dro,•er was slain, they were not;
and therefore even granting them to have
souls, we cannot look upon them as the appa-
ritions of the flock. Neither can we consider
the numerous instances of armies seen in the
air to be apparitions ; and yet these phenomena
are so well established, that they have been
accounted for by supposing them to be atmos-
pherical reflections of armies elsewhere, in
actual motion. But how are we to act.~ount
for the vi;;ionary troops which are not seen
in the air, but on the very ground on which
the seers themselves stand? which was the
case especially with those seen in Havamh
Park, near Ripley, in the year 1812. These
soldiers wore a white uniform,o.nd in the centre
was a personage in a scarlet one.
After performing several evolutions. the
body began to march in perfect order to the
summit of a hill, passing the spectators at the
distance of about one hundred yards. They
amounted to several hundreds, and marched
in a column, four deep, across about thirty
acres; and 110 sooner were they passed, than
another body, far more numerous, but dressed
in dark clothes arose and marched after them,
without any apparent hostility. Both parties
o;9mzedbyGoogle
322 MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMENA.
having reached the top of the hill, ;tnd there
formed what the spectators called an L, they
disappeared down the other side,and were seen
nomore; but at that moment,a volume ofsmoke
arose like the discharge of a park of artillery,
which was so thick that the men could not, for
two or three minutes, discover their own
cattle. They then hunied home to relate
what they had seen1 and the impression made
on them is described as so great, that they
could never allude to the subject without
emotion.
One of them was a farmer of the name of
Jackson, aged forty-five ; the other was a lad of
fifteen, called Turner ; and they were at the
time herding cattle in the park. The scene
seems to have lasted nearly a quarter of an
hour, during which time they were quite in
,possession of themselves, and ab1e to make re-
marks to each other on what they saw. They
were both men of excellent character and un-
impeachable veracity, insomuch that nobody
who knew them doubted that they actually
saw what they described, or, at all events, be-
lieved that they did. It is to be observed also,
that the ground is not swampy, nor subject to
any exhalations.
About the year 1730, a visionaryal'my of the
D1g111Zed by Coogle
MISCELLANEOUS PHK~OMENA. 323
same description was seen in the neighbour-
hood of Inverness, by a respectable farmer, of
Glenary, and his son. The number of troops
was very gn•at, and they had not the slightest
doubt that they were otherwise than sub-
stantial forma of flesh and blood. They counted
at. least sixteen pairs of eolumns, and had
abundance of time to observe every particular.
The front ranks murched seven abreast, and
were accompanied by a good many women ana
children, who were carrying tin cans and ether
implements of cookery. The men were clothed
in red, and their arms shone brightly in the
sun. In the midst them was au anima.l, a
deer or a horse, they could not distinguish
which, that they were dril'ing furiously for-
ward with their bayonets. The younger oi
the two men obsen-ed to the other, that every
now and then, the rear ranks were obliged to
run to overtake the van ; and the elder one,
who had been a ~oldier, remarked that that
was always the case, and recommended him, if
he ever served, to try and march in the front.
There was only one mounted officer; he rode
a grey drngoon horse, and wore a gold-laced
hat, and blue Hussar cloak, with wide open
slee'"es lined with red. The two spectators
observed him so particularly, that they said
Digitized by Goog[e
324 MISCELL.\NEOUS PHENOMENA.
afterwards, they should recognize him any-
where. They were, however, afraid of being
ill-treated, or forced to go along with the troops,
whom they concluded had come from Ireland,
and landed at Kyutyre; and whilst they were
climbing over a dyke to get out of their way,
the whole thing vanished.
Some years since, a phenomenon of the
same sort was observed at Paderborn, in West-
•phalia, and seen by at least thirty persons, as
well as by horses and dogs, as was discovered
by the demeanour of these animals, In Oc-
tober, 1836, on the very same spot, there was
a review of twenty thousand men ; and the
people then concluded, that the former vision
was a secondsigltt.
A similar circumstance occurred in Stockton
Forest, some years ago; and there are many
r~corded elsewhere; one especially, in the
year 1686, near Lanark, where, for several
afternoons, in the months of June and July
'
there were seen, by numerous spectators, com-
panief! of men in arms, marching in order by
the banks of the Clyde, and other companies
meeting them, &c. &c.; added to which, there
were showers of bonnets, hats, guns, swords,
&c., which the seers described with the greatest
exactness. All who were present could not
D1g111Zed by Coogle
MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMENA. 3:25
see these things, and Walker relates, that
oue gentleman, particularly, was turning
the thing into ridicule, calling the seers
" Damned witches and warlocks, with the
&ecoru.l sight !" boasting that " The devil a
thing be could see!" when he suddenly ex-
claimed, with fear and trembling, that he now
!Saw it all; aud entreated those who did not
see, to say nothing-a change that may be
easily accounted for, be the phenomena of what
nature it may, by supposing him to ha\'e
touched one of the seers, when the faculty
would be communicated like a shock of elec·
t1icity.
With regard to the palingnesia, it would be
necessary to t>litahlish that these objects had
previously existed, and that, as Oetinger says,
the earthly husk having fallen off, "the vola-
tile essence had a~>cended perfect in form, but
void of substance.''
The notion supported by Baron Reichen-
bach that the lights seen iu churchyard11 and
over graves are the result of a process going
on below, is by no means new; for Gaffarillus
suggested the same opinion in 1650; only he
speaks of the appearances over graves and in
churchyard11 as shadows, ombres, as they ap-
peared to Billing; and he mention!!, casually,
VoL.n. 2 F
D1g111Zed by Coogle
326 lllSCELLA=-tEOUS PHE:SO.MENA.
as a thing frequently observed, that the same
visionary forms are remarked on ground where
battles have been fought, which he thinks a1ise
out of a process betwixt the earth and the suu.
'When a limb has been cut off, some somnam-
6ules still discern the form of the member as
if actually attached.
But this magical process is said to be not
only the work of the elements, but also pos-
sible to man; and that as the forms of plants can
be preserved after the substance is destroyed,
so can that of man, be eithe1· preserved or re-
produced from the elements of his body. In
the reign of LouisXIV.•three alchemists having
distilled some earth, taken from the Cemetery
of the Innocents, in Paris, were forced to de-
sist, by seeing the forms of men appearing in
their vials, instead of the philosopher's stone,
which they were seeking, and a physician,
who, after dissecting a body, and pulverising
the cranium, which was then an article, ad-
mitted into the mate,-ia medica, had left the
powder on the table of his laboratory, in charl-!"e
of his assistant, the latter, who slept in an
adjoining room, was awakened in the night,
by hearing [a noise, which, after some search,
he ultimately traced to the powder; in the
n~idst of which he hehcld, gradually con-
structing itself, a human form. First ap-
D1g111Zed by Coogle
MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMENA. 327
peared the head, with two open eyes, then the
arms and hands, and by degrees, the rest of
the person, which subsequently assumed the
clothes it had worn when alive. The man was
of course fdghtened out ofhis wits; the rather,
as the apparition planted itself before the
door, and would not let him go away, till it
had made its own exit, which it speedily did.
Similar results have been said to arise from ex-
peliments performed on blood. I confess I
shouldbe disposed to considerthese apparitions,
if ever they appeared, cases of genuine ghosts,
brought into rapport hy the operations, rather
than forms residing in the bones or blood. At
all e\'ents, these things are ,·ery hard to believe;
but seeing we '"ere not there, I do not think we
have any 1ight to say they did not happen ; or
at least that some phenomena did not occur,
that were open to this interpretation.
It is highly probable that the seeing of those
visionary armies and similar prodigies is a sort
of second sight ; but having admitted this,
we are very little nearer an explanation.
Granting that, as in the above experiments,
the essence of things may retain the forms of
the substance, this does not explain the seeing
that which has not yet taken place, or which
is taking place at so great a distance, that
D1g111Zed by Coogle
3:28 MISCELLANEOUS PHE'SOME:SA.
neither Oetinger's essence nor the superficial
films of Lucretius can remove the difficulty.
It is the fashion to say, that second sight
was a mere superstition of the Hi~hlanders,
and that no such thing is ever beard of now ;
but those who talk in this way know ,·ery
little of the matter. No doubt, if they set ont
to look for seers, they may not find them ;
such phenomena, though known in all
countries, and in all ages, are comparath·ely
rare, as well as uncertain and capricious ; and
not to be exercised at will; but I know of too
many instances ofthe existence of this faculty
in families, as well as of isolated cases occur-
ling to individuals above all suspicion, tn
entertain the smallest doubt of its reality.
But the difficulty of furnishing el'idence is
considerable; because, when the seers are of
the humbler classes, they are called impostors
and not believed; and when they are of the
higher, they dtJ not make the subject a matter
of conversation, nor choose to expose them-
selves to the ridicule of the foolish; and con-
sequently the thing is not known beyond
their own immediate friends. When the
young Duke of Orleans was killed, a lady
residing here, saw the accident, and described
it to her husband at the time it was occun-ing
D1g111Zed by Coogle
MISCELLANEOUS PHENOME~A. 329
in France. She had frequently seen the Duke,
when on the continent.
Captain N. went to stay two days at the
house of Lady T. After dinner, however, he
announced that he was under the necessity of
going away that night, nor could he be induced
to remaiu. On being much pressed for an
explanation, he confided to some of the party,
that during the dinner he had seen a female
figure with her throat cut, standing behind
Lady T.'~:~ chair. Of course, it was thought
an illusion, but Lady T. was not told of it,
'
lest she should be alarmed. That night the
household was called up for the purpose of
summoning a surgeon-Lady T. had cut her
own throat.
Mr. C., who, though a Scotchman, was an
entire sceptic with regard to the second sight,
was told by a seer whom he had been jeering
on the su~ject, that within a month, he (Mr.
C.) would be a pall-beareratafuneral, that he
would go by a certain road, but that before
they bad crossed the brook, a man in a drab
coat would come down the bill and take the
pall from him. The funetal occurred, Mr. C.
was a bearer, and they went by the road de-
scribeu; but he firmly resolved that be would
disappoint the seer by keeping the pall whilst
2 F 5
D1g111Zed by Coogle
330 MISCELU!\EOUS PHESOliENA.
they crossed the brook; but shortly before they
reached it, the postman "vertook them, with
letters, which in that part of the country
arrived but twice a week, nnd Mr. C., who was
engaged in some spetulations of importance,
turned to receive them; at which moment the
pall was taken from him, and on looking round,
he saw it wns by a man in a drab coat.
A medical friend of mine, who practised
some time at Deptford, was once sent for to a
girl who had been taken suddenly ill. He
found her with inflammation of the brain, and
the only account the mother could give of it
was, that ~>hortly before, she had ran into the
room, crying," Oh mother, 1 have seen Uncle
Johu drowned in his boat under the fifth arch
of Rochester Bridge !" The girl died a few
hours afterwards ; and on the following night,
the uncle's boat ran foul of the bridge, and he
was drowned, exactly as she had foretold.
Mrs. A., an English lady, and the wife of a
clergyman, relates that, previous to her mar-
riage, she with her father and mother beingat
the seaside, had arranged to make a fe\V days'
excursion to some races that were about to
take place; and that the night before they
started, the father having been left alone,
whilst the ladies were engaged in their prepa-
D1g111Zed by Coogle
l'diSCELU~EOUS PHE)'IO:MEN.-\. 331
rati1ms, they found him, on descending to the
drawing-room, in a stnte of considerable agi-
tation ; which, he said, had arisen from his
having seen a dreadful face at one corner of the
room. He described it as a bruised, battered,
cmshed, discoloured face, with the two eyes
protruding frightfully from their sockets; but
the features were too disfigured to ascertain if
it were the face of any oue be knew. On the
following day, on their way to the races, an
accident occurred; and he was brought borne
with his own face exactly in the condition he
had described. He had never exhibited any
other instance ofthis extraordinary faculty,and
the impression made by the circumstance lasted
the remainder of his life, which was unhappily
shortened by the injuries he had received.
The late Mrs. V., a lady of fortune and
family, who resides ncar Loch Lomond, pos-
sessed this faculty in au extraordinary degree ;
and displayed it on many remarkable occa-
sions. When her brother was shipwrecked
in the Chanm·l, she was heard to exclaim,
" Thank God, he is saved !" aud described the
scene, with all its circumstances.
Colonel DaYid Stewart, 1\ determined dis-
belie,·er in what he calls tlte 11Upernatural, in
his book on the Highlanders, relates the
Digitized by Goog[e
8:32 MISCELLANEOUS PHE~OME~A.
following fact as one so remarkable, that
" credulous minds" may he excused for be-
lieving it to have been prophetic. He says
that late in an autumnal evening of the year
1773, the son of a neighbour came to his
father's house, and soon after his arrival
enquired for a little boy of the family, theu
about three years old. He was shown up to
tbe nursery and found the nurse putti.ng a
pair of new shoes on the child, wbich sbe
complained did not fit. "Never mind," said the
young man," they will fit him before he wants
them," a prediction which not only offended
t.he nurse, but seemed at the moment absurd,
since the child was apparently in perfect
health. When he joined the patty in the
drawing room, he being much jeet·ed upon
this new gift of second sight, he explained,
that the impression he had received originated
in his having just seen a funeral passing the
wooden bridge which crossed a stream at a
short distance from tbe house. He first ob-
served a crowd of people, and on coming
nearer, he saw a person carrying a small
coffin, followed by about twenty gentlemen,
all of his acquaintance, his own father and a
Mr. Stewart being amongst the number.
He did not attempt to join the procession,
Digitized by Goog[e
MISCELLASEOU!t PHENO!IIESA. 3'33
which he saw turn off into the churchyard ;
hut knowing his own father could not be
actually there, and that Mr. and Mrs. Stewart
were then at Blair, he felt a conviction that
the phenomenon portended the death of the
child; a persuasion which was ''erified by its
sudcienly expiring on the following night, and
Colonel Stewart adds, that the circumstances
and attendants at the funeral were precisely
such as the young man had described. He
mentions also that this gentleman was not a
seer ; that he was a man of education and
general knowledge, and that this was the first
and only vision of the sort he ever harl.
I know of a y0ung lady, who has three timP.s
seen funerals in this way.
The old persuasion, that fasting was a
means of developing the spirit of prophesy, is
undoubtedly well founded, and the annals of
medicine furnish numerous facts which esta-
blish it. A man condemned to death at
Viterbo having abstained from food in the hope
of escaping execution, became so clairvoyant,
that he could tell what was doing in any part
of the prison; the expression used in the
report is, that he saw throu9lt the walls, this,
however, could not be with his natural o1·gans
of sight.
It is worthy of obsen-ation, that idiots o~ten
D1g111Zed by Coogle
334 MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMENA.
possess some gleams of this faculty of second
sif:rht or presentiment; and it is probably on
this account that they nre in some countries
held sacred. Presentiment, which I thiuk
may very probably be merely the vague and
impeifect recollection of what we knew in our
sleep, is often observed in drunken people.
In the great plague at Ba.sle, which occurred
towards the end of the sixteenth c:entury,
almost everybody who died, culled out in their
last moments,the name of the person that was
to follow them next.
Not long ago a servant girl on the estate of
D., of S., saw with amazement five figures
ascending a perpendicular cliff, quite inacces-
sible to human feet; one was a boy wearing a
cap with red binding. She watched them with
great curiosity till they reached the top, where
they all stretched themselves on the earth,
with countenances expressive ofgreat dejection.
Whilst she was looking at them they dis-
appeared, and she immediately related her
vtston. Shortly afterwards, a foreign ship in
distress, was seen to put off a boat with four
men and a boy; the boat was dashed to pieces
in the surf, and the five bodies, exactly
answering the description she had given, were
thrown on shore, at the foot of the cliff, which
they had perhaps climbed in the spirit !
D1g111Zed by Coogle
. MISCELLANEOUS PHKSOMENA. 33~
How well what we call clairvoyance was
known, though how little understood, at the
peril)d of the witch persecution, is proved by
what Dr. Henry More says, in his ''Antidote
against Atheism":-
" We will now pass to those supernatural
effects which are observed in them that are
bewitched or possessed; and such as foretelling
things to come, telling what such and such per-
sons speak or do, as exactly as if they were by
them, when the party possessed is at one end
of the town, and sitting in a house within
doors, and those parties that act and confer to-
gether are without, at the other end of the
town ; to he able to see some, and not others ;
to play at cards with one certain person, and
not to discern anybody else at the table beside
him ; to act and talk, and go up and down, aud
tell what will become of things, and what
happens in those tits of possession; and then
so soon as the possessed 01· bewitched party is
out of them, to 1·emember nothing at all, but
to enquire concerning the welfare of those
whose faces they seemed to look upon but ju:st
before, when they were in their fits."
A state which he believes to arise from the
devil's having taken possession of the body oC
the magnetic person, which is precisely the
o;grlized by Coogle
336 MISC~LLANMUS PHENOMENA.
theory supported by many fanatical persons in
our own day. Dr. Mare was not a fanatic;
but the~;e phenomena, though very well
understood by the ancient philosophers, as well
as by Paracelsus, Van Helmont, Cornelius
Agrippa, Jacob Behmen, a. Scotch physicfan
called Maxwell, who publi~hed on the subject
in the seventeenth century, and many others,
were still, when observed, looked upon as the
effects of diabolical influence by mankind in
general.
When Monsieur Six Deniers, the artist, was
drowned in the Seine, in 1846, after his body
had been vainly sought, a somnambule was
applied to, in whose hands they placed a port-
folio belonging to him, and being asked where
the owner was,she evinced great terror,held up
her dress, as if walking in the water, and said
that he was between two boats, under the
Pont des Arts, with nothing on but a flannel
waistcoat; and there he was found.
A friend of mine knows a lady, who, one
morning, early, being in a natural state of
clairvoyance, without magnetism, saw the
porter of the house where her son lodged,
ascend to his room with a carving·knife, go to
his bed where he lay asleep, lean over him,
then open a chest, take out a fifty-pound note,
D1g111Zed by Coogle
MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMENA. 337
and retire. On the following day, she went to
her son and asked him if he bad any money
in the house ; he said, " Yes, he bad fifty
pounds;" whereupon, she bade him seek it;
but it was gone. They stopped payment of
the note ; but did not prosecute, thinking the
evidence insufficient. Subsequently, the porter
being taken up for other crimes, the note was
found crumpled up at the bottom of an old
purse belonging to him.
Dr. Ennemoser says, that there is no doubt
of the ancient Syhyls having been claiNioyante
women, and that it is impossible so much
value could have been attached to their books,
had not their revelations been verified.
A maid-servant, residing in a family in
Northumberland, one day, la.Ht winter, was
heard to utter a vhllent scream immediately
aftershe had leftthe kitchen. On following her
to enquire what had happened, she said that
she had just seen her father in his night
clothes, with a most horrible countenance, and
she was sure something dreadful had happened
to him. Two days afterwards, there arrived
a letter, saying, he had been seized with
d-elirium tremens, and was at the point of
death; which accordingly ensued.
There are innumerable cases of this SOl't
VoL. n. 2 G
D1g111Zed by Coogle
338 MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMENA.
recorded in various collections; not to men-
tion the much more numerous ones that meet
with no recorder; and I could myself mention
many more, but these will suffice-one, how-
ever, I will not omit, for though historical it
is not generally known. A year before the
rebellion broke out, in consequence of which
Lord Kilmarnock lost his head, the family
were one day startled by a violent scream, and
on rushing out to enquire what had occurred,
they found the servants all assembled in
amazement,with the exceptionofone maid,who
they said had gone up to the g-arrets to hang
some linen on the lines to dry. On a~>cending
thither, they found the girl on the floor, in a
state of insensibility; and they had no sooner
revived her, than on seeing Lord Kilmarnock
bending over her, she screamed and fainted
again. When ultimately recovered, she told
them that whilst hanging up her linen and
singing, the door had burst open and his
lordships bloody head had rolled in. I think
it came twice. This event was so well known
at the time, that on the first rumours of the
rebellion, Lord Saltoun said, '' Kilmarnock
will lose his head." It was answered " that
Kilmarnock had not joined the rebels." " He
will, and will be beheaded," returned Lord S.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMENA, 33H
Now, in these cases we are almost compelled
to believe that the phenomenon is purely sub-
j~cth·e, and that there is no veritable out-
standing'object seen ; yet, when we have taken
refuge in this hypothesis, the difficulty remains
as great as ever; and is to me much more in-
comprehensible than ghost-seeing, because in
the latter we suppose an external agency
acting in some way or other on the seer.
I have already mentioned that Oberlin, the
good pastor of Ban de la ~oche, himself a
ghost-seer, asserted that everything earthly
had its counterpart, or antitype, in the other
wodd, not only organized, but unorganized
matter. If so, do we sometimes see these
antitypes?
Dr. Ennemoser, in treating of second sight
-which, by the way, is quite as well known in
Germany, and especially in Denmark, as in
the Highlands of Scotland-says, that as in
natural somnambulism, there is a partial .in-
ternal vigilance, so does the seer fall, whilst
awake, into a dream-state. He suddenly be-
comes motionless and stiff: his eyes are open,
and his senses are, whilst the vision lasts, un-
perceptive of all external objects; the vision
may he communicated by the touch, and some-
times persons at a distance from each other,
D1g111Zed by Coogle
340 MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMENA.
but connected by blood or sym}>athy have the
vision simultaneously. He remarks, also, that,
as we have seen in the above-mentioned case
ef Mr. C., any attempt to frustrate the fulfil-
ment of the vision never succeeds, inasmuch
as the attempt appears to be taken into the
account.
The seeingin glass and in crystals, is equally
inexplicable; as is the magical seeing of the
Egyptians. Every now and then, we hear it
said that this last is discovered to be an im-
position, because some traveller has either
actually fallen into the hands of an impostor-
and thereareimpostors in all trades; or because
the phenomenon was imperfectly exhibited ; a
circumstance which, as in the exhibitions of
clairvoyants and somnambulists, where all the
conditions are not under command, or even
recognized, must necessarily happen. But
not to mention the accounts published by Mr.
Lane and Lord Prudhoe, whoe\·er has read
that of Monsieur Leon Laborde, must be
satisfied that the thing is an indisputable fact.
It is, in short, only another form of the seeing
in crystals, which has been known in all ages,
and of which many modern instances have
occurred amongst somnambulic patients.
We see by the 44th chapter of Genesili that it
D1g111Zed by Coogle
MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMENA. 3U
was by his cup that Joseph prophesied : " Is
not this it in which my lord drinketh, and
whereby indeed he divineth ?" But, as Dr.
Passavent observes, and as we shall presently
see in the anecdote of the boy and the gipsy, the
virtue does not lie in the glass nor in the
water, but in the seer himself, who may
possess a more or less developed faculty. The
external objects and ceremonies being only the
means of concentrating the attention and inten-
sifying the power.
Monsieur Leon Laborde witnessed the ex-
hibition, at Cairo, before Lord P.'s visit; the
exhibitor, named Acbmed, appeared to him a
respectable man, who spoke simply of his
science, and had nothing of the charlatan
about him. The first child employed, was a
boy of eleven years old, the son of a European ;
and Achmed having traced some figures on the
palm of his hand, and poured ink over them,
bade him look for the reflection of his own
fnce. The child said he saw it; the magician
then burnt some powders in a brazier, and
bade him tell him when be saw a soldier
sweeping a place; and whilst the fumes from
the brazier diffused themselves, be pronounced
a sort of litany. Presently, the child threw
back his bead, and screaming with terror,
2 G ~
D1g111Zed by Coogle
342 MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMENA.
sobbed out, whilst bathedin tears, that be had
seen a dreadful face. Ft>aring the boy might
be injured, Monsieur Laborde now called up a
little Arab servant, who had never seen or
heard of the magician. He was gay and
laughing, and not at all frightened ; and the
ceremony being repeated, he said he saw the
soldier sweeping in the front of a tent. He
was then desired to bid the soldier bring
Shakspcare,Colonel Cradock, and several other
persons ; and he described evet·y person and
thing so exactly, as to be entirely satisfactory.
During the operations, the boy looked as if in-
toxicated ; with his eyes fixed and the per-
spiration dripping from his brow. Achmed
disenchanted him by placing his thumbs on
his eyes; he gradually recovered, and gaily
related nil he had seen, which he perfectly re-
membered.
Now this is merely another form of whnt
the Laplanders, the African magicians, and
the Scbaamans of Siberia, do by taking nar-
cotics and turning round till they fall down in
a state ofinsensibility, in which condition they
are clear-seers, and be~ides vaticinating, de-
scribe scenes, places, and persons they have
never seen. In Barbary they anoint their
hands with a black ointment, and then holding
D1g111Zed by Coogle
.MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMENA, 843
them up in the sun, they see wbate\"er they
desire, like the Egyptians.
Lady S. possesses somewhat of a singular
faculty, naturally. By walking rapidly round
a room, several times, till a certain degree of
vertigo is produced, she will name to you any
person you have privately thought of, or
agreed upon with others. Her phrase is, " I
see so and so."
Monsieur Laborde purcbased the secret of
Acbmed, who said, be bad learnt it from two
celebrated Scbeicks of his own country, which
was Algiers. Monsieur L. found it connected
both with physics and magnetism, and be
practised it himself afterwards with perfect
success, and be affirms, positively, that under
the influence of a particular organization and
certain ceremonies, amongst which he cannot
distinguish which are indi!!pensable and which
are not, that a child without fraud or collusion,
can see as through a window or peep-hole,
people moving, who appear and disappear at
their command, and with whom they bold
communication-and they remember every-
thing after the operation. He says " I narrate,
but explain nothing ; I produced those effects,
but cannot comprehend them ; I only affirm
in the most positive manner, that what I relate
D1g111Zed by Coogle
844 MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMENA.
is true. I performed the experiment in various
places, with various subjects, before numerous
witnesses, in my own room or. other rooms,
in the open air, and even in a boat on the
Nile. The exactitude and detailed descriptions
of persons, places, and sceneH, could by no
possibility be feigned."
Moreover, Baron Dupotet has very lately
succeeded in obtaining these phenomena in
Paris, from persons, not somnambulic, selected
from his audience ; the chief difference being,
that they did not recollect what they had seen
when the crisis was over.
Cagliostro, though a charlatan, was pos-
sessed of this secret; and it was his great
success in it, that chiefly sustained his repu-
tation ; the spectators, convinced he could
make children see distant places and persons
in glass, were persuaded he could do other
things, which appeared to them no more
mysterious. Dr. Dee was perfectly honest,
with regard to his mirror in which he could
see, by concentrating his mind on it; but as
he could not remember what he saw,
he employed Kelly to Bee for him, whilst
he himself wrote down the revelations ; and
Kelly was a rogue, and deceived and ruined
him.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
MISCELLANEOU$ PHENOMENA. 34~
A friend of Pfeffel's knew a boy, appren-
ticed to an apothecary, at Scboppenweyer,
who, having been observed to amuse himself
by looking into vials filled with water, was
asked what he saw; when it was discovered
that he possessed this faculty of seeing in
glass, which was afterwards very frequently
exhibited for the satisfaction of the curious.
Pfe)fel also mentions another boy, who had
this faculty, who went about the country with
a small mirror, answering questions, recover-
ing stolen goods, and so forth. He said that
he one day fell in with some gipsies, one of
whom was sitting apart, and staring into this
glass. The boy, from curiosity, looked over
his shoulder, and exclaimed that he saw "a
fine man, who was moving about;" whereupon
the gipsy, having interrogated him, gave him
the glass; "For," said he, "I have been
staring in it long enough, and can see nothing
but my own face."
It is almost unnecessary to observe, that the
sacred books of the Jews, and of the Indians,
testify to their acquaintance with this mode
of divination, as well as many others.
Many persons will have heard or read an
account of Mr. Canning and Mr. Huskisson
D1g111Zed by Coogle
346 :MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMENA.
having seen, whilst in Patis, the visionary
representation of their own deaths in water,
as exhibited to them by a Russian or Polish
lady, there; as I do not, however, know what
authority there is for this story, I will not
insist on it here. But St. Simon relates a very
curious circumstance of this nature, which
occurred at Paris, and was related to him by
the Duke of Orleans, afterwards Regent. The
latter said that he had sent on the preceding
evening for a man, then in Paris, who pre-
tended to exhibit whatever was desired in a
glass of water. He came, and a child of
seven years old, belonging to the house, being
called up, they bade her tell what she saw
doing in certain places. She did ; and, as
they sent to these places, and Jound her report
conect, they bid her next describe under what
circumstnnces the King would die ; without,
however, asking when the death would take
place.
The child knew none of the Court, and bad
never been at Versailles; yet she desctibed
evet-ything exactly-the room, bed, furniture,
and the King himself; Madame de Maintenon,
Fagon, the physician, the princes and
princesses-everybody, in short, including a
D1g111Zed by Coogle
MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMENA. 347
child wearing an order, in the arms of a lady,
whom she recognised ns having seen, this was
Madame de Ventadour.
It was remarkable, that she omitted the
Dukes de Bourgogne and Berry, and Mon-
seigneur, and also the Duchess de Bourgogne.
Orleans insisted they must be there, describing
them; but she always said "No." These per-
sons were then all well ; but they died before
the King. She also saw the children of the
Prince and Princess of Conti, but not them-
selves; which was correct, as they also died
shortly after this occurrence.
Orleans then wished to see his own destiny ;
and the man said, ifhe would not be frightened
he could show it him, as ifpainted on the wall;
and after fifteen minures of conjuration, the
Duke appeared, of the natural size, dressed as
usual, but with a couronne ferm~e or closed
crown on his head, which they could not com-
prehend, as it was not that of any country
they knew of. It covered his head, had only
four circles, and nothing at the top. They had
never seen such an one. When he became
Regent, they understood that that was the in-
terpretation of the prediction.
Inconnection with this subject, the aversion
D1g111Zed by Coogle
348 MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMENA.
to glass frequently manifested by dogs, is well
worthy of observation.
When facts of this kind are found to be re-
corded, or believed in, in all parts of the world,
from the beginning of it up to the present
time, it is surely vain for the so called savants
to deny them ; and as Cicero justly says, in de-
scribing the diff~rent kinds of magic, " What
we- have to do with, is t.he facts, since of the
cause we know little. Neither," he adds," are
we to repudiate thelie phenomena, because we
sometimes find them imperfect, or even false,
any more than we are to distrust that the
human eye sees, although some do this ve1·y
imperfectly, or not at all."
We are part spirit and part matter ; by the
former we are allied to the spiritual world and
to the absolute spirit; and as nobody doubts
that the latter can work magically, that is, by
the mere act of will-for by the mere act of
will all things were created, and by its con-
stant exertion all things are sustained-why
should we be astonished that we, who partake
of the divine nature, and were created after
God's own image, should also, within certain
limits, partake of this magical power? That
this power has been frequently abused, is the
D1g111Zed by Coogle
:MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMENA. 349
fault of those, who, being capable, refuse to
ill\·estigate, and deny the existence of these
aud similar phenomena; and by thus casting
them out of the region of legitimate science,
leave them to become the prey of the igno-
rant and designing.
Dr. Ennemoser, in his very learned work on
magic, shows us that all the phenomena of
magnetism and somnambulism, and all the
various kinds of divination, have been known
and practised in every country under the sun ;
and have been intimately connected with, and,
indeed~ may be traced up to the fountain-
head of every religion.
What are the limits of these powers pos-
sessed by us whilst in the flesh, how far they
may be developed, and whether, at the ex-
treme verge of what we can effect, we begin
to be aided by God or by spirits of other
spheres ofexistence bordering on ours, we know
liot; but, with respect to the morality of these
pl·acti<'es, it suffices, that what is good in act or
intention must come ofgood ; and what is evil
in act or intention, must come ofevil; which is
true now, as it was in the time ofMoses and the
prophets, when miracles and magic were used
f(lr purposes holy and unholy, and were to be
judged accordingly. God works by natural
VoL. u. 2 H
D1g111Zed by Coogle
350 MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMEN.\.
lawE:, of which we yet know very little, and, in
some departments of his kingdom, nothin(.l" ;
and what appears to us supernatural, only
appears so from our ignorance; and whatever
faculties or powers he has endowed us with, it
must ha,·e heen designed we should exercise
and cultivate for the benefit and advancement
of our race; nor can I for one moment suppose,
that, though like everything else liable to
abuse, the legitimate exercise of these powers,
if we knew their range, would be useless,
much le~os pemicious or sinful.
Of the magical power of will, as I have
said hefore, we know nothiug; and it does not
belong to a purely rationalistic age to ac-
knowledge what it cannot understand. In all
countries men have arisen, here and there,
who have known it, and some traces of it have
survived both in language and in popular su-
perstitions. ''If ye have faith as a grain of
mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain,
Remo,·e hence, and it shall 1·emove ; nnd
nothing shall be impossible to you. Howbeit
this kind goeth uot out but by prayer and
fasting." And, 1·eurllez et croyez, will and
believe, was the solution Puys,egur gave of his
magical cures; and no doubt the explanation
of those affected by royal hands, is to be found
in the fact, that they believed in themseh•es,
D1g111Zed by Coogle
MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMENA. 351
and having faith, they could exercise will. But,
with the belief in the divine right of kings, the
faith and the power would naturally expire
together.
With respect to what Christ says in the
above-quoted passage of fasting, numerous
instances a1·e extant, proving thnt clear-seeing
and other magical or spiritual powers are
sometimes developed by it.
Wilhelm Krause, a doctor of philosophy
and .a lecturer at Jena, who died during th~
prevalence of the cholera, cultivated these
powers and preached them. I have not been
able to obtain his works, they being suppressed
as fa1· as is practicable bythe Prussian Govern-
ment. Krause could leave his body, and, to
all appearance, <lie whenever he pleased. One
of his disciples, yet living, the Count Von
Eberstein possesses the same faculty.
Many writers of the sixteenth century were
well acquainted with the power of will, and to
this was attributed the good or evil influence
of blessings and curses. They believed it to
be of great effect in curing diseases, and that
by it alone life might be extinguished. That,
a~tbjectively, life may be extinguished, we
have seen by the cases of Colonel Townshend,
the Dervish that was buried, Hermotinus and
D1g111Zed by Coogle
3~2 MISCELLANEOUS PHENOMENA.
others : for doubtless the power that could per-
form so much, could under an adequate motiYe,
have performed more: and since all things in
nature, spiritual and material, are connected,
and that there is an unceasing interaction be-
twixt them, we being members of one great
whole, only individualised by our organisms,
it is possible to conceive that the power which
can be exetted on our own organism might be
extended to others: and since we cannot con-
ceive man to be an isolated being-the only
intelligence besides God-none above us and
none below-but must, on the contrary, believe
that there are numerous grades of intelligences,
it seems to follow, of course, that we must
stand in some kind of relation to them, more
ot·less intimate; nor is it at all surprising that
with ~me individuals this relation should be
more intimate than with others. Finally, we
are not entitled to deny the existence of this
magical or spiritual power, either as exerted by
incorporated or unincorporated spirits, be-
cause we do not comprehend how it can be
exerted; since in spite of all the words that
have been expended on the subject, we are
equally ignorant of the mode in which our
own will acts upon our own muscles. lNe
know the fact, but not the mode of it.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
CHAPTER Vlll.
CONCLUSION.
OF the power of the mind over matter, we have
a remarkable example in the numerous well-
authenticated instances of the Stigmata. As
in most cases this phenomenon has been con-
nected with a state of religious exaltation, and
has been appropriated by the Roman Church
as a miracle, the fact has been in this country
pretty generally discredited; but without
reason; Ennemoser, Passavent, Schubert, and
other eminent German physiologists, assure us
that not only is the fact perfectly established,
as .tegards many of the so-called saints, but
2 H 5
D1g111Zed by Coogle
354 CO~CLUSIO:>l.
also that there have been indubitably modem
instances, as in the case of the Extaticas of
the Tyrol, Catherine Emmerich, commonly
called the Nun of Dnlmen, Maria Mod, and
Domenica Lazzari, who have all exhibited the
stigmata.
Catherine Emmerich, the most remarkable
of the three, began very early to have visions,
and to display unusual endowments. She was
very pious: could distinguish the qualities
of plants, reveal secrets or distant circum-
stances, and knew people's thoughts ; but was
however, extremely sickly, and exhibited a
,·ariety of extraordinary and distressing symp-
toms, which terminated in her death. The
wounds of the crown of thorns round her
head, and those of the nails in her hands and
feet, were as perfect as if painted by an artist,
and they bled regularly on Fridays. There
was also a double cmss on her breast. When
the blood was wiped away, the marks looked
like the puncture of flies. She seldom
took any nourishment but water, and having
been but a poor cow-keeper, she discoUI·sed,
when in the extatic state, as if inspired.
I am well aware that on reading this, many
persons who never saw her will say it was all
imposture. It is very easy to say this; but it
D1g111Zed by Coogle
CO;IfCLUSIO!Il.
·is as absurd as presumptuous to pronounce on
what they have had no opportunity of
observing. I ne,·er saw these women either;
but I tiud myself nmch more disposed to
·accept the evidence of those who did, than of
those who only" do not believe, because they
do not believe.''
Neither Cathetine Emmerich nor the others,
made their sufferings a source ofprofit, nor had
they any desire to be exhibited; but quite the
contrary. She couldsee in the da1·k as well asthe
light, andfrequently workedall night atmaking
clothes for the poor, without lamp or candle.
There bave been instances of magnetic
patients being stigmatised in this manner,
Madam B. Von N. dreamt one night that a
person ofi'ered her a red and a white rosE>, and
that she chose the latter. On awaking she
felt a buming pain in her arm, and by degrees,
there arose there the figure of a rose perfect in
form and colour. It was rather raised above
the skin. The mark increased in intensity till
the eighth day, after which it faded away, and
by the fourteenth was no longer perceptible.
A letter fl'Om Moscow, addressed to Dr.
Kerner, in consequence of reading the account
of the Nun of Dulmen, relates a still more
extraordinary case. At the time of the .French
D1g111Zed by Coogle
3~6 CONCLUSION.
invasion, a Cossack having pursued a French-
man into a culdesac, an alley without an out-
let, there ensued a terrible conflict between
them,in which the latter was severely wounded.
A person who had taken refuge in this close
and could not get away, was so dreadfully
frightened, that when he reached home, there
broke out on his body the very same wounds
that the Cossack had inflicted on his enemy.
The signatures of the footus are analogous
facts ; and if the mind of the mother can thus
act on another organism, why not the minds of
the saints, or of Catherine Emmerich, on their
own. From the influence of the mother on
the child, we have but one step to that asserted
to be possible, betwixt two organisms, not
'·isibly connected; for the difficulty therein
lies, that we do not see the link that con-
nects them, though, doubtless, it exists. Dr.
Blacklock, who lost his eyesight at an early
period, said, that, when awake, he distin-
guished persons by hearing and feeling them,
but when asleep, he had a distinct impression
of another sense. He then seemed to him-
self united to them by a kind of distant con-
tact, which was effected by threads passing
from their bodies to his, which seems to be
but a metaphorical expression of the fact,
D1g111Zed by Coogle
CONCLUSION. 357
for, whether the connection be maintained
hy an all-pervading ether, or be purely dy-
namic, that the interaction exists both
betwixt organic and inorganic bodies, is made
evident wherever there is sufficient excitability
to render the effects sensible. Till very
lately, the powers of the divining-rod were
considered a mere fable ; yet, that this powe1·
exists, though not in the rod, but in the per_.
son that holds it, is now perfectly well
established. Count Tristan, who has written
a book on the subject, says, that about one
in forty have it, and that a complete course
of experiments bas proved the phenomenon
to be electric. The rod seems to serve, in
some degree, the same purpose as the magical
mirror aud conjurations, and it is, also, ser-
viceable in presenting a result visible to the
eye of the spectator. But, numerous cases
are met with, in which metals or water are
perceived beneath the surface of the earth,
without the intervention of the rod. A man,
called BICton, from Dauphigny, possessed this
divining power in a remarkable degree, as did
a Swiss girl, called Katherine Beutler. She
was strong and healthy, and of a phlegmatic
temperament; yet, so susceptible of these
influences, that, without the rod, she pointed
D1g111Zed by Coogle
3~8 C.C.NCLUSION.
out and traced the course of water, veins of
metal, coal beds, salt mines, &c. The sensa-
tions produced were sometimes on the soles
of her feet, sometimes on her tongue, or in her
stomach. She never lost the power wholly,
but it varied considerably'in intensity at differ-
ent times, as it did with Bleton. She was
also rendered sensible of the bodily pains of
\t)thers, by laying her hand on the affected
part, or near it, and she pe1·formed several
magnetic cures.
A person now alive, named Dussange, in
the M~onnes, possesses this power. He is a
simple honest man, who can gh·e no account
of his own faculty. The Abbes Chatelard
an~ Paramelle can also discover subtenaneous
spdngs; but they say that it is effected by
means of their geological science; Monsieur
D., of Cluny, howel'er, found the faculty of
Dussange much more to be relied on. The
Greeks and Romans made hydroscopy an
art; and there are works alluded to as having
existed on this subject; especially one by
Marcellus. The caduceus of Mercury, the
wand of Circe, and the wands of the Egyptian
sorcerers, show that the wand or rod was
always looked upon as a symbol of divina-
tion. One of the most remarkable instances
o;9mzedbyGoogle
CONCLUSION. 3~9
of the use of the divining-rod, is that of
Jacques A)·mar.
On the 5th July, 1692, a man and his wife,
were murdered in a celll\1' at Lyons, 11nd
their house was robbed. Having no clue
whatever to the criminal, this peasant, who
had the reputation of being able to discover
murderers, thieves, and stolen articles b~
means of the divining rod, was sent for from
Dauphigny. Aymar undertook to follow the
footsteps of the assassins, hut he said he
must first be taken into the ceHar where
the murder was committed. The Procurator
Royal conducted him thither, and they gave
him a rod out of the first wood that came
to hand. He walked about the cellar bnt
the rod did not move till he came to the
spot where the man had been killed. Then
Aymar became agitated, and his pulse beat
as if he were in a high fever, anc.l all these
symptoms were augmented when he ap-
]>roached the spot on which they had found
the body of the woman. From this, he, of
his own accord, went into a sort of shop
where the robbery had been committed; from
thence he proceeded into the street, tracing the
assassin, step by step, first to the court of the
Archbishop's palace, then out of the city and
D1g111Zed by Coogle
330 CO~CLUSIOS.
along the right side of the river. He was
eseorted all the way by three persons ap-
pointed for the purpose, 'vho all testified that
sometimes he detected the traces of three
accomplices, sometimes only of two. He led
the way to the house of a gardener, where be
insisted that they had touched a table and oue
of three bottles that were yet standing upon it.
It was at first denied; hut two children of
nine or ten years old, said, that three men bad
been there, and bad been served with wine in
that bottle. Aymer then traced them to
the river where they bad embarked in a
boat; and what is very extraordinary, he
tracked them as surely on the wate-r as on the
land. He followed them wherever they bad
gone ashore, went straight to the places they
had lodged at, pointed out their beds, and
the very utensils of every description that
they had used. On arriving at Sablon, where
some troops were encamped, the rod and his
own sensations satisfied him that the assassins
were there; but fearing the soldiers would ill-
treat him, he refused to pursue the enterprise
further, and returned to Lyons. He was, how-
ever, promised protection, and sent back by
water, with letters of uc:>mmendation. On
reaching Sablon, be said they were no longer
D1g111Zed by Coogle
CONCLUSION. 861
there1 but he tracked them into Languedoc,
entering every house they bad stopped at, till
he at length reached the gate of the prison,
in the town of Beaucaire, where he said one of
them would be found. They brought all the
prisoners before him, amounting to fifteen ;
and the only one his 1·od turned on, was a little
Bossu, or deformed man, who had just been
brought in for a petty theft. He then ascer-
tained that the two others had taken the road
to Nimes, and ofFered to follow them ; but as
the man denied all knowledge of the murder,
and declared he had never been atLyons,it was
thought best that they should return there;
and as they went the way they had come, and
stopped at the same houses, where he was
recognized, he at length confessed that he
had travelled with two men who bad engaged
him to &.sltist in the crime. What is very
remarkable, it was found necessary that
Jacques Aymar should walk in front of the
criminal; for, when he followed him, he be-
came violently sick. From Lyons to Beau-
caire is forty-five miles.
As the confession of the Boaau confirmed
all Aymar had asserted, the affair now
created an immense sensation, and a great
variety of experiments were instituted, every
VoL. u. 2 1
D1g111Zed by Coogle
362 CONCLUSION.
one of which proved perfectly satisfactory.
Moreover, two gentlemen, one of them the
Controller of the Customs, were discovered
to possess this faculty, though in a minor
degree. They now took Aymar back to
Beaucaire, that he might trace the other two
criminals, and he went straight again to the
prison gate, where be said, that now another
would be found. On enquiry however, it
was discovered that a man had been there to
enquire for the Bossu, but was gone again,
P~ then followed them to Toulon, and finally
to the frontier of Spain, which set a limit to
further researches. He was often so faint and
overcome with the effiuvia, or whatever it was
that guided him, that the perspiration streamed
from his brow, and they were obliged to
sprinkle him with waterto prevent his fainting.
He detected many robberies in the same
way. His rod moved whenever he passed
over metals or water, or stolen goods ; but he
found that he could distinguish the track of a
murderer fmm all the rest, by the horror and
pain he felt. He made this discovery acci-
dentally as he was searching for water. They
dug up the ground, and found the body of a
woman that had been strangled.
I have myself met with three or four persons
D1g111Zed by Coogle
CONCLUSION. 863
in whose hands the rod turned visibly; and
there are numerous very remarkable cases
recorded in different works. In the Hartz,
there is a race of people who support them-
selves entirely by this sort of divination; and
as they are paid very highly, and do nothing
else, they are generally extremely worthless
and dissipated.
The extraordinary susceptibility to atmo-
spheric changes in certain organisms, and the
faculty by which a dog tracks the foot of his
master, are analogous facts to those of the
divining-rod. Mr. Boyle mentions a lady who
always perceived if a person that visited her
came from a place where snow had lately
fallen. I have seen one, who if a quantity of
gloves are given her can tell to a certainty to
whom each belongs ; and a particular friend
of my own on entering a room, can distinguish
perfectly who has been sitting in it; provided
~hese be persons he is familiarly acquainted
with. Numerous extraordinary stories are
extant respecting this kind of faculty in dogs.
Doubtless, not only our bodies, but all
matter, sheds its atmosphere around it; the
sterility of the ground whe1·e metals are found,
is notorious ; and it is asserted that, to some
persons, the vapours that emanate from below,
are visible : and that, as the height of the
D1g111Zed by Coogle
CONCLUSION.
mountains round a lake furnishes a measure of
its depth, so does the height to which these
vapours ascend, show how far below the
surface the mineral treasures or the water lie.
The effect of metals on somnambulic persons
is well known to all who have paid any atten-
tion to these subjects; and surely may be
admitted, when it is remembered that Hum~
bold has discovered the same sensibility in
Zoophytes, where no traces of nerves could be
detected; and many years ago Frascatorius
asserted that symptoms resembling apoplexy
were sometimes induced by the proximity of
a large quantity of metal. A gentleman is
mentioned who could not enter the Mint at
Paris, without fainting. In short so many
well attested cases of idiosyncratic sensibilities
exist, that we have no right to reject others
because they appear incomprehensible.
Now, we may not only easily conceive, but
we know it to be a fact, that fear, grief, and
other detrimental passions, vitiate the secre-
tions,• and augment transpiration; and it is
quite natural to suppose, that where a crime
• In the "Medical Annals," a case is recorded of a young
lady whose axillary excretions were rendered so offensive
by the fright and horror she had experienced in seeing
some of her relations assaaainated in India, that she wu
unable to go into society.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
CONCLUSION. 865
has been committed which necessarily aroused
a number of turbulent emotions, exhalations
perceptible to a very acute sense, may for
some time hover over the spot; whilst the
anxiety, the terror, the haste, in short, the
general commotion of system, that must ac-
company a murderer in his flight, is quite
sufficient to account for his path being recog-
nizable by such an abnormal faculty ; " For
the wicked flee, when no man pursueth."
We also know that a person perspiring with
open pores, is more susceptible than another
to contagion; and we have only to suppose
the pores of Jacques Aymar so constituted as
easily to imbibe the emanations shed by the
fugitive, and we see why he should be affected
by the disagreeable sensations he describes.
The disturbing effect of odours on some per-
sons, which are quite innoxious to others,must
have been observed by everybody. Some
·people do actually almost " die of a rose in
aromatic pain." Boyle says that, iu his time,
many physicians avoided giving drugs to
children, having found that external appli-
cations, to be imbibed by the skin, or by respi-
.ration, were sufficient ; and the Homeopaths
occasionally use the same menus now. Sir
Charles Bell told me, that Mr. F., a gentle-
2 I S
D1g111Zed by Coogle
866 ·CONCLUSION,
man well known in public life, had only to
hold au old book to his nose, to produce all
the effects of a cathartic. Elizabeth Okey was
oppressed with most painful sensations when
near a person whose frame was sinking;
Whenever this effect was of a certain in-
tensity, Dr. Elliotson observed that the patient
invariably died.
Herein lies the secret of Amulets and Talis-
mans, which ifeW to be a vain superstition,
but in which, as in all popular beliefs, there
was a germ of truth. Somnambulic persona
frequently prescribe them; and absurd as it
may seem to many, there are instances in
which their efficacy bas been perfectly esta-
blished, be the interpretation of the mystery
what'it may. In a great plague,which occurred
in Moravia, a physician, who wds constantly
amongst the sufferers, attributed the complete
immunityof himself and his family to their
wearing amulets, composed of the powder of
toads ; " whieh," says Boyle, " roused an ema-
nation adverse to the contagion." A Dutch
physician mentions that in the great plague at
Nimeguen, the pest seldom attacked any house
till they bad used soap in washing their linen.
Wherever this was done, it appeared imme-
diately. ·
D1g111Zed by Coogle
--.,---..........- ...,...-.._- -- ~ -----"'- - -
CONCLUSION. 367
In short, we are the subjects, and so is every-
thing around us, of all manner of subtle and
inexplicable influences : and if our ancestors
attached too much importance to these ill-
understood arcana of the night side of nature,
we have attached too little. The sympathetic
effects of multitudes on each other, of the
young sleeping·with the old, of magnetism on
plants andanimals,are nowacknowledged faets:
may not many other asserted phenomena that
we yet laugh at, be facts also, though probably
too capricious in their nature-by which I
mean, depending on laws beyond out· appre..
hension-to be very available? For I take it,
that as there is no such thing as chance, but
all would be certainty if we knew the whole of
the conditions, so no phenomena are really
capricious and uncertain : they only app~ar so
to our ignorance and shortsightedness.
The strong belief that formerly prevailed in
the efficacy of sympathetic cures, can scarcely
have existed,I think, without some foundation:
nor are they a whit more extraordinary than
the sympathetic falling ofpictures and stopping
ofclocks and watches, of which such numerous
well-attested cases are extant, that several
learned German physiologists of the present
day pronounce the thing indisputable. I have
D1g111Zed by Coogle
868 CONCLUSION.
myself heard of some very perplexing in
stances.
Gaffarillus alludes to a certain sort of mag-
net, not resembling iron, but of a black and
white colour, with which, if a needle or 'knife
were rubbed, the body might be punctured or
cut without pain. How can we know that this
is not true? Jugglers who slashed and cau-
terised their bodies for the amusement of the
public were supposed to avail themselves of
such secrets.
How is it possible for us, either, to imagine
that the numerous recorded cases of the Blood
Ordeal, which consisted in the suspected
assassin touching the body of his victim, can
have been either pure fictions or coincidences?
Not very long ago, an experiment of a
frightful nature is said to have been tried in
France on a somnambulic person, by placing
on the epigastric region a vial filled with the
arterial blood of a criminal just guillotined.
The effect asserted to have been produced, was
the establishment of a rapport between the
somnambule and the deceased, which endan-
gered the life ofthe former.
Franz von Baader suggests the hypothesis of
a f'U sanguinia ultra mo'rtem, and supposes that
a rapport or communio'Vitte may be established
D1g111Zed by Coogle
CONCLUSION. 869
betwixt the murderer and his victim ; aud he
conceives the idea of this mutual relation to
be the true interpretation of the sacrificial
rites common to all countries, as also of the
Blutschuld, or the requiring blood for blood.
With regard to the blood ordeal, the fol-
lowing are the two latest instances of it
recorded to have taken place in this country7
they are extracted from "Hargrave's State
Trials":-
" Evidence having been given with respect
to the death of Jane Norkott, an ancient and
Krave person, minister of the parish in Hert-
fordshire, where the murder took place, being
sworn, deposed that, the body being taken up
out of the grave, and the four defendants being
present, were required, each of them, to touch
the dead body. Okeman's wife fell upon her
knees, and prayed God to show token of her
innocency. The appellant did touch the body,
whereon the brow of the deceased, which was
before of a livid and carrion colour, began to
hMe a dew, or gentle sweat on it, which
increased by degrees till the sweat ran down
in drops on the face, the brow turned to a
livdyand fresh colour,and the deceased opened
on~ of her eyes and shut it again, and this
opening the eye was done three several times ;
DigI ized by GoogIe
870 CONCLUSION•
she likewise thrust out the ring, or marriage
finger, three times, and pulled it in again, and
blood dropped from the finger on the grass.
"Sir Nicholas Hyde, the chief justice,
seeming to doubt.this evidence, he asked the
witnP.ss, who saw these things besides him,
to which he, the witness, answered, 'My Lord,
I cannot swear what others saw, but I do
believe the whole company saw it; and if it
had been thought a doubt, proof would have
been made, and many would have attested
with me. My lord,' added the witness, ob-
serving the surprise his evidence awakened,
' I am minister of the parish, and have long
known all the parties, but never bad dis-
pleasure against any of them, nor they with me,
but as I was minister. The thing was won-
derful to me, but I have not interest in the
matter, except as called on to testify to the
truth. My Lord, my brother, who is minister
of the next parish, is here present, and I am
sure saw all that I have affirmed.'"
Hereupon, the brother, being sworn, he
confirmed the above evidence in every parti-
cular, and the first witness added that,
having dipped his finger into what appeared
to be blood, he felt satisfied that it was really
so. It _is to be observed, that this extraor-
D1g111Zed by Coogle
CONCLUSION• 871
dinary circumstance must have occurred, if it
occurred at all, when the body had been
upwards of a month dead; for it was taken
up in consequence of various rumours impli-
cating the prisoners, after the coroner's inquest
had given in a verdict of felo de ae. On their
first trial, they were acquitted, but, an appeal
being brought, they were found guilty and
executed. It was on this latter occasion that
the above strange evidence was given, which,
being taken down at the time by Sir John
Maynard, then Serjeant-at-Law, stands re-
corded, as I have observed, in Hargrave's
edition of " State Trials.''
The above circumstances occurred in the
year 1628, and in 1688 the blood ordeal was
again had recourse to in the trial of Sir Philip
Stansfield for parricide, on which occasion the
body had also been buried, but for a short time.
Certain suspicions arising, it was disinterred
and examined by the surgeons, and from a
variety of indications, no doubt remained that
the old man had been murdered, nor that his
son was guilty of his death. When the body
had been washed and arrayed iu clean linen,
the nearest relations and friends were desired
to lift it and replace it in the coffin ; and when
Sir Philip placed his hand under it, he sud-
D1g111Zed by Coogle
372 CONCLUSION,
denly drew it back, stained with blood, ex-
claiming, "Oh, God!'" and letting the body
fall, he cried, '' Lord have mercy upon me !''
and went and bowed himself over a seat in
the church, in which the corpse had been in-
spected. Repeated testimonies are given to
this circumstance in the course of the trial ;
and it is very remarkable that Sir John
Dalrymple, a man of strong intellect, and
wholly free from superstition, admits it as an
established fact in his charge to the jury.
In short, we ate all, though in iifferent
degrees, the subjects of a variety of subtle
influences, which, more or less, neutralise
each other, and many of which therefore we
never observe; and frequently when we do
observe the effects, we have neither time nor
capacity for tracing the cause; and when in
more susceptible organisms such :effects are
manifested, we content ourselves with re-
ferring the phenomena to dikease or imposture.
The exemption, or the power, whichever it
may be, by which certain persons or races are
enabled to handle venemous animals with im- .
punity, is a subject that deserves much more
attention than it has met with; but nobody
thinks of investigating secrets that seem
rather curious than profitable ; besides which,
'
D1g111Zed by Coogle
CO:-JCLUSJO~. 37:3
to believe these things, implies a reflection
on one's sagacity. Yet every now and then, I
hear of facts so extraordinary, which come to
me from undoubted authority, that I can see
no reason in thE: world for rejecting others
that are not much more so. For example, only
the other day, Mr. B. C., a gentleman well
known in Scotland, who has lived a great deal
abroad, informed me, that having frequently
heard of the singular phenomenon to be ob-
served by placing a scorpion and a mouse to-
gether under a glass, he at length tried the
experiment; and the result perfectly esta-
blished what he had been previously unable
to believe. Both animals were evidently
frightened; but the scorpion made the first
attack, and stung the mouse, which defended
itself bravely, and killed the scorpion. The
victory, however, was not without its penalties;
for the mouse swelled to an unnatural size,
and seemed in danger of dying from the poison
of its defeated antagonist, when it relie,·ed
itself and was cured, by eating the scorpion,
which was thus proved to be an antidote to its
own venom; furnishing a most interesting and
remarkable instance of isopathy.
There is a religious sect in Africa, not far
from Algiers, which eat the most venemous
Vot. n. 2 K
D1g111Zed by Coogle
374 CONCLUSWN.
serpents alive, and certainly, it is said, withcut
extracting their fangs. They declare they en-
joy the privilege from their founder. The
creatures writhe, and struggle between their
teeth; but possibly if they do bite them, the
bite is innocuous.
Then, not to mention the common expedients
of extracting the poisonous fangs, or forcing
the animal by repeated bitings to exhaust their
venom, the fact seems too well established to
oe longer doubted, that there are persons in
whom the faculty of charming, or in other
words disarming serpents, is inherent, as the
Psylli and Marsi of old; and the people men-
tioned by Bruce, Hasselquist, and Lempriere,
who were themselves eye-witnesses of the facts
they relate. With respect to the Marsi, it
must be remembered, that Heliogabalus made
their prief'ts fling venomous ~erpents into the
circus, when it was full of people, and that
many perished by the bites of these animals,
which the Marsi had handled with impunity.
The modern charmers told Bruce, that their
immunity was born with them; and it was
established beyond a doubt, during the French
expedition into Egypt, that these people go
from house to house to destroy serpents, as men
do rats in this country. They declare that
Digitized by Goog[e
•
CO~CLUSION• a75
some mysterious instinct guides them to the
animals, whom they immediately seize with
fury, and tear to pieces with their hands and
teeth. The negroes of the Antilles can smell
a serpent which they do not see, and of whose
presence a European is quite insensible, and
Madame Calderon de la Bat~ca mentions in
her letters from Mexico, some singular cases of
exemption from the pernicious effects of
,-enomous bites; and further relates that in
some parts of America, where rattle-snakes
are extremely abundant, they have a custom
of innoculating children with the poison, and
that this is a preservative from future injury.
This may or may not be true; but it is so
much the fashion, in these days, to set down to
the account of fable everything deviating from
O\n· daily experience, that travellers may repeat
these stories for ages, before any competent
person will take the tt·ouble of verifying the
report. However, taking the e,·idence alto-
gether, it appears clear that there does exist,
in some persons, a faculty of producing in
these animals, a sort of numbness, or engour-
dissement, which renders them for the time
incapable of mischief; though of the nature of
the power we are utterly ignorant, unless it
be magnetic. The senses of animals, although
generally resembling onrs, are yet extremely
D1g111Zed by Coogle
376 CONCLUSIOY.
different in various instances; and we know
that many of them have one faculty or
another, exalted to an intensity of which we
have no precise conception. Galen asserted,
on the authority of the Marsi and Psylli them-
selves, that they obtained their immunity by
feeding on the flesh of venomous animals; but
Pliny, Elian, Silins Italicus, and others,
account for the privilege by attributing it to
the use of some substance of a powerful
nature, with which they rubbed their bodies,
and most modem travellers incline to the same
explanation ; but if this we1·e the elucidation of
the mystery, I suspect it would be easily de-
tected.
It is observable, that in all countries where
a secretof this sort exists, there is always found
some custom which may be looked upon as
either the cause or the consequence of the
discovery. In Hindostan, for example, in
order to test the truth of an accusation, the
cobra cappello is flung into a deep pot of earth,
with a ring; and if the supposed criminal
succeeds in extracting the ring without being
bitten by the serpent, he is accounted inno-
cent. So the sacred asps in Egypt inflicted
death upon the wicked, but spared the goo<l.
Dr. Allnut mentions that he saw a negro in
Africa touch the prouuded tongue of. a snake
D1g111Zed by Coogle
CO~CLUSION. 3i7
with the black matter from the end of his
pipe, which be said was tobacco oil. The
effects were as rapid ns a shock of electricity.
The animal never stin·ed ngnin, but stiffened,
and was as rigid and bard as if it had been
dried in the sun.
It is related of Machamut, a Moorish king,
that. he fed on poisons till his bite became fatal
and his saliva venomous. Crelius Rhodiginus
nrentions the same thing of a woman who was
thus mortal to all her lovers; and Avicenna
mentions a man whose bite was fatal in the
same way.
The boy that was found in the forest of
Arden, in 1~63, and who had been nourished
by a she wolf, made a great deal of money for
a short time after he was introduced to
civilized life, by exempting the ftocks and
herds of the shepherds, from the peril they
nightly run of being devoured · by wolves.
This he did by stroking them with his hands,
or wetting them lwith his saliva, after which,
they for sometime enjoyed an immunity. His
faculty was discovered from the circumstance
of the beasts he kept never being attacked.
It left him, however, when he was about :
fourteen, and the wolves ceased to distinguish
him from other human beings.
2 K ~
D1g111Zed by Coogle
378 CONCLUSION.
However, my rell(}ers will, I think, ere now
l1ave supped full with u'onders, if not with
laort·ors, and it is time I should bring this book
to a conclusion. If I have done no more, I
brust I shall at least ha,·e afforded some amuse-
ment; but I shall he better pleased to learn
that I have induced any one, if it be but one,
to look upon life and death, and the mysteries
that attach to both, with a more cmious and
enquiring eye than they have hitherto done.
I cannot but think that it would be a great step
if mankind could familiarise themselves with
the idea that they are spirits incorporated for a
time in the flesh ; but that the dissolution of
the connection between soul and body, though
it changes the external conditions of the for-
mer, leaves its moral state unaltered. What a
man has made himself, he will be ; his state is
the result of his past life, and his heaven or
hell are in himself. At death, we enter upon
a new com·se of life; and what that life shall
be, depends upon ourseh·es. If we have pro-
vided oil for our lamps, and fitted ourselves for
a noble destiny, and the fellowship of the great
and good spirits that have passed away, such
will be our portion; and if we have misused
our talent and sunk our souls in the sensual
pleasures or base passions of this world, we
D1g111Zed by Coogle
CO~C r.t:) SION. 379
shall carry our desires and passions with us, to
make our torment in the othe1·; or pe1·haps be
tethered to.the earth by some inextinguishable
remo1·se or disappointed scheme, like those un-
happy spirits I have been writing about; and
that perhaps for hundreds ofyears; for although
evidently freed from many ofthe laws of space
and matter, whilst unable to leave the earth,
they are still the children of time, and have not
entered into eternity. It is surely absurd to
expect that because our bodies have decayed
aud fallen away, or been destroyed by an acci-
dent, that a miracle is to be wrought in om·
favom, and that the miser's love of gold, or
the profligate's love of vice, are to be imme-
diately extinguished, and be superseded by in-
clinations and tastes better suited to his new
condition ! New circumstances do not so
rapidly engender a new mind here, that we
should hope they will do so there : more espe-
cially, as, in the first place, we do not know
what facilities of improvement may remain to
us; and in the second, since the law, that like
seeks like, must be undeviating, the blind will
seek the blind, and not those who could help
them to light.
I think, too, that if people would learn to
remember that they are spil'its, and acquil·e
o;9mzedbyGoogle
380 COSCLLSIOS.
the habit of conceiving of themsel\'es as indi•
vidnals, apart from the body, that they would
not only be better able to realize this. view of a
future life, but they would also find it much
less difficult to imagine, that since they belong
to the spiritual world, on the one hand, quite
as much as they belong to the matet;al world,
on the other, that these extraordinary facultit>s
which they occasionally see manifested by
certain individuals, or in certain states, may
possibly be but faint rays of those properties
which are inherent in spirit, though tempo-
rarily obscured by its connection with the
flesh ; and designed to be so, for the purposes
of this earthly existence. The most ancient
nations of the world knew this, although we
have lost sight of it, as we learn by the sacred·
books of the Hebrews.
According to the Cabbalah " Mankind are
endowed by nature, not only with the faculty
of penetrating into the regions of the super-
sensuous and invisible, but also of working
magically above and below ; or in the worlds
of light and darkness. As the Eternal fills the
world, sees, and is not seen, so does the soul-
N'scltamach-fill the body, and sees without
being seen. The soul perceives that which the
bodily eye cannot. Sometimes, a man.is seiz~d
CO:SCLUSION. 381
suddenly with a fear, for which he cannot
account, which is, because the soul deserys an
impending misfortune. The soul possesses also
the power of working with the elementary
mattea· of the earth, so us to annihilate one
form, and produce another. Even by the force
of imagination, human beings can injure other
things; yea, even to the slaying of a man. (The
new platonist, Puracelsus, says the same thing.)
The Cabbalah teaches, that there have in all
times, existed men endowed with powers, in a
greater or less deg-ree, to work good ot· evil, for
to be a virtuoso in either, requires a peculiar
spiritual vigour; thence, such men as heroes
and priests in the kingdom of Tumah-(the
kingdom of the clean and unclean.) If a man
therefore sets his desires on what is godly, in
proportion as his efforts are not selfish, but
purely a seeking ofholiness, he will be endowed
by the free grace of God, with supernatural
faculties; and it is the highest aim of existence,
that man should regain his connction with his
inwa1·d, original source, and exalt the material
and earthly into the spiritual. The highest
degree of this condition of light and spirit, is
commonly called the holy extacy,'' which is
apparently, the degree attained by the ex-
tatics of the Tyrol.
o;9mzedbyGoogle
382 CO:SCLUSION.
I am ,·ery far from meaning to imply, that
it is our duty, or in any way desirable, that we
should seek to bring ourselves into this state
of holy extacy, which seems to involve some
derangement of the normal relations betwixt
the soul and body, but it is at least equally
unwise iu U!i to laugh u.t, or deny it, or its
proximate conditions, where they really exist.
It appears perfectly clear, that, as by giving
ourselves up wholly to our external and
sensuous life, we dim and obscure thespirit of
God that is in us, so by annihilating, as far
as in us lies, the necessities of the body, we
may so far subdue the flesh as to loosen the
bonds of the spirit, and enable it to manifest
some of its inherent endowments. Ascetics
.and saints 'have frequently done this volun-
tarily, and disease, or a peculiar constitution,
sometimes does it for us involuntarily; and it
is far from desirable that we should seek to pro-
duce such a state by either means, but it i.t
extremely desirable that we should avail
ourselves of the instruction to be gained by
the simple knowledge that such phenomena
have existed and been observed in all ages ;
nnil that thereby our connection with the
spiritual world may become a demonstrated
fact to all who choose to open their eyes to it.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
CONCLUSION. 383
With regard to the cases of apparitions I
have adduced, they are not, as I said before,
one hnnd1·edth pa1·t of those I could hrtYe
brought forward, had I resorted to a few of
the numerous priutt!d collections that exist in
all languages.
Whether the view I acknowledge myself to
take of the facts be or not the correct one,
whether we are to look to the region of the psy•
chical or the hyperphysical, forthe explanation,
the facts themseh·es are certainly well worthy
of observation; the more so, as it will be seen
that, although ghosts are often said to be out
of fashion, such occurrences are, in reality, as
rife as ever; whilst, if these shadowy forms be
actually visitors from the dead, I think WI'
cannot too soon lend an attentive ear to the
tale their re-appearance tells us.
That we do not all see them, or that those
who promise to come, do not all keep tryst,
amonnts to nothing. We do not know why
they can come, nor why they cannot; and as
for notseeing them, I repeat, we must not forget
how many other things there are that we do
not see ; and since, in science, we know that
there are delicate manifestations which can
only be rendered perceptible to our organs, by
the application of the most delicate electro-
o;9mzedbyGoogle
""·
38! COSCL"CSIOS.
meters, is it not reasonable to suppose, tltat
there may exist certain susceptible or diseased
organisms, which, judiciously handled, may
serve as electrometers to the healthy ones ?
As my book is designed a.s an enquiry, with
a note of interrogation, I characteristically Lid
adieu to my readers.
c. c.
THE END.
D1g111Zed by Coogle
