{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__raleigh___an_interpretation_to_rudyard_kiplings_they.pdf","mytitle":"An Interpretation To Rudyard Kiplings They","mylang":"de"}
An Interpretation to Rudyard Kipling's
THEY
Esoterically and mystically explains the story of They, which is a further
unfoldment of how the keynote of the consciousness is raised. In
"Brushwood Boy" he met "Them" and fled down the Thirty-
Mile Ride to the Brushwood Pile, being unable to func-
tion on the Buddhic Plane. Having reached that Plane
where he no longer feared "Them"- the "Them"
became the "They" which practically and nat-
urally became the title of the book "They."
The inner meaning and what it se-
cretes fully explained
By
DR. A. S. RALEIGH
THE HERMETIC PUBliSHING COMPANY
3006 Lake Park Ave. Chicago, lll., U. S. A.
Copyright, 1932 by
The HERMETIC PUBLISHING COMPANY
Copyrighted and Registered at Stationers' Hall,
London, England
(All Rights Reserved)
II T H E y •
In this book Kipling depicts the relationship between the per-
sonality and the individuality. First of all he traces the union
between the two and finally the separation, when the individuality
leaves the personality forever and thus enters Nirvana. It is really a
concise picture of the way of initiation which leads to the transcend-
ing of the personality in order that the individual may permanently
abide in Nirvana.
The principal characters in this book are, Kipling, who is the
individuality; the blind woman who represents the persona lity, and
the children who are symbolic of the state of Nirvana- we might say,
in a certain sense, the denizens of Nirvana; but it is not to be under-
stood that they were spiritual entities, human souls, spirits or
anything of that kind. They rea lly represent the forces on the Nirvanic
plane, and hence the blindness of the woman, the personality, indi-
cates her inability to see the children, that is to be conscious of
the Nirvanic state. Kipling - the individuality, is able to see them
because he is the spirit itself and possesses spiritual sight . The
personality could not discern them directly through sight, because
the spiritual eyes do not pertain to personality, but could only hear
them as it were. That is, their influence, descending one octave below
their real place, would manifest in consciousness; hence there would be
a measure of knowledge in regard to these spiritual s t ates , but there
could not be that direct consciousness described by sight.
He begins the story with an automobile ride which he was taking
through the country. Now, the motor car is the vehicle of the individ-
uality. It is that which enabled him to find his personality, and thus
we might speak of it as being the spiritual body, to a certain extent,
the vehicle of consciousness, which brought the spirit into the con-
sciousness of the persona lity. In another sense it might be spoken as
the Buddhi.
"One view called me to another; one hill top to its fellow, half
across the county, and since I could answer at no more trouble than
the snapping forwa rd of a lever, I let the county flow under my
wheels. The orchid-studded flats of the East gave way to the thyme,
7
ilex and grey grass of the Downs; these again to the rich cornland
and fig-trees of the lower coast where you carry the beat of the
tide on your left hand for fifteen level miles ; and when at last, I
turned inland through a huddle of rounded hills and woods I had run
myself clean out of my known marks."
This describes very accurately the real experience of one trav-
eling on the higher planes of nature, clothed in the vehicle pertaining
to the individuality, etc . In other words, he is passing from one state
of consciousness to another. These hills , etc., these pictures, repre-
sent the different states of consciousness. They exist, of course, on
the higher planes of nature; and are the archtypes of everything on
the physical plane. Everything on the physical exists simply because
it exists on the higher planes of nature; and so he is passing through
the ideal world, as it were, through the state of consciousness where
the ideas which are the archtypes of the diverse material things are
present and apparent to the consciousness. Thus they simply "flow
under" his wheels; that is to say, the vehicle of the self passes from
one state to another, at will, for the individuality may descend to the
earth or it may go the other way to its true place on the spiritual
plane. But he is going through this experience.
Also it should be borne in mind that this land is symbolic . It
does not really mean land. It is not even the idea of the real land, for
in the higher sense all these phases of soil represent corresponding
psychical states.
Now, the grey Downs represent the sexual region; to a certain
extent, the sacral plexus; the rich corn soil , the lower coast where
the fig trees were, is the feminine side because the fig is pre- eminently
the feminine part, containing the seed within itself and growing forth
in the darkness, shrouded in the leaves, and putting forth blossoms on
its own stem, as it were. It is pre-eminently symbolic of the feminine
side .
Passing through these stages he gets clear out of his known bounds.
In other words, the individuality is now out of its proper sphere,
has descended into the personal region.
"Beyond that precise hamlet which stands godmother to the
capital of the United States."
Now, here he is entering a r egion of the deepest symbolism. The
capital of the United States is, of course, symbolic of the political
character of America, of this particular form, the republican form of
government, as presented in this country. This hamlet, now, which
stands godmother to this, to the capital of the United States, is that
republican tendency, that representative government which we may see
in the higher state of consciousness, to a certain extent, as well as
in government.
Now, it should be borne in mind that in a republic, the repre-
8
sentatives are irresponsible . In a democracy, of course, their actions
are subject to the control of the people they represent; but it is not
so in a republic like the United States; therefore, this precise ham-
let standing godmother to the capital of the United States, represents
the archtype in the soul, corresponding to that, a nd hence it is, that
those functions which perform their duty a s repres enta tives of the
plans of the soul, of the entire being, are in no sense responsible to
the body or to any of its parts for what they do. In other words, they
act in accordance with their own will in regard to the matter;
therefore it is that this state has been passed; he goes beyond this
state of irresponsible representation, so to speak, to the state which
reaches beyond that - in other words, to the dominance of absolute
law of obedience to the higher forces working within.
"I found hidden villages where bees, the only things awake ,
boomed in eighty-foot lindens that overhung grey Norman churches;"
These hidden villages represent states of consciousness which
are beyond this state of representation. Entering the realm of the
law, these hidden states are present. Now, the bee is, to a certain
extent, a mystical insect. It has a very deep mystical meaning. It
flies in the air, representing airy principles. It ga thers the honey,
which, to a certain extent, represents the Ambrosia a nd Nectar of the
gods; and these bees were the only things that seemed to have life. They
were "Booming." In other words, this is the state of soul where the
bee principle is the only thing active. Now, the worker bee, it should
be remembered, is sexless, neither male nor fema le, a nd hence we find a
state of being here where sex does not play any noticeable part.
Also the bee works for the common good. The beehive manifests the
spirit of the hive. Strictly speaking, this is the state of conscious-
ness where everything is working for the whole, the state of Kosmic
consciousness in the very highest sense.
"Miraculous brooks, diving under stone bridges, built for
heavier traffic than would ever vex them again; tithe- barns larger
than their churches and an old smithy that cried out aloud how it
had once been a hall of the Knights of the Temple. Gipsies I met on
the common where the gorse, brackens and heath fought it out together
up a mile of Roman Road; and a little farther on I disturbed a red
fox rolling dog-fashion, in the naked sunlight."
This is the Karmic region, the Ka rma which has been left by past
history, the antiquities, etc. He is passing through that Karmic
consciousness and is able to experience those things just as though
living in those times; and this is an experience with which all trav-
elers on the higher planes of nature have become familiar . We do find
that the history of thousands of years ago is being lived out at the
present time in the Karmic region. He was passing through this. At the
same time we see the touch of nature, also: "The red fox rolling,
9
dog-fashion, on the ground" is symbolic of the ani mal state; and it
should also be borne in mind that Karma contains the Karma of animals
as well as of people; hence he is going through an experience in this
Karmic region.
•As the wooded hills closed about me I stood up in the car to take
the bearings of that great Down whose ringed head is a landmark for
fifty miles across the low countries. I judged that the lie of the
country would bring me across some westward-running road that went
to his feet, but I did not allow for the confusing veils of the woods.
A quick turn plunged me first into a green cutting, brim-full of
liquid sunshine; next into a gloomy tunnel where last year's dead
leaves whispered and scuffled about my tyres. The strong hazel
stuff meeting overhead, had not been cut for a couple of generations
at least, nor had any axe helped the moss-cankered oak and beech to
spring above them. Here the road changed frankly into a carpeted
ride on whose brown velvet spent primrose-clumps showed like jade,
and a few sickly white-stalked blue-bells nodded together. As the
slope favoured, I shut off the power and slid over the whirled
leaves, expecting every moment to meet a keeper; but I only heard a
jay far off, arguing against the silence under the twilight of the
trees."
This is descriptive of a certain aspect of the higher conscious-
ness. He is now out of the Karma produced by men, and is in tune with
the great natural forces, the voice of nature, which is proclaimed
in the higher states, for remember this, if there were no forests in
the higher planes of nature there would be none on the earth. Form
is always the expression of the idea. Nothing exists on the earth but
what has previously existed on the higher planes of nature. Every tree,
every flower, every blade of grass , every rock that is on the earth,
is also on the Astral and Mental plane and in the Buddhic region, etc.
The phenomena are but the externalization of the noumena, of the Kos-
mical ideas which subsist above and descend, transpiring upon the
earth. Therefore having passed out of the Karmic region, which repre-
sents human consciousness and human history, he is now descending
farther and farther, that is, going deeper and deeper into the Kosmical
consciousness. It does not mean that he is getting closer to the earth,
but rather that he is getting out of the range of human Karma and en-
tering the heart of the universe; and this "Great Down" represents
the sexual center - in the higher sense, one of the interior principles.
"For fifty miles. n Now , fifty is the symbol of the fish, the
foetus. In a certain sense, it is the center where life is developed,
whether on the physical or some higher plane. This really is the sexual
center where the soul is nurtured and developed. Now, he tried to get
a view, but he failed to take note of the confusion which the forest
created. In other words, in that state, it is always difficult to get a
10
clear view of anything. Everything is confused because of the richness
of the view presented, and that is why the seers have always made so
many mistakes in what they have seen and undertaken to describe. It
has been due to the fact that there was so much to see and everything was
confusing because of the abundance of the view and because the human
consciousness was unable to get an accurate birdseye view of the won-
derful intricacies and complexities that are present in that higher
state of consciousness.
Finally he begins the descent. The "Power is shut off;" that is,
the power of his own soul, which had been forcing the work. Now he has
reached that state where he naturally gravitates toward internal
depths of soul consciousness .
"Still the track descending, I was on the point of reversing and
working my way back as best I could ere I ended in some swamp, when
I saw sunshine through the tangle ahead and lifted the brake."
"Seeing the sunshine "- the glimpse of spiritual light . He is
now passing out of this gloaming produced by the richness of verdure.
He is entering something which is no longer chaotic, but Kosmical; the
clearer view of things is presented to him and thus his interest is
awakened.
"It was down again at once . As the light beat across my face my
fore-wheels took the turf of a smooth still lawn from which sprang
horsemen ten feet high with levelled lances , monstrous peacocks and
sleek, round- headed maids of honour - blue, black and glistening -
all of clipped yew. Across the lawn the marshalled woods beseiged
it on three sides- stood an ancient house of lichened and weather-
worn stone , with mullioned windows and roofs of rose- red tile . It
was flanked by semi- circular walls, also rose- red, that closed the
l awn to the fourth side, and at their feet a box- hedge grew man-
high. There were doves on the roof about the slim brick chimneys,
and I caught a glimpse of an octagonal dove house behind the screen-
ing wall ."
All this description is highlY mystical . The yew around the
house was trimmed into fantastic horsemen, monstrous peacocks, maids
of honour, etc., and remember this is in the Buddhic region, merging
almost on Nirvana, and the meaning is that the archtypes, the horsemen,
maids of honour and everything of that kind - the archtypes of chivalry
are to be found on the Buddhic plane. Chivalry is not a human invention.
The grandeur and pomp of courts, etc. has not been devised by human
vanity. It is rather the effort of life to give expression to the real
grandeur and dignity which is ever present in the Buddhic region. Turn
where we will , we see the archtypes which manifest in the lower life .
The "Hedge of clipped yew." These things are not original, but grow out
of the nature of the Buddhic region. Those ideas which a re perfectly
natural, which spontaneously spring forth from this region gravitate
11
to manifestation in the earth life . Thus we see the t r ees trimmed up
t o the shape.
Now, let us see what mysteries the peacock represents . The pea-
cock is the bird of Hera. Who is Hera ? Why, the wife of Zeus, mother
of gods and men, the only goddess who was legitimately married. When
any of the other gods of Grecian mythology had anything to do with
goddesses, etc., it was in a very elastic way, and there had never been
any such thing as a real marriage ceremony, a celebration of nuptials
between gods and goddesses excepting between Hera and Zeus. No\V, the
peacock was the symbol of the wifehood, of the inward dignity of Her a,
the mother of gods and men. The peacock later on became the symbol of
vanity, and we can very readily understand t hat that is symbolic of
majesty, of dignity and Divine authority, in course of time becomes
the symbol of vanity when people who are not possessed of that dignity,
that authority, that majesty undertake to ape it, to plume themselves
i n the feathers of the gods. Then, of course , it naturally becomes the
symbol of vanity. Beauty, dignity, dress are perfectly right and proper
when used for the purpose of symbol izing the inward s t ate of beauty of
the soul within; but when used for the purpose of adding an artificial
grandeur, a charm which does not pertain to the inner self, they become
vanity. What is vanity? To be vain. And what does it mean to be vain?
In the last anal ysis it means to try to be something which you can
never be. Now, it is vain for a human being to a t tempt to appear as Hera,
the mother of gods and men, and hence i t is symbolized by the peacock,
because the peacock is only a peacock outwardly; inwardly it is no more
beautiful than anything else. The peacockhood depends entirely upon
his feathers. But Hera used the peacock for a symbol because of the
great beauty which was innate within her divine soul. Then the peacock
here is a symbol of Divine maternity, in a certain sense. It means that
in this region all that comes below is mothered. It means that the
Buddhic state is the motherhood of the personality and that all things
e l se spring forth from that point, transpiring, leaking out on lower
pl anes of nature, and also it is the consciousness of the idea which
is mother to the thing.
And the house, here is old; and so is the Buddhic state very old;
in fact, nothing transpires on the physical plane until centuries after
it has already transpired on the Buddhic plane . It takes the idea cen-
turies to manifest in the physical form. Therefore the house is
described as ancient . The personal center is very old. And the "Rose-
red tile " which covered the top. - Rose is the symbol of life the color
of prana, or life force, and this simply means that it is in the Buddhic
region that the archtype of life is present , and from there descends to
the astral plane and becomes prana.
"Here, then, I stayed; a horseman ' s green spear laid at my br east;
held by the exceeding beauty of that jewel in that setting."
12
There is no beauty like that of the Buddhic region for the one who
is able to appreciate it, because it is the archtype of all the lower
beauty. The beauty of the astral region is only a vague shadow, a crude
reflection of the beauty of the Buddhic state . It is, however, kos-
mical and universal, not individual .
" 'If I am not packed off for a trespasser, or if this knight does
not ride a wallop at me' thought I, 'Shakespeare and Queen Eliza-
beth will come out of that half- open garden and ask me to tea' ."
Seeing the persons of the ancient state here, because on the
Buddhic plane there is no such thing as time or space . The archtypes of
the seat of culture in the time of Shakespeare and Queen Elizabeth are
here, and, of course, on the other planes we see the Karmic personalities
left by them.
"A child appeared at an upper window and I thought the little thing
waved a friendly hand. But it was to call a companion for presently
another bright head showed. Then I heard a l augh among the yew- pea-
cocks, and turning to make sure, (till then I had been watching the
the house only) saw the silver of a fountain behind a hedge thrown
up against the sun. The doves on the roof cooed to the cooing water -
but between the two notes, I caught the utterly happy chuckle of a
child absorbed in some light mischief. n
The fountain is the symbol of the celestial waters which a re a lso
manifest on the Buddhic plane; the symbol of substance or the mother
principle in contradistinction to energy, which is the father principle
of the Kosmos . Now, "fountain" here represents the activity of this
substance. The doves were the birds of Zeus. The oracle and grove of
Zeus at Dadona was an enormous dove cote; in fact the trees were full of
doves and when persons went there to get answers to their questions, the
doves in their cooing, gave them the answers . The dove is therefore,
the speaking voice of Zeus. Again the dove is held by the Indians to
symbolize love. They speak of doves as the love birds and is not this
true symbolism? Is it not through love that the voice of the father of
gods and men must necessarily be given to his children? It is through
love that the individual is able to come into touch with the universal,
because he can only reason in accordance with his own Atman, with his own
monad but to rise above himself, outside of himself, it is necessary
that he approach it through love, Bhakti.
The children here represent the Nirvanic state, which transcends
this Buddhic state, and which manifests through it. Buddhi, the highest
aspect of the personality, is really the garment or dwelling place of
the individuality, of the monads of Nirvana.
"The garden door -heavy oak sunk deep in the thickness of the
wall - opened further; a woman in a big garden hat, set her foot
slowly on the time-hollowed stone step and slowly walked across
the turf. I was forming some apology when she lifted her head and I
13
saw she was blind.
" 'I heard you,' she said . 'Isn't that a motor car'?"
" 'I'm afraid I've made a mistake in my road. I should have turned
off up above - I never dreamed-' I began."
" 'But I'm very glad. Fancy a motor car coming into the garden!
It will be such a treat -' She turned and made as though looking
about her. 'You - you haven't seen anyone, have you- perhaps'?"
" 'No one to speak to, but the children seem interested at a
distance'."
" 'Which'?"
" 'I saw a couple up at the window just now, and I think I heard
a little chap in the grounds'."
" ' Oh, lucky you!' she cried, and her f ace brightened. 'I hear
them, of course, but that's all. You've seen them and heard them ' ?"
This woman represents the personality; blind because she is
unable to see the children who represent the higher state, the pure
Nirvanic region. She is blind to this, whereas Kipling, representing
the individuality, which properly belongs on that plane, although he
had not become fully conscious of it- had not "arrived" so to speak,
is able to see, to become conscious, while it is only the reflected
light which the personality is able to see; and their meeting is
really the first touch of union between the personality and the in-
dividuality. When they become conscious of their relationship, each
to the ·other, when the personality can be taught by the individuality
and when they are able to carry on friendly intercourse, so to speak,
not in the sense of belonging absolutely to each other, but rather in
the sense of a very close union; when he had described the children
so that she, the Personality, was conscious of his seeing them, she
exclaims "Oh, lucky you!" because he was able to realize this state,
but she could only hear.
" ' Yes, ' I answered, 'And if I know anything of children, one of
them's having a beautiful time by the fountain yonder. Escaped,
I imagine' • n
" 'You're fond of children'?"
11
I gave her one or two reasons why I did not altogether hate them."
The children here, remember, do not represent any children at
a ll, but the Nirvanic state, and, of course, he did not exactly hate
them because he belongs to that state. Really that he should be, though
he is an exile.
" 'Of course, of course', she said. 'Then you understand. Then
you won't think it foolish if I ask you to take your car through the
gardens, once or twice- quite slowly? I'm sure they ' d l ike to see it .
They see so little, poor things . One tries to make their life pleasant,
but -' she threw out her hands towards the woods. 'We're so out of
the world here' • "
14
Certainly they were out of the world, because this represents
the soul state, the Buddhic state, which is out of the way of everything
else, because it is the archtype which manifests in everything else,
and she here takes the view that the personality always takes, assuming
that, being out of the world, they are lonesome; that the Nirvanic forces
are unfortunate because they do not come in direct contact with the mani-
fested universe . That is the way nearly every one looks at the matter,
which, of course, is altogether wrong. Of course, the children - sym-
bolic of the Nirvanic forces - could not be content, would not be in
harmony with anyone apart from that state; they would be disturbed if
they came in contact with the world without . But the Personality was
blind and could not realize this, could not grasp the truth that the
Nirvanic forces could approach only Nirvanic people, or at any rate,
those who are very close to it, with any degree of satisfaction. She
wanted the car to move about the grounds . In other words, he, having
the spiritual sight, etc., the car, emblematic of his vehicle, would
please the children, that is, the Nirvanic forces. Because of his love
for them he understood.
" 'That will be splendid, ' I said. 'But I mustn 't cut up your
grass'."
That is to say, the movements of the higher self must not disturb
or interfere with the lower vehicle, with the Buddhic state, with the
personality.
Well, they found a flagged walk, back of the peacocks, called
the Peacocks' Walk. Now, the Peacocks' Walk is emblematic of the same
thing the peacock is; that is, a road or course which moves along in the
direction the Divine Mother principle takes and it is through this
course that the car moves and, therefore, the man and the woman.
Now the woman getting into the car with him symbolizes the union
between the personality and the individuality, when they unite in the
vehicle, and so then she calls to the children.
" 'Children, oh, children! Look and see what's going to hap-
pen' !n
"The voice would have drawn lost souls from the Pit, for the
yearning that underlay its sweetness, and I was not surprised to
hear an answering shout behind the yews. It must have been the child
by the fountain, but he fled at our approach, leaving a little toy
boat in the water. I saw the glint of his blue blouse among the
still horsemen. n
This flight of the child represents, as it were, the fleeting na-
ture of these Nirvanic powers when one who is not on their plane, fully,
one who has never realized that state, comes in contact with them; the
inability to get in touch with them until one is ready.
The yearning of the woman symbolizes the intense love which the
personality has for the higher spiritual state, though it is not able
15
to open its eyes and behold those things.
So he goes on and describes the ride and the children, and still
it was impossible to get in touch with the children; they kept aloof.
• 'Oh, unkind!' she said weariedly.
• ' Perhaps they're only shy of the motor. That little maid at the
window looks tremendously interested'."
• ' Yes?' She raised her head. ' It was wrong of me to say that.
They are really fond of me. It's the only thing that makes life
worth living - when they're fond of you, isn't it? I daren't think
what the place would be without them. By the way, is it beautiful'?"
The place where she lived was so much on the confines of Nirvana,
that it was impossible for her to grasp its beauty, because its beauty
was really spiritual , being the trysting place of the Nirvanees . There-
fore, she was unable to behold its beauty. At first she upbraided be-
cause the Nirvanic state did not respond to her advances, her love,
etc. And humanity or the personality is ever prone to fret and worry
and censure the higher spiritual state because it does not immediately
respond to its advances, whereas it takes a long time and a great deal
of courtship to win the confidence, so to speak, of the pure Nirvanic
state. She soon realizes that she is mistaken; that the children owe her
nothing, for there is nothing that the Personality can do that will ever
place the higher Nirvanic state under obligations to it. It is some-
thing to be worshipped, to be served, and the privilege of service is
the highest to which one can aspire .
• 'I think it is the most beautiful place I have ever seen'. •
• ' So they a ll tell me . I can feel it, of course, but that isn't
quite the same thing •. •
• 'Then have you never -? ' I began, but stopped abashed."
n ' Not since I can remember. It happened when I was only a few
months old, they tell me. And yet I must remember something, else
how could I dream about colours . I see light in my dreams , and
col ours, but I never see them. I onl y hear them, just as I do when I 'm
awake ' ."
Here is presented a gr eat truth. All persons are quite Nirvanic
when they are babies. Every one is spiritual and a mystic at birth.
Children are all mystics till they are spoiled by education. The average
child, if he be of a pious nature, imagines he can talk to God on very
intimate terms. He is naturally in the attitude where he can commune
with God and angels and everything, at will. I say religion, and mys-
tical religion at that, is the very keynote of the child nature, until
it is spoiled by false education. The education of man develops the in-
tellect so that the balance is disturbed. The child has these forces in
a state of equilibrium, and hence is spiritual, has spiritual conscious-
ness, and there are ever so many children who have psychical forces,
etc., in the state of infancy. Now, the personality to begin with, has
16
this spiritual sight as well as everything else. It is able to communicate
with the Nirvanic state. Of course, I do not mean to say that it is a
fully individualized Nirvanee, but, as a result of a false system of
education, it is soon lost; and where religion is taught at all, it is
ceremonial and not mystical. The child should be taught mystical re-
ligion because he is a mystic, and the false nature or the false impres-
sions of improper teaching overthrows the balance of his forces. If you
will study Kipling's writings through and through, you will find his
whole attitude one of almost reverential respect for childhood. There is
the consciousness that parents really need to be trained by their chil-
dren, to a very great degree. So this blind woman had had this at one
time, but it had been very long ago.
Then there is another thought covered up here. The Personality
was originally endowed with this, - in the childhood of the race. There
was the ability to see the spiritual side, but in the progress of human
evolution, the personality has been caused to descend until it is no
longer able to do so and the racial memory has lost this consciousness.
Yet she dreams of colours; in the subconscious, in the subjective state,
she is able to see colours, but she never sees them. The "Them" are the
children; that is, the Nirvanic influences, who are also the "Them" of
Georgie and Annieanlouise, in Brushwood Boy. She is not able to dream
of Them, because she has not reached the pure Nirvanic state, but she
was able to see on her own plane, able to see reflections. There had
been a time when the Personality had the capacity for sight, but the
pure spiritual side it was never able to see, because to do that it must
be on the spiritual plane, and the personality can never reach that
state. It is confined to the lower, or Buddhic plane and planes below.
" 'It's difficult to see faces in dreams. Some people can, but
most of us haven't the gift,' I went on, looking up at the window
where the child stood all but hidden."
" 'I've heard that too,' she said. 'And they tell me that one never
sees a dead person's face in a dream. Is that true'?"
" 'I believe it is- now I come to think of it'."
" 'But how is it with yourself- yourself?' The blind eyes turned
t awards me. "
" 'I have never seen the faces of my dead in any dream,' I answered.
" 'Then it must be as bad as being blind'."
Why is it that the spirit never sees the faces of its dead? The
spirit has no dead, for the spirit does not know of personality. The
spirit transcends the personality, and all human relationships are part
of the personality. They all pertain to the personal plane. The In-
dividuality is related to none save those who are of the same Purusha,
so to speak; save kindred souls or kindred spirits, and death does not
materially affect them, because, in fact, the individuality does not
take cognizance of personalities, therefore, it has no dead, and we do
17
not see the faces of the dead in any dreams, if they are really dead,
because in the dissolution on a certain plane, there is nothing left
excepting a shadow or reflection. Now, one who is endowed with true
sight will not see those shadows; it is only one whose sight is blinded
by the illusion to whom those shadows, those shells present themselves
as though they were true objects. This being so, the dead do not present
themselves to our consciousness, and the faces do not appear to one
really conscious in the interior state of consciousness of the forces
and activities which pertain to those diverse octaves.
It is now growing toward night and it gets darker and darker;
that is, the merging toward the subconscious, subjective state.
" 'Have you ever wanted to?' she said after the silence."
" 'Very much, sometimes,' I replied."
Because sometimes the Individually permits itself to become
attached to the personality and to want to see those things, but the
Individuality cannot see an illusion. It can see only those things
which are, and if it become attached to the memories, etc., of the past ,
nevertheless this attachment is not able to blind it enough to make an
illusion appear as a reality.
"The child had left the window as the shadows shut upon it."
" 'Ah! So've I, but I don't suppose it's allowed •••• Where
d 'you live'?"
" 'Quite the other side of the county- sixty miles and more, and
I must be going back. I've come without my big lamps' . "
Here again is another very important thought. He lived on the
other side of the county. This scene was in the Buddhic state , on one
border, but he lived on the spiritual plane, and so the other side of
the county, another region practically, on another border. And he had
come without his lamps. He was , therefore, unable to illumine the dark-
ness and find his way out. It is only while the light, the active side
of the personal region is presented that he could see and he did not
have the full light, as it were.
" 'But it's not dark yet. I can feel it'."
Darkness and light represents the two aspects of being. Light
is the active, positive, objective, electrical side, and darkness the
passive, subjective, static, magnetic side, hence there is a difference
in the vibratory activity of the two, and one who is sufficiently sen-
sitive can actually see these states.
Well, in leaving he requires the aid of Madden, the butler, in
order to find the road; hence she sends Madden that he may show the
visitor the way out. The Personality does not have sufficient sight to
guide one; cannot, in fact, find the way out, very well, and so the
servant , Madden, the butler, is sent and he represents the go-between,
so to speak, between the blind personality and the outside world which,
on account of its elevation, cannot see anything below it, for it is
18
alike blind to the material, to the world illusion and also to the higher
spiritual state.
Well, they start out and she guides him around to the front of the
house and he passes out. Now, in going, they skirt the house so that he
gets another view of this home, we might say of Nirvana, this home for
Nirvanees.
" 'Is it so very beautiful?' she said wistfully when she heard my
raptures. 'And you like the lead- figures too?' There's the old azalea
garden behind. They say that this place must have been made for chil-
dren. Will you help me out, please? I should like to come with you
as far as the cross-roads, but I mustn't leave them' ."
What was the garden they said must have been made for children?
It was, in fact, the higher Buddhic region which is really equipped for
the expression, for the manifestation of these Nirvanic forces.
She must not leave "Them" for it is the function of the soul in
its highest aspect, to be continuallY with the Nirvanic state, because
it is through the soul that the Nirvanic state is able to manifest it-
self in the lower states.
" 'Remember,' she said quietly, 'if you are fond of them you will
come again ,' and disappeared within the house."
"If you a re fond of them," tha t is, if the spirit was drawn to the
Nirvanic state it would seek its acquaintance, would seek intercourse
with it again. That fondness would make the bond which would draw them
together.
Now she disappears, and
"The butler in the car said nothing till we were nearly a t the
lodge gates, where catching a glimpse of a blue blouse in a shrubbery
I swerved amply lest the devil that leads little boys to play should
drag me into child- murder."
" 'Excuse me, ' he asked of a sudden, 'but why did you do that,
Sir'?"
" 'The child yonder ' • "
" 'Our young gentleman in blue'?."
" 'Of course'."
" 'He runs about a good deal. Did you see him by the fountain,
Sir'?"
" 'Oh, yes, several times . Do we turn here'?"
" 'Yes, Sir. And did you ' appen to see them upstairs too'?"
" 'At the upper window? Yes'."
" 'Was that before the mistress come out to speak to you, Sir'?"
" 'A little before that . Why d 'you want to know'?"
"He paused a little . 'Only to make sure that - that they had seen
the car, Sir, because with children running about, though I'm sure
you're driving particularly careful, there might be an accident .
That was all , Sir. Here are the cross-roads. You can't miss your way
19
from now on. Thank you, Sir, but that isn't our custom, not with - ' "
" ' I beg your pardon,' I said, and thrust away the British silver."
Oh, it ' s quite right with the rest of 'em as a rule. Good- bye,
Sir'. "
Madden, who represents some of the lower principles, possibly
the intellect, which serves the soul, in its higher state, does not
realize that the Nirvanic forces are able to t ake care of t hemselves .
He is solicitous for fear of an accident, and this is characteristic
of the intellectual man. He seems to have the idea that the spiritual
s t ate is very much dependent upon the care which the lower principles
take of it, and this is characteristic of the Personality all the way
through, completely failing to realize that the Nirvanic needs no care
at all, but only an opportunity to express itself; that instead of car-
ing for it we should serve it.
Well, the butler shows him the road , but refuses a tip - "It is
not OUR custom. " It was not the custom of the house, because money,
material advantages, a re nothing to the soul. And again he says "Not
with - " evidently meaning to say not with a person who has seen them,
etc . I n other words, one who had the spiritual sight, the Individuality,
was entitled to service as a matter of right - the ser vice of the lower
principles, for the Individuality and was .not to be paid for, but to be
given gratuitiously.
"He retired into the a rmour- plated conning- tower of his caste
and wa lked away . Evidently a butler solicitous for the honour of the
house, and interested, probably through a maid, in its nursery."
Showing the type of devoted intellect which is not thinking of self ,
but rather the devotion to the soul s tate; therefore, he was lifted up.
"Once beyond the signposts at the cross- roads I looked back , but
the crumpled hills interlaced so jealously that I could not see where
the house had lain. When I asked its name at a cottage along the
road, the fat woman who sold sweetmeats there gave me to understand
that people with motor cars have sm
a ll right to live -much less to
' go about talking like carriage- folk. ' They were not a pleasant-
m~nnered community."
In other words, this woman who represents a still lower state, to
a certain extent the emotional side, was not able to recognize the
spirituality of the Individuality; hence there was a certain amount of
antagonism and scorn, and it was impossible to get information.
"As I retraced my run on the map that evening I was a little wiser.
Hawkin ' s Old Farm appeared to be the Survey title of the place, and
the old County Gazetteer, generally so ample, did not a llude to it .
The big house of those parts was Hodnington Hall, Georgian with
early Victorian embellishments, as an atrocious steel engr aving
attested. I carried my difficulty to a neighbour - a deep- rooted tree
of that soil - and he gave me a name of a family which conveyed no
20
meaning."
This is a very graphic way of describing the inability to gain any
information from the higher states . We may read books galore, speak
to learned men, apply to all the avenues through which knowledge is or-
dinarily secured, but it is utterly impossible for us to get the first
inkling of the real truth in regard to the highest aspect of the per-
sonality, in regard to the bliss of the soul state, the transcending
bliss of Nirvana.
"A month or so l ater I went again - or it may have been that my car
took the road of her own volition."
That is to say it may have been that the spiritual vehicle was
now united in that way, so polarized with Nirvana that the time came that
he really was one with the Nirvanic region and with the Personality. The
Individuality was now in tune with the Personality, so without any ef-
fort, it simply gravitated in that direction. This indicates that the
spiritual vehicle which has followed the Individuality had been sep-
arated from the personality, living in its own sphere; but now it
gravitated toward the individuality. And here, doubtless, you will say,
"Why should the individuality have to go downward in order that it might
see them?" Because the real spiritual progress is only possible as are-
suit of the union between the I ndividuality and the Personality. Until
this union has been ace ompll.shed, the individuality itself cannot really
get a glimpse of the Nirvanic state.
"She over-ran the fruitless Downs, threaded every turn of the
maze of l anes below the hills, drew through the high- walled woods,
impenetrable in their full leaf, came out at the cross-roads where
the butler had left me, and a little farther on developed an internal
trouble which forced me to turn her in on a grass way-waste that cut
into a summer-silent hazel wood."
The vehicle of the spirit developed an internal trouble. Having
reached the border of the personality, it was necessary that he should
stop. Progress was impossible. Farther he could not go . He could not go
any lower down, which simply means that the vehicle of the spirit had
been so united with the personality in its highest aspect, that it could
not go below that.
It passed the "fruitless Downs" - the sex force which did not bear
fruit, but after reaching this state of personality, in its highest
aspect it was able to unite with it.
"So far as I could make sure by the sun and a six-inch Ordnance
map, this should be the road- flank of that wood which I had first ex-
plored from the heights above . I made a mighty serious business of
my repairs and a glittering shop of my repair-kit, spanners, pump
and the like, which I spread out orderly upon a rug. It was a trap to
catch all childhood, for on such a day, I argued, the children would
not be far off. When I paused in my work I listened, but the wood
21
was so full of the noises of summer (though the birds had mated)
that I could not at first distinguish thes e from the tread of small
cautious feet stealing across the dead leaves.
In this work of repairing he made considerable display. The
scheme was to attract the interest of the Nirvanic forces, described
as children, because child consciousness is spiritual; because the
Nirvanic state is free from the cunning which the average human being
develops very early in life. Because of the childlike nature of all
those higher spiritual states , and those who have attained them and be-
cause they are childlike and because those who are dominated by those
forces a re children, as it were, he uses these terms as though he were
amusing children; in fact the Individuality can approach the union
with Nirvana through appealing to the child nature of the Nirvanic
forces; and it is in this way that one realizes - as he t akes this at-
titude of amusing the childlike aspect . This is the way in which those
forces are courted; they must be dealt with as children. Again, the
child nature is ignorant of worldly wisdom. It has not learned the wis-
dom of which man is so proud. Owing to this ignorance of worldly wisdom,
it is silly, in a certain sense . It is ignorant of the wisdom which comes
from experience, having only that wisdom which is innate. For this
reason, the practical things are not made use of in appealing to the
higher spiritual state any more than in appealing to childern . All is
simply a means of showing the remoteness of the higher Nirvanic state
from all human cunning, human knowledge or the practical side to which
we ordinarily cater.
He cauld not hear anything, however, because the wood was so full
of noises of summer, though the birds had mated. It was past the time of
mating of birds. And what does this mean? Simply that the conjunction
between the masculine and feminine principles had taken place in this
wood, and, having united the two forces, the noise attendant upon this
conjunction, which was developed in Brushwood Boy, was now over, but
still, although the two forces had become one, the noises of summer
were there. All the activities of any plane of nature manifest through
the sound or Fohat. We cannot escape the sounds which are natural to
that particular plane of nature on which we are . These sounds, indigenous
to the Buddhic state, were so loud that at first he was unable to hear
the footsteps of the children; that is to say , the Fohatic expression
of the Nirvanic forces, because that is the soundless sound , the sound
which transcends everything else and can be heard only through the
inner ear.
"I rang my bell in an alluring manner, but the feet fled, and I
repented, for to a child a sudden noise is very real terror."
In order to allure them, the bell was rung; but these Nirvanic
forces could not bear an individual sound. They can only hear the sound
which comes out of themselves, out of the pure Nirvanic state, and any
22
effort to l ure them would naturally meet with disappointment .
"I must have been at work half an hour when I heard in the wood
the voice of the blind woman crying: ' Children, oh, children! -
Where are you?' and the stillness made slow to close on the perfec-
tion of that cry. She came towards me, half feeling her way between
the tree- boles, and though a child, it seemed, clung to her skirt , it
swerved into the leaf age like a rabbit as she drew nearer ."
You will observe that the children were much more intimate with
the Personal ity than with the Individuality although the Individuality
was really on their own plane, but not awakened to a consciousness of
i t s place, while the love of the Personality for the children made her
understand them. They knew she could not see them and perhaps this fact,
the fact that she had this deep love for them and knew they were above her,
beyond her, in a certain way, made them ready to approach her, while
the Individuality, which really belonged on their own plane but had not
yet found it out, was more difficult to approach.
" 'Is that you? ' she said. 'From t he other side of the county ' ?"
He still belongs to the extreme other side of the county; She is
the personal, he is the individual. You notice she recognizes him, al-
though she cannot see; but the vision of the personality easily becomes
conscious of its individuality.
" ' Then why didn't you come through the upper woods? They were
there just now' ."
" ' They were here a few minutes ago , I expect they knew my car
had broken down, and came to see the fun '."
" 'Nothing serious, I hope? How do cars break down ' ?"
" ' In fifty different ways . Only mine has chosen the fifty firs t ' ."
That is to say there are many different ways by which the progess
of the vehicle of the spirit may cease, and there seems to be a certain
perversity in those vehicles.
And then we find them sitting down. He gets a cushion for her, and
she sits there to observe what he does ,
" ' What delightful things!' The hands through which she saw
glanced in the chequered sunlight . 'A box here - another box ! Why
you ' ve arranged them like playing shop ' !"
" 'I confess now that I put it out to attract them. I don ' t need
half those things really'. "
" 'How nice of you! I heard your bell in the upper wood . You say
they were here before that ' ?"
" 'I' m sure of i t. Why are they so shy? That little fellow in
blue who was with you just now ought to have got over his fright .
He ' s been watching me like a Red Indian '."
" 'It must have been your bell, ' she said. 'I heard one of them go
past me in trouble when I was coming down. They're shy - so shy even
with me. ' She turned her face over her shoulder and cried again:
23
'Children, oh, children! Look and see ' !"
This measure which was used to attract the children, the Nirvanic
forces, appealed to the personality, but failed to accomplish the pur-
pose for which it was intended, because it was in an individualistic
manner and not in accordance with ko smical principles . He was approach-
ing these forces in terms of the persona l and this was the only way he
could after having attained union with the personality. Therefore, the
effort pleases the Personality, but fail s in its purpose of drawing the
Nirvanic state . The children were still shy, therefore , because he did
not understand them and could not appreciate the pure Nirvanic state,
but looked at them from the standpoint of personality. The ringing of
his bell alarmed them.
" ' They must have gone off together on their own affairs , ' I sug-
gested , f or there was a murmur behind us of l owered voices broken
by the sudden squawking giggles of childhood . I returned to my tinker-
ings and she leaned forward, her chin on her hand, listening in-
terestedl y. n
" ' How many are they?' I said a t last . My work was fini shed, but
I saw no reason to go . "
The vehicle is able to pass on. There is no longer a ny necessity
for remaining in this region of Personality, but there was such a
cl ose union , close affinit y between the two , the individuality and the
per sonality, that he remained, and the Forces were now very close; were
amused, because , remember, it is through the union of the Individua lity
with the Personality that it is made possible for one to realize the
Nirvanic state beyond.
"Her forehead puckered a little in thought. ' I don ' t quite know,'
she said simply. ' Sometimes more -sometimes l ess. They come and stay
with me because I love them, you see ' ."
" ' That must be very jol ly,' I said, replacing a drawer, and as I
spoke, I heard the inanity of my a nswer."
" ' You- you aren ' t laughing a t me ,' she cried. 'I - I haven ' t
any of my own, I never married. People l augh at me sometimes about
them beCaUSe - beCaUSe - I n
The Persona lity has no children of its own. As a matter of fact, a ll
things which s pring from personality are illusions and the personality,
therefore, rea lly brings forth nothing . She had not realized the higher
state; she had not brought forth on t he Nirvanic plane, and so she was
never married, because the marriage represents the union between the two;
in a certain sense, it i s the individuality which is masculine , and the
pers ona lity which is feminine , because it represents the substance
s ide energized by the individuality; therefore, she had never married .
This means, of course, that the full union with t he individuality was not
complete, and she had never given birth to any children on the higher
plane; that is, the personality had not been lifted up and given birth,
24
in a certain sense. People l aughed at her, because they could not under-
s t and; the people here representing the lower states, below the soul.
" 'Because they're savages, ' I returned. ' It's nothing to fret for .
That sort l augh at everything that isn 't in their own fat lives '. "
Everything which transcends the physica l, the material conscious-
ness is a matter of amusement to the one who is on the lower planes of
consciousness.
" ' I don 't know. How shoul d I?' "The soul does not really know
anything about the lower state or principles.
" ' I only don't like being laughed at about them. It hurts; and
when one can't see ••• I don't want to seem silly '. "
The Personality did not like to be l aughed a t about them, because
it was able to realize the sacredness of the relationship, and , rea liz-
ing this fact, did not like being laughed at about them. This fostering
care which the personality had over the Nirvanic forces was not some-
thing to laugh at, and it hurt because of the sacredness of the relation-
ship . The idea of seeming silly because of the superior consciousness,
was painful, and, as a matter of f act, the personality is a lways very
s ensitive on the subject of its higher consciousness and higher rela-
t ionship, and the world, because of its blindness , always looks upon
the soul state as being silly. Pure wisdom is despis ed by those who are
on the phenomenal plane.
"Her chin quivered like a child ' s as she spoke, ' but we blindi es
have only one sk in , I think . Everything outside hits straight at our
souls '."
Because the personality here is the soul , the Buddhi, and it has
not t he protection of the spiritual side, the spiritual consciousness or
individuality is not here to protect it . Now , of course , the individ-
uality rea lizes the nature and cha r acter of those who a re on the lower
s tra t a of life, but the personality or soul , is not able to rea lize this,
not being able to see into the real Monad, the real nature of things.
" ' It ' s different with you. You 've such good defences in your
eyes - looking out - before any one can really pain you in your soul.
People forget that with us'."
They forget that the soul has ~o protection , no defences; t hat
everything strikes directly at the soul , because until it strikes the
soul, they cannot tell that it is going to transpire.
The meaning of this is that nothing transpires on the Buddhic
plane until it has really taken place on the higher plane, the spiritual
plane , - does not affect the soul until it has already affected t he in-
dividua lity. One whose individuality has been awakened is able to ward
off the effect on the soul before it really reaches that, because the
effect can be changed. The cause of all effects in the soul is in the
individuality.
"I was silent reviewing that inexhaustible matter - t he more than
25
inherited (since it is also carefully taught ) brutality of the
Christian peoples, besides whi ch the mere heathendom of the West
Coast nigger is clean and restrained. "
This brutality is more than inherited since it is also carefully
taught . In other words, the whole end and aim of education, of the
civilizing influence of society is to make brutes of people . It does
not refine, does not spiritualize consciousness, but renders one more
and more brutal . Now, compared to this carefully trained brutality of
Christian peoples, who have no vein of sensibility, the natural heathen-
dom of the West Coast nigger is clean and restrained, because that is
only natural brutality the untrained, undeveloped animal, so to speak ;
but the civilized man, the Chr istian, has carefully developed a system
of scientific brutality which has enabled him to become more and more
coarse and animal; more so t han nature made him in the first place .
" I t led me a long distance into myself ."
This study to find the source of things led him into himself, into
his own monad, finding there the origin of character, the origin of all
those forces , seeing the source of this brutality.
" 'Don ' t do that! ' she said of a sudden, putting her hands before
her eyes . n
n ' What'?"
"She made a gesture with her hand. "
"That! It's all purple and black. Don ' t! That colour hurts'."
" ' But how in the world do you know about colours?' I exclaimed,
for here was a revelation indeed.•
" 'Colours as colours? ' she asked.
" ' No. Those Colours which you saw just now' . "
" 'You know as well as I do , ' she laughed, 'else you wouldn't
have asked that question. They a r en't in the world at all. They're
in you - when you went so angry' • "
" ' D' you mean dull purplish pat ches , like port wine mixed with
ink? ' I said. "
" 'I ' ve never seen ink or por t wine, but the colours aren't mixed.
They are separate - all separate .
" ' Do you mean black streaks and jags across the purple'?"
"She nodded. 'Yes - if they are like this,' and zig-zagged her
finger again, 'but it's more red than purple- that bad colour'."
" 'And what are the colours at the top of the- whatever you
see'?"
"Slowly she leaned forward and traced on the rug the figure of the
Egg itself."
" ' I see them so, ' she said, pointing with a grass stem, ' white,
green, yellow, red, purple, and when people are angry or bad, black
across the red - as you were just now ' ."
" 'Who told you anything about it - in the beginning'? I de-
26
manded.'
" 'About the Colours? No one . I used to ask what Colours were
when I was little - in table- covers and curtains and carpets, you
see - because some colours hurt me and some made me happy. People
told me; a.nd when I got older that was how I saw people.' Again she
traced the outline of the Egg which it is given to very few of us
to see."
" 'All by yourself?' I repeated."
" 'All by myself. There wasn't any one else. I only found out
afterwards that other people did not see the Colours."
The Egg which she describes here is the aura , which is the form
in which it is seen by clairvoyants. She traced the egg which it is
given to very few of us to see. In other words, although blind to the
Nirvanic side, and also to the material realm, to the phenomenal world,
she had the soul sight. She was psychical in that way. She was able to
see the invisible, but to her, the physical and the higher spiritual
were alike invisible, hence we are to understand that it was given to
her- that is, the soul, the personality, but particularly the soul , to
see the colors of the aura, but not the physical nor the higher
spiritual,
Now, colors are the effects of vibratory activity, color and
sound being inseparably connected with all vibratory ac tivity. The
vibration going on in the aura or in anything would manifest the color
and that vibration acting upon her, upon the soul, would make it con-
scious of those colors, because the consciousness of color is due to
the vibratory influence. That is why some of the colors hurt her and
some made her happy; because the vibratory force was reflected in the
soul and exerted either a harmonizing or disruptive influence. Now,
it is true that the colors of beds, carpets and everything of the kind
affect people in some way. They are continually vibrating; that is why
they have the particular color which they do. When he, the Individ-
uality, went "deep into" himself, tracing out the causes of this
brutality of Christian peoples, the indignation which he felt within
himself, of course, exercised a disrupting vibratory a ctivity and force
which, of course, descended into the Personality and caused a correspond-
ing disturbance there.
Now, you notice she says , "the colours are not in the world at all;
they are in you." In other words they are due to vibra tory activities
within the individuality, which descend into the personality and the
diverse planes of nature. Here is a great truth. Color is not an object.
There is nothing objective about color,- it is subjective. You see a
certain color, not because there is something there, but because the
vibratory activity which manifests in that color is going on within
you; hence no one ever saw a color until that color was present in him;
that is, that color vibration; therefore, the color is subjective in-
27
stead of objective.
No one taught her about color. It was not given to anyone to de-
scr ibe , or to instruct her about color, for color manifests itself in
the cons ciousness of the individual ity and personality, - as t hat is
innate, as it were.
"She leaned against the tree- bole, plaiting and unplaiting chance-
plucked grass stems . The children in the wood had drawn nearer . I
could see them, with the t ail of my eye , frolicking like squirrels. "
Because they had ceased t o discuss the children and were con-
sidering this problem of color, the closer merging of the individuality
and persona lity opening the way by which the children could draw nearer.
This again emphasizes the great secret that in proport ion as t he per-
sonality and individuality merge, it is made possible for one to trans-
cend himself and reach the Nirvanic state ,
" 'Now I am sure you will never l augh at me, ' she went on after a
long silence . 'Nor at t hem '."
" ' Goodness - no!' I cried, jolted out of my train of thought .
'A can who laughs at a child - unless the child is laughing too
is a heatcen '. •
The can 'i"!:o la:.1gbs at a child, unless the child is laughing too,
that m
an is a heatbe:l; because the child consciousness is very sen-
sitive; it is very fine and one should not make sport of that which is
sacred to the child co~sc~ousness . But the children here, remember, are
the Nirvanic forces . :·o'l', these spir itual forces get very frolicksome
to consciousness, fro= ~ice to time, and then t o laugh with them, as
it were, that is, to ack=owledge and express in an ecstatic way, the
raptures of t he spirit~al state , i s perfectly right and proper, but one
should not find amuseoer::t. i:1 e.::y:.~~::g o~ that kind, because it is sacred .
" 'I didn ' t mean tbat, of course . You 'd never l augh at children,
but I thought - I used to t.!::.:lk - :.!::a~ per!::aps you might laugh about
them. So now I beg your pa:rC.o:1 ..• • ~:-.at are you going to l augh at ' ?"
"I had made no sound, but s~e k=ew . •
I n other words, the relatio:: s~:.p was so close that the conscious-
ness of the Individuality was reflect.eC. in t~e personal consciousness .
This shows the close relationship ex:sti:lg between them.
" ' At the notion of your begging my pardon . If you had done your
duty as a pillar of the State and a landed proprietress you ought to
have summoned me for trespass when I barged through your woods the
other day. It was disgraceful of me - inexcusable '. "
Because, the union not having yet t aken place, the Individuality in
entering the realm of the personality, was an intruder, a trespasser.
"She looked at me, her head against the tree trunk - long and
steadfastly- this woman who could see the naked soul."
Because she was the personality, l i v ing in the state of the soul, and
was a ble to respond to the individual consciousness or individual
28
spirit.
" ' How curious,' she half whispered. 'How very curious'."
" 'Why, what have I done'?"
" 'You don't understand ••• and yet you understand about the
Colours. Don't you understand'?"
Apparently tne soul, the Personality, was able to be conscious
of its meaning. The Individuality was not sufficiently awakened to
really know what it meant. The meaning of the union had not yet dawned
upon the individuality, but it was perfectly clear now to the per-
sonality.
"She spoke with a passion that nothing had justified, and I faced
her bewilderedly as she rose. The children had gathered themselves
in a roundel behind a bramble bush. One sleek head bent over some-
things smaller, and the set of the little shoulders told me that fin-
gers were on lips. They, too, had some child's tremendous secret.
I alone was hopelessly astray there in the broad sunlight."
" 'No,' I said, and shook my head as though the dead eyes could
note. 'Whatever it is, I don't understand yet. Perhaps I shall later
- if you' 11 let me come again'."
" 'You will come again,' she answered. 'You will surely come
again and walk in the wood' • "
The personal consciousness was opened sufficiently to realize
the meaning of all this, but he did not yet understand. However, he
would in t ime, and she told him that he would surely come again and walk
in the wood, because this wood here describes the personal region, the
place of the soul, and to walk in the wood means to mix and mingle in
this state, to become completely merged in it and thus gradually to be-
come conscious of what it means. It means the intercourse with the
spirit, of the personal life.
" 'Perhaps the children will know me well enough by that time
to let me play with them - as a favour. You know what children are
like'."
" 'It isn't a matter of favour, but of right,' she replied, and
while I wondered what she meant, a dishevelled woman plunged round
the bend of the road, loose-haired , purple, a l most lowing with agony
as she ran. It was my rude, fat friend of the sweetmeat shop. The
blind woman heard and stepped forward. 'What is it, Mrs. Madehurst?'
she asked."
The statement, "It isn't a matter of favour, but of right" means
that this friendly intercourse between the spirit and the Nirvanic
forces is not a matter of favour; no one can gain it in this way; it is
a matter of right to the one who has earned it, -to the one who has be-
come in tune with those forces by having awakened his own spiritual in-
dividuality unto the point where it can become conscious of those
things.
29
"The woman flung her apron over her head and literally grovelled
in the dust, crying that her grandchild was sick to death, that the
local doctor was away fishing, that Jenny , the mother, was at her
wits ' end, and so forth, with repetitions and bellowings."
" 'Where ' s the next nearest doctor?' I asked between paroxysms ."
Well , he gets into the motor car and starts out, finds a doctor
some five miles away, rushes him back to the sweetmeat shop to see the
child. He runs at illegal speed, showing that the activity of the spirit
is not bound by any conventional restraint , but is superior to all those
things. This woman, remember, belongs to the emotional plane, and her
daughter has this illegitimate child, this child which did not come in
the regular manner, as the saying is.
What is the meaning of all this? The spirit being employed, for
the purpose of procuring a doctor, and then going for medicine, and
finally for a nurse for the sick child? Why, it simply means the heal-
ing voice of the spirit for the body. It means that the body and all
the lower principles, the emotions and the sex functions and every-
thing are ministered to by the spirit . It is the great lesson which we
are beginning to learn, that the lower principles are healed by the
spiritual activity; hence the stirring up and awakening of the spirit
brings about the healing of the bodily functions.
The neighbor comes out and says:
" 'I' ve be ' n listenin ' in de back- yard, ' she said cheerily. 'He
says Arthur ' s unaccountable bad . Did ye hear him shruck just now?
Unaccountable bad. I reckon t ' will come Jenny's turn to walk in de
wood nex' week along Mr. Madden' . "
The walk in the wood is the communion with the Kosmical soul
region, which is the real peace- bringing state. We do not really find
satisfaction in anything below the soul life , and the lower princ iples
must, in this Buddhical terminology, 11
W
alk in the wood;" in that wood;
that is, commune with the soul region , in order to find surcease of
sorrow for all the ills of life, and be refreshed and rise up to live
their own lives again. Madden, representing a certain aspect of the
personality , calls her attention to the fact that he is a superior
being . This nature of Madden symbolizes the policeman of the outer self-
hood, of the individua lity, perhaps the intellect .
The doctor comes out of the house and they start out on the
track, searching for medicine and a nurse .
"The Doctor was a man of some humour, for I remember he claimed
my car under the Oath of Aesculapius, and used it and me without
mercy. "
For, as a matter of fact, when one is on an errand of charity,
laboring unselfishly to alleviate t he sufferings of humanity, he is
entitled to take possession of the spirit, of its vehicle and every-
thing, for the higher purpose, and the higher forces of the universe
30
must obey the call of him who undertakes to relieve suffering. The
doctor here is the symbol of the healing force .
They went to the County I nstitute, searching for a nurse and
failed to find one ther~ . They went then to the different mansions ,
houses, everywhere, in an effort to find someone, but could not find a
nurse for this child. Everybody was occupied , and nowhere could anyone
be found to bring relief to this particular case.
"At last a white- haired lady sitting under a cedar of Lebanon
and surrounded by a court of magnificent Borzois- all hostile to
motors- gave the Doctor, who received them as from a princess,
written orders which we bore many miles at top speed, through a
park, to a French nunnery, where we took over in exchange a pallid-
faced and trembling Sister."
This white- haired lady sitting under a cedar of Lebanon is the
symbol of charity which calls forth help when everything else fails.
The doctor - the life principle - as it were, received these written
orders as from a princess, because they symbolize the force of charity
which draws all things after it . And then they went to this French
nunnery, which could not refuse anything to charity. The spirit of
charity drew forth the help, and the nurse, the Sister , was turned over
to them.
"She knelt at the bottom of the tonneau telling her beads with-
out pause till, by short- cuts of the Doctor ' s invention, we had her
to the sweetmeat shop once more ."
Remember, the nurse here is not to be understood as a physical
nurse. The idea is that the order of charity aroused the aid of religion
so that the care which this sick personality required - the body, so to
speak, which was sick , through sin, and also the child which had been
brought forth in sin, were cared for. All sickness and , in fact all bad
consequences are caused by irregularities of life, etc., and in the last
analysis religion in the true sense of the word, is the cure for all
ills, because they are brought about by a breaking of the religious
code .
Well, we find him at l ast going home; that is, returning to his
own state; leaving the personal consciousness, and the mixed, confus-
ing mass of things, which shows the disturbance between the personal and
individual states .
It was some time before he was able to return again to the personal
region, and when he did so, it was winter. Everything was descending;
the active period was practically over; the subjective state of cold,
the magnetic state of personality, was going on; which simply means he
had passed from the objective consciousness to the personality and was
new merged into the subjective state, which shows that the merging was
more and more complete in his case, and he passed along through this
cold weather - to him it was cold, although the native children did not
31
seem to mind it- which shows that they belong to that subjective state.
"I made bold to call at the sweetmeat shop, where Mrs. M
a dehurst
met me with a fat woman's hospitable tears. Jenny's child, she s a id,
had died two days after the nun had come . It was, she felt, best out
of the way, even though insurance offices, for reasons which she did
not pretend to follow, would not willingly insure such stray lives. 11
Because they come forth in this way. Having been brought in im-
properly, they do not pertain to the real creative force; because,
understand, this is not a real child, but represents a certain passing
experience, a certain consciousness, an attachment, as it were, which
is not in accordance with Kosmical law; therefore, such an attachment
cannot remain permanently.
" 'Not but what Jenny didn't tend to Arthur as though he'd
come all proper at de end of de first year - like Jenny herself' . "
That is to say, the child did not come proper at the end of the
first year; it was not the effect of the union of the two sides in the
permanent world. This attachment grew out of this improper, impermanent
realization, and , therefore, it was not exactly legitimate. She was very
thankful for the pomp and ceremony with which the child was buried,
thanks to Miss Florence, - the personality. It was put away - eliminated
- with great force and grandeur, - which represents the love and tender-
ness which the personal soul shows towar d a ll the creations of the lower
principles, for the soul contains healing for not only the ills , but for
the sorrows; there is where real surcea se of s orrow is to be found.
" 'But how's the mother?' I asked . "
" 'Jenny? Oh, she'll get over it. I've felt dat way wi th one or
two o' my own. She'll get over. She's walkin' in de wood now'."
" 'In this weather'?"
"Mrs. Madehurst looked at me with narrowed eyes a cross the
counter. "
She was walking in the wood, because sorrow which comes upon one
is overcome best by communing with the soul region.
" 'I dunno but it opens de 'eart like. Yes , it opens de ' eart .
Dat 's where losin' and bearin' comes so alike in de long run, we do
say '. n
And that is true. There are but two avenues through which it is possible
for one to realize the state of progress. Bea ring, -that is, giving
expression to higher states, with the lower states; expressing one's
self . Losing those things- the sorrow which comes to us. The sorrow
which we feel is the means of lifting us to the higher realization.
"Now the wisdom of the old wives is greater than that of all the
Fathers, and this last oracle sent me thinking so extendedly as I
went up the road, that I nearly ran over a woman and child at the
wooded corner by the lodge gates of the House Beautiful."
This wisdom of the old wives which is greater than that of a ll
32
the Fathers, is so why? Because the wisdom of the heart, in certain
s enses, transcends that of the head, and this great truth was shown in
a ll its wonderful beauty.
At l ast he enters the house where the soul, the woman, is present,
s inging . She greets him by telling him what a long time it had been
s ince he was there.
It was not his own volition, particularly, that brought him there.
It was rather the dominating influence, the attraction which the per-
s onality had for the individuality, which brought them together . He
says, "I meant to come before , but Fate prevented." In other words , all
activities of the being are regulated according to the decree of fate.
" 'I knew it . Please do something to that fire. They won't let
me play with it, but I can feel it ' s behaving badly. Hit it ' !"
The fire is the activity, the masculine vibration and the heat
principle. She, the soul , could not play with the fire; it required the
spiritual activity to stir it up and make it burn brightly.
11
'It never goes out, day or night, ' she said, as though ex-
plaining. 'In case any one comes in with cold toes, you see ' . 11
This fire never went out day or night. It was kept up always "In
case any one comes in with cold toes." The fire of the soul is ever burn-
ing to wa rm, encourage and make comfortable all, in a spiritual sense.
He finds that the place is even more beautiful inside than it is out-
side, for the reason that he has now entered the realm of the soul. Be-
fore, he was out in its grounds . This is the more perfect union when he
is able to see still more of its beauties, to become conscious of it to
a still greater extent. So she shows him around the house.
11
'Feel how they put the latches low down for the sake of the
children'."
In other words, the whole place is a rranged for the comfort and
convenience of those Nirvanic forces which dwelt there . They, however,
had great work in finding them. They looked all over the place, but the
children were in hiding, and she showed him one of the rooms . Everything
was ready and this room was decorated with toys and everything for the
amusement of children. A little further on we shall find why the toys
were placed there . They were, however, lying very close . She calls them.
"The voice filled the walls that held it lovingly to the last per-
fect note, but there came no answering shout such as I had heard
in the garden. "
They hurried from one room to another looking everywhere, but
still the children evaded them - showing that search does not bring
one into this state of consciousness. It comes only when we are passive.
Then Mr . Turpin, one of the tenants, wanted to see her about a
matter , and she admits him. Turpin was a tenant on her land. He farmed
the land; he existed from the soil . In other words, he represents the
physical aspect of greed which is continually sapping the powers of the
33
sz~: a=d giving nothing back. He was frightened, terrified upon getting
~=: o t he presence of the soul when he thought the spirit was going away
a=c ce was going to be left alone with her. His terror was fearful. The
co=.versation shows all t he way t hrough the greed displayed by him, -
absorbing everything from the soul and giving nothing in return.
The "tallies" mentioned were her means of keeping accounts. Being
blind, she had to depend upon feeling. This goes to show that feelings,
:::Jpressions, etc., intuitions , are the most reliable forces until the
pure sight of the spirit itself dawns upon one . She used these tallies
to keep a ll the records of the estate, and 'the most of her land was let
to people who knew her folk before her. Her folk were those from whom
she had sprung; in ot her words the possessions of the soil were used by
elements who had been connected with t he higher spiritual realms of the
Isbvara itself, who knew them, people who were conscious of who she was,
etc.
After she bad gotten rid of this man who was exploiting her , or
trying t o - t hat is , when the lower desire element has been driven out
of the personal consciousness, and it can then return to union with the
individuality, - the Individuality stood by the screen behind which the
children were seated; that is, the Nirvanic forces had come into close
contact with the soul . He says:
"I ceased to tap the l eather - was, indeed, calculating the cost
of the shed - when I felt my relaxed hand taken and turned softly
between the soft hands of a child. So at last I had triumphed . In a
moment I would turn and acquaint myself with those quick- footed
wanderers • • • "
He had been playing the game of paying no attention to those
forces; and here is a great lesson. Strive as we may, we can never find
the spiritual state, can never reach Nirvana while we are looking for
it ; that is, while we are active ourselves . I t is only by becoming pas-
sive, paying no attention, as it were. When we are still, -then the
Nirvanic forces seek us out, manifest through us; but we need not try to
find them by self-directed activity.
That hand was now taken by the child; it was held, and
"The little brushing kiss fell in the centre of my palm - as a
gift on which the fingers were, once, expected to close; as the all-
faithful, half- reproachful signal of a waiting child not used to neg-
lect even when grown- ups were busiest - a fragment of the mute code
devised very long go."
The kiss which was pressed on the palm of the hand was the signal
of t!le union between the Individuality and Nirvana. He had now rea ched
~;:.::-va_:}B ; the conjunction had taken place ; he had paid no attention to
:.:=:e :;i::-~"anees - waited patiently, passively; therefore, the union took
;>:a~e . :his was "a fragment of the mute code devised very long ag o" for
:.;:e k: ss !:as ever been the emblem of union. It is the expression of love
34
l
J
which subsists in the Monad even, in Ishvara, even in the very highest
conception of Vishnu, the Supreme,
"Then I knew. Thep it was as though I had known from the first day
when I looked across the lawn at the high window . "
The union having been accomplished, he now enters Nirvana with
full consciousness of the relationship which he sustains to everything.
He realizes the relationship which he bears to the personality.
"I heard the door shut. The woman turned to me in silence, and I
felt that she knew. n
The personality responded to, recognized the individuality.
"What time passed after this I cannot say. I was roused by the fall
of a log, and mechanically rose to put it back. Then I returned to my
place in the chair very close to the screen."
" 'Now you understand, ' she whispered across the packed shadows . "
Darkness intervened between the Individuality and the Per-
sonality. She could speak only through this darkness because the sep-
aration was taking place. The personality was being severed because the
individuality had left, had transcended personal sight, was disappear-
ing from it - dark.ness intervened between the two. They could speak
across it because the separation was not complete, but still he, enter-
ing Nirvana, is passing from the personal state .
" 'Yes, I understand - now. Thank you' ."
He has awakened, having attained the Nirvanic consciousness, and
understanding dawns within him.
" 'I - I only hear them. ' She bowed her head in her hands. 'I
have no right, you know - no other right. I have neither borne nor
lost - neither borne nor lost' ! "
Because she had not given birth, - she had not expressed any-
thing. She only loved, but had not expressed anything. Neither had she
suffered the sorrow which would come from the loss of her expressions.
She had no right to attain the spiritual state, for the personality can
never attain it. It cannot give birth to spiritual things, neither can
it lose those things to which it has given expression, because if it did,
it would cease to be personality.
" ' Be very glad then,' said I, for my soul was torn open within
me."
The separation of the soul and spirit must always cause the deepest
suffering.
" ' Forgive me ' !"
"She was still, and I went back to my sorrow and my joy."
Do not get the idea that there is no suffering attendant upon
birth into Nirvana. It is sorrow and joy perfectly blended; pleasure and
pain; happiness and misery. The two are merged, in this state of perfect
peace. He goes back into this perpetual meditation of the spirit.
" 'It was because I loved them so, ' she said at last, brokenly.
35
That was why it was, even f r om the first - even before I knew that
they - they were a ll I should ever have. And I l oved them so'!"
"She stretched out her arms to the shadows and the shadows within
the shadow."
The shadows represent the darkness around, and the "shadows within
the shadow" were the darkness within that darkness, not only the dark-
ness where she was, but the spiritual darkness which she could not
penetrate, - her yearning love, the love of the personal toward that
state which is darkness to the personal consciousness . In fact, it was
the Divine Darkness that she was reaching out after - the darkness which
is darkness to even the spirit itself .
" 'They came because I loved them - because I needed them. I -
I must have made them come . Was that wrong , think you? Did I wrong
anyone ' ?"
"'No-no'."
" 'I - I grant you that the toys and - and all that sort of thing
were nonsense, but - I used to so hate empty rooms myself when I was
little.' She pointed to the gallery. ' And the passages a l l empty
••• • And how could I ever bear the garden door shut? Suppose? - '
" ' Don't! For pity' s sake, don't ! ' I cried. The twilight had
brought a cold rain with gusty squalls tha t plucked at the leaded
windows."
" 'And the same t hing with keeping the fire in a ll night . I don 't
think it is so foolish- do you'?"
"I looked at the broad brick hearth; saw, through tears I believe,
that ther e was no unpassable iron on or near it; and bowed my head ."
" ' I did all that and lots of other things - just to make believe .
Then they came . I heard them, but I didn 't know tha t they were not
mine by right till Mrs . Madden told me - ' "
" ' The butl er ' s wife? What ' ?"
Here i s the great secret. "Just to make believe ." In other words,
if you want to reach a certain state , a ct as though you had reached it ;
feel as though you had reached it . I f you want to reach the spiritual
plane, live as though you had reached it. Act consistently with the idea
and you will realize the ideal which you have. Play as though you had
reached that plane . If you want to become divine, act as though you were
divine .
"Then they came." All these things were symbolic of her ideals .
It was true it was nonsense, for Personality can never form a picture of
what the Nirvanic forces really are, but the desire, the effort of "mak-
ing believe," will create within the soul a place where they can mani-
fest , to some extent, at least.
" ' One of them - I heard - she saw. And knew. Hers! Not for me.
I didn't know a t first . Perhaps I was jealous. Afterwards I began to
understand that it was only because I loved them, not because - •••
36
Oh, you must bear or lose , ' she said piteously. 'There is no other
way. And yet they love me. They must! Don't they'?ft
There was no other way but to bear or lose. No other way but to
give expression to something or lose something, therefore, through
s orrow, misery and pain, come to a realization of that which stands
above and beyond.
"There was no sound in the room except the l apping voice of the
fire, but we two listened intently, and she, at least, took comfort
from what she heard. She recovered herself and half rose. I sat still
in my chair by the screen."
" 'Don't think me a wretch to whine about myself like this, but -
but I ' m all in the dark, you k.now, and you can see'."
"In truth I could see, and my vision confirmed me in my resolve,
though that was like the very parting of spirit and fle sh. Yet a little
longer I would stay since it was the last time."
The parting of spirit and flesh indeed, and, realizing that, the
Individuality leaves the Personality forever. Becoming a denizen of
Nirvana means the leaving of the soul consciousness; this was in deed
and in truth the parting of the spirit and flesh, the parting of the
individuality and the personality.
" 'You think it is wrong, then?' she cried sharply, though I had
said nothing." -getting the reflection in his consciousness.
" ' Not for you. A thousand times no. For you it is right • • • • •
I am grateful to you beyond words . For me it would be wrong. For me
only'."
It would be wrong for him because he had reached the union and,
was, therefore, conscious of true Nirvana; but for the personality it
was right to play, in a way, with the consciousness.
" 'Why?' she said , but passed her hand before her face as she had
done at our second meeting in the wood. ' Oh, I see, ' she went on simply
as a child. ' For you it would be wrong .' Then with a little indrawn
l augh, 'and, d'you remember, I called you lucky - once- at first.
You who must never come here again ' ! "
She had called him lucky, intuitively discerning tha t it was the
Individuality; but it would be wrong for him to dwell now on the per-
sonal plane, to see with personal consciousness, because he has reached
Home. He has reached the selfhood of Nirvanic consciousness, there-
fore, he must not come here again. The individuality has been perma-
nently separated from the personality. No more can she enter into the
consciousness of him. To him the personality is dead. He must not come
into this place again. The place where the children, the Nirvanic forces
are , is his home; he is at one with them, and the children live in his
own spirit.
"She left me to sit a little longer by the screen, and I heard
the sound of her feet die out along the gallery above ."
37
This is the final parting, the leaving of the personality com-
pletely behind, for he is now merged in Nirvana and can no longer be sep-
arated from it.
This is the real history of the freeing of the spirit of Kipling .
No man could write this history unless he had gone through it himself.
It is the history, first of his finding his personality and his parting
from the personality forever, completely merging himself in Nirvana,
where, free from illusion, free from the personality, free from the
soul itself, the individuality is completely held, completely sunken
in blessed Nirvana.
38
RALEIGH BOOKS ANO
LESSONS
Complete list of the Hermetic works by Dr. A. S. Raleigh, published in book form
and which will be sent postpaid at prices listed:
The Central Spiritual Sun and
The Virgin of the World . .. ............................$ 1.00
The Lakshmi Avatar, Lakshmi and the Gopis............... 1.00
The Law of Karma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
The Two Paths or the Parting of the Ways . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
W oman and Super-Woman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.00
Shepherd of Men . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.50
Stanzas of Dzjn (Theogenesis) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.00
Philosophia Hermetica . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Scientifica Hermetica . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
H ermetic Art . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Philosophy of Alchemy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Science of Alchemy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Speculative Art of Alchemy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
H ermetic Science of Motion and Number . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Hermetic Fundamentals Revealed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Hermetic Consciousness Unveiled ......................... 10.00
Magic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Occult Geometry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Phrenogarten Course (explains the brain) .................. 10.00
Metaphysical H ealing, Volume I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.50
Metaphysical Healing, Volume II . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.50
Interpretation to Rudyard Kipling's Story, Brushwood Boy
and the Map . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.50
Interpretation to Rudyard Kipling's Story, They . . . . . . . . . . . 7.50
Manuscript Lessons, nicely typed and bound
The Secret Sermon on the Mount or the Way of Rebirth ..... 10.00
Interpretation to Henry Van Dyke's Story, The Other Wise
Man ........... . .... ... . .. .................... . . .. . .. .. 5.00
We also make a specialty of rare, out-of-print books along the line of Occultism,
Mysticism, the Kaballa, the Tarot, Magic, Alchemy, Symbolism, Mythology, Rosicru-
cianism, Hermeticism and kindred subjects. A circular showing titles and prices of
our list of rare, out-of-print books will be sent free of cost upon request.
HERMETIC PUBLISHING COMPANY
3006 Lake Park Ave. Chicago, ill., U. S. A.
