{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V13 1897-8","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v13_1897-8.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V13 1897-8","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS tOll
OF ThIS I
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
VOLUME XIII.
(CONTAINING PARTS XXXII-XXXIII.)
1897-8.
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers published
in the Proceedings rests entirely ioith their authors.
London :
KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRUBNER and CO., Limited,
CHARING CROSS ROAD.
Agents for America : SUBSCRIPTION NEWS CO. (CHICAGO).
1898.
C03Sra?E3STTS.
PAGE
PART XXXII.
General Meetings ...........
On the So-called Divining Rod, or Virgida Uivina. By Professor
W. F. Barrett.
Book I.
Part I. Introductory. .......
Part II. Modern Literature on this Subject
Part III. Examination of Evidence .....
Part IV. Geological Opinion ......
Part V. Brief Survey of the Evidence ....
Part VI. Theoretical Conclusions .....
Appendix A. The Words "Dowse" and "Dowser".
Appendix B. Geological Opinion upon Underground Water
Appendix C. How the Rod is Held .....
Appendix D. The Sensations Alleged to Occur in Dowsing
Appendix E. Note on the Horsham Experiments
Table, of Contents .........
PART XXXIII.
General Meetings .......... 283
A Further Record of Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance.
By Richard Hodgson, LL.D.
Part I.
§ 1. Introductory ......... 284
§ 2. Development of Automatic Writing in Mrs. Piper's Trance 291
§ 3. History of the G. P. Communications .... 295
§ 4. Brief Accounts of Other Communicators . . 335
§ 5. The " Spirit " Hypothesis and the Hypothesis of
Telepathy from the Living ..... 357
8 6. Indications that the "Spirit" Hypothesis is True . 370
§7. Recent Changes in Mrs. Piper's Trance . . . 407
Detaile'd Reports of Sittings. Appendices I-IV. . . . 413
Supplement.
I. Psychical Research in American Universities. By Professor
Harlow Gale of the University of Minnesota . . 583
II. Reviews :—
Herr Edmund Parish's " Zur Kritik des Telepathischen
Beweis Maleriels." By Mrs. H. Sidgwick . . 589
Dr. John^L. Nevius's "Demon Possession and Allied
Themes." By Professor W. Romaine Newbold . 602
Mr. F. Podmore's "Studies in Psychical Research."
By Andrew Lang 004
Dr. R. Osgood Mason's " Telepathy and the Subliminal
Self." By Professor James H. Hyslop . . 610
Mr. W. T. Stead's "Letters from Julia : or, Light from
the Borderland." By F. W. H. Myers . . 612
Dr. Louis Waldstein's "The Subconscious Self and its
Relation to Education and Health." By F. Podmore 614
Mr. Andrew Lang's "The Book of Dreams and Ghosts."
By J. G. Smith 016
Supplementary Catalogue of the Edmund Gurney Library . . 619
Officers and Council for 1898 621
Li«t of Members and Associates ....... 622
List of Members and Associates of the American Branch . . 644
PROCEEDINGS
OK THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH,
PART XXXII.
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETINGS.
The 85th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall on Friday, March 12th, 1897, at 8.30 p.m.; Dr.
A. Wallace in the chair.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers gave an address on " Hysteria and Genius."
The 86th General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
April 23rd, 1897, at 4 p.m. ; the President, Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S.,
in the chair.
A paper by Dr. Morton Prince, entitled "A Contribution to the
Study of Hysteria and Hypnosis," was read by Professor Sidgwick.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers concluded his address on " Hysteria and
Genius."
is
2 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
ON THE SO-CALLED DIVINING ROD,
OR VIRGULA DIVINA:
A SCIEnTIFIC And hISTORICAL RESEARCh AS TO THE EXISTEnCE And PRACTICAL
VALUE OF A PECULIAR hUMAn FACULTY, UnRECOGnISEd BY
SCIEnCE, LOCALLY KnOWn AS dOWSInG ;
By W. F. Barrett,
Professor of Experimental Physics in the Royal College of Science for Ireland.
"There are two ways of investigating the facts or fancies about the
divinmg rod. One is to examine it in its actual operation—a task of consider
able labour, which will doubtless be undertaken by the Society for Psychical
Research ; the other, and easier way, is to study the appearances of the
divining wand in history."— A. Lang, Custom and Myth, p. 181.
Part I.
INTRODUCTORY.
At first sight few subjects appear to be so unworthy of serious
notice and so utterly beneath scientific investigation as that of the
divining rod. To most men of science the reported achievements
of the " diviner " are on a par with the rogueries of Sir Walter
Scott's Dousterswivel. That any one with the smallest scientific
training should think it worth his while to devote a considerable
amount of time and labour to an enquiry into the alleged evidence on
behalf of the rod, will appear to my scientific friends about as sensible
as if he spent his time investigating fortune-telling or any other relic
of superstitious folly. Nor was my own prejudice against this subject
a-iy less than that of others. For I confess that it was with great
reluctance, and even repugnance, that, some six years ago, yielding
to the earnest request of the Council of the S.P.R., I began an
investigation of the matter ; hoping, however, in my ignorance, that
a fesv weeks' work would enable me to relegate it
"Into a limbo large and broad, since called
The Paradise of fools."
Moreover, geologists might well make an objection in limine to
XXXII.] 3
On the So-called Divining Rod.
any such investigation.i For it is a matter of common geological
knowledge that the mode of distribution of underground water is
very different from that imagined by the professional "diviner" or
" dowser ".- The latter with the utmost assurance locates a spring
on a particular spot, and gives its exact depth from a foot to 100 feet,
and its yield of water, and then probably will tell you there is another
spring a few feet further off, perhaps at a very different depth, but
that between no water will be found. Or, putting his interpreta
tion on other indications of the rod, he will confidently assert that
under his feet an underground river exists, yielding so many gallons
per hour. By the same means he will profess to ascertain the
direction in which the imaginary river is running, and give you its
depth below the surface. Hard by he will trace other invisible
streams, and follow them to their source, maintaining that a perfectly
dry rock or sub-soil separates underground waters. Most of this is
ridiculous to the practical geologist.3 Here, for example, is an extract
from a letter I lately received from the Rev. Osmond Fisher, M.A.,
(author of Physics of the Earth's Crust), which gives the geological
statement of the case with admirable clearness and brevity :—
Harlton Rectory, Cambridge, February 4th, 1896.
It appears to me that the assumption which underlies the belief in the
divining rod is erroneous. It is only under exceptional circumstances,
as among crystalline rocks, or where the strata are much disturbed,
that underground water runs in channels like water in a pipe, so that a
person can say, " I am now standing over a spring," whereas a few paces off
he was not over one. What is called a spring, such as is reached in a well,
is usually a widely extended water-saturated stratum. Ordinarily where
water can be reached by a well, there are few spots [in the neighbourhood]
where a well would not find it.
i Here is an extract from a recent letter from a well-known geologist :—
" It is sad to find you troubling about that wretched divining rod ! . . . Why
is it that of late years tins ' pestilent heresy ' has cropped up so ? And why are
educated people bitten by it? Squires, M.P.'s, doctors, and alas, parsons ! " As an
instance of the general treatment of the subject by scientific men, I may refer to a
recent letter from Mr. C. Tomlinson, F.R.S., in Notes and Queries for April 2oth,
i8:Xi, p. 336. The writer quotes as fact a series of statements about the " rod," which
a very btief investigation of the subject would have shown him to be entirely un
founded. Nevertheless, he says to those who give credit to the water-finders, and
who point out that facts are stubborn things ; " My answer is, verification of facts
is still more stubborn,'' a sentiment which we all agree with, and wish all who write
on this subject would attend to.
- The derivation of this word is obscure ; the subject is discussed in Appendix A.
3 1 have ventured to give in Appcndiz B a brief outline—based on the authority of
eminent geologists—of the chief points at present known concerning the production
and circulation of underground waters. The unscientific reader may thus be better
able to appreciate, or to question, the orthodox geological view regarding the
divining rod. References are there given to some standard works on underground
water.
b 2
4 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
The question which is really worthy of investigation in this and
similar cases seems to be how such an idea ever originated, and to what
it owes its vitality.
Furthermore, if instances of the successful use of the divining rod
be quoted, the geologist would doubtless reply that these are either
shrewd guesses of the " diviner," or else purely cases of chance
coincidence ; the few successes being recorded, whilst the numerous
failures are overlooked. This, indeed, is a common fallacy, for
" the mind is arrested by the affirmative instances, whereas the
numberless instances in which there is no correspondence between the
one set of facts and the other, altogether escaped our notice." i
Hence, from the geologist's point of view, the rod of the diviner
is no more a mystery than the wand of a conjurer. So far as its use
in finding water or mineral veins is concerned, the geologist argues
that precisely the same degree of success would be obtained by tossing
a coin, or throwing dice, and then sinking wells on the spots indicated
by one's greatest luck in guessing.
Nevertheless it is impossible to read the voluminous evidence,
collected with such painstaking care by Mr. Vaughan Jenkins of
Oxford, which is given in Mr. Pease's S.P.R. report of thirteen years
ago, without coming to the same conclusion as that arrived at by Mr.
Pease, namely that :—" The evidence for the success of 1 dowsing ' as
a practical art is very strong—and there seems to be an unexplained
residuum when all possible deductions have been made." 2 Forty years
ago, Dr. Mayo, F.R.S., arrived at a similar conclusion after experi
mental trials made with the rod both in England and abroad, and he
published a paper on this subject in his entertaining little book On the
Truths contained in Popular Superstitions. Prior to this, in 1814,
Dr. C. Hutton, F.R.S., after examining the then accessible evidence on
behalf of the divining rod and witnessing Lady Milbanke's success
with the rod, published a statement of his own belief in the practical
value of the divining rod, though unable to explain its behaviour.3
i Fowler's Inductive Logic, p. 239.
3 Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. II , p. 89. An abstract of the evidence collected by
Mr. Vaughan Jenkins up to the date of Mr. Pease's report (January, 1884), is given in
the Proceedings 3.P.R., Vol. II., pp. 90-107.
3 See Montucla's edition of Ozanam's Mathematical Recreations, translated and
enlarged by C. Hutton, LL.D. , F.R.S., Vol. 4, 2nd edition, Longmans, 1814. In
the first edition of this translation, belief in the use of the " rod " is treated as
absurd. When this view was challenged, Hutton made enquiries for himself, with
the result stated above. He had the courage to publish his conviction in later
editions of the book, pp. 216—231. See also on this Dr. Ashburner's edition of
Reichenbach's researches, p. 91, and the Quarterly Review for 1822, p. 37o, et tcq.
The writer in the Quarterly says, "The fact of the discovery of water being effected
XXXII.] 5
On the So-called Divining Rod.
And recently, in 1883, Dr. R. Raymond read a paper before the
American Institute of Mining Engineers in which, after considerable
investigation, the conclusion is arrived at :—"That there is a residuum
of scientific value, after making all necessary deductions for exaggera
tion, self-deception, and fraud," in the use of the divining rod for
finding springs and deposits of ore.i This testimony gains additional
weight from the fact that Dr. Raymond is the distinguished secretary
of that important Institute.
In like manner, it is impossible to study this subject historically
without being impressed by the number of those who have accepted as
indisputable the practical value of the rod, during the four centuries it
has been in use. And these believers in its efficacy were not a set of
silly, superstitious men, easily duped by cunning rogues,—credulous
fools, capable of believing any nonsense ;—on the contrary, among
them were some of the most learned writers and the most painstaking
investigators of their day, together with an array of practical miners
and well-sinkers ; men who ought to have known what they were
talking about. The popular off-hand view about the rod—that it is
merely another instance of the perennial superstition, or roguery, of
mankind—seems therefore somewhat inadequate. For the curious
problem that meets one in the examination of the subject is, not only
the long survival and wide extent of the belief in the rod, but the
singular and unselfish enthusiasm of its advocates, together with the
general probity and intelligence of the "dowsers" themselves. Quakers,
farmers, ladies* children, poor-law guardians, clergymen, magistrates,
etc., are among the English dowsers of to-day, and these are not the
class of people one would expect to find hoodwinking a gullible public.
They may, of course, be the victims of self-deception ; if so, does this
also apply to the professional dowsers (in England alone I know of
nearly twenty who make a living by their practice), whom numerous
agents of estates and owners of land find it to their interest repeatedly
to employ 1 2
by the divining rod, when held in the hands of certain persons, seems indubitable.
. . . The faculty, so inherent in certain persons, is evidently the same with that
of the Spanish Zahories, though the latter do not employ the hazel twig." This is
much the same view as that taken by the editor of the Spectator in an article in that
journal for October 14th, 1882. The Zahories, as will be seen in the sequel, I have
traced back to a writer in the 16th century.
i Mr. Pease in his S.P.R. report refers to Raymond's paper, which I find was
read a second time at the U.S. International Electrical Exhibition in 1884, and
is again published in the Journal of the Franklin Institute for 1885 I shall return
to this paper later on.
2 I am glad to be able to bear testimony to the fact that several of these
professional dowsers, notably those who have been most successful, are simple
unassuming men, who do not disguise their ignorance, nor occasional failures, and
are ready to impart all they know. On the other hand, as might naturally be
6 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
Furthermore, it is to be noted that at the present day, as in
the past, those who have had the opportunity of examining most
closely the practical use of the " dowser's art " are not to be found
among the scoffers. The opinion expressed to me by many well-
informed and critical observers who live in that region of the South
West of England where the " rod " has been longest in use, and is still
extensively employed, is by no means contemptuous or even unfavour
able. Here, for example, is an extract from the West Somerset Word
Book, by Mr. F. T. Elworthy (author of The Evil Eye and Kindred
Superstitions), an able and impartial authority.
DOWSE [aaew'ss], t>. To use the divining-rod for the purpose of finding
springs of water.
The faculty possessed by some individuals is truly marvellous, and is not
to be explained by the ordinary method, of ascribing the action to chicanery,
as the evidence to unbiassed minds is beyond cavil. Moreover, the power is
not hereditary nor communicable. Nascitnr non fit. The power of the
Dowser to discover water is not merely a surviving superstition, but is
believed in by hard-headed, practical men of the world, who still habitually
pay their money for the advice of these men, and who have proved by
repeated trials that it is always correct, and worth paying for.
Quite recently a Sanatorium was to be built upon a high and apparently
very dry spot, where of course the first necessity was water. Three pro
fessional Dowsers were sent for separately, and unknown to each other.
Each came on a different day from the others, and under the impression that
he alone was being employed, with the result that all three pointed to the
same spot, where a well was dug and abundant water found..
Inasmuch as one of my own daughters has the power to some extent, I
am able to testify that trickery plays no part in the performance, and she
herself is quite unconscious of anything by which the rod is acted on.
The rod or twig I have seen used is a fork of about a foot long, cut oft"
just below the bifurcation, and in size each limb is about as large as a thick
straw. The wood, it is said, must be either " halse " or white thorn, and
may be used either green or dry. The operator holds an end of the twig
firmly between the fingers and thumb of each hand, and with the elbows
pressed rigidly against the sides ; consequently the two ends of the twig are
expected, the possession of any peculiar "faculty" tends to inordinate self-conceit
and vanity, especially among the illiterate class from whom the professional dowser
is usually drawn. This is traceable from the 17th century dowser down to the
present day. Among such men a great mystery is made of their "art"; an
apprenticeship must be served, and initiation to its mysteries could, in former times,
only be gained by a knowledge of the magic rites and ceremonies with which the
practice was surrounded. At the present day these magic rites are swallowed up by
the more magic dollar. For example, the son of an English rector having accidentally
found he had the faculty of dowsing, the father tells me he applied for information to
a young professional dowser—who certainly understands the art of self-advertise
ment,—and received tho reply that "Mr. declines to take less than one
hundred guineas for giving the youth three months' training " ! I hope the present
paper may make such premiums a little more difficult to catch.
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 7
pulled asunder, with the centre, or juncture of the fork pointing downwards.
He then moves very slowly forward, and when ovor a spring the twig turns
outwards, and twists upon itself into an upright position. This movement
may be repeated any number of times—the rod twisting over and ovor again
upon reaching the same spot, and with equal freedom when both rod and
fingers are held by sceptical witnesses. The position in which the twig is
held seems to make it impossible that it can be turned by any conscious
muscular action. Indeed both my daughter and the professional Dowser I
have seen, assert that they cannot twist the rod by any conscious effort.
In some parts of the county the operation is called Jowsing and the
operator a jowser.
Even the President of the Royal Geological Society of Cornwall,
Mr. J. D. Euys, F.G.S., is not a scoffer ; on the contrary he himself is
an amateur dowser, and in a recent letter, writing from Penryn,
Cornwall, Mr. Enys states, "I have tried it [dowsing for water] often.
On one occasion I cut a small slight rod and held it till I
came to the place [where underground water existed], when it always
acted by turning. On this occasion I was able to hold the rod, but
it broke short off in front of my hands, and did so a second time in
the same place. ... I always feel the effects afterwards if I go
on too long using the rod." This is another instance of the testimony
afforded by a scientific man living in a locality where the rod has been
in use for centuries. It is always ignorance, and not knowledge, that
blindly denies what is unfamiliar.
Here then we find a widespread belief existing at the present day,
and extending backwards for centuries ; though it seem contemptible,
how are we to account for. the origin and survival of this belief, and for
its appearance and persistence in regions remote from each other? As
Dr. Lauder Brunton, E.R.S., has remarked a propos of this very subject
—" when we find certain things implicitly believed in by some people,
whilst they are laughed at as ridiculous and absurd by others, it is
worth while to enquire whether there may not be an element of truth
as well as of falsehood in both belief and ridicule. Ignorance is the
parent both of blind belief and of scoffing scepticism, and leads not
only to implicit belief in untruth, but also to a rash denial of what is
true." One main object of our Society is to endeavour to dispel such
ignorance by carefully examining, in the clearer light of the present
day, the evidence that exists on behalf of phenomena rejected as
trivial or valueless by orthodox science.
The Rod Merely an Indicator of Subconscious Impressions.
It may, however, be asked in what way does the subject of the
divining rod come within the scope of a Society for Psychical
s [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
Research? This I think will be evident in the sequel of this paper ;
here it is only necessary to point out that the rod, or forked twig, is
not a chemical or physical re-agent indicating the object sought by
some specific action of that object on the material of the rod. The
rod must be regarded simply as the indicator of some action taking
place upon or within the living mechanism of the individual who holds
the rod ; just as " planchette " or a tilting table is used to indicate
muscular impressions made by, or through, the so-called "medium." In
fact, the rod is not always used by the "dowser" ; a piece of wire or
watch-spring, or merely the out-stretched hands, are used by some of
the most successful "diviners." Hence there can, I think, be little
doubt that the subject we are discussing is a special case of that large
group of phenomena belonging to our subliminal consciousness which
Air. F. W. H. Myers has done so much to elucidate : the movement of
the rod being due to involuntary reflex action.
Some such view, I find, has been held by nearly all who have in
recent years carefully considered the subject. Thus Dr. Lauder
Brunton, F.R.S., says :—
"I am inclined to think that the success of the divining rod, in some
hands, for finding water or even for tracing criminals, is due to its causing
involuntary muscular action, and thus enabling the person using it to
consciously recognise that impressions have been made upon him which
would otherwise never have arisen above the state of sub-consciousness."
Dr. Brunton goes on to say : " When we hear that a man is able to
discover water at a considerable distance below the ground on which he
stands, we are at first apt to scout the idea as ridiculous, while if we were
told that a caravan was crossing a desert, and that all at once the thirsty
camels started off quickly, and at a distance Of a mile or more water was
found, we look upon the occurrence as natural. In the same way we regard
as very remarkable the story of a man tracing criminals with a divining rod,
but it becomes quite ordinary if we put a bloodhound in the man's place."
In conclusion, Dr. Brunton remarks concerning the divining rod and the
allied popular beliefs: "The whole subject is a deeply interesting one, and
its thorough investigation is much to be desired." i
The discovery of water or a mineral lode by a hazel twig, there
fore, no longer becomes so absurdly improbable if it is the individual
who is in some way the discoverer, and the rod merely the indicator
of some impression made upon him, an impression too slight and too
subtle to rise to the level of consciousness. After all, it is not the
improbability of the quest that should deter us, it is simply a question
i Dr. Lauder Brunton on "Truth and Delusion." in the Universal Review,
January, l&S0. The Quarterly Review for July, 1895, p. 206, says " Dowsing . . .
is either conscious imposture, or it is an act prompted by the sub-conscious element in
the personality of the ' dowser.' . . . It is only a question of steady scientific
examination, as in the study of any other condition of human faculty."
XXXII.] 9
On the So-called Divining Rod.
of what amount of trustworthy evidence exists upon the subject to
make the quest worth pursuing.
Nomenclature.
The term divining rod is unfortunate, and has probably led to a
good deal of the opprobrium under which the subject rests, as it is
frequently confounded with the ancient superstitious practice of
divination by a rod, or Rhabdomancy, one of the oldest methods of
augury (Hosea iv., 12, or by arrows as in Ezekiel xxi., 21). The
considerable literature of Rhabdomancy is a distinct question, and it
need hardly be said, of no value to physical science.i
A rod or wand was not only used for divination, it was and is, the
symbol of power; as in Exodus iv., 17, 20; Psalm xxiii, 4, etc., as in
the lituus of the Roman augur, in the pastoral staff of a bishop, in
a monarch's sceptre or in the special constable's staff of to-day.2 The
Arch-Druid's wand is another instance of this, and the conjurer's
wand is a survival of the same thing ; even the native Irish name
for the latter is Slaitin Draoidheachla, Druid's wand, or virgula
divinationis. On this subject Mr. Lang has given us the benefit of
his scholarship in a passage I have quoted in the foot-note below. 3
i The most learned and exhaustive work on ancient divination is that by
M. Bouche-Leclercq, entitled HMoirc de la Divination dans FAntiquite, 4 vols.,
Paris, 1880. Lenormant in his Chaldean Magic refers to the use of rhabdomancy
among the Chaldeans. (Eng. trans., p. 237). See also article Divination in Smith's
Dictionary of the. Bible, and Mr. Myers' brilliant essay on Greek Oracles. Brand's
I'opular Antiquities contains a lengthy and erudite article on rhabdomancy, in
which reference is made to the divining rod (Vol. II., p. 622.) The most concise
and excellent article on Divination which I have met with is that in Chambers'
Encnclopadia. *
Even among the Mongol tribes, inhabiting the eastern portion of the plateau of
central Asia, divination is rife, as that able and devoted missionary, the Rev.
J. Gilmour, M.A., shows in his remarkable work Among the Mongols. Mr. Gilmour
says (p. 188 ) that the Mongols expected him to divine for them where to sink
their wells so as to get a good water supply, or where to find any lost cattle, etc., and
when he confessed his inability to do so, their amazement and incredulity were
profound.
- There are, I find, some 130 references to a " rod " or " staff " as a symbol of
authority or power in the Old Testament alono. There has recently been added to the
South Kensington Museum "a sceptre of blue glazed ware made for Amenhotop II..
of the 18th Dynasty, from the temple of Nubt." This sceptre is some 7 feet high,
thicker than the girth of one's arm and shaped like a huge shepherd's crook or
pastoral staff. The symbolical, sacred, or magical power of a rod or crook is therefore
as ancient as it is widely diffused. What gave rise to this is an interesting question.
s " In all countries rods or wands, the Latin virga, have a magical power.
Virgil obtained his mediteval repute as a wizard beeause his name was erroneously
connected with virynla, the magic wand. But we do not actually know that the
ancient wand of the enchantress Circe, in Homer, or the wand of Hermes, was
used, like the divining rod, to indicate the whereabouts of hidden wealth or water.
In the Homeric hymn to Hermes (line 520), Apollo thus describes the caduceus,
10 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
Instead, therefore, of the word " divining rod," I would suggest the
use of the provincial word dowsing-rod, or of the term winchel-rod : the
former is common enough and the latter has been, and still is, used in
certain parts ; it was, I believe, first employed by a writer in a book
translated from the German, called the Laboratory, published in 1740.
The word probably arose from the German name for divining rod,
Wiiiuchel-ruthe, the pronunciation being similar. One writer, however,
attributes the word, less probably, to the English winch, as the rod
turns over hidden springs.i
Autoscopes.
As the divining rod is only one of many instrumental means,
whereby imperceptible, involuntary, and unconscious muscular move
ments are revealed by the visible motion of an external object, it is
desirable to group these various appliances under a generic name. I
would suggest for this purpose the term Autoscope.2 Other autoscopes
besides (1) the divining or dowsing rod, are, (2) a little ring or ball sus
pended by a thread, the pendide explorateur of French writers, the use
or wand of Hermes : ' Thereafter will I give thee a lovely wand of wealth and
riches, a golden wand with three leaves, which shall keep thee ever unharmed.'
In later art, this wand or caditccns, is usually entwined with serpents; but on one
vase, at least, the wand of Hermes is simply the forked twig of our rustic miners
and water-finders. The same form is found on an engraved Etruscan mirror.
"Now,was a wand of this form used in classical times to discover hidden objects
of value !J That wands were used by Scythians and Germans in various methods
of casting lots is certain; but that is not the same thing as the working of the
twig. Cicero speaks of a fabled wand by which wealth can be procured ; but ho
says nothing of the method of its use, and possibly was only thinking of the rod
of Hermes, as described in the Homeric hymn already quoted. There was a sattira,
written by Varro, called Viryula Vivina; fragments remain, but throw no light on
the subject. A passage usually quoted from Seneca has no more to do with the
divining rod than with the telephone. Pliny is a writer extremely fond of
marvels; yet when he describes the various modes of fmding wells of water, he
says nothing about the divining wand. The isolated texts from Scripture which
are usually referred to clearly indicate wands of a different sort."—Custom and
Myth, p. 182.
i Other terms used in old time for the divining rod were Aaron's rod, Moses'
rod, and Jacob's rod. A work on the divining rod was published m Lyons in 1693,
and an English translation called Jacob's Rod has been made by a Mr. Welton.
The fact that the divining rod was in old times often called " Moses' rod "
doubtless arose from the description given in the book of Exodus of Moses obtaining
water in the wilderness by means of his rod, irreverent persons concluding he had
learnt the use of the divining rod whilst in Egypt.
'-' In physical science the termination " scope " (fir. o-itojrftv to view) is restricted
to instruments which reveal or detect a hidden object or force, and do not measure the
amount of the force, e.g., magnetoscope, electroscope, etc. The word GryptoMopc—
instrument for showing hidden things,—is for some reasons preferable to autoscope,
but it has already been adopted by some French writers for the fluorescent screen
used with the X-rays.
XXXII.] 11
On the So-called Divining Rod.
of which goes back at least to the fourth century;i similar to this is
(3) a poised index, or a simple pointer, traversing the letters of the
alphabet, (4) a pencil lightly and passively held so that it can write
on note-paper, (5) planchette, (6) a small table, or other object such
as a chair,2 easily tilted or rotated (table-turning, etc.), (7) a passive
living person lightly touched by another, as in the " willing game,"
where a hidden object is found, or a secret command obeyed by the
quasi thought-reader, or living autoscope.
Doubtless other autoscopes exist, or will be invented, but, however
different in detail, there are, broadly speaking, only two distinct kinds,
(a) those wherein the indicator is in stable or neutral equilibrium, as
the pendule or planchette, and where a succession of ideas may be
conveyed by a series of uninterrupted movements, (/3) those wherein
the indicator, or the muscular system of the person using the indicator,
is in a " sensitive " state, i.e., one of balanced strain or unstable
equilibrium.3 Here a slight impulse, or nervous stimulus, may pro
duce a profound effect, the displacement not being in the least
proportional to the force that initiated it. Autoscopes of this
class, which convey only a single idea, require to be restored to
their initial condition by an independent operation, before a second
displacement can occur or a second idea be conveyed. I shall show
later on that, if rightly held, the forked dowsing or divining rod
belongs to this class. It is in this class we should expect to find
that any sense perceptions, which are too faint to excite con
sciousness, would probably reveal themselves.
Here permit a brief digression. Our conscious personality speaks
through various voluntary muscular movements, ideas chiefly express
ing themselves in articulate language. The large unconscious back
ground of our personality always speaks through involuntary muscular
movements, to which ordinarily we give no heed, though these
movements are ever going on within us, and if external are generally
imperceptible. Now if reasoning, as we know it, cannot exist without
language, which need not be speech but some form of expression, then
autoscopes furnish a means whereby the hidden part of our personality,
the dumb partner of our life, can reason and outwardly express itself ;
For a modern illustration of the use of the pcndulc, see the Reminiscence} of the
late Mrs. De Morgan, p. 214.
- Juanita was the name given to a chair in Guadaloupe in 1853, which composed
prose and poetry after the manner of planchette. " Les oauvres litteraires de la
chaise," are set forth in a brochure published at the Government printing office in
Gtiadaloupe, in 1853.
' In the region of physics, an inverted cone, a Rupert's drop or a sensitive
flame are familiar examples of bodies either in unstable or pe,ised equilibrium.
12 [PART
Professor W. F. Barrett.
a means whereby an intelligence not under our conscious control can
reveal itself by some physical manifestation.
It is just because these manifestations appear to be so novel, and
detached from ourselves, that they are apt to be so misleading to some
and so mischievous to others. Interpreted on the one hand as the play
of a wonderful occult force, science has refused to have anything to do
with phenomena which seem to obey no physical laws, but are capricious
and self-determined. Interpreted on the other, truly enough, as the
exhibition of a free and intelligent agent, some infernal or discarnate
spirit has been fixed upon as the cause, and a fictitious authority
for which there is no warrant has been given to their indications.
Whether in any case these intelligent automatic movements exhibit
information outside the memory, either active or latent, of the
individual who uses the autoscope ; or a knowledge beyond that
which may have been unconsciously derived from those present by
sign-reading or thought-transference, is a problem which can only be
solved so as to gain general acceptance by long and patient enquiry, of
which our Proceedings are an earnest, and to which this monograph may
afford a small contribution.
Part II.
The literature of the divining rod is extensive, and several modern
writers have given historical outlines of this subject. But upon
comparing these accounts it soon became evident that they were all,
more or less, drawn from some earlier historian. I therefore devoted
part of two summer vacations to a thorough historical examination of
this subject, and thanks to the valuable libraries to which I have had
access in London, Liverpool, and Dublin, I venture to hope that the
historical survey appended to this paper is somewhat more complete
and exact than its predecessors. In connection with this part of my
task, most grateful acknowledgements are due to my friends, the Rev.
Maxwell Close, M.A., and Mr. E. Westlake, F.G.S., for their kind and
valuable co-operation ; the latter devoting many weeks to this work
at the British Museum Library.i
The historical evidence adduced in the sequel—some of which has
i My hearty thanks are also due to the various able and courteous Librarians,
more especially to those in Dublin. The library in Trinity College, and Archbishop
Marsh's library, Dublin, are particularly rich in l6th and 17th century literature;
the latter has some works which apparently are not in the British Museum library.
I am also indebted to the National Library of Ireland and to the scientific libraries
at the Koyal Irish Academy, the Royal Dublin Society, and the Royal College of
Science for Ireland, and to the valuable I'icton Library in Liverpool, etc.
xxxu]. On the So-called Divining Rod. 13
hitherto escaped observation—renders the following facts, in my
opinion, practically certain : (1) The birthplace of the modern divining
or dowsing rod is the mining districts of Germany, probably the Harz
mountains. Germany is the home of mining, and the most approved
processes were in use there prior to elsewhere. (2) The first record of
the use of the dowsing rod was for mining purposes and dates from
late in the loth or early in the 16th century, though it must have been
in use for at least a generation before this. Its introduction was
coincident with, and perhaps a symptom of, that great movement
of thought in Germany when tradition began to give way to reason,
and superstition to the observation of nature. (3) The use of the
dowsing rod for finding mineral veins was introduced into England,
by German miners, at the latter part of the 16th century, and early
in the 17th century its use in Cornwall for mining is noticed by
some English writers. (4) The employment of a rod for finding
underground water possibly began in Germany, but at least a century
later than its use in mining. At the present time the dowsing rod
is far more in use for the former purpose (water-finding) than for the
latter. (5) The use of the rod in the " moral world," for detecting
criminals, etc., was a phase which arose towards the end of the
17th century and quickly passed away ; its use for this purpose (but
this only) being condemned by a decree of the Inquisition in 1701.
(6) To A. Kircher and G. Schott, about 1660, we owe the theory of
unconscious muscular action as the explanation of the pendule,
e.cploratenr, which they connect (but obscurely) with the motion of the
divining rod. By Malebranche and Lebrun in 1692 the importance of
the prior intention of the diviner as to the object of search was first
pointed out.
Postponing to the conclusion a detailed account of the early history of
this subject, it will be convenient, before entering upon an examina
tion of the evidence on behalf of a dowsing faculty and how far it is of
practical value, to give an outline of what has been written on the
subject in comparatively modern times, that is, since the first scientific
investigation of the question by Dr. Thouvenel a century ago.
Modern Literature on this Subject.
The standard treatise on the subject is usually considered to be a
work by M. Chevreul, entitled La Baguette Divinatoire, Paris, 1854.i
The immediate cause of Chevreul's treatise was a paper presented to
the French Academy of Sciences, in March, 1853, by a M. Riondet,
> Chevreul, as is well known, was a distinguished French chemist, the author
of numerous scientific papers on colour and the artistic and industrial applications
of chemistry. He died in 1889 at the age of 103 years, retaining his faculties and
industry almost to the last.
14 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
entitled Sur la baguette divinatoire employee a la recherche des eaux
souterraines. As usual in such cases, the Academy ordered a report
on this paper to be made, and nominated for this purpose three
eminent scientific members of its body, MM. Chevreul, Boussingault,
and Babinet. M. Chevreul was requested by his colleagues to draw up
the report, which led to the publication of his book on the subject.
The author states he found it impossible to dissociate the movement of
the baguette from that of the pendule explorateur and table-turning;
these subjects therefore occupy a considerable part of his work.
(Meanwhile M. Riondet's paper seems to have been forgotten, for it is
not discussed by Chevreul and no publication nor summary of it, —nor
of a subsequent paper which M. Riondet sent in,—was made in the
Comptes Rendus of the Academy). Chevreul's book was certainly
useful in drawing attention to, and examining, a wide-spread belief
which hitherto had not been seriously discussed by any writer of
recognised scientific position. But its importance has, I think, been
largely over-rated ; it was believed to be the first attempt to give
a rational explanation of the movement of the rod ; but this is an
erroneous belief ; as Kircher, I find, anticipated Chevreul by two
centuries. Chevreul is content with the popular view that the indica
tions afforded by the rod are always fallacious ; h;;nce he gives no
modern evidence of its success or failure, and makes no experimental
examination for himself. The historical portion of his book up to the
year 1700 is also largely derived from a remarkably learned but little
known work by Father Pierre Lebrun, S.J., entitled Histoire Critique
des Pratiques Snperstitieuses, etc., Paris, 1702, a work I shall have
occasion to refer to later on. Lebrun was evidently a man of great
intellectual power and wide reading, and I do not wonder at Chevreul
dedicating his treatise to the memory of this erudite Jesuit.i
Subsequent writers (with one or two rare exceptions, such as
Mr. A. Lang), have been content with copying Chevreul, often at
second or third hand. The Rev. S. Baring-Gould, for example—
whose interesting and lengthy article on the divining rod in
Curious Myths of the Middle Ages, London, 1868, is probably the
best known essay on the subject to English readers,—appears
entirely iudebted to a recent popular and excellent French author,
M. Louis Figuier,2 though he does not acknowledge the source of
i Some ten years prior to the publication of Lebrun's Hiltoire, etc , the Abbe de
Vallemont published a work called La Physique Occultt, on traiU dc la Baguette
Ditinatoirc ; the latter part of this work contains an even fuller historical review of
the subject than that given by Lebrun, who, in his turn, had doubtless borrowed
largely from De Vallemont. I shall return to De Vallemont'a work in the historical
review at the end of this paper.
- Not primarily to Chevreul, as Mr. Lang suggests in his Custom and Myth,
page 188. Why does Mr. Lang always write "Chevreuil " ?
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Hod. 15
his information. M. Figuier's work is called Histoire du Merveilleux
dam lea temps modemes, Paris, 1860, and half of the second volume
is devoted to the divining rod. Though Figuier relies on De
Vallemont for most of his historical data and on Chevreul for his
theory of the rod, yet his work is by far the best memoir on our
subject that has yet appeared ; he makes, however, no attempt to
collect or discuss evidence of the practical value, or otherwise, of
the rod.
Perhaps the most extraordinary medley ever put together on the
divining rod is an article by Professor Fiske, of Harvard, called the
" Descent of Fire," in his interesting volume, Myths and Myth-makers,
the 18th edition of which is dated 1893. Having once met a "water
finder" whom he promptly proved to be a rogue by showing that the
rod would not move when he (Professor Fiske) used it, and having
read that " learned author," Mr. Baring-Gould, Professor Fiske feels
himself qualified to clear up the subject. Accordingly he tells us
that as the divining rod " has been used in Europe from time
immemorial," and as " the one thing essential about it is that it shall
be forked," it is obvious that its origin, " hopeless as the problem
may at first sight seem," is " nevertheless solved : "—it is, he says,
unquestionably the wooden incarnation of forked lightning ! There
was, however, he finds subsequently, "one exception to this rule of a
forked rod, and if any further evidence be needed to convince the
most sceptical that the divining rod is nothing but a symbol of the
lightning, that exception will furnish such evidence." i ! So much for
" myths and myth-makers."
Mr. A. Lang has a capital though brief essay on the rod in his
Custom and Myth, London, 2nd edition, 1885 (a reprint of an article
which appeared in the Cornhill Magazine for January, 1883). I am
glad to find that the view already expressed as to the irrelevancy of
discussing rhabdomancy in connection with our present subject has the
support of Mr. Lang ; every other writer follows the lead given by
Father Lebruu, and mixes up these two entirely distinct questions. I
have already quoted from Dr. Mayo's excellent essay on the rod
contained in his book on Popular Superstitions; this essay originally
appeared in Blackwood's Magazine for February, 1847, under the nam
de plume of " Mac Davies," and was copied into Littell's Living Aye
of April the same year.
One of the latest scientific essays on our subject is the paper by
Dr. Rossiter Raymond of New York, read before the American
Institute of Mining Engineers, and already mentioned on p. 5. This
l It need hardly be said that Professor Fiske's alleged facts are as mythical as
the origin he claims for the rod, which is based on Dr. Kuhn'3 work, Die Herab-
k,tnst des Feuers.
1G Professor W. F. Barrett. [part
is a serious and thoughtful attempt to investigate the subject ; con
temporary evidence, though not adduced, has been considered by the
author, and his conclusion has already been stated. The bulk of his
paper is historical, and this part, as Dr. Raymond frankly says, is
derived from Chevreul and Figuier. The same parentage is traceable
in other writers, to whom I need not refer. An exception to this rule
is the excellent, though brief, article on the divining rod in the
Penny, now the English, Cyclopedia ; the only English encyclopaedia
I can find that contains anything of value on this subject. One or
two historical references to the rod occur at the end of the article
Hazel in the Encyclopaedia Britannica.
De Quincey has several references to dowsers and dowsing, or
jowsing, as he terms it, in his writings. Thus, in Modern Superstitions,
he writes :—
There are in England (especially in Somersetshire) a class of men who
practise the Pagan rhabdomancy in a limited souse. They carry a rod or
rhabdos (pafibos) of willow : this they hold horizontally ; and by the
bending of the rod towards the ground, they discover the favourable places
for sinking wells ; a matter of considerable importance in a province so ill-
watered as the northern district of Somersetshire. These people are called
jowsers [doiosers"]. The experimental evidences of a real practical skill in
these men, and the enlarged compass of speculation in these days, have led
many enlightened people to a stoic fVoyij, or suspension of judgment, on
the reality of this somewhat mysterious art.
In a foot-note to this passage De Quincey says :—
For twenty miles round Wrington, in Somersetshire, the birth-place of
Locke, nobody sinks for wells without their [the dowsers'] advice. I myself
knew an amiable Scottish family, who, at an estate called Belmaduthie, in
memory of a similar property in Ross-shire, built a house in Somersetshire,
and resolved to find water without the help of the "jowser. " But after
sinking to a greater depth than ever had been known before, and spending a
large sum of money, they were finally obliged to consult the jowser, who
found water at once.
Again, in his Confessions of an Opium Eater, page 84, De Quincey
speaks of the value of "jowsing " to the inhabitants of Somersetshire,
and remarks :—
I have myself not only seen the process tried with success, but have
witnessed the enormous trouble, delay, and expense accruing to those of the
opposite faction who refused to benefit by this art. To pursue the tentative
plan (i.e., the plan of boring for water at haphazard) ended, so far as I was
aware, in multiplied vexation. In reality, these poor men are, after all,
more philosophic than those wdio scornfully reject their services. For the
artists obey unconsciously the logic of Lord Bacon : they build upon a long
chain of induction, upon the uniform results of their life-long experience.
But the counter-faction do not deny this experience ; all they have to allege
is that, agreeably to any laws known to themselves, d priori, there ought not
xxxn.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 17
to be any such experience. Now, a sufficient course of facts overthrows all
antecedent plausibilities. Whatever science or scepticism may say, most of
the tea-kettles in the Vale of Wrington are filled by rhabdomancy.
Among English scientific works the only one I can find that gives
an account of the dowsing rod is the great treatise on British Mining,
published in 1884, by the late Robert Hunt, F.R.S., keeper of the
Mining Records. The author treats the indications of the rod as
illusory, but devotes considerable space to quotations showing the
use of the rod, taken from Agricola's work on mining of the 16th
century, and Pryce's well-known folio on Cornish mining of the 18th
century ; these works are fully noticed in the Historical Survey
appended to this research.
The English scientific societies have as a rule given the subject a
wide berth.i Nevertheless, a few stray papers on the divining rod are
to be found in their Proceedings. Thus, to go back to 1814, the
Transactions of the Geological Society, Vol. II., contain illustrations
of the practical use of the rod in a paper by Mr. W. Phillips, who had
also previously contributed an interesting article on the subject to
TUloch's Philosophical Magazine for 1801, Vol. XIII. The Quarterly
Mining Review for 1830 has also a lengthy article on the dowsing rod,
several instances being given of its successful use in the discovery of
mineral lodes, the same spot being indicated even when the dowser was
blindfolded. In the Proceedings of the British Association for 1875,
Miss A. W. Buckland alludes to the divining rod in a paper on
Rhabdomancy, but is evidently mistaken in the origin to which she
traces the rod ; in a letter Miss Buckland contributes to the
Standard newspaper for January 3rd, 1889, she gives a striking
instance of the practical value of the rod in finding water, the spot
indicated by the dowsing rod yielding a good water supply on a well
being sunk, whereas close by a well sunk to a greater depth was quite
dry. The numerous other similar cases I shall be able to cite render
it less probable that this is a case of mere chance coincidence. In the
Proceedings of the Bristol Naturalist's Society for 1874, Messrs. Tawney
and Pass relate experiments with a dowser finding hidden coins, and
they attempt to explain away the considerable degree of success
attained, but the result was probably due to unconscious indications
given by the spectators, or to true thought-transference ; when both
of these are excluded the failure of such experiments is invariable
and complete, as will be shown in the course of this paper. Experi
ments of this kind are misleading, as they have really nothing to do
i In the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society for 1606 (Vol. I., p. 333)
will be found a question by the Hon. Robert Boyle as to whether the virtjula divina
is of use in finding mineral veins. This famous philosopher devotes some space to the
divining rod in his Philosophical Essays, as will be seen in the concluding part.
C
18 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
with whatever peculiar faculty the dowser may possess for detecting
underground springs or veins of ore. In the Proceedings of the same
Society for 1884 is a paper by a distinguished geologist, Prof.
Sollas, F.R.S., on the result of the experiments he made at the
request of the S.P.R. to test a dowser at Locking, Somerset. The
substance of this paper appeared in Vol. II. of our own Proceedings.
Prof. Sollas arrives at a conclusion adverse to the dowser, but, with
all deference, I venture to submit that a more inconclusive paper has
rarely been published by a scientific authority. In the Proceedings
of the Bath Natural History Society and Field Club for 1889, Vol. VI.,
is a lengthy paper on the dowsing rod by Mr. Forder Plowman ;
several cases of more or less evidential value are quoted by the
author, who is a warm believer in the indications afforded by the rod.
At the Folk Lore Congress in 1891, Miss M. R. Cox read a paper on
dowsing, which is published in their Proceedings, and in the Wiltshire
Notes and Queries for 1893. The paper deals with a dowser, W. Stokes,
and relates some remarkable successes which had attended his practice.
A good picture is given showing the method of holding the rod
employed by Stokes in dowsing.
In 1853 a Mr. F. Phippen published a brochure entitled, Narrative
of practical experiments proving to demonstration the discovery of water,
coal, and minerals in the earth by means of the dowsingfork or divining
ro,l. Mr. Phippen being on a visit to Somersetshire heard and saw so
much of the practical use of dowsing that he wrote a full report of
his enquiries in the Morning Chronicle and Morning Advertiser of
November loth, 1844. He gives many facts that came under his
own observation, and quotes some cases of evidential value that I
have included in the subsequent record of experiments. An excellent
frontispiece, by A. Crowquill, shows a " dowser " at work, the flexed
arms being held tightly to the sides of the body, and the prongs of the
fork (which is of larger size than those now generally used) passing
between the index and the next finger of each hand. This is not the
method of holding used by Stokes, pictured by Miss Cox ; in fact at
the present day the method of holding the rod varies with the
individual dowser.
A nother method of holding the forked twig is described in a little
book on the divining rod, written by two amateur dowsers, Messrs.
Young and Robertson, of Llanelly, South Wales, and recently published.
This brochure is not in any sense a critical or scientific production,
but it is of interest as presenting the experience of two men who are
enthusiastic believers in the practical value of the rod, and have at
considerable self-sacrifice freely given their neighbours the benefit of
the peculiar faculty which they, in common with other successful
dowsers, appear to possess. A straight rod, as well as a forked twig,
xxxii.] On the So-called Divinivg Rod. 19
and even a tiny (waistcoat pocket) fork of aluminium, are used
indifferently by Messrs. Young and Robertson.i
Notes and Queries contain frequent references to the divining
rod. By far the most useful are two papers by Mr W. Bates of
Birmingham (Notes and Queries, Vol. X., 1854, pp. 449 and 467).
Mr. Bates gives some valuable bibliographical memoranda which I
have not found in any other writer and to which I refer those who
are interested.2
The subject of the divining rod was discussed and several
well-authenticated cases quoted in the Standard newspaper during
the last week of 1838, and the first of 1889. A still longer dis
cussion took place in the Mining Journal for 1875, to which reference
will again be made. From time to time ephemeral articles on the
divining rod are to be found in magazines, etc., to which it is needless
to refer ; a list of these will be found in Poole's Index to Periodical
Literature.
In the United States the American Journal of Science (Silliman's
Journal), the leading and authoritative American scientific journal,
contains a capital paper on the rod by (the Rev.) Ralph Emerson,
in 1821,3 and a long and able discussion of the subject in 1826.
I shall return to these. There are also papers on the rod and
its use in finding oil springs, as well as water and mineral veins, in
other American magazines of more recent date ; notably a lengthy
article in the Democratic Review for 1850, which refers to the
use of a new type of divining rod, or ball, similar to the pendule
explorateur.
In 1876, Mr. Chas. Latimer, an American Civil Engineer, published
an essay on the divining rod which contains an interesting record of
his own experience. Having accidentally discovered that the rod
moved in his own hands, he was led to try whether its indications
were of any practical use, and the experiments which he narrates
i 1 have had a long correspondence with Mr. Young, who has given me many
instances of his success in dowsing for water. I may add that, though self-taught,
and with few opportunities, Mr. Young has devised and carried out some extremely
interesting and novel experiments in electricity.
2 Every series of Hotel and Queries, except the third, contains much useful
information on the divining rod. Having examined all the references, it may save
trouble to others if I name only the more important notes. Notes and Queries.—1st
Series (1853), Vol VIII., 400, 479, 623 ; Vol. X. (1854), 18, 155, 44'.I, 467. 4th Series
(1873), Vol. XII., 412. 5th Series, Vol. V. (1876), 507 ; Vol. VI., 19, 33, 150, 210 ;
Vol. X. (1878); 295, 316, 355. 6tk Series, Vol. VI. (1882), 325. 7th Series, Vol. VIII.
(1889), 186 ; Vol. IX. (1890), 214, 338 ; Sth Series, Vol. III. (1893), 107 ; Vol. IX.
(1896), 266, 335.
3 This is not Ralph Waldo Emerson, but an able contemporary of his, who
entered the ministry a little earlier than his more famous namesake.
C 2
20 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
convinced him that it was. The involuntary movement of the forked
twig enabled him to discover underground springs in places where his
conscious experience and judgment would not have led him to locate
them. He also arrived at a method of estimating theii depth below
the surface. I will quote the evidence of an eye-witness to Mr.
Latimer's powers later on. I have before me numerous cuttings from
American newspapers which illustrate the fact that " water-witching,"
as they call it, is in considerable vogue in certain parts of the United
States.
On the Continent the old province of Dauphiny corresponds to our
Somersetshire as regards the esteem in which the divining rod is held
and the number of "diviners " for which it has been remarkable ; they
were known by the name of tourneurs, or more frequently sourciers.
It was in Dauphiny that the charity boy Bleton was born, and at the
age of seven years found he could successfully discover underground
springs and streams by means of the divining rod. In the year 1780
a distinguished physician, Dr. Thouvenel, having heard of Bleton,
sent for him, and was so struck with the simplicity of the lad and his
frank demeanour, that he determined to see what truth there was in
his alleged powers. The result was a prolonged investigation, which
satisfied Thouvenel that the lad had the power imputed to him, and he
published a short treatise on the subject, entitled Ifimoire Physique et
Medicinal, montrant ties rapports evidens enlre les pheiwmhtes de la
Baguette divinatoire, du MaynMsme el del' Electricite", etc., Paris, 1781.
Three years later, M. Thouvenel, whose adherence to Bletonxsme,, as it
was called, had drawn on him a host of antagonists, published a
Second Memoire Physique, etc., Paris, 1784, giving affidavits regarding
Hilton's discoveries, and a narrative of his experiments with Bleton
>md another Dauphiny youth, named Pennet, whom he found similarly
endowed.i Thouvenel was the first to submit the alleged claims of
the divining rod to systematic scientific investigation, and though his
work is to some extent vitiated by the erroneous theory which
pervades it, still it is fair and scientific in tone, and animated by the
spirit of the true philosopher, who, as Laplace has well said, " should
not deny any phenomena merely because in the actual state of our
knowledge they are inexplicable." The best summary of Thouvenel's
treatise will be found in the Monthly Review for 1781 et seq., appendix
to Vols. 65, 67, and 71 ; a briefer account is given by Dr. Ashburner
in his English edition of Reichenbach's Researches, p. 96 et seq., and
i The author of these works was well known to be Dr. Thouvenel, although on the
title page of both is only put " par M. T"* D. M. M." Both these Memoires are in
the British Museum Library where I have read them), but they are difficult to find in
the catalogue.
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 21
by Mr. Bates in Notes and Queries, 1854, p. 449, and by Baring-Gould
and Chevreul.
Some of Thouvenel's experiments with Bleton I will quote later on.
The interesting point in the case of Bleton is that, like some
"diviners " of the present day, he cared little for the rod, which in his
case was merely a bit of stick lying horizontally upon the fore-fingers
of the two hands, and served simply as a visible index of an internal
" commotion," the access of which he could neither account for nor
control. In addition to some 600 experiments with Bleton, Thouvenel
sent circulars to all he could find who had employed the lad to
discover water, etc , and obtained a multitude of testimonies of his
success—often when all other means had failed—from learned and
critical persons as well as others. Two savants, M. Jadelot, Professor
of Medicine at Nancy, and M. Sigaud de Lafond, then took up the
matter, and after numerous experiments joined Thouvenel in ardent
support of Bleton's mysterious powers.
Thouvenel, having moved his residence to Italy, invited several
distinguished savants of that country to test his new sourcier Pennet,
whom he brought with him. Amongst those that responded was
Spallanzani, who, whilst astonished at what he saw, did not consider
the experiments conclusive, and finally decided against the reality of
the indications of the rod, as a new form of " hydroscope." In the
Memoires by Fortis, 1802, quoted by Chevreul, the discussion is
continued, and several other " sensitives " are named by the author
who could find underground water by the peculiar sensations they
experienced.
Few more instructive instances of the effect of prejudice on scientific
judgment could be found than in this famous discussion a century ago.
Thus the astronomer Lalande, in a letter to the Juurnal des Savants,
for August, 1782, denies Baton's power, and asserts that the baguette
turns merely by the adroitness with which Bleton handles it. He then
proceeds to demonstrate the roguery of Bléton by showing that an
almost imperceptible muscular effort can cause a curved twig (such as
Bleton generally used) to rotate when resting on the fingers. Othei-
scientific men took the same line, and when a mannikin was made
which, by mechanism, could turn the baguette like Bleton did, the
proof appeared complete ; after this believers like Thouvenel could only
be fools or knaves ! Others again demonstrated Thouvenel's electrical
theory of the rotation of the baguette to be baseless, and hence con
cluded that the facts themselves had no foundation. All these savants,
starting with the a priori conclusion that the alleged facts were im
possible, did not consider it necessary to examine the evidence as to the
facts, and, moreover, they appeared to forget that Bleton often used
no baguette at all, and always regarded it merely as a visible index to
22 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
some internal spasm that seized him in the vicinity of underground
springs.i This strange physiological effect, of the genuineness of
which Dr. Thouvenel satisfied himself, was still more marked ten
years earlier in the case of Parangue, a little girl who from infancy
was thrown into convulsions when brought over running water
or underground springs ; hence she was constantly used as a
" hydroscope," the Abbes Sauri- and de la Roquette testifying to
the facts and giving minute descriptions of the effects produced on
the child.
In Fortis' Me'moires pour servir a Phistoire naturelle, (fcc., several
Italian hydroscopes or dowsers are referred to, one a child, 10 years
old, named Anfossi ; another more notable was Campetti, who was
taken to Munich, in 1806, to have his water-finding powers tested.
Amoretti, who relates the facts in an essay on Rhabdomancy, states
that several of his own relatives had the gift of using the rod and
finding water by its means.
The next conspicuous French work on this subject is by the Count de
Tristan, entitled Bee/torches sur quefques efflsuves terrestres, Paris, 1826.
Count Tristan states that he was led to undertake the investigation of
the divining rod by witnessing the remarkable performance of the rod
in the hands of a personal friend. Upon experimenting with different
people he found, in spite of his incredulity, five others had the same
faculty, and to his astonishment discovered that he himself possessed
it. For some years he had no leisure to investigate the matter, but
ultimately in 1822 he commenced a long series of experiments, from
1,500 to 1,800 in number, and which occupied him nearly 15 months ;
"The results," M. Tristan states, "of 1,200 experiments were written
down at the time of their performance." Dr. Mayo, F.R.tS., in his
Truths Contained in Popular Superstitions, p. 7 el seq, gives a sum
mary of Tristan's work, and so does Chevreul. I have not myself seen
Tristan's book, but there is no doubt he was an enthusiastic believer in
the rod. Unfortunately his experiments are of little value, except as
illustrations of the effect of sub-conscious suggestion on the rod, an effect
due to the dominance of a theory which he endeavoured to establish.
This theory was that electric effluvia were given off by various sub
stances ; the bodies of certain persons conducted this effluvia, which
thereby passing down their arms caused a turning of the forked divin
ing rod—this he names the furcelle (from furcilla),—or a rotation of
the straight rod, which he calls the bacillogive (from baciUum and
iIn spite of the weight of scientific authority arrayed against Bleton, a few
savants carefully tested the youth, and had the courage to publish a statement of the
successful results they obtained. I will refer to this when dealing with the evidence
on behalf of Bleton later on ; there can be no doubt that he was one of the most
remarkable " dowsers" of whom we have any record.
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 23
gyrus). It is a pity so much industry was wasted from the want of
an elementary knowledge of physics.
In 1849 a M. Mortillet published a little book called llisloire de
I hydroscopic et de la baguette divinatoire, in which he reviews the
experiments of Thouvenel and others, and claims that he himself was
an expert with the baguette. He became, in fact, a professional
" dowser," but owns that he was not always successful, and ultimately
abandoned this calling, studied art, and was appointed sub-director of
the museum at St. Germain
In 1863 was published a quarto volume written by the
Abbé Carrie, called Hydroscopographie et Melalloscopographie, ow
I'arl de dicouvrir les eaux soulerraines et les gisements metalli/eres.
This is an ambitious attempt to convert the divining rod into a
scientific instrument and to explain its motion by an application of
Ampere's well-known laws of electro-dynamics. The Abbe was him
self an expert water-finder or hydroscopist, and the introduction to
his book contains abundant testimonies to his success in finding
water springs ; but his explanation of the motion of the rod is hope
lessly wrong, as was the very similar attempt to explain it given by
Dr. Thouvenel a century ago ; electricity is still believed to be the
cause of the motion of the rod by the majority of dowsers and others
ignorant of physics at the present day. The Abbe Paramelle was
another famous Hydroscopist in 1830, and so was the Abbe Jacquet
a little later (see Carriers book, and the Journal d Agriculture Pratique
for April, 1845); but both Paramelle and Jacquet claimed to be and
were hydro-geologists and rejected the use of the rod ; a 4th and revised
edition of Paramelle's L' Art de dicouvrir les Sources was issued in
1S96 (see Appendix B).
Several French encyclopaedias refer fully to this subject. Under
the heading Baguette, is a lengthy article in Larousse's Dictionnaire
Universel du XIXe siecle. Under the same heading in the Dictionnaire
,les Merveilles de la Nature the writer gives some illustrations of the
successful use of the rod he himself had observed, and states that two
persons who tried could not stop the rod when it turned. Under the
word Abaris there is an article, chiefly on J. Aymar and the rod, in
Bayle's Dictionnaire ; but this is not modern, for the first edition of
this dictionary goes back to 1710. All these are useful historical essays,
but throw no fresh light on the subject. There are also various essays
on the divining rod in French periodical literature. I have read many
of these going back to 1740, when an excellent, though brief, discussion
of the subject, with some striking evidence, appeared in a little work
called Caprices de I'Imagination.
Modern German, Spanish and Italian literature I have not yet
been able to examine.
24 [paut
Professor W. F. Barrett.
Part III.
THE DIVINING ROD AS USED IN THE SEARCH FOR
UNDERGROUND WATER.
Let us now examine what evidence exists on behalf of dowsing ;
i.e., of a special faculty, peculiar to certain individuals, by which they
believe they are enabled to locate the position of mineral lodes or
underground springs. Though the search for metallic veins by dowsing
is the older, yet the dowser is now mainly in request as a " water-
finder," and as the evidence now obtainable is much more abundant for
this latter use of the rod, I will take this part of my subject first, and,
so far as possible, subsequently deal with the use of the rod in finding
metallic ores.
An attempt to arrive at some general laws which will furnish an
adequate explanation of the varied phenomena presented by the
divining rod both in ancient and modern times, will be made after the
first and larger portion of the evidence has been presented. Mean
while it will be obvious from the evidence cited in Group I. that—
The movement of the rod is not due to trickery, nor any conscious
voluntary effort, but is a more or less violent automatic action that
occurs tinder certain conditions in certain individuals.
Those who have ever seen a successful dowser at work will not
need to be convinced of this statement. So vigorous is the motion
of the twig that one of its limbs is frequently twisted off in the effort
to restrain it, and yet there is often little or no sign of muscular
exertion on the dowser's part. Sometimes a violent tremor convulses
the arms and even the whole body of the dowser when he comes over
an underground spring, or what he believes to be such. A striking
instance of this is to be seen in the case of Mr. Lawrence, cited in
Group III., and also in the case of Mr. Young, senr., mentioned later.
The cause of this muscular storm, and the physiological aspect of
dowsing in general, are worthy of attention, but are matters with
which the trained physiologist must deal. In no case is the dowser
conscious of having exerted any muscular action in turning the
rod, and thereupon naturally ascribes its motion to some influence
external to himself. It is, in fact, almost impossible to imitate its
characteristic movement by any voluntary effort. Hence nothing but
sheer ignorance leads any one to assert, as does an English geologist in
a letter now before me, that " the whole thing is a fraud, and the
motion of the forked twig a bit of clever legerdemain." i Nor is
any evidence, however conclusive it may appear to others, likely to
i There are, no doubt, counterfeit dowsers, as there are counterfeit sovereigns,
but it is needless to waste any time over them.
XXXII.] 25
On the So-called Divining Rod.
affect those who approach the study of a novel subject with such a
determined parti-pris.
Group I.—Amateur Dowsers.
The first group of evidence I will cite is obtained from those who
cannot be suspected of making use of the " rod " for the purpose of
gain or trickery. This evidence also shows that success has attended
the practical use of the rod in finding water springs, but in several of
the cases given below, data are wanting to show how far the success in
these cases exceeds that due to chance.
To arrive at some estimate whether underground water might or
might not be found by chance sinking at any spot in the places named,
I consulted a high geological authority,—my colleague, Professor Cole,
F.G.S., etc.—who kindly went into this question for several of these
localities, chosen at random ; as far as his personal knowledge and the
geological maps would allow. Professor Cole sent me his report before
seeing any of the letters here given, so that it was an entirely indepen
dent opinion, based on geological grounds. In some of the cases,
Professor Cole reports that spring water might be found anywhere
and near the surface;i in some, only by sinking to a considerable
depth ; but in others, Professor Cole reports the chances of finding a
spring (not surface water) were extremely small unless a very deep well
was sunk. As I do not rely on this group of cases for any conclusive
evidence as to the existence, or not, of a dowsing faculty, it is hardly
necessary to discuss the question of chance success farther at this point.
It is worthy of note that, in many of these cases, wells had been sunk
fruitlessly before the advent of the " dowser," who was in every case
an amateur, that is one who had no professional object to serve in
making the experiment. It will also be noticed that a "dowsing
faculty," if such there be, is not confined to any particular age, sex or
class in life. Thus in case No. 1, the dowser was a clergyman; in
No. 2, a judge ; in No. 3, a local manufacturer; in Nos. 4, 13, 14, 18,
and 19, a lady ; in Nos. 5 and 9, a gardener ; in No. 6, a deputy-
lieutenant ; in No. 8, a respected member of the Society of Friends;
in No. 12, a miller; in No. 10, a little girl; in Nos. 11 and 15,
a boy ; in No. 20, a French Count, etc.
No. 1.—The following case was sent by Miss Grantham :—
100, Eaton-square, London, S.W., February 1st, 1893.
My father (Judge Grantham) was going to dig a well on one of his
farms. The Rev. J. Blunt was then residing in our parish, and as he had
i Such, for example, as No. 10, though even here it will be seen that the Vicar of
Lugwardine states that two wells were sunk before the dowser's visit, and no water
found.
26 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
previously told us he was able to discover the presence of water underground
by means of a twig, we asked him to go with us one day to see if he could
find water. Mr. B. began by cutting a twig out of the hedge, of hazel or
blackthorn, V shaped, each side about 8 inches long, then taking hold of one
end in each hand between the thumb and first finger, and pointing the angle
to the ground, he walked about the field in which my father proposed digging a
well, and at two spots the point of the twig turned right up exactly reversing
its previous position ; in fact so strong was its impulse to point upwards, that
we found that unless Mr. B. relaxed his hold the twig broke off near his fingers.
We put small sticks in these spots, and then took a boy about 12 years
old who was in Mr. B.'s employment, and who had since quite a child shown
that he possessed this power, over the same ground ; he had not seen the
spots at which Mr. B. 's twig found water, neither did we point them out to
him, but at these places his twig behaved in the same way as Mr. B.'s. My
father, mother, and four or five others then cut similar twigs out of the
hedge, but with none of us would they divine water. My father then took
Mr. B. over some ground where he knew of the existence of an underground
stream ; he did not tell Mr. B. this, but directly Mr. B. passed over the
places the twig again turned upwards as it had done before. A well has
since been dug at one of the spots in the first field where the twig indicated
water, and it was found at the depth of 15 feet. Mr. B. and the boy both
said that they did not feel any abnormal influence whatever when the twig
divined water. T n
tMMA L. Grantham.
The following I subsequently received from the Rev. Jno. R.
Blunt, of Bugbrooke, Weedon, Northamptonshire :—
July 8th, 1893.
In answer to your inquiries, I fear I cannot add to what has already been
told you. I have often tried the divining rod, to interest or amuse my
friends, here the matter has ended ; no trial for water has ever been made,
except in the case at Barcombe (Sussex), when Sir W. Grantham sunk a
well at the spot indicated by the rod, and found a good supply of water near
the surface ; this was of interest to me, as wells there are often sunk at great
depth. I have found the rod move in scores of places, but have not seen it
tested before. I moan, so far as my own experiments go. I know of several
places where water has been found in this county after the rod has been
used by Mr. Mullins.
As to whether it moves, as you consider, owing to "some unconscious
muscular action, " I know not. Why it should move in my hands and not
in the hands of every one who tries it, I know not.
I have never tried it near to any pool or river, nor by the sea. I have
only tried it for underground water.
I was using the rod one evening for the amusement ot some young men
in a garden last summer, but could not got it to move (to their great
glee !), until at last close to the boundary wall it was agitated ; of course they
declared / moved it, etc., etc., but a few days after I was at a friend's house
whose garden was on the other side of the wall, and there, to my delight, was
a well I I stopped short and said, " Is this well of any use ? " My friend at
XXXII.] 27
On the So-called Divining Rod.
once said, "It is a splendid well of water and never fails." ... I
have found the rod work equally well when wearing thick overshoes of
rubber.
No. 2.—His Honour Judge Spink, of British Columbia, writes as
follows to Mr. F. W. H. Myers :—
Vernon, Okanagan, B.C., Februarg 27th, 1893.
I see that your Society take some interest in the divining rod. We made
some careful tests on this matter last year. The rod works in my hands. I
was rather sceptical, and thought that my own mind might work in some
unknown manner on the rod and cause it to turn down where I fancied there
ought to be water. I was blindfolded and led about with the wand, for about
an hour at least, until I could not hold the wand upright without great pain.
Each time the wand dipped, a peg was driven into the ground to mark the
spot. I was walked in all directions, and passed over the same ground
again and again, but in no instance did the rod fail to dip when it came
to a peg. I have sunk two wells on the credit of the wand, and in both
instances have found water, in both these instances contrary to the advice
of the well-sinking experts. The power appears to increase rapidly with
use. When experimenting with the rod over a water hose, I had the water
turned on and off several times, and could distinctly feel the jar that one
hears in such cases. ,,, „
Wm. Warp Spink.
In a subsequent letter Judge Spink writes :—
Vernon, Okanagan, B.C., November 4th, 1893.
The divining rod has succeeded in finding me water for the third time.
First well, at the foot of a rock bluff, 20 feet. Second well, half way down a
steep slope, about 8 feet fall in 40 feet, at 25 feet from surface. Third well,
at the summit of slope, 100 feet at least above second well, at 85 feet from
surface. These experiments are not very convincing, as water seems to bo
easily found round here. One peculiar fact, however, may interest you. I
selected the three spots for the wells before the foundations were dug for my
house. Around the foundations the wand would not act. After the wells
were begun, and the foundations dry, Mr. Attwoor, who has had a great
mining experience, went over the ground with me. He told me that the
formation of the ground would lead him to expect water where the wells
were being dug, but that it would be useless to dig for water where the
foundations were, as the ground there was drift. The foundations are 100
feet from well No. 2, and immediately, or only a few feet from being imme
diately between wells 2 and 3.
No. 3.—The following is from the Westminster Gazette, of May 5th,
1894:—
A remarkable instance of the successful use of the hazel twig,
generally termed the "divining rod," has just occurred at Cressing, near
Braintree, Essex. Many fruitless attempts have been made in the parish
to find water, the boring in several instances extending to great depths.
Mr. E. Sach, of Jeffrey's farm, wanted a well provided for some
28 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
cottages, they being without a water supply, and he invited Mr. H. W.
Golding, of the firm of Messrs. Ashley, Adkins and Co., mat manufac
turers, Booking, who has acquired some skill with the " rod," to look
over the place. He did so, and near the cottages the twig turned up, and
although every effort was made to keep it down it could not be done.
Mr. Golding felt certain that water could be found there, and men were
at once set to work boring, with the result that an abundant supply of
water was found 22 feet below the surface.
In replies to my enquiries, Mr. Golding writes : —
Booking, Essex, September 16th, 1896.
I can fully confirm the Westmhxster Gazette report you sent me, in
reference to finding water at Cressing by the divining rod. I may add that
until this experiment was made, and the well sunk, it was the general
opinion of those who knew the locality, that no water was obtainable.
H. W. Golding.
In a later letter Mr. Golding says :—
September 21st.
In answer to your questions, I had tested the rod with my eyes blind
folded, and also with my arms held by four men, two holding each hand
and arms, leaving only freedom for the rod to move. Being thus held as
tightly as possible, the rod would still go round, and if prevented it would
break with the force. n W GoLdInG.
Mr Golding has also sent me particulars of several other cases,where
he has been enabled to give his neighbours an abundant supply of water
for which they had previously searched in vain. I will only cite one
case of special interest.
No. 3a.—The following is from the Daily News of May 22nd,
1894 :—
The divining rod has again been used in Essex with success, this
time on the estate of General Thompson of Wethersfield-place.near Braintree.
Some years ago General Thompson had a field surveyed by an eminent
engineer who, after testing the ground with boring apparatus, expressed an
opinion that no water was obtainable there. Hearing, however, of the suc
cess of the divining rod in the immediate neighbourhood, the General in
vited Mr. H. W. Golding, of Booking, to walk over the field, with the result
that at two places which Mr. Golding marked water was found at less than 10
feet from the surface.
The Daily Telegraph of the same date, the Essex Herald, and other
newspapers also report this case. I wrote to General Thompson for
particulars, but learnt with regret that he had died since the above
experiments were made. His widow informs me that the newspaper
report is correct and that "Mr. Golding, who was quite an amateur,
indicated by the rod two places where springs of water would be found
on the estate, and on digging at these places water was found." I have
XXXII.] 29
On the So-called Divining Rod.
had an interview with Mr. J. Wycliffe Thompson (son of General
Thompson,) who was present during the search for water at Wethers-
field-place, and who gives me the interesting information that his
father made the experiment on purpose to lest in a systematic manner
the value or otherwise of the indications afforded by the divining rod.
Accordingly, in the first instance a boring was made to find water by
advice without the use of the rod. Mr. Thompson tells me the boring
was made to a considerable depth, but he does not know the exact
depth. No signs of water were found. Then Mr. Golding was in
vited over, and, cutting a forked twig, traversed the ground.
Presently the twig turned vigorously and, following its indications, he
professed to trace an underground spring running not far from the
experimental boring to a point some 50 yards away. The course
indicated was staked out, and, after Mr. Golding left, a well was sunk
in two places, chosen at random on the course so marked. The result
was that water was found in both places at a depth of some 10 feet.
Mr. Thompson is certain the first boring was " far deeper than this,"
and he tells me no doubt whatever was left in the mind of General
Thompson and others present of the reality and practical value of some
peculiar faculty for discovering underground water afforded by the
movement of the rod.
No. 4.—In the next case, which reaches me through Mr. Myers, a
lady, Miss Douglas P., found to her surprise the rod moved in as
marked a manner in her hands as when it was used by a professional
diviner. A series of experiments were made at a country house, both
out of doors and indoors. Amongst those who witnessed the experi
ments indoors were Mr. Scott Gatty and Miss Egerton. The former
writes :—
71, Warwick road, Earl's Court, S.W., March 7th, 1893.
The great difficulty we found was to find a place whore the rod
would not work ; it was forever turning round. At last two places were
found, one in front of the fireplace in the entrance hall, and another about
halfway up the stairs. While Miss D. P. went off with the rest of the party
down some of the passages leading out of the hall, I secreted some sovereigns
under the rug in front of the fireplace, and then joined the rest of the party.
By degrees we worked our way back into the hall, and I asked Miss P. to
test the hearth again, so as to make sure that the rod would not work there,
when—lo and behold—it went round vigorously, and I then disclosed my
hidden treasure. When that was removed, the rod refused to work again.
I think there was nothing else very remarkable or worthy of note. The
cause of the rod working so much in the house is that almost a river runs
under it. . . . In the drawing-room we hid money in the seats of
chairs, and made Miss P. sit upon them, but if I remember rightly, she
was not always successful.
Scott Gatty.
30 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
The foregoing letter was sent to Miss Egerton, who replies :—
Whitwell Park, York, March 12th, 1893.
Unfortunately the descriptions of the experiments made in the evening
do not coincide with my impression of the same, which is that they were
uniformly successful. 1 being one of the sceptical ones in the party (or shall
we rather use the word agnostic ?) held one side of the forked stick, whilst
Miss D. P. held the other, and as wo moved over the chairs where the
sovereigns were hidden, the effect was most marked, the motion coming
evidently from the stick and not from Miss D. P.'s pressure. I tried to stop
it, and it at once broke off at the fork. As Mr. Scott Gatty says, we were
not thinking at the time of making any scientific investigations ; we only
wished to prove the fact that the action of the stick was not a fraud on the
part of Miss D. P. In this we were perfectly successful—it invariably
turned over the chairs where the sovereigns were hidden, and she most
certainly did not know where they were. SSaby L. Eoerton.
In this case the involuntary movement of the rod over the hidden
coins was possibly due to unconscious indications given by Mr. Scott
Gatty, or others present, who knew where the coins had been hidden.i
No. 5.—I am indebted to Colonel Waring, D.L., (M.P. for North
Down) for the following. Colonel Waring's trial of the professional
diviner Mullins is given on a subsequent page.
Waringstown, co. Down, July 11th, 1893.
I have sunk a well 50 ft. deep on a spot indicated by my own gardener,
who turned out to be possessed of the power of working the rod, and found
water, though it did not come at once ; in fact the well was abandoned as a
failuie and covered over with an old slipa, (i.e., a rough Irish sledge), and
some months afterwards was discovered to be full within a few feet of the
surfac9- Thos. Waring.
In answer to enquiries as to the exact site, etc., Colonel Waring
writes :—
Waringstown, September 21st, 1896.
My gardener tried his hand at a farm I have on the shore of Lough
Neagh called Armadroughall (the only point at which the County Down
touches the lake). We sunk a couple of years ago where he fixed and at 50
feet had got no water and gave up, harvest operations taking us off. We
covered the well, thought no more of it till about Christmas when we found
it nearly full and it has had a constant su1yply ever since.
It is impossible to disbelieve the fact that at certain places and under
certain circumstances the hazel fork turns vigorously.
I tried our gardener with finding gold one day and he quite failed to
detect a sovereign hid in the gravel of the walk, but a friend who was by
said " My spectacles are pure gold, let us see what they will do," and he held
>Assuming thought-transference as a vera causa, the important part it probably
plays in this class of experiment will be discussed later on.
XXXII.] 31
On the So-called Divining Rod.
them under the rod, which at once twisted violently. The gardener is
entirely incapable of deception and I am unable to form any theory on the
subject. If the operator is placed on a platform isolated by glass, say four
inverted tumblers, he is powerless.i Thos Waring
No. 6.—Through the kindness of one of our members, the Hon.
Kathleen Ward, Colonel Aldworth, D.L., writes to me as follows :—
Newmarket, Co. Cork, June 19th, 1896.
It is quite true that I have the power of using the divining rod. I have
done so for some years, but have not as yet opened any well ; but as I want
to conduct water into my garden, I hope to be able to do so in a few months'
time from a source a couple of fields beyond it. I can hardly quote any facts
to you at present that would be interesting, more than to say I found a
source of water in a friend's grounds not many miles from this. He after
wards employed a man who is a professional water finder, and he found the
water in the same place, and gave the depth below the surface as 26 feet,
which I was not able to do, not having practised gauging the depth below
the surface, but I understand this is merely a matter of practice, and
depends on the force with which the rod rises in the hands.
R. W. Aldworth.
In reply to my enquiries, Colonel Aldworth writes :—
Newmarket, Co. Cork, July 20th, 1896.
In reply to your letter of June 21st, I beg to say I have tried the
divining rod both with my eyes shut and open and it acts just the same in
both cases. I know of a young fellow who possesses the power and who had
a farm but a few miles from this. He was anxious to find water.on his ground
and he, by means of the rod, came upon water, digged for it and found it
about 7 feet down, a fine spring. I have often tried the rod with my eyes
shut, and the young man got his sister to bind his eyes in the case I mention
and the rod indicated it in the same spot where he dug for it. I cannot in
any way account for action of the rod ; it certainly acts with some people
and not with others. R W, Aldworth.
Numerous cases from Somersetshire are given in the course of this
paper ; here are two or three. The following is an instructive case.
No. 7.—My friend Mr. F. J. Clark, F.L.S., writes to me as follows:—
Netherleigh, Street, Somerset, September, 1896.
Some twenty years ago an opportunity presented itself to me of testing
the value of the indications given by the divining rod. The then manager of
our local gas works, Mr. Stears, found he had the power of using the rod2;
others in our neighbourhood also tried, and an old workman I knew well,
i I shall return to this idea later. See also foot-note to No. 21.
! Mr. Stears is now living in Yorkshire, and has recently devoted himself
entirely to "- dowsing" (see Group VII.).—W.F.B.
32 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
Simon Seymour by name, was equally successful. I got Mr. Stears to go
over my ground, and the rod indicated water at the spot A on the rough
t O w4
Lawn O w2
House.
Stables. Wall. Path. Path.
O
w>
Fac
tory.
About 280 ft.
Fig. 1.
plan (Fig. 1). Some little time after I tried Seymour, who knew nothing
of Mr. Stears' experiment. Seymour found the rod indicated water at B.
Curiously enough a neighbour and member of our body (Society of Friends),
Walter Wyburn, a poor-law guardian, found he also could use the rod. I
invited Wyburn to my place, and asked him to try where he could find.
water. He did so, and the rod indicated water at C ; he had no knowledge
of what the others had done. Now it happens that a well had been sunk for
our factory at Wl, and a good supply of water obtained at about 40 feet depth.
Another well, in the cellar of my house, at W2, gave us a supply of water
at about 35 feet, and a third well at W3, on higher ground, and about 280
feet distance, supplied the stable yard ; this well was only about 27 feet
deep. We had also since sunk a well at W4, some 60 feet North of Wa, but
had got little or no water from it even at a depth of 50 feet. We tunnelled
about 20 feet in the direction of W2, and found rather.more water coming
in. It seems, therefore, that a fault or fissure running East and West
existed in the strata of the Blue Lias, and along this fissure water could
be obtained. This conclusion is rendered very probable from the fact that,
if we pump a large supply of water from the factory well, Wi, it completely
drains W-, and perceptibly affects W3. Now it was just when the three
dowsers crossed this line the rods indicated water beneath. Their trials, as
I have said, were made independently, and they had no knowledge of the
position, or (so far as I know) the existence of the wells on my place. I
may also mention that the late rector of the parish found he too was an
expert with the " rod," and on trying my grounds with it he also hit upon the
same line of underground water, but I am not sure whether he knew of the
other trials I have related. „ T
r. J. Clark.
No. 8.—Mr. F. J. Clark also writes to me as follows:—
Netherleigh, Street, Somerset, September, 1896.
A few years ago I was appointed along with Walter Wyburn and the late
A. R. Grace, of Bristol, a sub-committee of a Charitable Trust Committee
xxxu.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 83
belonging to our religious body [the Society of Friends]. One object of this
committee was to get water for a farmhouse belonging to the Trust at
Chelbro', in Dorset, about 25 miles south-west of Yeovil. We spent several
days in a fruitless search for water, or for any likely place to sink a well.
However, we made an attempt in the mo3t probable spot, according to our
local geological knowledge, and sunk a well 20 feet. Alas ! no water was
reached. At length Walter Wyburn suggested trying the divining rod, as he
found to his surprise he could use it with some success. We agreed ; he had
cut a forked twig and tried over all the ground. After a good deal of perambu
lation the rod indicated a strong spring in a neighbouring wood. Accordingly
we had a well dug at this spot, and to our delight found a capital spring ;
pipes were put down, and a constant supply for the house has been given
eversince- Francis J. Clakk.
No. 9.—Another case [from Somersetshire] is given in the Western
Gazette of February 10th, 1893. Evercreech is at the foot of the
Mendips.
A well has recently been sunk on the premises of Messrs. W. Roles and
Son, of Evercreech Junction, on the site of the proposed milk factory. Mr.
Henry Smart, head gardener at Pennard House, was successful with the
divining twig (or rod), and a well was sunk to a depth of 60 feet, when a
spring was found which yielded no less than 15,000 gallons of water in ten
hours. Water came at such a rate that a powerful pump had to be erected
temporarily by Messrs. Hill and Son, of Bruton, and was kept working day
and night in order to keep the water down for the purpose of walling [the
well]. At the present time there is 50 feet of w.tter in the well, the supply
increasing daily.
I wrote to Messrs. Roles to know if a well had been sunk previ
ously, and if the above statement was correct. They reply that the
account is quite correct, and add, " We had previously sunk a well
without the use of the rod, to nearly the same depth, but it was
unsuccessful. Six yards from this useless well the diviner found
the spring which now yields enough to supply a small village if
required."
No. 10.—The next case, that of Miss Wood, is quoted from a letter
addressed to the Abingdon Herald by our fellow-worker, Mr. Vaughan
Jenkins :—
Some time ago there appeared in a contemporary a short paragraph,
which only recently came under my notice, giving the information that
" Miss Wood, a daughter of Mr. George Wood, of the Vallets, and agent for
the Whitfield estates, near Hereford, had again been successful in finding
water at Lugwardine by means of the (so-called) divining rod." Being
desirous of obtaining full and authentic particulars of this young lady's
experimental operations, I addressed several specific enquiries, with special
reference as to how and when Miss Wood discovered that she possessed the
D
Si [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
dowsing, or "so-called divining" faculty, to her father, who very kindly sent
me the following interesting details :—
" Whitfield Estate Office, February 4th, 1890.
" In reply to your letter of the 15th ult., I beg to say that in January
last (1889) Mrs. Greathed of Whitfield, who is sister of the late owner of
the estate—C. M. B. Clive, Esq.,—wrote to Mullins, the well-known water-
finder by the use of the divining rod, asking him to come to Whitfield for
the purpose of making some trials there. Mrs. Greathed requested me to
conduct Mullins to various elevated places on the estate, which I did in
company with several persons, including Mrs. Greathed herself, Mr. Percy
Clive, the future owner of the estate, etc. I took Mullins to several places
where I knew there was water running through the earth, but not the
slightest trace of it on tiie surface. I did not tell him that I knew there was
water anywhere. I merely took him to the gates of the different fields and
asked him to try in each case. He quickly spotted each place to a great
nicety, without the slightest hesitation.
" The next thing was for each of the company to try with the rod, but not
one of us had the ' faculty ' excepting my little daughter May. Subsequently
the rod indicated water in several places, both in the hands of May and
Mullins—May finding it first sometimes and at other times Mullins.
"I suggested that we should not make a trial by sinking wells until the
autumn, when springs here are generally very low. Well, we made a trial
in November last at a spot where Mullins said the water would possibly
be found at a depth of 40 or 50 feet. We came on water at 40 feet.
I may mention that previous to sinking this well the rod in my
daughter's hand indicated the presence of an underground spring there.
May is now . thirteen years of age. She has proved successful in
numerous cases ; four wells have been sunk where she said there was
water, and each one was a success, viz., one at Ledbury, one at Lugwardine,
and two at Whitfield. Hitherto, all her predictions have proved invariably
true. Two wells had been unsuccessfully sunk at Lugwardine previous to
my daughter's visit there, the deepest of which was 16 feet. The place where
May indicated water is distant 42 feet from this abandoned well, and at
II feet deep a superabundance of water was found, and pipes are now laid to
convey the water to the Vicarage, which is, I believe, several hundred yards
away. As regards her modus operandi, she holds the forked hazel twig down
wards when in search of water, and when she comes on a spring the twig
quivers and rises upwards, sometimes from her body and sometimes towards
it, until it comes to a perpendicular position. She practises the rod as you
suppose, viz., as an amateur only, being only too happy to use her powers
for the benefit of friends and neighbours." q \\r00i>
In confirmation of the foregoing statements, the following letters may be
quoted : The Rev. Francis Curtis, rector of Coddington, near Ledbury,
writes:—" The spring has been found at the Stone-house 57ft. below the
surface, exactly at the spot indicated by Miss Wood. She said she thought
the depth would be as much as 50ft. So the event proves her judgment to
have been very correct. We are very glad that we availed ourselves of her
gifts." The Rev. A. C. Lee, of Lugwardine Vicarage, Hereford, writes :
XXXII.] 35
On the So-called Divining Rod.
"The well sinker came to me an hour ago with the welcome intelligence that
he had come upon a strong spring of water, at the depth of 1ift., on the spot
Miss Wood ' found ' on Monday, and which, you will remember, I marked
with two sticks, and which was thought to have the strongest indications.
Previous to Miss Wood's visit two wells had been sunk, but no water found."
In my letter of thanks to Mr. Wood I expressed a wish to be informed of
the results of any future experiments that his daughter may make, and on
the 23rd February, 1890, I received from him the following communication :
—"I have had occasion to sink a well for the use of four cottages and a
public-house. I took my daughter, May, to the place, and she spotted a
place where she said there was water. I had it tried, and we found water at 6ft.
deep. I instructed the men to sink 6ft. further down, for the purpose of
holding a supply, and the water rose 6ft. deep in the well in one night."
I wrote to Mr. Wood, sending him the above report and asking him
to correct any inaccuracies, and also enquiring whether his daughter
had had any further experiences with the "rod." In reply he writes: —
Whitfield Estate Office, Hereford, May 9th, 1896.
The report enclosed is quite accurate. My daughter May has been
requested to go to very many places to find water since the report you send
was written, and has always been successful. I have often been glad of her
services myself. q Wood.
In answer to my enquiries, Mr. Percy Clive writes as follows :—
Tower of London, April 24th, 1897.
I can vouch for the accuracy of the statement made above by Mr. G.Wood,
who is my estate agent at Whitfield. I saw Mullins "find " water in several
places, where his findings were afterwards proved to be correct. I, as well
as others, tried to find water in the same way, but had not the power. But
when Mullins held my wrists, and I held the twig over running water, it
turned round in my hands with such force that when I held it tight it
broke. Miss May Wood has been very successful in finding water ; and
seems also able to make a pretty accurate guess at the depth at which it will
be found- Percy A. Clive.
No. 11.—A still more youthful diviner was found by Mr. Vaughan
Jenkins in Cornwall, and is referred to in Mr. Pease's report. The
case is given at length by Mr. V. Jenkins in the Proceedings S.P.R.,
Vol. II., p. 106. Since then Mr. V. Jenkins has sent me voluminous
additional particulars, which I have incorporated in the following
summary of the case :—
Mr. V. Jenkins having purchased some land for building purposes in
Christehurch-road, Newport, Monmouth, the absence of a water supply
necessitated his sinking a well. Guided by the best advice, a site was
carefully chosen and a well commenced. When the well-sinkers had reached
51 feet, and no water found, it was decided from the nature of the ground,
a hard, compact marl, it would bo useless to proceed further. A con
sultation of local experts was held, and the conclusion arrived at that there
36 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
was no chance of obtaining water in that neighbourhood. Thereupon the
foreman of the masons (a Cornishman) suggested using the divining
rod. He said it was in common and successful use for the purpose of
finding water in his county, and his own son, eleven years old, had the
power of using the rod in a remarkable degree. Mr. Jenkins, though at
that time very incredulous, consented. The lad was sent for, and with a
hazel rod he crossed and re-crossed the ground several times. At one
spot the rod began to revolve, and continued to do so with such force
that the lad was obliged to let it go, when the rod How to some distance.
Whereupon the father of tho lad, George Lockyer, said, "I will stake my
life we shall find a good spring of water under this spot. I will undertake
to sink the shaft myself, and no water, no pay." Accordingly, a well was
begun the next day on the spot indicated by the "rod." At the depth of
48 feet, so strong a spring was struck that the men employed had to beat a
hasty retreat, the water rising to a depth of 10 feet in the well, and
subsequently to 15 feet, and remains at that depth at the present time,
constantly yielding an abundant supply. The lad neither asked nor
expected any payment. The father stated that he himself also had the
power of using the " rod " when he was a boy, but he lost it when
about 16 years old.
The discovery of this water supply led to tho old site for the house being
abandoned, and a new site fixed on close to tho abundant supply of pure
spring water that was obtained. The relative position of the two wells,
marked O O, is shown in the annexed plan, Fig. 2, drawn to scale. The old
Via. 2.
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod.
site is marked S', and the abandoned well shaft W, the new site is S", and
the new well W" adjoins it. The plot A belongs to Mr. V. Jenkins. The
owner of the adjacent plot B, which slopes somewhat steeply to the S.W.,
shortly after began to build two villas at B, and to sink the well W adjoining.
He declined, indeed ridiculed, the use of the divining rod, and informed Mr.
Jenkins that he was confident of getting water at 20 feet depth, but feared,
as the land was so much lower, it would drain off the supply from
Mr. V. J.'s new well.i Accordingly at B a shaft was sunk, but no water was
met with at 25 nor even 50 feet. Eventually the well sinkers went down to
100 feet, and still no water was found. A boring was then made 25 feet
deeper, and at 125 feet water was struck, but though the boring was
continued still deeper, the water never rose beyond 18 to 24 inches in
the well ; a fair supply was, however, obtained. The water at Mr. J.'s
well at S" was, and still is, entirely unaffected by the well at B. The soil
at B was the same as that in the abandoned well shaft at S' in the plot A,
viz., a "hard, compact marl." Three pairs of villas were subsequently
erected on the plot C, and three wells sunk as shown at W, W, \V. Water
was obtained at 50 feet depth, but the supply "was poor, and is not
sufficient to keep the wells from running dry in a very dry summer." These
wells were therefore a comparative failure.2
The date of this experience is, I find, 1853, but full notes appear
to have been kept. The plan, Fig. 2, I made from the estate drawing.
It would be interesting to have a geological examination of this
land, and a report on the foregoing case.
No. 12. —The Rev. Martin R. Knapp, M.A., vicar of Holy Trinity,
Dalston, writes to me as follows :—
72, Forest-road, Dalston, N.E., November 14f/t, 1896.
In the summer of 1892 I entered on the vicarage of North Wootton, in
North Somerset, and had reason at once to look for water. I was advised
to try a " water-finder," and did so. The dowser was a retired miller, and
came provided with a number of forked twigs. Holding one he traversed the
place, and at certain points the twig oscillated violently in his hands, and
there, he professed, he should find water.
There was an interesting side-light in the matter that I will tell you of.
My builder, who came from Bath, was very sceptical about the whole thing.
Three or four of us who were on the spot tried to see if the twigs would
" play up " with us.
i Upon getting this information, Mr. Jenkins asked the youthful "dowser" to
go over the ground again and see if he could trace the direction of the underground
water. This the lad did, and asserted, on the evidence of the rod, that water would
be found on the West side of the new well W", but that little would be found on the
South or East side of it ; the North side had already been tried and abandoned.
The father of the lad thereupon assured Mr. V. J. he had no cause for anxiety
from the proposed well at B., which turned out to be correct.
- It was the success of the rod in this case, and its personal value to Mr.
Vaughan Jenkins, that led him to devote much of his time for the past 40 years in
collecting evidence bearing on the subject of the divining rod.
38 [PAKT
Professor W. F. Barrett.
We were unsuccessful till this man tried his hand, scoffing the while.
But directly that he came to the spots the dowser had found, the twig showed
vigorous signs of animation. When his hand was being twisted in his
efforts to keep the twig steady, I cried to him to hold fast, with the result
that the twig twisted itself into two pieces.
At Wells, close by, a coachman, who was reported to have the power to
find, not only water, but minerals. He carries neither rod nor twig, and
told me, when I enquired, that his sensations are undoubted and extraordi
nary whenever he is directly above either water or minerals.
Martin R. Knapp.
In answer to enquiries Mr. Knapp tells me the builder was a
stranger to the locality, and the spots where the rod moved were
unlikely to suggest water below. The twig in the builder's hand,
Mr. Knapp says, in every case corroborated the dowser's indications,
and hence he (the builder) was unmercifully chaffed, as he had treated
the whole thing with such contempt. Mr. Knapp says it is possible
that the places indicated by the dowser might have been perceived
by the builder, but it was the spontaneous and vigorous movement of
the twig, evidently contrary to the holder's intention and against his
will, that excited their astonishment.
Unfortunately Mr. Knapp was unable to sink a well; one of the
places indicated was unsuitable, and at another he began to dig, but
at the time had no means of going deeper than a few feet, and
afterwards moved his' residence.
No. 13.—Another instance of a successful amateur diviner is the
daughter of a clergyman in Buckinghamshire. Her father, the Rev.
Seymour Ashwell, M.A., writes to me as follows :—
Finmere Rectory, September 7th, 1896.
As regards my daughter's ability to find water, all I can say is that it
has been a most useful gift. She has found springs all over the country,
and wells have been dug at the spot indicated with the best results, and
villages and private houses that had been badly supplied for years have now
plenty. I might mention a curious feature of it is if she walks backwards
the stick does not move.i Also she can tell when she is getting near water
quite twenty yards or more before she gets to the spot where the spring is.
She is also equally successful in finding gold, as she proved at Lord North's,
where they had buried some quartz containing gold for her to find. It
would of course bo much more satisfactory if you would come and see
for yourself what she can do. I might mention she finds hazel the best
i This is only the effect of a " fixed idea," as will be seen later on, and corres
ponds to a similar phenomena exhibited by Bleton in 17S0, and by many other
dowsers. In fact, in a later letter, Mr. Ashwell writes: "If my daughter holds
the forked twig with the point upward), and walks backwards, then the stick
turns down ; though if the point be held downwards it does not move when she
walks backwards." -W.F.B.
XXXII.] 39
On the So-called Divining Rod.
wood to use, though some others will do, as also copper wire, but that acts
best when well twisted in the middle. Seymoub Ashwell.
In a subsequent letter the Rev. Seymour Ashwell writes from
Balnakilly, Blairgowrie, N.B., September Uth, 1896.
I may add I this day had a letter from Worcestershire to say that two
wells had been dug at spots pointed out by my daughter last July. The one
is 13 feet deep and has 8 feet of water in it, the other 30 feet deep and
has 17 feet in it. I should not think that the most sceptical need bettor
proof as to the power of finding water. In what the power consists I don't
pretend to explain. Seymour Ashwell.
No. 14. —In Mr. Pease's report is given an account of the
successful use of the divining rod by another lady, Mrs. Bengough,
of Bristol. See Proceeding*, S.P.R., Vol. II., p. 104.
No. 15. —Having heard from the Rev. C. Bicknell, M.A., of
Bordighera, Italy, of the remarkable dowsing faculty possessed by the
young son of a friend of his, who was formerly rector of Uggeshall in
Suffolk, I wrote for further particulars. Mr. Bicknell replies :—,
Bordighera, Italy, December 2Uh, 1896.
Oddly enough, Mr. Edgell, the father of the boy whom I mentioned, arrived
here this evening. He tells me that his son (1) when at Uggeshall found
the spring and well which supplied his pump ; the whereabouts of which was
not known to the present rector nor to the Edgells, the former occupants of
the rectory; and (2) that he also found water in his own garden at Teddington,
the existence of which was not known to the boy or the father, but only to
the old gardener, who had said, when Mr. E. told him about his boy's gift,
" Well, sir, I know where there is a spring in the garden, and if he finds it
I shall believe there is something in dowsing."
Mr. Hanbury (who lives near here) told me that many years ago while he
was away a diviner indicated water in his garden, but, for some reason or
other, they did nothing. Some years after, however, in digging, water waa
found on the spot that had been previously indicated.
Clarence Bicknell.
No. 16.—Sir Charles Isham, Bart., of Lamport Hall, Northampton,
writes to me on
March 19th, 1890.
We found water at Lamport by means of the "divining rod " three years
ago. My carpenter found he had slight power in doing the same ; he could
feel the stick move, but it was not visibly active.
•
Later on, Sir Charles writes :—
Lamport Hall, Northampton, September 22nd, 1896.
Three weeks since we discovered that my carpenter found water by the
divining rod at a farmhouse we are building. He tells me he went over the
40 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
ground, with his eyes shut, several times, and always came to within a yard
of the place he had fixed on ; accordingly a well was sunk there and a good
supply of water was found.
No. 17.—This list of amateur English dowsers would be very
incomplete without some notice of Messrs. Young and Robertson of
Llanelly who, together with several of their children, possess remark
able dowsing powers, judging from the correspondence that is before
me. Mr. Vaughan Jenkins, of Oxford, writes to me as follows :—
Among the most successful diviners are Mr. Young and Mr. Robertson,
of Llanelly, South Wales, who have not only not received any fee or reward
for their services, but have spent much time in the endeavour to ascertain
the cause of the rod's movements. No two men could be found who would
more readily co-operate with an honest and unbiassed scientific investigation
of the matter.
Here the faculty seems hereditary, for Mr. Young's father was able
to discover underground water, the effect on him, as on his son,
creating a very unpleasant physiological disturbance. Mr. Young
sends me the following illustration of his father's gift :—
My father, who is living in Dorsetshire, is now 87. Two years ago he
pointed out a spot to a neighbour who was about to build two villas if water
could be found. A well was sunk, and an abundant supply of beautiful
water, at about 40 feet, was struck. Prior to the sinking, the owner of the land
got three other local diviners to look for water in this field; the last he took
blindfolded to the spot. They each and all pointed out the very spot my father
did, and each one was perfectly ignorant that any one had previously tried.
Now comes the curious part. The village doctor was building a villa about
80 yards away, (on the same level), and said he could find water anywhere
in that locality without the rod. He tried, sank a well, (a built well,) to 50
feet, and never had a drop, and the well was closed. This was about two
years ago. About three months ago the doctor decided to sink another well
in a spot close by his first, where three members of my family and myself
pointed out as being a likely spot. The well was sunk, and is now in daily
use delivering, with a pump, a plentiful supply at a less depth than the
barren well a few yards away. He had been paying £12 per year for
water carted for daily use. •
Amid the letters which Mr. Young has written to me on this
subject there are several instances of successful " dowsing " by himself
and by his friend and neighbour, Mr. Robertson ; nothing, however, of
any particular evidential value is to be found, except possibly in two
cases. In one of these, both he and Mr. Robertson independently fixed
on an underground spring near the house of Mr. Meredith (son of the
novelist), and subsequently a strong spring burst forth from the very
spot, though no signs of it existed before. I wrote for corroboration,
but Mr. Meredith had left Llanelly, and Mr. Young sends me a letter
XXXII.] 41
On the So-called Divining Rod.
from a gentleman whose house was near, which in general terms
confirms Mr. Young's statements. The other case was where Mr.
Young and Mr. Robertson independently determined the position of a
leak in the town reservoir and also fixed on the depth below the
embankment of the culvert or out-flow from the reservoir. Neither of
them knew this depth, both fixed on the same amount,—30 feet,—and
subsequent inquiry proved they were exactly right. But in both these
experiments other explanations than a dowsing faculty (such as
unconscious indications, latent memory, or thought-transference),
might account for the facts. Mr. Young tells me that by the
sensations he experiences, when his mind is " set " on dowsing, he
can discover an underground spring even when quickly driving in a
vehicle. He adds that not only his father but all his sisters are
able to use the divining rod with more or less success ; the same
seems to be true of Mr. Robertson's family, judging from the large
family group represented as dowsing in the little book they have
published.
Other cases have reached me of amateur dowsers, but what has
now been made sufficiently clear is that the movement of the rod is
not due to any voluntary conscious act on the part of the dowser.i
I will therefore only add the evidence given by a few amateur dowsers
of older date, as these are of some historical interest. The list might
be largely extended.
No. 18.—The case of Lady Milbanke, the mother-in-law of Lady
Byron, is a well-known example of an amateur diviner. In a letter to
Dr. C. Hutton, F.R.S., dated February, 1805, Lady Milbanke describes
how she was led to try the rod from witnessing its use by a peasant
in Provence, who had successfully found water springs by means of
the rod, so that the man got the appellation of L'Homme d la
Baguette. Lady Milbanke says a large party assembled to watch the
gyrations of the rod, which, in spite of the man's hands being
stationary, twisted round so energetically when he stood over a spring
that the rod was broken. Lady Milbanke continues :—
After seeing him do this repeatedly, the whole party tried the baguette
(a forked hazel twig) in succession, but without effect. I chanced to be the
last ; no sooner did I hold the twig as directed than it began to move as
with him, which startled me so much that 1 dropped it and felt considerably
agitated. I was, however, induced to resume the experiment, and found the
effect perfect. On my return to England, two years afterwards, being on
i 1 am assuming that the dowser is not a rogue ; one might no doubt by practice
accomplish the twisting of the rod, with apparently no muscular effort, like any other
piece of legerdemain.
42 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
a visit to a nobleman's house, Kimbolton, Huntingdonshire, and his lady
lamenting that she was disappointed of building a dairy-house in ;i spot
she particularly wished because there was no water to be found—a supply
she looked on as essential—I told her I would endeavour to find a spring.
I accordingly procured some hazel twigs, and in the presence of herself and
husband, walked over the ground proposed till the twig turned with
considerable force. A stake was immediately driven into the ground to
mark the spot, which was not very distant from where they had before
sunk. They then took me to another and distant building in the park, and
desired me to try there. I found the baguette turn very strongly, so that
it soon twisted and broke ; the gentleman persisted that there was no water
there, unless at a great depth, the foundation being very deep (a con
siderable stone-cellar), and that no water appeared when they dug for it.
I replied that I knew no more than from the twig turning ; that I had too
little experience of its powers or certainty to answer for the truth of its
indication. He then acknowledged that when the building was erected
they were obliged to drive piles for the whole foundation, as they met with
nothing but a quicksand. This induced him to dig in the spot I first
directed. They met with a very fluent spriwj. The dairy was built, and it
is at this time supplied by it.i
No. 18a.—Dr. Hutton, F.R.S., the distinguished mathematician—to
whom the Royal Society entrusted the gigantic labour of making an .
abridgement of the whole of the transactions of the Royal Society from
its foundation in 1666 to the beginning of this century,—gives the
following account of his experiments with the divining rod as used
by Lady Milbanke.
At the time appointed, [11 a.m., May 30th, 1806,] the lady, with all her
family, arrived at my house on Woolwich Common, where, after preparing
the rods, etc., they walked to the grounds, accompanied by the individuals
of my own family and some friends, when Lady Milbanke showed the
experiment several times in different places, holding the rod in the manner
described elsewhere. In the places where I had good reason to know that
no water was to be found the rod was always quiescent, but in other places,
where I knew there was water below the surface, the rods turned slowly and
regularly in the manner above described, till the twigs twisted themselves
off below the fingers, which were considerably indented by so forcibly
holding the rod between them.2
All the company stood close to Lady M. with all eyes intensely fixed on
her hands and the rods to watch if any particular motion might be made by
i See also description by an eyo-witness given in the Quarterly Rcricw, Vol.
XXri., (1820) foot note, pp. 373-4.—W.F.B.
2 Dr. Hutton does not say horn he knew that water was. or was not, below the
surface. He was not, however, one likely to make loose and random statements.
According to a footnote in the Quarterly Review, Vol. XXII., p. 374, it appears that
the ground chosen fur the experiment was a field Dr. Hutton had bought, adjoining the
new College at Woolwich then building.
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 4:?
the fingers, but in vain ; nothing of the kind was perceived, and all the
company could observe no cause or reason why the rods should move in the
manner they were seen to do.
After the experiments were ended, every one of the company tried the
rods in the same manner as they saw Lady M. had done, but without the
least motion from any of them. And in my family, among ourselves, we
have since then, several times, tried if we could possibly cause the rod to
turn by means of any trick, or twisting of the fingers, held in the manner
Lady M. did ; but in vain, we had no power to accomplish it.
No. 19.—Dr. Mayo, F.R.S., in his book on Popular Superstitions,
quotes the case of a Mrs. R., sister of Sir G. R., then living at
Southampton, who, in 1806, observing the successful use of the divin
ing rod by the wife of a Colonel Beaumont, tried it herself, and found
she had the power in a remarkable degree. The rod, Dr. Mayo
remarks, continued to move, even when Mrs. R.'s hands were grasped
so firmly that muscular action by her wrists or fingers seemed to be
prevented. V-shaped rods of iron or copper wire were as effective as
a hazel rod, but no motion ever occurred when the two handles of the
rod were covered with sealing wax. If, however, the uncoated parts
were touched, the rod immediately revolved.i
No. 20.—The Comte de Tristan, whose book on the divining rod
has already been mentioned, published in 1829 a record of his own
experience with the rod, extending over 1,800 experiments, 1,200 of
which were carefully noted. He mentions five or six friends of his
who he found could also use the rod. Count de Tristan found the rod
would only move when he passed over what he calls " exciting tracts "
of ground, and that its motion was arrested when the hands were
covered with thick silk. See foot-note to No. 19, also No. 5.
Group II.—Miscellaneous Cases.
The following cases of water finding by various dowsers, some
amateurs and some not, illustrate the use of the divining rod in various
countries, and also its employment at different periods during the last
hundred years. The most remarkable of the foreign cases is unques
tionably that of the French youth, Bleton, described by Dr. Thouvenel
i That "electricity has something to do" with the motion of the rod, is a
widespread belief. This will be discussed later on ; here I will only say that, in spite
of the foregoing experiments, and others to be related, the electrical hypothesis is not
one that any physicist could entertain.
44 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
in 1781. This I have reserved for separate treatment in the list of
special cases that are too long to be included in the varied collection of
evidence which it is my object to present in the first instance.
No. 21.—In the American Journal of Sciencei for 1821, Vol. III.,
p. 102, the Rev. Ralph Emerson suggests the publication in that
journal of " a sufficient number of well authenticated facts on the use
of ' mining rods' in discovering fountains of water underground, to put
their utility beyond a doubt. For myself," he adds, " I was totally-
sceptical of their efficacy till convinced by my own senses." He then
relates how the divining rod moved in the hands of his friend the Rev.
Mr. Steele, and how he made a crucial experiment to test the value of
its indications. Taking Mr. Steele to a place where a perennial under
ground stream existed, of which Mr. Steele was unaware, the rod
instantly dipped down when he came over the stream, and when asked
to trace its course he did so for 50 rods until he arrived at its mouth
" which was so situated as to prevent his discovering it " till close by
it. " The mode of his tracing it resembled that of a dog on his
master's track, crossing back and forth, and he proceeded with as little
hesitation."
Here, however, it is possible that some unconscious indications
given by Mr. Emerson might be assumed as exciting, sub-consciously,
the suggestion which moved the rod in Mr. Steele's hands. But this
explanation will not hold good of the next case quoted by Mr. Emerson,
which is as follows :—
No. 22.—On a journey to the south-east part of New Hampshire, I found
a practical use has been made of these rods in that region, for a year or two
past, in fixing on the best places for wells. A man in that vicinity could not
only designate the best spot, but could tell how many feet it would be
needful to dig to find water, and had frequently been employed for this pur
pose without having failed in a single instance. I will recite one case out of
a number. A man who had dug in vain for a good well near his house, re
quested his [the dowser's] advice. On trial with the rod, the best place was
found to be directly under a favourite tree in front of the house ; and there
the proprietor was assured he would find abundance of water at a moderate
depth. But on reflection, he was loth to sacrifice the tree, and concluded it
would answer as well to dig pretty near it. He dug ; and after sinking the
shaft much deeper than had been directed, abandoned it in despair. He soon
complained of his disappomtment. " Did you then dig in the precise spot I
told you?" " I dug as near it as I could without injuring the tree." "Go
home and dig up that tree, and if you do not find water at the specific depth,
I will defray the expense." He did so ; and obtained an excellent well at
the given depth.
i This monthly journal corresponds to our Philosophical Magazine, as a leading
and authoritative scientific organ.
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 45
As to the depth, it occurred to me when seeing the operation of the rods
in the hands of Mr. Steele, that it might be easily ascertained, by taking the
angle they made at a few feet from the spot where they became directly
vertical- Ralph Emerson.'
Mr. Emerson does not say whether he obtained the information at
first or second-hand ; this case, therefore, rests upon weak evidence.
In the next case the importance of sinking at the exact spot
indicated by the dowser will also be seen.
No. 23.—I am indebted to Mr. F. T. Elworthy of Foxdown,
Wellington, Somerset, (from whose well-known Somerset Word-book I
have already quoted) for several interesting cases of the reality and
practical value of the faculty possessed by dowsers. Mr. Elworthy
also sends me the following communication he received from Mr.
E. Neville Rolfe, H.M. Consul at Naples, whose brother, a resident in
Australia, wrote to him that the gift of "dowsing" was well known
and its value recognised in Australia. Mr. Rolfe continues :—
On the Queensland Central Railway and next to the cattle station I live
on (say 400 miles west of Rockhampton) is a station named Coreena. Near
the head station the manager had sunk a well, but the water proved salt. A
diviner happened to pass ; the manager showed him his well, and expressed
his regret that he had been so unfortunate as to get salt water. Testing the
ground, the diviner indicated the place where the manager ought to have
sunk. The manager considered the matter and determined on a fresh trial,
but thinking " there or thereabouts " was near enough, sunk, say 50 yards,
from the spot indicated, and to his disgust again struck lalt water. The
diviner passed by a few months later and was upbraided by the manager for
the waste of money he had caused him to make. "Let us see in the
morning," said the diviner; "I don't understand this at all." In the
morning, on seeing the new well, he said, " This is not where I told you to
sink; here (indicating the exact spot) is where I told you." "I grant it,"
said the manager, "but I thought those few yards made no difference."
"You try," replied the other, and again departed. The manager, after
much deliberation, determined to sink a third well, and teas rewarded by an,
abundant supply of fresh miter. The three wells are there at this moment
as evidence of the truth of this story—a truth I can vouch for myself, on
what I consider the best evidence short of my being a principal in the
transaction. No doubt corroborative evidence could be easily supplied.
If it were required, I am sure an application to C. \V. Little, Esq.,
Manager Union Mortgage and Agency Co., Rockhampton, Queensland,
would meet with a prompt reply. Mr. Little is one of the owners of
Coreena.
i As I have already said this is not, as I at first thought, Ralph Waldo Emerson,
but apparently a contemporary of his, who was ordained as a Congregational
minister a little before Waldo Emerson entered the Unitarian ministry.
46 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
I wrote to Mr. Little's address, in Queensland, who kindly replied
as follows :—
Box 237, G.P.O., Sydney, January 27th, 1897.
Your letter addressed to Rockhampton reached me a day or two ago.
Your information is quite correct with regard to the well you mention at
Lochnagar, but I am sorry to say the other spots on other parts of the run
pointed out by Mr. Sewelli did not fulfil expectations. Mr. E. H. King,
Eton Vale, Toowoomba, Queensland, was at that time managing the station.
I have sent a copy of your letter to him asking him to answer your
questions. He has also had experience of the use of divining rods on the
Darling Downs.
I have also sent a copy of your letter to Mr. Vincent Dowling, of Lue,
Rylstone, N.S.W., who has, I believe, had some experience, and may be
able to give you some interesting information. q Little.
Sydney, February 8th, 1897.
I am enclosing copies of letters from Mr. Dowling and Mr. King. With
regard to the latter, I may say that when Mr. Sewell—who used the rod—
was at Coreena, an artesian flow of water had just been obtained by the
railway department on the run at 180 feet, and Mr. Sewell endeavoured to
select sites where we should be equally successful, but entirely failed ; had
he confined his attention to opening up springs, or sinking for supplies at
about 30 feet, he could probably have been more successful.
C. W. Little.
The following is Mr. Dowling's letter to Mr. Little :—
" Lue Homestead," Lue, February 2nd, 1897.
Yours of the 27th u!t., enclosing copy of Professor Barrett's letter,
received.
For the Professor's information, I might state that for years I scoffed at
the " divining rod " ; no one could have been more sceptical than myself.
I have, however, changed my views during the last few years, as 1 have had
many instances placing beyond all possibility of a doubt the fact that there
is something in the art, or gift, or electric power, whatever you like to
call it.
I have discovered three wells by the agency of the rod, two of them
are deep, one about 100 feet, another about 130 feet, and another about 40
feet. The first I do not use, though there is plenty of water, but it is deep,
and I have another well near ; the second was used in the 1888 drought, but
never since ; the third is in constant use, and waters about 6,000 sheep and
700 head of cattle. I have an aermotor mill with an open tup lift pump,
pumping into a tank holding about 23,000 gallons water ; the water is
abundant, and the tank often full, running water back into the well.
I know of several wells near my Gummin station, discovered by the agency
of the rod. The eldest son of my overseer at Gummin, a man now about
35 years of age, can and does use the rod, and another man (Hitchins) living
near Gummin also possesses the gift. To give you an instance of the use
i This is the name of the amateur dowser referred to in Xo. 23.—W.F.B.
xxxii.] On, the So-called Divining Rod. 47
of this gift, the following is a fact. In the drought of 1888 the Ryder
Bros., of Calga, were very badly off for water, in fact were losing stock
heavily. They wrote and asked me if I would lend them young Passworth,
the overseer's son, to see if he could find them water. I lent them the man,
and he found them three sites for wells, following light streams of water
until they joined and formed a large body. The Ryder Bros, were not
satisfied altogether, so without letting the other man—Hitchins—Passworth,
or myself know anything, they paid Hitchins to go over and see if he could
find water ; the site of Passworth's wells was not marked except to the
initiated, the Ryders themselves. Hitchins followed the same streams and
marked the same site3 within a few yards or feet. The Ryders then put down
three shafts, and obtained abundance of fresh water in two ; the third was
never finished, as the rain came. However, they struck the water before
the rain fell, but did not go on. These wells saved thousands of sheep for
Calga.
To give you another example, I once got Passworth (overseer's son) to
follow the stream from the " Swamp Well " (the well I have mentioned as
watering so many sheep and cattle), as I wished to see whether the same
stream supplied other old wells I have some miles distant, but in the same
fall. The stream was not the same ; we followed it for some distance and it
suddenly turned into the main Mambelong Creek, and I said no doubt this
is the same stream ; but when we got into the bed of the creek, which was
perfectly dry at the time, the rod stood erect when we faced down the
stream, but bent when kept on its back ; it crossed the creek, and I followed
with him over a mile, the rod working well on a strong course of water,
which eventually led us to the site of an old spring which I knew of, but
the man knew nothing about, the spring having been trampled in and
destroyed by cattle years before : it used to be a strong spring. This
satisfied me there was virtue in the rod. It is extraordinary to see the rod
working on a long course, directly the man gets off the stream, up comes the
rod, more to the right or left, as the case may be, and down it comes when
you get over the course. Vincent Dowlino.
The next is Mr. King's letter to Mr. Little :—
Elton Vale, Cambooya, February 1st, 1897.
Sewell's experiments were interesting so far as they went, but were of no
real practical value, I fear. You will remember we tried two of his sites in
Emu Hills Park, both of which proved to be brackish or salt water, and
small supplies at that, when big ones were promised ; at the Jersey Bore we
wore to get a big flow at 3'I0 feet, but nothing came of this ; at head of Back
Creek only a small stream found, and a big supply promised ; his only success
was at Locknagaar, where I believe he showed Conway where there was a
supply of fresh water close to a spring that -was known to be salt ; and on
opening it up it proved correct. ^ H King
No. 24.—Mr. Phippen, in his little work published on the rod in
1853, gives several cases of abundant and perennial water supply found
by the dowsers, Mapstone and Adams of Somersetshire ; and relates
48 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
experiments he himself made with Adams which made him an enthusi
astic believer in the value of the rod. Like others, he and a friend
could not hold the rod still when it was over a subterranean spring.
The Rev. Mr. Foster, of Sodbury, Gloucestershire, had sunk a well
60 feet deep without finding water. Adams was sent for, and by the
dowsing rod fixed on a spot 6 feet from the dry well, where he said
was a good spring about 20 feet deep ; a tunnel was accordingly
driven at this depth from the old well to the spot indicated, " when
an abundant supply of excellent water was obtained which speedily
filled the old well up to 40 feet," i.e., to the level of the spring.
No. 25. —Mr. J. G. Marshall, of Leeds, a well-known manufacturer,
seeing the account in the newspapers of that day, wrote to Adams,
who lived at Rowberrow, near Shipham, in Somersetshire, to come to
Leeds, as he needed a good supply of water. Adams came, and
Mr. Marshal] gives the following report in a letter he wrote, which I
summarise :—
Monk Coniston, October 24f/i, 1846.
I watched Adams closely : he appears a perfectly, simple, honest,
straightforward man. At the spot he indicated, and about the depth he
specified, a good spring of water wasfound. An old well sunk near the place
but not so deep had no water, and other wells near, of the same depth, had
much less water. I tested Adams by taking him over our factory where he
had no possible guide from anything he could see ; he pointed out remark
ably nearly the position of the springs found by deep bore-holes. The
same result was found at another factory where he could not have got any
information, nor was there any guide from what was said.
I then completely blindfolded him, and after walking him about in various
directions I asked him to fix the spot where he had located a spring ; in the
first attempt he failed, but afterwards succeeded ; he said he was not used to
being blindfolded and was much confused by it.
He thinks it is some sort of vapour comes from the water or mineral
vein, which affects his nervous system, "giving him," as he describes it,
"a sort of turn."
Adams failed to detect coins placed under hats, and yet the rod turned,
which was the most suspicious circumstance I saw.
I and several others repeatedly tried to detect some motion of Adams'
fingers when the rod turned, but could find none whatever.
J. G. Marshall.
Mr. Phippen says he has in his possession nearly 100 certificates
from gentlemen in Somersetshire, testifying to the success of Adams
in finding water by his " dowsing rod," and quotes the following as
one instance :—
Mr. M. Teek, of Hill House, near Wells, certifies that he had lived
40 years in that house, had sunk two wells to a depth of 50 feet each but
found no water in either case, and consequently water had to be carried
XXXII.] 49
On the So-called Divining Rod,
a considerable distance. Adams was at last sent for, and the dowser found
an excellent spring of water close to the house.
Mr. Phippen thinks one in every seven or eight persons have the
" gift " of using the rod if they tried, and concludes by giving
directions as to holding the rod, which is quoted in Appendix C.
No. 26.—Mr. Young, of Llanelly, sent me some details of the finding
of water for the Shepton Mallet gaol long ago by the dowser Kingston,
who used to live at Evercreech ; previously to the dowser's visit a
fruitless well had been sunk. I asked Mr. Young to get me the exact
particulars, and he sends me the following letter from Mr. W. Stone,
an old man who was formerly employed at the gaol.
Shepton Mallet, December 19th, 1896.
It is between 40 and 50 years ago the trial with the divining rod took
place at the gaol. All I remember is that shortly after the enlargement of
the gaol we wanted more water and a deep well was sunk, but no water was
found. The magistrates then consulted and determined to call in a man
named Kingston who used the divining rod. When he came, after trying
various places he came to a spot in tho front yard, and here he said "you will
find water." A well was sunk, but I cannot remember the depth, it was not
deep, when water rushed in and has continued to do so. sT0nE
Mr. Young adds the gaol authorities used the water supply thus
found for over forty years till a town supply was laid on. Shepton
Mallet and Evercreech are at the foot of the Meudip Hills.
No. 27.—The following is a more remarkable case, and an important
one from an evidential point of view ; it is also from Shepton Mallet.
I have not heard whether the " diviner " in this case was an amateur
or not : he is now dead, I am informed. The Bristol Times and Mirror,
of June 16th, 1891, states:—
The Anglo-Bavarian Brewery at Shepton Mallet needed a large water
supply ; accordingly excavations had been made to find water, but without
success. About two years since, during an exceptionally dry season, it
became absolutely nece&sary to obtain a further supply of brewing water ;
hence several boring experiments were made on the property. At the
suggestion of a gentleman in the locality, the services of a " diviner" were
obtained, and although the principal members of the firm professed to have
no faith in his "art," yet he was allowed to try the fields on the company's
property, and those on the neighbouring estate, and discovered the well now
used by the brewery. . . . The soothsayer, who carried the divining rod, a
hazel branch, was Mr. Charles Sims, a local farmer, and a notable discoverer
of wells in the district. Operations were immediately commenced, and, after
excavating and dynamiting through the rock, to the depth of 50 feet, a
magnificent spring was discovered in a fault of the rock, which proved to be of
exceptionally fine water, and of even a finer quality than the town's supply.
E
50 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
I wrote to the Secretary of the brewery to make enquiries and he
replies :—
Shepton Mallet, Somersetshire, September 12th, 1896.
Replying to your letter in regard to a local diviner, we had one of the
name of Sims, from Pilton, who successfully denoted a spot on our ground
where we have had an abundant supply of water since. This was some eight
years ago.
The writer of this letter also has had some considerable experience with
Mr. Lawrence of Bristol, who was one of the most noted divining rod men
in the West of England. He also was successful in denoting a supply for a
Bristol brewery with which the writer was connected ; and in numerous
other instances in the neighbourhood. Mr. Lawrence bore a very high
reputation. We believe he died a few months ago at a ripe old age.
The Anglo-Bavarian Brewery, Limited,
J. Clifford, Manager.
Having written to ask if a previous boring bad been made, and
if so, to what depth, and with what result, the following reply was
received :— •
Shepton Mallet, Somersetshire, September 18th, 1896.
Replying to yours of the 14th, a boring was carried out to the extent of
some 140 feet without success on another portion of our premises, before it
was succesfully done at the spot indicated by the water-finder ; here a well
was sunk and abundant water obtained at a depth of 40 feet.
The Anglo-Bavarian Brewery, Limited,
J. Clifford, Manager.
No. 28.—The next two cases also occurred in Somersetshire. Mr.
W. G. Hellier, of Wick St. Lawrence, near Weston-super-Mare, Bailiff
of the Merchant Venturers of Bristol, states :—
January 7th, 1897.
I should as soon think of planting a tree with its root upwards, as I
should of digging a. well for water without employing a "dowser." I never
knew the rod to fail in the hands of Thomas Hares or John Blake, but I
have heard of many failures in the hands of supposed dowsers. Thomas
Hares used to find both water and minerals by the rod, but he told me that a
watch spring would not do in his hands for finding water, though it was all
right for minerals.
The following facts are within my own knowledge.
Within 200 yards or so of Rectory Farm house, at Locking, near Weston-
super-Mare, four wells have been sunk, the position of which is marked on
the enclosed rough tracing from the parish map. For No. 1 well, the spring
was found by Thomas Hares. After walking over the field in different
directions, with the rod in his hand, he crossed the fence, and, whilst on the
top of it, the rod kept turning. He marked the spot of the spring, and on
that spot I removed the fence and sank the well where the fence had stood.
There has been a constant supply of water in it, even all through last summer,
when there was a general drought.
xxxu.] O>t the So-called Divining Rod. 51
For No. 2 well, the spring was found by John Blake, on the lawn of the
Vicarage, opposite the drawing room window, a most unsuitable position. I
sank the well and there is a plentiful supply of water, with no lack last
summer.
Position of the four wells taken from the Map of
Locking Parish.
O No. 2.
Church
No. 3. O
No. 4. O
O No. 1.
0 5 10
, , ,
CHAI,NS.
Flg. 3.
No. 3 well was sunk without a dowser. It is 10 feet deeper than No. 1.
There was no water in it all last summer, and I should not think it has 6
feet of water in it now.
No. 4 well was also sunk without a dowser, because the place was thought
likely for water. It is nearly as deep as No. 1. There is water in it for about
9 months of the year, but last summer it was quite dry.
Water was wanted at Edbrook Cottage, in Fiddington, near Bridgwater.
There was a good spring in a field 200 yards away, and the dowser traced it
over field, fence and roadway, and marked the spot for a well just opposite
the door of the cottage. I sank the well there, and the tenants have never
had to go elsewhere for water since.
Whilst the dowser was tracing this spring, walking backwards and
forwards across the line of its course, I hid my pocket compass in the long
grass in his track, and, when he came to it, the rod turned over, and he said
"There is summat here." I am certain that he did not see the compass
until afterwards, when I showed it to him hidden.
The most striking case I know of is on Sandford Green, in the parish of
Winscombe, Somerset, where Thomas Hares offered to sink his well for
nothing, if he did not come to the spring. There was already a well on the
e 2
52 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
green, but it had scarcely any water during the summer months. The well
sunk by the dowser was so near it that the sinkers threw the dirt as they dtuj
it out from the ntw well into the old one. The water rose to within 6 feet of
the top of the new well. This was some 30 years ago. The spring was the
talk of the neighbourhood at the time, and it is still a noted one.
I could go on telling yarns about dowsers, but all that I have written has
come under my own observation, and I can vouch for the truth of it.
W. G. Hellier.
Mr. George H. Pope, Treasurer of the Merchant Venturers of
Bristol, sent me the above account, with the following letter in reply
to mine :—
Merchants' Hall, Bristol, January 8th, 1897.
I asked my bailiff, Mr. Hellier, for information, and digested what he
told me into the above memorandum, which he says is quite correct and has
signed.
The "dowsers" mentioned in it, Hares and Blake, died three or four
y°ars aS0' George H. Pope.
Mr. Pope kindly made enquiries for me as to the exact depth of
the above wells and writes :—
Bristol, February 1st, 1897.
No. 1 well, Church Farm, is 20 feet deep.
No. 2 well, Vicarage Lawn, is 31 feet deep.
No. 3 well is dry, and is 33 feet deep.
No. 4 well, Garden well, about 12 feet deep.
Regarding the wells on Sandford Green, the one sunk at the spot
indicated by the dowser, is 33 feet deep, and has at present 19 feet of water
in it. Unfortunately the old well has been filled up.
George H. Pope.
No. 29. —In the Proceedings of the Bath Natural History and Field
Club for 1894 (Vol. VIII., p. 61), Colonel Long gives the following
account of the discovery of " a perennial water supply by the aid of
two noted dowsers, Thomas Young and Thomas Day." Omitting a
few details, the following is Colonel Long's statement :—
Woodlands, Congresbury, Somerset.
For many years I have been dependent on rain for my water supply, and
those who do the same well know how unreliable this is. . . . In 1885
I moved to Olevedon expecting to lot this place easily, but the want of
spring water prevented my getting a tenant. In 1888 I returned and
determined to get water if possible. ... I sent for Thomas Young
who lived at Rowberrow, and was noted as a successful dowser. ... I
asked Young to dowse over a field called Taylor Hill. Almost immediately
he struck on a stream and on the side of the Hill (exactly 300 yards from
my house and several feet above it), the stick twisted considerably. Here
a well was sunk 22 feet deep. This filled in the winter, but soon became
dry in the summer, and in September, 1889 (Thomas Young had died),
XXXII.] 53
On the So-called Divining Rod.
Thomas Day, another noted dowser who also lived at Rowberrow, descended
the well with me. The twigs were much agitated, and, one after the other,
if not allowed to twist, snapped off.
Day said, "There is a lot of water under here." He undertook the
sinking and sunk 30 feet more, when the water came in so -fast he had to
leave, and ever since, even during this dry summer (1893) I have had plenty.
Of dowsing I can offer no explanation. I am contented with the result.
In reference to the above, the Rev. H. H. Winwood, M.A., F.G.S.,
adds the following note :—
The well in question was sunk through the New Red Marl which here
rests on the carboniferous limestone, and apparently the water was found
before the limestone had been reached. It seemed an unlikely place to
meet with a spring.
No. 30.—In the Proceedings S.P.R.,Vol. II., p.l05,is given a striking
instance of water finding by the diviner, W. Stokes, an aged man,
living in Newbury, Berks, where he has for many years been employed
as a wheelwright. That Stokes really was an excellent dowser Miss
Cox has shown in her paper before the Folk Lore Congress, already
mentioned ; space will not permit my quoting the evidence cited by
Miss Cox. Stokes, however, professed to be able to discover which
is spring water and which rain water. Some elaborate trials were
made with him for this purpose at Donnington, near Newbury, in
1886, and the careful tests adopted showed that the result was no
more than mere chance coincidence would have given. The full report
is given in the Newbury Weekly News for July 29th, 1886, and signed
by Dr. Palmer, H. I. Reid, F.S. A., and the three other members of the
investigating committee.
Subsequently Mr. Reid wrote to Mr. Edmund Gurney as follows :—
Donnington, Newbury, Berks., August 2nd, 1880.
A week last Saturday the old man came here again for another trial, but
I could not be worried to go through all the test again, so we simply drew
lots for five vessels, and placed the tickets under each bucket as drawn. He
tried all five and was in each case wrong, three spring he called surface, two
rain he called spring. The buckets were again emptied and refilled again by
lot, he tried all five, and I then again told him before lifting the bucket, to
try a second time to be certain. This he did, and the fifth bucket he had
declared to be spring he then saw was rain, so that that bucket was discarded,
for in one case he must of course have been right. The other four were
then again lifted and the cards beneath showed ho was in each instance
wrong. A more complete failure cannot be imagined. He seemed very
downcast and again requested aiwther trial. This I am at present disinclined
to trouble about, the more so as I am leaving here for town in a few days.
It seems as if he wanted to be tested until he had achieved a success !
Herbert I. Reid.
54 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
This well illustrates the absurdity of many of the beliefs held about
the divining rod. Probably Stokes had found he was sometimes
successful in these experiments and so had been led to entertain the
belief he expressed. But, as I shall show in the case of hidden coins,
such success is due to chance coincidence or unconscious indications
given by those present.
No. 31. —The accompanying letters refer to a dowser, Rufus
A'Barrow, of Sturt Farm, Stalbridge, Dorset, who has since died.
The first letter is from Mr. Dendy to the late Edmund Gurney : —
University College, Oxford, Nacember, 1887.
You asked me to write you a short account of the search for water which
I witnessed last July. The operator was one Rufus A'Barrow, of Stalbridge,
Dorset. The locns in quo was chiefly slightly rising ground behind my
father's house—Lattiford House, Wincanton, Somerset. The operator took
a flexible forked twig between his forefingers and thumbs and carrying it,
point downwards, quartered the ground. After a short search the forked
stick sprung upwards ; the two twigs of the fork bending and the man's
thumbs remaining in their previous direction, that is, I>ointing downwards.
The stick retained this position as long as he stood upon the spot of ground,
where he was supposed to have discovered water, and returned to its
downward direction as soon as he stepped off it. He then proceeded to
trace the flow of the water and followed it some eighty yards to a small lawn
behind the house when he recommended the digging of the well. He
afterwards experimented for our amusement in other places with the same
results. In all cases but one when the stick indicated water, he was able to
follow its course. In that case he could find no flow away from the spot.
Some of us tried to operate with the twig. It showed no movement in the
hands of any but one lady, my brother's wife. When she held- it over the
course, which A. Barrow had indicated, it rose very slightly and slowly as I
showed you when here, but still quite distinctly.
My father writes to me this morning. " Rufus A'Barrow has been most
successful in these parts, not one failure. Bradney has twenty-five feet of
water in his well." I have written to Bradney, a neighbour of ours, and
have asked him to write an account to you of the discovery of his well.
A. Dendy.
Accordingly the following letter was received from Mr. Bradney:—
Bayford Lodge, Wincanton, November 10th, 1887.
Some time ago I was anxious to find a spring on my property, so sent for
a farmer, by name Mr. Rufus A'Barrow, who was renowned for this kind of
work with the divining rod. He duly came over, and the first thing he did was
to cut a Y shaped twig out of the hedge, thus c— ne then held the two
ends of the fork at A and B between the forefinger and thumb of his right and
left hand, the point being straight-a-head of him ; he then commenced his .
walk and in a very short time the twig pointed straight upwards thus : — X
here he said was the spring, which he traced for some distance and ' >
eventually pointed out to me where he thought was the best place for me to
XXXII.] 55
On the So-called Divining Rod.
sink a well. He seemed to be able to trace to the eighth of an inch the course
of the spring, as the moment he went to the righfor the left of it or in any
way got off its course, down went the twig immediately. As far as I could
see, the twig pointed upwards quite of its own accord, but the best proof of
the matter is that I sunk for water where he told me, and at the depth of
some fifty feet came to a beautiful spring, and I have now twenty-six feet or
more of water in the well. If there should be any more facts that you
would like to ask about, I shall be most happy if in my power to give them.
John Bradney.
In answer to enquiries, Mr. Bradney writes :—
December 4th, 1887.
As to whether there might be water 10, 20, 30, or 100 yards on either
side of my well, of course I can't say. I only can say that where he said there
was water I sunk and found a good supply.
No. 32.—The same dowser is referred to in a letter I lately received
from Major Goff, of Hale Park, Salisbury, who writes :—
Hale Park, Salisbury, Nocembcr 1st, 1896.
Some yeaTs ago I had a water-finder, A'Barrow, of Stalbridge, to try and
find water for the Home Farm. No one had any notion as to where any
was to be found except from the existing wells, which were some 30 to 50
feet deep. On the man's arrival he was taken to ground rising above the
steading and at once found traces of water, which he said must be near the
surface and sprung about 50 yards from the farm stables. A well was
accordingly commenced and water was come to at 13 feet, to every one's
astonishment. The farm and neighbouring people looked upon the pro
ceeding as uncanny, and declared that the water found was only surface ;
however, the well has never given out, even in the driest summer, which
rather does away with the surface idea.
I had the man over again a year or so after to try for water on one of our
down farms in the chalk ; he found traces, but said the water was very deep,
so I did not dig on account of the expense, knowing that the existing wells
were over 100 feet deep. q Goff
In reply to mine, Major Goff writes :—
November 3rd, 1896.
The astonishment of the local people was due to the water being found
where it was not expected, and at a lesser depth than the other wells, which
were within 100 yards and had a habit in a dry summer of giving out.
C. Goff.
P.S. —A'Barrow would take no fee if water was not found where he said
it was.
No. 33.—The Rev. C. H. Mayo, M.A., of Long Burton Vicarage,
Sherborne, Dorset, Editor of the Somerset and Dorset Notes and
Queries, kindly sends me a lengthy account of another instance of
Rufus A'Barrow's use of the rod, which Mr. Mayo witnessed in
Professor W. F. Barrett. [part
August, 1890. The place where the operations were conducted was a
farm at Holnest, Dorset, and on sinking at the spot indicated by the
dowser, water was found. A'Barrow stated that it was through
watching a dowser named Kingston at Ditcheat, Somerset, 40 years
previously, that he discovered he also had the power of using the rod ;
though at first he was disposed to think the indications it gave were
worthless, he had found they were not so. Kingston was the dowser
mentioned in No. 26.
I am also indebted to the Rev. C. H. Mayo for kindly obtaining
full particulars of another case of dowsing for water in his neighbour
hood, which turned out a complete failure ; this will be given on a
subsequent page.
No. 34.—The following details of a case of successful water-finding
by means of the divining rod at Meredith, near Gloucester, were
kindly written for our Society by Sir W. Wedderburn, Bart., M.P.
It is an interesting and useful report from the careful description
given. Note the straight rod used by the dowser :—
Meredith, Gloucester, January 1st, 1888.
Up to the present year the water supply at Meredith has depended mainly
upon a well near the house. This well is 54 feet deep, and at the most
favourable times is about half full of water ; but after dry seasons, and
when there is a large demand upon it, the level becomes much lower, and in
1885 there were only about five feet of water. Previous to the summer of
1887 the seasons had been exceptionally dry, so that the water supply began
to cause considerable anxiety, and in May and June last the reduced amount
coining into the well hardly met the day's consumption.
Under these circumstances I determined to sink a new well, and the time
seemed opportune, because any spring running in so dry a season was not
likely to fail at any other time. Also Mr. Price, of Tibberton's Court, had
recently employed a water-finder, or " dow ser,'' who had succeeded in finding
a strong spring on Mr. Langford's farm, at Radford ; and I was inclined to
try the same experiment, both because the water-finder, Mr. Thomas Willis,
of Gloucester, was reported to be very' successful, and because I was curious
to see the working of the "divining rod," which is generally believed in in
this part of the country. Accordingly, Mr. Willis came by appointment on
the morning of Monday, 4th July.
I believe a forked rod is generally used, but this is not the case with Mr.
Willis, who uses a simple wand, of hazel or honeysuckle for preference, some
18 inches in length, and as slender as it can be cut. He also uses sometimes
a steel wire, such as can be taken out of the framework of an umbrella,
and din ing his operations we found that he sometimes tried one kind of wand
and sometimes another. He had brought a steel wire with him, and began
by cutting a few wands from a hedge of filbert bushes and from a honeysuckle,
and he then enquired whereabouts I wanted to find water. I pointed out to
him, as the desired site, an orchard near the garden and stables ; and also
showed him where the old well is. Mr. Willis is a cabinet-maker by trade,
XXXII.] 57
On the So-called Divining Bod.
and is a quiet young man, apparently about 25 years of age, and seems to be
of a sensitive temperament. . . . After a few minutes he summoned us
to where he was and said that he had found a spring. He pointed out the
exact spot, where we drove in a peg ; and he then showed us how the rod
worked when held over the spot. What we saw was that the muscles of his
arms appeared to work and twitch as if he was holding the handles of a mild
galvanic battery, and the wand or wire, from being straight between his
hands bent into a sort of bow and worked round like a crank, rotating
upwards when passing the holder's body. As far as the observers could see,
Mr. Willis was using all his force to keep the rod in its horizontal position,
and the result of the tight hold he kept of the ends of the rod was that, as it
rotated, the bark was crushed and twisted at the place where he held it, until
he finally let go. When we came to consider the spot thus indicated, we found
that it was 40 or 50 paces due south from the old well, and as the strata are
believed to slope from south to north, there appeared reason to think that we
had struck upon the spring which supplies the old well. We, therefore,
decided to look for another spring further east in the same orchard, and after
a little time Mr. Willis found one, some 30 yards to the east of the first peg.
Another peg was driven in to show the centre of the new well to be dug. He
was of opinion that the spring last found was a strong one. He does not
profess to be able to say at what depth the water will be found, but ordinarily
he is not able to detect it at a greater depth than 40 or 50 feet. He thought
we should have to go some 25 or 30 feet in the present case. Later on we
took him to another field at Rimless Hill, about half a mile off, where I
wanted to find water. Here he tried for some time, but although he found
indications of water, he did not think there was a sufficient quantity to justify
digging. He also tried in a field below Meredith, to the north, and we
marked places where he found water.
A few days later the new well was commenced on the spot indicated, the
peg No. 2 being taken as the centre. For 30 feet we went down through red
marl, with occasional veins of a somewhat harder rock, but no signs of water.
We then came to a stratum, some 4 or 5 inches thick, of hard, tea-green
stone, and from that time a little water began to come in, trickling in small
quantities from the sides of the well. This continued till the well was about
47 feet deep, when water began to come in so fast as to impede the working.
The men had to send up three buckets of water for one of marl, and by the
time they had completed three feet more the water came in so quickly that
they had to stop working. Subsequently experiments were made to ascertain
whether there was any connection between the two wells. On the 10th of
August there were about six feet of water in each well, and by levelling we
ascertained that the bottom of the new well was some two feet above the
surface of the water in the old well. It was, therefore, not possible that the
water in the new well could come from the old well. Also at different times
we pumped the water out of the two wells, and found that pumping one well
did not affect the level of the water in the other. We, therefore, concluded
that there was no connection between the two wells, and that Mr. Willis had
discovered a new spring. We also ascertained that whereas the old well was
replenished at the rate of about a gallon in ten minutes, the new well filled at
the rate of a gallon a minute, being about ten times the supply of the old one.
58 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
The water in the two wells was analysed by the public analyst for Gloucester,
with the result that the water in the new well was found to be different from
and superior to the water in the old well.
As regards the nature of the phenomena we witnessed, I may note that
we were all satisfied of the botut fides of Mr. Willis. It may be added that,
though almost always successful, he does not follow the occupation of a water
finder professionally, and only accepts a moderate fee after the water has
been dug for and found.
I can only add two facts mentioned to me by Mr. Willis. One is that he
can only detect a spring or running water, tho rod not being in any way
affected when he stood over a large subterranean reservoir.
W. Wedderburn.
In reply to recent enquiries, Sir W. Wedderburn writes :—
19, Beaufort Gardens, S.W., February 19M, 1897.
I have little to add to the account of our water findmg, except that the
well continues to give a good supply of water. A few years ago, during a
very dry season, I took the opportunity to deepen it a few feet, but
ordinarily the water stands at the original level.
I do not remember whether in my former communication I mentioned
that Mr. Willis told me that a friend of his polarised the steel wire he had
been using to find water, and from that time it would not act. This seems
to show that electricity has something to do with the phenomenon, and this
is confirmed by the fact that only moving water (which is accompanied by
friction) seems to affect the " divining rod." W Wedderburn.
The effect of polarising (magnetising) the steel wire is another of
the many illustrations, which this enquiry has brought to light, of the
profound influence exercised by a preconceived idea upon the motion
of the rod. Sir W. Wedderburn would find the inhibitory effect take
place equally well if Mr. Willis had been told the wire was magnetised,
and yet nothing at all done to it. In Germany, 200 years ago, not
only hazel and willow and whalebone, but snuffers, tongs, and even a
long bent German sausage were used as divining rods according to the
idea of the particular dowser.
No. 35. —Mr. Barber, the principal of a firm of surveyors in
London, writes to me as follows :—
22, Buckingham Street, Adelphi, W.C., June 26th, 1896.
I did a large mansion at Ross, in Herefordshire, and there we engaged a
man who found water by the "divining rod," and plenty of it ; but I can hear
nothing of him, although I have written to two or three people, but I fancy
he came from Wales. In this instance I spent a morning with him going
over the Estate, and suddenly he broke out into a fearful perspiration, and,
after tapping about the earth for some time, declared there was water
beneath. Wo sank a well, and there was. I may add that water is very
scarce in that neighbourhood, and at the time the man was considered very
clever, and my client was delighted. Walter W. Barber
XXXII.] 59
On the So-called Divining Rod.
Mr. Barber is unable to remember the name of the dowser, but it
was probably Mr. Heighway ; see Group IX. This letter is only
quoted as an instance of the remarkable, and, I believe, perfectly
genuine and uncontrollable, physiological effect which seems, in many
cases, to accompany the dowser's discovery of an underground spring.
No. .36.—In his little book on the divining rod, published at Cleve
land, U.S.A., in 1876, Mr. Chas. Latimer, a civil engineer of repute in
Ohio, gives several instances of his success as a dowser, especially in
discovering the exact depth at which water would be found. This he
arrives at by noting the position when the forked twig turns to 45 deg.
as at A, then walking on till it points vertically downwards as at B ;
he concludes from this that B A the depth of the water
from the surface B C is equal / to the distance traversed,
A B ; B A C and B C A / being equal angles : he
states he has verified this / repeatedly. This would be
very satisfactory if it could be ' established, but Mr. Latimer fur
nishes no conclusive evidence O 0f his theory, and the effect he
has observed may be due to his own unconscious suggestion on the
motion of the rod.
In the Cleveland Leader (September, 1893) Mr. Whitelaw, the
engineer to the township waterworks, states that the severe testa to
which he has submitted Mr. Latimer have completely destroyed the
profound scepticism he previously entertained as to the value of the
indications afforded by the divining rod. Mr. Whitelaw narrates
several of these tests ; amongst others he took Mr. L. to a particular
square where he (Mr. W.) knew, but the public did not know, that
there was a certain water main running diagonally across the square.
Casually remarking (apparently to mislead Mr. Latimer) : "You know
there are no mains in the square," they proceeded to cross it. At a
certain spot the rod in Mr. Latimer's hand turned downwards, and
Mr. L. remarked, "there is certainly something here." This was
correct. Mr. Whitelaw adds : " When we came directly over the main
the butt of the rod pointed down to it, and he (Mr. Latimer) told me
the depth as well as I knew it myself." This experiment was repeated
with equal success at other parts of the town, so that Mr. Whitelaw
asserts Mr. Latimer found the different water mains and their depths
as accurately as if he had gained beforehand a minute knowledge of
their location. Of Mr. Latimer's good faith and high position the
report furnishes evidence.
I add the following cases reported in newspapers, for which I
have not been able to obtain any confirmation ; partly because they
are of some interest when taken together with the others, partly
60 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
because I may possibly receive confirmation of some of tbem from
readers of this paper.
No. 37.—The Isle of Wight Express, for March 18th, 1893, contains
an interesting report of the success of two amateur dowsers at
Shanklin. It seems that the Local Board were in straits for want
of a good water supply Eventually they employed Mullins, whose
remarkable career as a dowser will be evident later ; Mullins came and
fixed on two spots where, he said, water would be found. The Local
Board employed a well sinker, Mr. Parsons, and then the majority
thought they knew better than Mullins, and made a boring in a
different place. The report goes on :—
The Board paid a gentloman to tell them where the water was ; but in
their wisdom they decided to try a spot of their own choosing, with the
result that Mr. Parsons has gone to a considerable depth, and broken his
tools, without discovering the precious liquid. The divining abilities of
Mr. Mullins were looked at very sceptically by some, because there seemed
to be no reason why the hazel twig should rise when Mr. Mullins passed
over a spring ; but this divining quality dwells in others besides Mr.
Mullins.
Two members of the Local Board, Messrs. J. Bailey and J. Milman
Brown, have found themselves possessed with the unknown power, and in
consequenco have been making experiments in the Great Woods, with the
result that they have proved, to their own satisfaction, at least, that strong
springs exist in the places indicated by Mr. Mullins, but stronger ones in
other prats higher up the hill. The Board at their last meeting granted £10
to these two gentlemen to experiment with, and they have thought it best to
try the strongest spot marked by Mr. Mullins first. This they have done,
and after going down 22 feet, water was found and has risen 9 feet 10
inches. This is very gratifying.
Our Shanklin correspondent accompanied Messrs. Brown and Bailey
on one of their divining expeditions and witnessed the marvellous
phenomenon ; and while no explanation can be given, it is a fact beyond
dispute that the twig turns over with an irresistible impulse when the
operator is in the vicinity of a spring and cannot be kept back even by
force. The experimenters are delighted with their success.
A Mr. Watson, a carter in the employ of Mr. Moorman, has the divining
quality even more strongly developed than Messrs. Brown and Bailey, and
has amused himself and his friends by being blindfolded after indicating a
spring and again finding the same spot.
No. 38. —The Dublin Daily Express for January 15th, 1889, states
that :—
A farmer named Griffen, living at Knocknaboley, near Tinahely, having
seen the divining rod used for finding water in America, whence he had lately
returned, discovered that he also could use it. Accordingly, finding on his
return that his family were carrying water from a great distance, he tried
XXXII.] 61
On the So-called Divining Rod,
the rod, which, contrary to the local belief, as the house was on a hill,
indicated an underground spring close to the house. A well was therefore
dug at this spot, and at a depth of only six feet, a splendid spring was struck,
which has since given a copious supply.
I should be glad of any confirmation of the above statement from
those living in the neighbourhood : Tinahely is a town in co. Wicklow.
No. 39.—The next account is taken from the Western Mercury of
March 1st, 1890.
The divining rod, as a means of finding a good supply of water, stood
a very successful trial last week at Oundle, Northamptonshire. Mr. W,
Todd, a landowner, requiring a well on a portion of his property, sent for a
diviner, a man named Pearson. There has lately been some considerable
difficulty in obtaining water in this town, and the Commissioners have spent
£83 in trial borings. Although these trials were conducted by a professional
man, they proved futile. In the presence of a number of spectators drawn
together by the novelty of the experiment, Mr. Pearson walked over the
estate with the usual V-shaped hazel twig. The rod was visibly agitated in
several places, but the diviner kept on until it almost bent itself double in
his hands. At this spot he indicated with confidence that a good supply of
water would be found. A well was accordingly sunk with the result that at
17 feet deep, water was found in such abundance that it rapidly rose to
within three feet of the surface, at which height it has since remained.
I wrote to Mr. Todd, but have had no reply, and should therefore
be glad of any further information from the Oundle Commissioners or
from my geological friends.
No. 40.—I had not before heard of the "dowser" named in the
accompanying paragraph, which is taken from the Wisbech Standard
of October 24th, 1890 :—
Mr. F. Road, of Wisbech Market, experienced great difficulty in
getting a proper supply of water in a green field occupied by him at World's
End. The result was that the aid of Mr. William Upcroft Hill was called in,
and, by means of the divining rod, a spot was indicated and fixed upon, and
well-sinking begun at once, the result being that at a depth of eleven feet a
plentiful and continuous supply of water was obtained. In this case, at
least, the use of the " divining rod " has been attended with success.
I wrote to Mr. Read for further particulars, but my letter was
returned with the intimation that he had left the neighbourhood.
No. 41.—The Blackburn Standard of June 2nd, 1894, has a lengthy
letter from an architect, Mr. T. C. M. Crook, giving an account of
some successful dowsing operations in the neighbourhood of Black
burn by a dowser named Mr. Blanchard, of Wisbech, of whom
I had not before heard. The first experiment was at Stanley
62 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
Grange, Samlesbury, where a spot was fixed on by the dowser,
and the spring said by him to be about 40 feet from the
surface. A six-inch bore hole was made, and at forty feet water
rose in the tube to within sixteen feet of the surface. The owner
determined to go deeper to see if he could get a larger supply, and
bored down 232 feet, finally breaking his tools in the rook, but he
was disappointed, the greater depth was useless. He then sunk a well
six feet in diameter and 36 feet deep on the same spot, and found
an abundant supply ; the dowser having remarked that the small
bore-hole might not cover the whole of the water veins he had
indicated. In two other places in the neighbourhood of Bridge Hall
and Samlesbury paper mills, the dowser fixed on sites where water
would be found, and in both cases a plentiful supply was found at
these sites and at the depth stated by the dowser. It would seem how
ever that the depth was approximately the same (40 feet) in all cases,
so that probably at that depth a water bearing stratum was reached,
yielding water anywhere it was tapped. Mr. Crook, on the other hand,
states that at 20 feet from the surface a very hard rock, mostly of red
sandstone, was reached and continued to a great depth. If the facts
are correctly given, the interesting point is that a stranger, from a
distant part of England, who probably knew nothing of, and cared still
less for, geology, hits upon the exact depth where water is actually
found. It may be a chance coincidence, but it is of frequent occurrence
in other cases ; or it may be the dowser had secretly made inquiries in
the neighbourhood as to the usual depth of wells ; but this is not their
practice, as they seem to have a supreme contempt for everything but
their own infallibility.
Through the kindness of one of our American members, Mr.
Albree, of Allegheny, U.S.A., I received particulars of a remarkable
case of successful dowsing which appeared in the Pittsburg Leader for
January 14th, 1897 ; but when Mr. Albree, at my request, made
private enquiries into the facts, he was unable to obtain any confirma
tion of them. The narrative is therefore omitted. It was, however,
interesting to note the names by which a dowser is known in parts of
America, viz , "water-witch" and "water-smeller."
After the miscellaneous cases in this Group had been printed, I
received a collection of interesting cases relative to an amateur
American dowser, Mr. Cyrus Fuller, which had been in Mr. Hodgson's
possession for some time. This additional evidence, which might fitly
have come in here, has been placed later, (see Group X.), partly to
avoid alterations in the numbering of the cases already printed, and
partly because it forms a small group by itself.
xxxn.] On the So-culled Divining Rod. 63
At the close of each group I will add thefailures in that group that
I have been able to discover, i.e., where the dowser has been wrong ; a
boring having been made or a well sunk at the spot indicated by the rod,
and no water found at or beyond the depth he predicted. These cases
will be lettered F 1, F 2, etc. It has been much more difficult to
obtain first-hand evidence of these failures than of successes ; the
prejudice against dowsing amongst the educated classes readily lends
itself to rumours of failure, and I have found it a most laborious
matter to trace such rumours to their source, often with the result
that the failure was only in the actual depth or volume of water
obtained not corresponding with the figures predicted by the dowser.
At the same time there are unquestionably several cases of absolute
and complete failure. The number of these it is very difficult to
ascertain with any approach to accuracy ; all that can be said is that
the number varies with the particular dowser employed ; some men
( a) who claim to possess the faculty of water-finding being evidently
charlatans or self-deluded, whatever success they have had being
doubtless due to pure chance. * On the other hand (/3) some of the most
remarkable water-finders, such as the late J. Mullins, occasionally
fail in their prediction, as might be expected. Here are the
only two failures I have met with in the group of miscellaneous
cases; both appear to belong to the former class (a).
F 1.—I am indebted to the Rev. C. H. Mayo, M.A., for the
following instance of failure. Mr. Mayo says, after giving me instances
of the successful use of the rod :—
Long Burton Vicarage, Sherborne, January 21st, 1897.
Two other wells have been sunk at farms in Holnest, Dorsetshire, on
the divination of other water-finders ; one at Dyer's Farm,—which has been
successful,—the other at Bye-water Farm, which has proved a lamentable
failure. In the latter case, attempted early in 1895. a boring has been
carried through dense clay to the depth of 269 feet, with no result beyond
a useless expenditure of money, and the work has ceased. Holnest is
situated on a thick bed of Oxford clay, capped with gravel here and there.
I wrote at once to ascertain further particulars and the name of
the dowser. But Mr. Mayo could give me no more information, and
two or three letters I addressed with the same object to the occupier
of Rye-water Farm met with no response.
Subsequently Mr. Mayo most kindly ascertained for me the facts;
these are given in his letter which follows : —
Long Burton Vicarage, Sherborne, Dorset,
February 19th, 1897.
I have been endeavouring to collect some further particulars relating to
the case of Rye-water Farm, and have spoken to Mr. S. Thorne, the agent
of the property, on the subject.
64 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
It seems that two water-finders visited this farm—viz., W. J. Mitchell,
of Cerne Abbas, Dorset (see enclosed memorandum), and shortly after,
A. Russell, of Sturminstor, Newton Common, Dorset. Both traced (it is
affirmed) the spring along the same course. A well was begun, and then
abandoned, and another begun close by, which was dug for 30 feet (4 feet
diameter), and then bored for 269 feet more through clay. No water was
found, and at this depth the head of the borer was broken off, and I believe
still remains at the bottom of the hole.
I am told that Mitchell also claimed to discover gold by means of the
rod, and met with a sovereign which had been concealed under a stone.
Also, when using the rod, he trembled "and became as pale as death."
Since writing the above, I have interviewed the wife of the tenant who
was at the farm when the boring took place. Apparently, one well was sunk
for 30 feet, and then bored for 90 feet, following the prognostications of
Mitchell, and proved a failure. It was then filled up, and another water-
finder, Russell, consulted, whereupon the second well was dug for 30 feet
deep, very near the former, and as before stated, bored for 269 feet in
addition, without result, till the breaking of the head of the borer stopped
the work. These operations account for the time between the visit of
Mitchell on March 23rd, 1893, and the boring which I witnessed in the
spring of 1895. I have in my diary a memorandum written in May, 1895:—
" This spring a well has been bored at Holnest (Rye-water Farm) for 269 feet
without meeting water. The spot was indicated by Mitchell, of Cerne, and
Russell, of Sturminster Common, with divining rods."
I hope these particulars will supply w7hat you require. I shall be happy
to help further if y>u still have any other point to clear up.
C. H. Mayo.
P.S.—I am informed that the second water-finder, Russell, was called in
when the former of the two wells had been sunk with no effect. — C.H.M.
Memorandum.
Mr. W. J. Mitchell, of Cerne, attended at Rye-water Farm on Thursday,
March 23rd, 1893. I cannot find I have an entry of Mr. Russell's coming,
but he did shortly after Mr. Mitchell, and found the same spot as marked
by Mitchell. S TH0Mns
I know nothing beyond the above of the two dowsers named,
Messrs. Mitchell and Russell, no record of any successes on their part
having reached me.
F. 2.—The next case of failure illustrates the fact of a would-be-
dowser having evidently mistaken his vocation.
Mr. W. H. Barber, the head of a firm of surveyors in Buckingham
Street, Adelphi (see case No. 35), sent me a memorandum he
had received from Mr. Pullen, a friend of his in Guernsey, giving
a list of wells sunk in Guernsey through the indications afforded by
the divining rod. The dowser in this case was a Guernsey resident,
XXXII.] 65
On the So-called Divining Rod.
a Mr. Mellish, who apparently wrote the memorandum himself. In
subsequent correspondence I received from Mr. Mellish particulars of
numerous cases where, according to his statement, attempts to find
water by sinking wells or boring had been made unsuccessfully in
various places in Guernsey before his visit, and how in each case ha
had, through the indications afforded by the divining rod, been able
to find water close by and at a less depth than the useless wells. I
wrote to each of the addresses given and received replies from the
majority of the persons named. In no single instance was Mr.
Mellish's statement confirmed. Mr. Mellish's claim to possess the
" dowsing faculty," if such there be, is therefore so far entirely
uncorroborated. This is the only instance I have met with of what
looks like a deliberate attempt to mislead in the course of this
prolonged investigation. I communicated the foregoing facts to Mr.
Barber, who replies that he was greatly surprised, for " both Mr.
Pullen and a friend of his have seen Mellish at work with the rod,
and also found water as the result."
Evidence of Professional Dowsers.
Let us now examine some of the evidence afforded by contemporary
professional dowsers—that is to say, by those who make a livelihood,
often a very handsome livelihood, out of the use of the divining rod.
It will already have been noticed that the majority of dowsers a genera
tion ago came from Somersetshire ; from the esteem in which the
"gift " is still held in that county this might be expected, just as the
majority of French dowsers used to come (and perhaps still come) from
Dauphiny. Thus about two-thirds of the English professional dowsers,
whose names have been given in the miscellaneous cases, lived in
Somersetshire, and others hard by, in Gloucestershire, Dorset, and
Wiltshire.
Besides the foregoing, I know of nearly a score of contemporary
professional dowsers in England and Wales, and there are doubtless
others of whom I have not heard. With the following I have been in
correspondence and with some have had interviews and experimental
trials :—Messrs. W. S. Lawrence, J. Mullins, senr. (both of these famous
dowsers have died since the beginning of this inquiry), H. W. Mullins,
W. Mereweather, W. Stone, B. Tompkins, J. Stears, L. Gataker,
T. Heighway, H. Chesterman, H. Bacon, F. Rodwell, W. Rothwell
and R. W. Robertson.
I will begin with a few cases from Mr. W. Lawrence, who was one
of the most remarkable and successful dowsers of this century. I
F
66 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
much regret that Mr. Lawrence's death renders the evidence here pre
sented of his powers so very meagre ; his family would render a service
to science if they would collect a trustworthy record of their father's
experiences in water-finding.
Group III.—(n) Mb. W. S. Lawrence.
The oldest of the professional dowsers is Mr. W. Scott Laurencc,
who resides at Bishopston, Bristol, where he is much respected.i
His local standing is seen from the fact that he has heen a
Poor Law Guardian, was Chairman of the Highway Board, and
for 21 years successively was elected vicar's churchwarden. He is a
retired stone merchant, and is a hale and fine-looking old gentleman
in his 86th year, the father of no less than 17 children ! One of his
sons, Dr. Lawrence, is a distinguished West of England physician, and
is consulting physician to the Bristol General Hospital ; another, a
clergyman in the Church of England, appears to have inherited his
father's peculiar "gift," and in reply to enquiry stated that he could
not control the motion of the rod, which appeared to be even more
violently affected with him than with his father. For 60 years Mr.
W. S. Lawrence has been in repute as a " water finder," and judging
from the lengthy list of testimonials he has received, his career in this
direction has been singularly successful.2
Several instances of Mr. Lawrence's success are quoted in the
previous S.P.R. report, and I had hoped in the appendix to this paper
to have given a summary of Mr. Lawrence's experiences since that
i Since the ahove was in type, the death of this remarkable octogenarian diviner
has occurred, as already mentioned ; Mr. Lawrence died in June, 1896.
a In the following letter (which was addressed to Mr. C. E. De Ranee, F.G.S.,
Mr. W. S. Lawrence describes how he happened to discover that he possessed the
dowsing faculty.
Bishopston, October 5th, 1893.
[Many years ago] my father was the contractor for building a new Rectory House
at Winterbourne, Gloucestershire. In the contract he was to find a supply of spring
water, and had to sink a well for such ; he had done this to about 40 ft. deep without
success, when an old working man, a gardener, who passed the spot every day, stated
it was quite useless to go on sinking it, being in the wrong spot. On being asked to
mark the right spot, he went to the hedge of a field and cut a hazel forked stick, and
on arriving at the well marked a spot about 15 ft. away from the well, and desired us
to sink there, which we accordingly did, and at about 15 ft. deep obtained a valuable
spring of water. I then was about 20 years of age, and asked him to allow me to try
and see if the forked twig would act same with me, but he said it would [probably]
be quite useless ; but if I would call on him next day at his cottage he would test me.
I did so, and he placed in my hands a small steel watch spring, and desired me
to walk about the kitchen with such, and to his great surprise it acted with me similar
to what it did in his own hands. This was to prove and ascertain if I had the power,
as he knew there was a capital spring of water under the floor of the cottage ; he then
stated his great surprise, he said as many as 100 persons had been there previously, and
XXXII.] 67
On the So-called Divining Rod.
report. Mr. Lawrence was, however, too ill to give me the necessary
information or references when I applied to him in the spring of 1896.
Mr. Lawrence had previously furnished me with references to
about 100 different people, for whom he has successfully found water
by the ' rod.' The list includes such well-known names as the Duke
of Grafton, Lord Spencer, Lord Heytesbury, Lord Justice Fry, Sir
H. W. Peak, Sir H. Selwyn Ibbetson, Lord Arthur Cecil, etc.
No. 42.—The following is from Mr. George H. Pope, the Treasurer
of the Merchant Venturers' Society of Bristol, whose kindness I have
already acknowledged in sending me other evidence.
The Manor House, Clifton, Bristol, December 30th, 1896.
On the estates which I look after we always employ a "dowser," and I
do not recollect any instance of failure to find water ; we never sink a well
before using the rod.
My friend, Mr. R. W. Butterworth, (now of Percy House, Kensington,
Bath) can tell you, I believe, that he sunk a deep well on his property at
Henbury, near Bristol, without getting any water ; that he then consulted a
dowser (Mr. Lawrence) who asserted the presence of a spring a few feet oft" ;
that he drove a horizontal shaft from his own dry well in the direction
indicated, and struck a copious spring, as predicted—but I should like him
to tell you his own story.
I once allowed an experiment to be made on one of our farms by
Professor Sollas, and an account of it is given in Vol. II., pp. 73-78 of the
Proceedings of the S.P.R., but in my opinion the experiment proved little
or nothing.* Gborge h p0pE
I wrote to Mr. Butterworth as suggested by Mr. Pope. In reply,
Mr. Butterworth states he cannot now recall the exact particulars, as
the experiment was made so long ago. Happily, however, I found
Mr. Crisp, of Bristol, the architect of Mr. Butterworth's house, had
already put the facts on record, and they were printed in the appendix
to Mr. Pease's S.P.R. report. Here is Mr. Crisp's letter :—
Bristol, March Uth, 1883.
Prior to sinking the well, we consulted a geologist as to the probability
of finding water, and at what depth. He informed us that it was not likely
never one [had the rod] acted with previous. From which time I have made use
both of steel spring and hazel rod. I do not believe I have any power without the
rod or spring to discover such.
You may make any use whatever of these remarks. I have just returned from a
visit to Aboynes and Drum Castle, Aberdeen, where I was sent for to go over o
large quantity of land, farms, etc., and I marked about 30 or 40 places for sinking. I
shall be most happy to give you any further information. w s LAWBEnOg
P.S.—I am now in my 84th year, and write this without the aid of glasses.
i With this I quite agree, judging from the report Professor Sollas has
published.—W. F. B.
r 2
63 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
that water would bo fouml until we had sunk through the bed of the moun
tain limestone existing there, and which was about 150ft. deep, when we
should come on a bed of clay and find an abundant supply of water. This
applied to the district where this stone exists, and therefore the well could
be sunk in any part with the same chances of finding water. We accordingly
sunk a shaft to a depth of 150ft. through the rock, and then bored 10ft.,
but found no water. This may perhaps be accounted for to some extent, as
by ill luck we came in contact with some faults (or saddle-backs as they are
sometimes termed) in the rock. We then called in Mr. Lawrence with his
rod ; he held it over the mouth of the well and it was motionless, and Mr.
Lawrence stated it was no use sinking any deeper there ; he then walked in
a spiral line round the well, and when at a distance of about 20ft., the rod
moved vigorously, but nowhere else near the well. With his advice we
drove a level heading from the shaft at a depth of about 100ft. from the
surface, towards the spot indicated by the rod, and after proceeding about
30ft. the water suddenly flowed in at the end of the heading, and the men
had to leave the heading at once and get to the surface. Since this there has
been a good and regular supply of water. i H j qrisp
Mr. Mereweather, the contractor who sank the well, also gave a
similar account in a letter he wrote long ago to Mr. Vaughan Jenkins,
which the latter has sent me. Mr. Mereweather says the water was
struck when the heading reached 24 feet from the shaft of the well ;
here they came upon a fissure in the rock which yielded so large a
supply that the pumps were fixed at 80 feet from the surface.
No. 43.—Very similar testimony is borne by another architect,
Mr. Henry Shaw, of New Broad Street, London. Here also a deep
well was bored and no water found. Mr. Lawrence's aid was sought.
The rod indicated water only a few yards from the old boring. A
well was sunk, and 14 yards from the surface an abundant supply of
water was obtained. The contractors, and the foreman who sunk
the well, also send letters about this case, which will be found in
Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. II., pp. 103 and 104. The foreman says
that when Mr. Lawrence came to a certain spot the twig jumped
violently up and down. A steel spring was then tried by the dowser
with the same result. The position of the underground spring was
then marked. The foreman also says that, owing to a drain being in
the way, he had to dig a little on one side of the spot marked by
Lawrence as the centre. On sinking to 40 feet " the spring burst out,
as large as a hammer handle, beneath the very spot he [the dowser]
had marked for the centre of the well."
i In the previous S.P.R. report. Vol. II., p. 105, a note is added stating Mr. Crisp's
account was " confirmed by Mr. Butterworth, the owner of the house, Mr. Lawrence
and others. There is some slight discrepancy in the measurements, which, however,
does not materially affect the case."
XXXII.] 69
On the So-called Divining Rod.
No. 44.—The next case is an illustration of the implicit faith in his
dowsing power which Mr. Lawrence appears to have inspired in those
who had employed him. The letter, which is too long to quote in full,
is from the before-mentioned well-sinker and contractor, Mr. Mere-
weather, who subsequently found he also could use the rod, and has
had some success as a dowser. The following summary gives the chief
facts :—
The late Dr. Fox, of Brislington, directed Mr. Mereweather to sink a
well to supply the Lunatic Asylum at that place. Instead of sinking at the
spot suggested by the contractor, Dr. Fox took him to the Park and after
searching found an iron peg driven in the ground, where he told the
contractor to sink the well. Dr. Fox gave as his reason that Mr. Lawrence
had been over the ground with his divining rod and fixed on that place. The
well was sunk 90 feet through Pennant stone and no water found. Dr. Fox
insisted that the work should go on, as he had absolute confidence that water
would be found, but as the contractor's experience was dead against finding
water there, he (Dr. Fox) at last consented to a four inch bore hole being
driven ; this was done and after 35 feet had been bored (125 feet from the
surface) a large body of water was struck, which has supplied the Asylum
ever since, has never failed, and could not be pumped dry.
No. 45.—The following letter gives a graphic account by an eye
witness of the muscular spasm which seems to lay hold of some
dowsers (especially Mr. Lawrence) when they are over, or have reason
to believe they are over, an underground spring. The letter was sent
to me by my friend, Mr. H. W. Whitaker, the well-known geologist.
I ought perhaps to add, to prevent misconception, that Mr. Whitaker is
an utter disbeliever in the dowsing rod, or in any practical good
resulting from its use.
April, 1890.
We went yesterday and saw the divining rod used, and a stranger
performance I never saw. The diviner, named Lawrence, an old white-
haired, benevolent-faced man, walked about the place for some time, it
appeared fruitlessly, holding between each finger and thumb a piece of flat
steel wire bent round into a sort of horseshoe shape. This, he told us, would
detect minerals as well as water, so that when it presently began to agitate
as it did, scriggling, and wriggling, and twisting, and turning in his fingers,
he could not say definitely that it was water he had come upon, until he took
in his hand a strong forked hazel twig, holding an end of each fork in each
hand, and keeping his elbows tightly down to his side. I can only
describe the antics of that twig as a pitched battle between itself and him !
It twisted, it knocked about, it contracted and contorted the muscles of his
hands and arms, it wriggled, and fought, and kicked, until it snapped in two
—and then—what made it painful to watch until you got used to it, the old
man reeled, and clutched hold of any one nearest to him for a few moments.
It evidently exhausts him very much, though afterwards I asked him what
effect it had on him, and he said it only made his heart beat most violently
70 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
for a short time. Certainly it has not shortened his life ! Having found
that spring, (I must tell you the wire and twig will not act over stagnant
water), the farmer asked him to try if there was a spring nearer home. He
did not find one until, having gone into the garden, ho suddenly came upon
one close to the hall door. After that, he went further afield, and found
two some distance from the house. He can also tell the direction the water
takes underground and the probable depth they will have to bore for it.
Mr. C.'s lawyer was there " to watch the case " ; he was must sceptical, but
was obliged to own that if they find the spring he must believe ! He went
behind Lawrence, and held his wrists with all his strength, to try and keep
him quiet while the twig moved, but he could not.
I asked Lawrence how he found out he possessed the power, and he told
us that 60 years ago he saw a cottager do it, so he tried himself, and found
he possessed the same property. We tried, Lady D. and I, but needless to
say, we could do nothing. Lawrence makes no mystery of it, though he
cannot explain it ; he says it is a gift. He was asked if he could mesmerise,
and he said, no. He held the wire over Lady D. 's watch, and it wriggled just
as it had done over the water.
We are going to see the water when it has been found, to see the
conclusion of the matter.
In a later letter, dated May 1890, the same lady relates that, the
fanner having expressed doubts as to the genuineness of the proceedings,
Lawrence was taken again to the farm and blindfolded. The rod
performed in exactly the same manner, on reaching the spot where it
had indicated the water before. They then dug, and found the spring
at 15 feet depth.
No. 46.—Lady Dorothy Nevill sent to the Pall Mall Gazette, of
February 13th, 1897, an account of the successful dowsing for water at
a convent at Mayfield, in Sussex ; a place which was once the palace of
Sir Thomas Gresham. There being a need of water, the aid of an amateur
dowser was sought. He traversed the grounds, and fixed on a certain
spot where he said water would be found. Before digging a well a
second dowser was called in some time after ; he selected the same
spot as the previous one had done. Accordingly a well was dug, and
at 30 feet deep water was found. Subsequently they wanted a well
nearer the house, and sunk at another spot which both the amateur
and expert dowsers had also fixed upon. Again water was found, and
boring to a greater depth they have had an inexhaustible supply.
I have also had accounts of this case sent to me by personal
friends ; it is interesting, and whilst the fixing upon similar spots by
independent dowsers is important, yet we are not told what precautions
were taken to prevent any knowledge of the spots chosen by the first
dowser reaching the second.
Lady D. Nevill, at my request, kindly forwarded to the Superioress
of the Convent a letter I wrote asking for further particulars. In
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 71
reply, I was informed that they had little additional information to
impart ; but, in answer to my questions, stated the expert was Mr. W. S.
Lawrence, and the date of the experiment, June, 1893. The place was
Mayfield, in Sussex, and the depth of the well sunk was 270 feet.
They did not know what precautions were taken at Lawrence's visit,
and so far as they knew no previous attempt to sink a well had been
made. The name of the amateur dowser they were not at liberty to give.
Lady Dorothy Nevill says the expert used a watch spring as his
divining rod, which was Lawrence's custom, and that " he went into
a species of convulsions, shook and trembled at the spots he considered
to be over the water."
No. 47.—The next case is taken from the Bristol Times and
Mirror of May 17th, 1890:—
Mr. Lawrence marked two spots on the farm of Mr. Prout, Frampton-
on-Severn, where he stated springs of water would be found, and in
each case, after boring 10 feet, water was struck, and rose to within 6
feet of the surface ; but as many persons said that water might be found
in any other part of the field which Mr. Lawrence had passed over, the
tenant, to test this matter, directed the men to bore in another part to
the same depth, and the result proved the subsoil to be perfectly dry.
Both the steward and tenant consider the trial to be most satisfactory, and
that Mr. Lawrence possesses, in a most remarkable degree, the power of
finding water by aid of his divining rod. The following letters on the
subject, have been received by Mr. Lawrence :—
" Dursley, May 10th, 189*.
"I have seen the two places at Mr. Prout's farm where they bored
at the spots indicated by you with the divining rod, and in both places
there appears to be a good supply of water. Mr. Prout told me that
he had also bored at a place between the other two, and which you had
passed over without indicating water, and found the subsoil perfectly dry.
This is a very satisfactory proof that you possess an extraordinary power of
indicating where water is to be found. Tkewren Vizard.
" The Park Farm, Frampton-on-Severn.
" Dear Mr. Lawrence,—We thought you would be pleased to hear that,
after a few hours' work, on Friday the men came upon a spring of water
about ten feet down, the spot being just outside the garden gate, on a line
with.the place in the garden. We have since bored at the place where you
first declared there was a spring, and likewise found, at just about the same
depth, and the water rises to within nearly six feet of the surface of the
ground. Because some people were suggesting that perhaps water might be
found anywhere in the same ground, we have made the men bore to the
same depth midway between the places where water has been found in
springs, and none has been found there ; so I should now think that every
one must be convinced and satisfied that you can find a spring of water.
Kate Prout."
72 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
No. 48.—I will conclude this group by quoting two or three letters,
addressed to Mr. Lawrence, out of many similar testimonials that I
have read. The first is a letter from Samuel Lang, Esq., Bristol.
After vain endeavours to obtain a supply of water for my kennels,
and sinking 130 feet deep, I was advised to send for you, who, by
aid of your divining rod, in my presence, indicated the spot within 20
feet of the spot where I had sunk, and directed me to drive there, which I
did, and obtained at 30 feet deep most plentiful supply. I have the greatest
belief in your powers with the divining rod. Samuel Lang
No. 49.—The next (from the Ely Paper Works, Cardiff), is quoted
in answer to an objection sometimes made that no larye supply of
underground water has ever been found by a dowser.
May, 1888.
At your request we have much pleasure in stating the result of your visit
to our works. We sunk two wells in spots marked by you ; in the first one
we have a supply of over 20,000 gallons per hour at a depth of 31 feet ;
and in the other, about 300 yards away from the first, a supply of 12,000 to
14,000 gallons per hour of spring water. EvAnS And QwEy
Again, we have the following addressed to Mr. Lawrence :—
No. 50.—From the Bristol Municipal Charity Trustees.
February 26th, 1892.
In reply to yours of yesterday's date, I am directed by the Trustees of
the Bristol Municipal Charities to state that they have much pleasure in
recording the fact that you were most successful with your divining rod in
discovering water at the spot on their estate at Burnett, on which they
afterwards bored, though the surface certainly afforded no evidence of the
presence of water there. Fred W Nbwton> Secretary.
(/3) Mr. W. Mereweather.
The name of Mr. Mereweather has occurred in connection with
some of the preceding cases. It will be convenient if I give here the
account Mr. Mereweather has kindly sent me of his own use of the
dowsing rod, for he found it was so successful in his hands that he
constantly uses it now when consulted about the best site to sink a
well, his business being that of a well-sinker and contractor at
Bedminster, near Bristol. Those who regard a professional dowser as
a professional rogue will be surprised to hear that Mr. Mereweather,
like the late Mr. Lawrence, is highly respected in his own neighbour
hood. He is a Poor Law Guardian and Vice-Chairman of the
Board. He was also for three years on the Bristol Town Council.
XXXII.] 73
On the So-called Divining Rod.
In reply to my enquiries, Mr. Mereweather gave the following account
of his powers :—
South View House, West-street, Bedminster, Bristol,
May 1st, 1893.
For the last 45 years I have been more or less engaged as a contractor for
water works, and in a great many cases I have executed the work for Mr.
Wm. Scott Lawrence, who is noted for his power to find water. Finding
what Mr. Lawrence said to come true, although I did not believe in the
divining rod, I made an engagement to meet him, and after he had used the
twig or steel spring, and pointed out where the water was, I asked him to let
me try, and to my great astonishment, I could not keep it down, the tighter
I held it the greater the indentation it made in my fingers, until I was obliged
to let it go. It is about 16 years ago since I first tried it.
I do not know whether this power is hereditary, but I find that my
youngest son can use it as well as myself. I do not notice any particular
sensation in using the spring, but upon coming over underground water it
suddenly seems to stiffen in my hands, raises itself up and turns towards the
body. I notice there is a quicker motion wherever I find, on boring, the
water is near the surface, or if there is a plentiful supply deeper down.
In the year 1880 I was consulted respecting the water supply at the
residence of the late Captain Quayle, Backwell House. The house is
situated nine miles from Bristol and stands 700 feet above the level of the
sea. The hill is of mountain limestone. Hitherto the house had only been
supplied with rain-water. At about 200 yards from the house there was a
well, which had been sunk to the depth of 110 feet, but no supply of water
could be obtained. I tried the steel spring round the well, but no action was
produced upon it. After trying in different parts some time I came across
a si>ot some 70 yards from the house where the spring turned vigorously. I
traced the water some little distance across the lawn to a spot where it was
decided to bore a three inch hole. This was done and at 60 feet deep we
struck a good supply of water, which rose 10 feet in the bore hole.
In the year 1884 I found water by using the steel spring, at Messrs.
James and Co.'s brewery, Midsomer Norton ; the depth from the surface to
the water was 12 feet ; the stratification was conglomerate stone.
In 1886, the water supply of the workhouse at Bourton (Bedminster
Union) was very deficient. I pointed out a spot where water could be found,
a well was sunk through the new rod sandstone formation to the depth of
about 40 feet, a good and abundant spring of water was struck, the supply
kept up, and the water is being used to-day. About two years ago a supple
mentary supply was laid on from the Bristol Water Works Co. main, chiefly
because of the improved sanitary arrangements in the house.
In 1890, new oil tanks and stores were erected at Avonmouth. We were
consulted respecting the water supply for the engine, boilers, etc. I found
them water, and sunk a bore hole to the depth of 68 feet ; the water rose to
within 12 feet of the surface, and was pumped direct from bore hole, but
after some time was given up, because the water was brackish, the hole being
close to the tidal river.
In October, 1890, the Rev. C. O. Miles consulted me respecting a water
supply for some 20 cottages and a cottage hospital that has since been built
74 Professor W. F. Barrett. [PART
lit Almondsbury ; after some time searching I found water, and sunk a well
to the depth of about 30 feet in the blue lias formation. The water rises to
within 8 feet of the surface ; it is pumped to a brick reservoir on the hill,
and from this reservoir flows by gravitation to the stand-pipe and houses
in the locality, and I believe the supply is sufficient for all their require
ments.
In 1891 we found water and sank a well at a new house belonging to Miss
Lippingcote in the parish of Over, adjoining Almondsbury ; the well was
44 ft. deep, the bore hole 50 ft., a very good household supply was obtained,
and I have no heard it has ever failed. The stratification was an up
lifted coal shale.
In 1891 we opened a new brick-and-tile works at Parson-street, in the
parish of Bedminster ; the extent of our land is about 6 acres. Knowing
that for this class of works and for steam purposes a great quantity of water
would be required, which would be a very heavy item of cost if purchased
from the Water Works Co., we decided if water could be found to sink a
well. I tried the spring over a Urge portion of the land without any success
and was on the point of giving it up, when within 6 ft. of our boundary the
spring turned up, and I knew we were over the water. We sank the well
30 ft. through red marl, and bored 30 ft. through new red sandstone, when
we struck the water at a depth of 60 ft. It rose to within 12 ft. of the sur
face. The whole of the water that has, and is still being used, for the whole
of the works, which we approximate at about 5,000 gallons per day, is being
drawn from this well, but at the very driest time the water in the well is
within 10 ft. of the surface. ,,,
W. Mereweather.
Mr. Mereweather, in reply to my enquiries, states that in all the
above cases, and in many other trials (some of which he sent me
subsequently), he employed a forked twig or steel spring to indicate
where to sink ; he does not pretend to explain why the spring moves,
but he has great faith in it.
No. 51.—The Rev. C. O. Miles, Vicar of Almondsbury, in reply to
enquiries writes as follows :—
Vicarage, Almondsbury, May 21st, 1893.
Colonel Master wished to supply water here to many of his cottages,
and the finding of a supply close at hand was a very important matter.
Watching, myself, the rod being used, I saw it rise up again and again
when crossing veins of water known to me, but unknown to the operator.
When the watch-spring used for the purpose was discarded, and strong
forked rods cut from a hedge were used, these broke off short when crossing
the veins of water. They were held in such a position, downwards, as to
prove that the force that impelled them upwards was not naturally exerted
by the operator ; and when I add that the operator was Mr. Mereweather, of
Bedminster, I have written enough to prove that no fraud on the part of the
operator is even conceivable. I should add that Mr. Mereweather is quite
unacquainted with this parish.
C. O. Miles, Vicar of Almondsbury.
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod, 75
Group IV.—(«) Mr. John Mulxins.
One of the most remarkable of the records of successful dowsing
that I have obtained is the next series, where the dowser is the late
Mr. John Mullins, of Colerne, Chippenham, Wilts, who for 30 years was
professionally engaged all over Great Britain and Ireland in finding
water springs by the divining rod. In business he was a well-smker,
and, if allowed to follow the indication of his rod, agreed I understand,
ThE LATE MR. J. MULLInS.
to receive no payment for sinking a well if a good supply of water w'ere
not obtained. When one remembers the heavy outlay involved in
making a well, often through solid rock to a depth of 70 to 100 feet or
more, this agreement is a forcible illustration of the faith Mullins had
in his divining rod ; a faith that appears justified by its works, for
Mullins had probably sunk more wells than any other man. Mr.
John Mullins, whose portrait is here given, was only 56 when he died
76 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
in May, 1894 ; he was quite an uneducated man. His sons carry on
their father's business. One of them, Mr. H. W. Mullins, seems to
have developed the faculty of water finding, as several successful cases
of his are quoted at the end of this group.
Some striking instances of Mullins' success were given in Vol. II.
of the S.P.R. Proceedings. The volume of testimonials which Mr.
Mullins has published is a remarkable collection of evidence on behalf
of the practical usefulness of dowsing, and also contains an account
of the manner in which Mullins was found to possess the faculty of
dowsing. In the lengthy list of those who have employed him to find
water, and have been led by actual experience to have faith in the
dowsing rod, will be found nearly a score of distinguished noblemen,
more than a dozen owners of breweries and distilleries, or of paper and
cloth mills and print works ; town commissioners, and clergymen ; and
landlords and their agents by the dozen. To many of these I have
written and obtained corresponding statements to those printed by
Mullins.
It is impossible to quote more than a few of these cases, and
I shall therefore confine myself, as far as possible, to those which
are of evidential value, that is, where unsuccessful attempts to find
water by boring had been made in the neighbourhood prior to the
dowser's visit.
No. 52.—The first case I will quote is a remarkable one, and I
have to thank Mr. and Mrs. Christie-Miller for the trouble they have
taken in obtaining for me the particulars here given. Mr. Christie-
Miller writes :—
Britwell Court, Maidenhead, December 5th, 1891.
Mr. Mullins came to us at Broomfield, Chelmsford, in June this year,
and marked a number of springs. Two wells have been dug with great
success. The depth in the first was exactly that indicated (40 feet), the
direction of the spring also coincided. In the second case, the depth
foretold was 50 to 60 feet ; water was reached about 40 feet, the spring
being very strong.
Mr. Mullins' next visit was at Kircassock, Lurgan, Ireland. Out of
17 springs marked we have so far tested two. The first well coincided
in depth and quantity with his expectations. The second yielded about
50 gallons per hour at 40 feet, and is now being bored to 00 feet, the
depth foretold.
W. Christie-Miller.
In a subsequent letter Mrs. Christie-Miller tells me that the
first well at Kircassock was 15 feet deep, the depth predicted, and
supplies cottages ; the second well supplies the house, garden, and
stable-yard.
XXXII.] 77
On the So-called Divining Bod.
In reply to my enquiries Mrs. Christie-Miller writes :—
Britwell Court, Maidenhead, December 31st, 1896.
As my husband is just leaving home, I write in reply to your enquiries.
Our experience of the divining rod extends over nearly seven years. We
were first persuaded to experiment in a place where we had bored some 1,000
feet without success. After Mullins left we again sunk on the spot indicated
by him, which was only a few yards off, and at between 80 and 90 feet in depth,
came on a spring which has proved excellent ; yielding over 50 gallons
per minute. Since then we have successfully sunk both in Essex and
on our Irish estate, Kircassock (near Col. Waring's;, so far without a
failure.
We are unable to quote an instance of failure with the divining rod,
and can therefore speak most confidently in favour of water finding by
the twig. We have seven wells sunk after marking by Mullins with
his rod.
M. E. Christie-Miller.
In reply to my further enquiries Mrs. Christie-Miller writes :—
Britwell Court, Maidenhead, January 4th, 1897.
Mullins first worked for us in 1889, at Waterford. He was not aware
of the attempt to find water by the Diamond Boring Co. who guaranteed
to find it. When the boring failed at 1,000 feet, we were most reluctantly
induced to have Mullins. The man marked several places, but said at one
spot the several springs met, and wo should succeed at between 80 and 90
feet. The same company were set to work and found a splendid spring at
the spot marked by Mullins, at, I believe, about 84 feet. The supply has
never varied or failed. In each instance Mullins' estimate of the yield
per hour and depth were marvellously accurate. Mullins, after marking
the site of well at Waterford, was taken to the abandoned boring, and
said even at 2,000 feet we should fail.- One of our Essex neighbours
who had sunk in vain repeatedly had Mullins with marked success, after
he had been with us.
M. E. Christie-Miller.
Mrs. Christie-Miller kindly writes again in reply to my wish for
exact measurements :—
January 8th, 1897.
As regards the Essex well, the measurement of 40 feet 6 inches I know
to be exact.
In reply to my enquiries I received the enclosed answers to my
questions about the wells at Waterford ; they are written by a gentle
man on the spot who was a strong disbeliever in the divining rod, and
opposed Mullins being brought. He walked with him over the ground
and had the man guarded so that no one should give him a hint of the
existing bore.
These figures you can use, and depend on their accuracy. I do not think
you can find a stronger case.
M. E. Christie-Miller.
7s [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
M"
Enclosure.
Exact depth bored by Diamond Boring Company without finding water ?
Answer : 1,011 feet.
Distance from this boring to place marked by Mullins 1 M'
A rer : 53 feet. This is the shortest distance:
Mullins said we would find water anywhere in the oV—53'-
line between the two places where he made his marks.
One mark, M', is in Hodges' field ; another, M", is a
where the pump is. This latter is 296 feet away from
the deep bore hole, O. >( j
Exact depth of boring in Mullins' well? Ansxcer: 79 feet.
Yield of water from this well? Answer: 3,000 gallons an hour have
been tested.
This case is rendered more important, as I have since learnt that the
best geological advice was sought prior to Mullins' visit, but the boring
made under that advice yielded no water. It seemed advisable, there
fore, in this case to make a careful study of all the facts : this was
done, and the details are given on a subsequent page, under the heading
of " The Waterford Experiments."
No. 53.—Through the kindness of my friend, the Rev. Maxwell
Close, M.A., of Dublin, I received the following account from Colonel
Waring, M.P., of some of Mullins' operations in Ireland :—
Waringstown, co. Down, November 5th, 1891.
Mullins was employed by my neighbour, Mr. Christie-Miller, at Kir-
cassock, and I was asked to see him at work there. He then volunteered to
come to Waringstown, an;l did so the next day. He first walked across the
gravel on the garden side of the house, and detected the source of the cellar
well, at once saying it was a small and shallow spring, which is so. He then
went into the yard and tried for a deep well there, and told us that it was
sunk 12 feet to the eastward of the proper line, and that an abundant supply
would be got by boring a tunnel from the bottom of our present well hori
zontally that distance. He then went over the fields and marked several
places where water was to be found, some of which were known to me as
such (but not to him or to anyone else present). He found a covered-up well
in an adjoining tenant's farm ; the tenant, however, a young man, said the
well was situated 12 or 15 yards from where Mullins said it was. But when
the " oldest inhabitant " was summoned, Mullins proved to be right and the
tenant wrong.
The gold-finding was not done by him here, but at Mr. James Bruce's.
Mrs. Bruce hid hnlf-a-sovereign in the gravel of a walk and sent Mullins to
find it. She said to her husband : " He has passed the place " ; a few steps
further Mullins stopped and the gold was there, and not where Mrs. Bruce
had fancied she put it.
Harwood, my gardener, can turn the twig for water nearly as well as
Mullins There is no trick ; firstly, I watched Mullins closely ;
secondly, Harwood is incapable of deceit, and, lastly the twig turned in my
XXXII.] 70
On the So-called Divining Rod.
own hands when Mullins grasped me by the wrists. Mullins cannot do it if
placed on a stand insulated by four inverted tumblers or glass bottles ; his
feet must touch the ground.
Mr. Christie-Miller has sunk wells here, at Waterford, and in Essex, at
Mullins' direction and never failed to find water at the depth and in the
volume promised. Thos_ Wariko_
In a subsequent letter Colonel Waring writes :—
Waringstown, co. Down, November\11th, 1891.
I send you herewith two of the "Dowsing" or divining rods, for dis
covering water or minerals ; a fresh cut one (Fig. 1) and one after being used
by Mullins (Fig. 2).i The portion nearly twisted offthe end of it (C, Fig. 2),
i The cuts are drawn from photographs of the twigs sent me by Col. Waring. In
Fig. 2 (the one actually used by Mullins), the end was nearly twisted off, only a shred
of bark remaining at C. The twigs are of pliable green wood, about 15 inches in
extreme length, three-sixteenths of an inch diameter at A and B, and a quarter of
an inch diameter (not quite as thick as a cedar pencil) at the junction.
80 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
will show the action ; it was done while I was looking on, and no move
ment of the hand was made to occasion the twisting. In fact, if you hold
the rod, or rather fork, as directed, such action, whether voluntary or the
reverse, on the part of the operator is impossible. You pass the ends of the
fork between the second and third fingers of the hand, palm upwards, and
close the thumb and first and second fingers tightly on the points of the fork
(A and B, Fig. 1) and hold it, apex downwards, out before you ; when you come
on the spring the apex of the fork bends forward and upward, and if one
end be held tight and the other allowed to revolve it will twist itself nearly
(or quite) off, as in the specimen (Fig. 2.) The violence of the action,
Mullins says, depends on the volume and proximity of the running water.
Thos. Waring.
I enquired from my colleague, Prof. Cole, F.G.S., what chance there
was, (geologically speaking) of finding water at Col. Waring's ; Prof.
Cole replies :—
Waringstown, 3 m. S.E. of Lurgan, Co. Down.
Depends entirely on exact spot of boring. In town and West, Ordovician
rocks, and no chance. Immediately East of town, admirable chances,
through Triassic Sandstone,—the farther E. for a mile or so, the better.
Whereupon I wrote to Col. Waring to know the exact position
that Mullins had fixed on. Col. Waring replies :—
All the places at which Mullins said water would be found are West of
the village, as it is on that side my demesne is situated, but I have not as yet
sunk for water.
I trust, therefore, Col. Waring will, from the scientific interest of
the question, if for no other reason, make the horizontal tunnel, 12
feet long, recommended by Mullins, and note the result.
With regard to the insulation on glass tumblers stopping the motion
of the twig, the same result was found by Col. Waring's gardener (see
No. 5). It seemed desirable, therefore, to make a decisive experiment
to test this electrical belief held by nearly every dowser. Through
Col. Waring's kindness I was enabled to do so, and paid a visit to his
beautiful estate for this purpose. The result I have given in the
theoretical discussion towards the end of this paper ; suffice it to say
that, as might be expected, the inhibitory effect is not due to insulation,
but entirely to the preconceived idea on the part of the dowser.
No. 54.—In Notes and Queries for October 24th, 1896 (8th series,
Vol. X., p. 345), occurs the following evidence from Mr. Leeson
Prince, F.R.A.S.
The Observatory, Crowborough Hill, Sussex.
The Divining Rod.—I must confess that I have been converted to belief
in the power of the divining rod, and for the following reasons. Some eight
or nine years since a stranger called upon me respecting a contemplated local
xxxi I.] On the So-called Divining Rod. HI
improvement, and upon leaving me he said that he was a person who made
use of the divining rod to find water. I took him into my garden and asked
him to point out where water would be found. After wandering about over
nearly an acre of ground, he came to a spot which he said would be
successful. He then left me, and I thought no more of it. About three
years since, a lady bought this property of me, and, having a large establish
ment, she was rather apprehensive of not finding a sufficient water supply.
I pointed out to her the spot where it had been stated to me that water
would be found. She did not, however, pay much attention to this, and dug
for water in another part of the property ; but she was not successful.
Without having any further conversation with me, she sent for a "diviner,"
who, after walking about in various directions (and without her having
mentioned to him what the other person had said), told her that she would
find abundance of water if she dug down at a certain place which was within
a yard of the same spot which the former person had pointed out. She
accordingly acted upon his information, and at a depth of rather less than
twenty feet she found an ample supply. When the lady saw the twig point
downwards in the man's hand, she expressed a wish to try if it would act in
the same way in her hand ^ which, of course, it did not. He then told her
that if he put his hand upon hers it would, which it accordingly did. I may
say that I report this case from personal information of the facts. Only a
few weeks since I heard of another successful case, in an adjoining parish,
precisely similar to the above in every particular.
C. Leeson Prince.
I wrote to Mr. Prince for further information and he replies as
follows :—
The Observatory, Crowborough Hill, Sussex,
October 26th, 1896.
The lady I mentioned is Mrs. Gresson, and her property lies between
my observatory and Dr. Roberts', F.R.S. The dowser who came to her
was J. Mullins, from Colerne, who, I believe, is now dead.
C. Leeson Prince.
No. 55. —The following is taken from The Garden of April 11th,
1885. The writer is Mr. Crump, of Madresfield Court, Malvern :—
Many successes in finding water on Earl Beauchamp's estates could be
named ; in fact, not a single failure is known. Amongst the most recent
consultations with Mullins was one concerning a well that had been sunk
116 feet without finding water. Mullins selected a spot a few yards distant,
where, at a depth of 50 feet, an inexhaustible supply was found by him.
He again selected a spot, naming water at 30 feet deep, and it was found at
27 feet. Many other instances could be mentioned, and so certain is he of
his power that he offers to dig the wells without charge if proved wrong in
his judgment.
Mullins was engaged to find some water on an estate at Madresfield last
week, and on the day before his visit we prepared for him a series of severe
tests. No. 1 was to send him into a field which he had never seen before,
in which a six-inch socket glazed pipe drain conveyed a stream of water to
O
82 [PART
Professor W. F. Barrett.
supply the moat. On the surface there was not the slightest trace of this
drain, the depth of which was about three feet. All being in readiness,
Mullins commenced to cast about with his twig, when, to every one's
astonishment, the moment he came upon, or over the water, up went the
twig to the perpendicular. He further proved the exact subterranean
position of the drain again and again. No. 2 test was similar to the last,
but the pipes in this case were of iron rather deeper. Nevertheless the
result was equally satisfactory ; of course every member of the party tried
to use the rod, but amongst them only one young lady had any influence
over it.
Madresfiekl Court is the property of Earl Beauchamp, and Mr.
Crump is the head gardener. In reply to my enquiries, Mr. Crump
writes as follows :—
The Gardens, Madresfield Court, Malvern,
Febnutry 22nd, 1897.
The enclosed [i.e., the above] account is strictly accurate, and could be
corroborated by the Rev. G. S. Munn, of this parish, and by several others.
Our tests were deeply planned, but Mullins was always correct. He has
been employed here on many occasions since. I became a convert against
my will, and so did others. Some of us held the hind part of the twig when
in Mullins' hands, and wo could feel the strong power of the twig to rise
erecfc- . ... W. Crump.
In a; subsequent iletter Mr. Crump writes to me as follows : —
„ , Thp Gardens, Madresfield Court, Malvern,
; . February 27th, 1897.
Mullins must be seen at actual work before scepticism can be entirely
overcome. ' .
The Rev. Mr. Munn and myself prepared the test, unknown to Mullins,
who, in fact, was unaware he was being tested. The first test was to send
him across a part of"the pleasure grounds, where we know lay six inch glazed
earthenware pipes, conveying [running] water. As these pipes did not lie in
the direction that a person would expect, judging from the surface, the test
was a fairly " dodgey " one ; but the moment Mullins' twig readied the
point where the pipes lay, up went the twig, and Mullins there and then
said what was quite true, and pointed out, with the help of the little twig
(previously cut from the nearest bush), the exact course of the water. He
also was tried over other (iron and lead) pipes, very deep in the ground, all
with the same result. He told us also of springs of water in various parts of
the fields that he tried for us, but we couldn't prove this.
Mullins was such an unassuming man, and was most willing and
communicative to all. Ho showed us how glass insulated him i
W. Crump.
' Mr. Crump then describes how the twig would not move when Mullins was
insulated, which, as already explained, is merely due, in all probability, to the
influence of a preconceived idea.—W. F. B.
XXXII.] On the So-called Divining Rod.
I wrote to the Rev. G. S. Munn, and he lrindly replied as follows :—
Madresfield Rectory, Malvern, February 24th, 1897.
In reply to queries respecting Mullins and water-finding, I may say that
I was told off to test Mullins on his first visit to Madresfield. Snow was on
the ground two or three inches deep, entirely obliterating all external
indications of water. Knowing the locality well, I took him alone in a line
across two places beneath which water ran. One of these had been laid down
so many years before that I believe it was known only to myself. In both
cases the rod turned up exactly on the spot. I won't trouble [you] with other
instances where, as in the above, all collusion and deception was quite
impossible, except to say that on one of Lord Beauchamp's farms, which had
been very short of water for many years, after much searching, he indicated
a spot where water would be found at, so far as I remember, from 20 to 30
feet below the surface. A well was sunk through the rock ; the water was
found, and I believe there has been an ample supply since.
On the last occasion Mullins was here, a considerable number of persons
came to see his performances ; many tried to see if they had the power.
When all had failed, I persuaded one of my daughters to take the rod, and to
my great surprise, it acted in her hands as well as in Mullins'. She has used
her power on some few occasions to find water for friends, and also to
convince those who have doubted the possibility—as I did, entirely, before I
was convinced.
If you saw the rod act when in the hands of those who have the power,
you would see at once that no possible action of the hands could produce the
results. I shall be happy to answer any further questions ; or, if you should
be in these parts, you can see for yourself. ' Gporge S, Mjwjr.
P.S.—Since writing the enclosed, I have been talking to my daughter,
and she thinks that her power, from some cause, or other, has considerably
decreased. . . -
No. 56.—I am.indebted to my friend Mr. W. R. Bruce (one of the
Masters in the Queen's Bench Division of the High Court of Justice
in Ireland), for.a record of a similar experiment he also tried with
Mullfns.-' Master Bruce writes to me its follows:—
. i.i i t >I v ' Rockford, Blackrock, Co. Dublin, May 6th, 1897.
I engaged Mullins to come hero for a day on his way back from my
brother's, where I had seen him try for water. To' test his powers I took
him'into my yard, across which a small pipe ran underground, supplying the
housewith water from the main. Before doing this I turned the cock and
stopped 'the flow of' water. " Mullins passed the pipe and the rod gave no
sign. 'While 'he "and the persons about htm were engaged in this, I went
into the house unobserved, and having turned on the cock suggested his
again making a circuit of tire yard. He did so, and when he crossed the
pipe, the rodJ turned Up, the water then not being stagnant, but flowing
through the pipe. • There were certainly no signs in the yard to show that a
pipe had been -laid "under the ground, and I am convinced there was no
audible-sound of running water, and nothing in my action to give Mullins
any hint on the aubject.
G 2
84 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
I put him to another test ; he said that gold had the same effect as water.
While he was in the house getting his dinner, I went out and hid half-a-
sovereign in the ground on the marked line of a tennis ground. I am
certain no one saw me do this. I then took him out and told him to try and
find the coin, which was some place under the line. He did find the coin.
I am certain that nothing in my face or manner gave him any indication of
where it was, and it was absolutely impossible for any one to have discovered
it by eyesight. In fact, I had some difficulty in finding the exact spot
myself. I should add that in going round the tennis ground the divining
rod turned up two or three times before Mullins arrived at the spot over the
coin. This he accounted for by saying there was water there, which is quite
comprehensible. ,., „ ,„
v Wm. R. Bruce.
No. 57.—Master Bruce having told me his brother, who lived in
Gloucestershire, had found difficulty in obtaining a water supply until
he employed Mullins, I wrote for particulars, and obtained the
following interesting evidence :—
Norton Hall, Campden, Glo'stershire, April 23rd, 1897.
With reference to Mullins, it is about 12 years since he came here. I
believe he had never been here or in the neighbourhood before. We sunk at
three places pointed out by him, and got water at each of them. The
sub-soil here is blue lias clay, and goes down a great depth. A friend of
mine, who bored near here five or six years ago got down over 1,200 feet
before he got through the clay ; this clay is quite impervious to water, the
neighbouring hills are oolite brash.
This house is built on a levelled or terraced slope. When Mullins first
got to work at the hall door, before he had gone 10 yards he stopped and
said there was water there, but it was not a convenient place to sink, so we
went on. It was some time before he got to another place, which was in the
stable yard ; there he said we would find water at about 30 feet. When we
came to sink, we got to water at about the depth he said, which rose at the
rate of about 6 feet a day (that is, 24 hours) till we had about 20 feet in the
well of about 3 feet diameter. We then tried another place he pointed out,
with a similar result. Then the men who were sinking for me, local men,
said that any one would know how to find water there, that there was water
anywhere along the bank, meaning the slope on which the house stands. I
told them to go and pick a place and try. After some discussion, they sank
close to my lodge ; when they had got 30 feet down they had not got water,
and they said there was no use going further, as they were then down into
the blue clay ; at the end of a week there were not 6 inches of water in
that well.
We then tried another place that Mullins had marked close to the house,
and about 20 yards from the place where he first stopped by the hall door.
Mullins had told us we would find a very strong spring here, about 20 feet
down. When we got about 12 feet down, we got signs of water, and when
we got 17 feet the water came so fast the men could not sink any further ; it
was a case of getting out three buckets of water to one of clay.
XXXII.] 85
On the So-called Divining Rod.
The men that were sinking had up to now rather scoffed at Mullins'
theories, but now the head man said, " This man must know something more
than we do after all, for this water is coming through a vein of gravel not
bigger than my hat, and if we had been three feet one side or other of it we
would not have got a drop ; " these men were well sinkers by trade. This
well did not hold out when we got a long spell of dry weather, and I always
think that there is an underground connection between it and the well in the
stable yard, and also with another one in the house yard, and this well being
the shallowest of the three gives out ; probably the vein of gravel runs on
and connects with the others. Once, in a very dry time,—1887, I think,—it
was the well in the stable yard failed, and we had a lot of water from a pond
tilled into it ; we found that the well in the hoitse yard rose as we filled into
the one in the stable yard, and the water was dirty like pond water. I don't
think I can give you any more information on the matter.
Mullins also found a half-sovereign that I had buried in a walk we were
then making. I would have lost the half-sovereign if it had not been for
him, as I was so careful not to put any mark lest he might notice that I was
not able to find the place myself, and when he stopped and said it was under
his foot, 1 thought he was wrong, but there it was ! g Bruce
In reply to my enquiries Mr. Bruce writes :—
Norton Hall, Campden, Glo'stershire, April 29th, 1897.
Yes, certainly, this neighbourhood is very badly watered, and springs
few and far between, at least those that are known to exist. As I mentioned,
we are on the blue lias clay, and in one case this was found to go to a depth
of over 1,200 feet. I have not the exact figures of the boring, but I think
it was 1,250 feet of clay, and then they went on over 100 feet more and got
no water that they could utilise. S gruCE
The finding of the half-sovereign in both these cases, as elsewhere,
must be considered in connection with the specific experiments made
in this direction, to be related later on. Though the foregoing are
certainly striking successes, I see no reason to doubt the explanation
already given, which is discussed more fully on a subsequent page.
No. 58.—The next case is quite as remarkable as Mr. Christie-
Miller's experience. Here also the best advice was obtained and some
£1,000 spent fruitlessly searching for an underground spring prior to
the dowser's visit. The first notice of this case appeared in a local
newspaper, the West Sussex Times and Sussex Standard, from which the
following letter is reprinted : —
Warnham Lodge, Horsham, January 3rd, 1893.
Having had very great difficulty in the supply of water to this house, I
sent for John Mullins, of Colerne, near Chippenham, who, by the aid of a
twig of hazel, pointed out several places where water could be found. I
have sunk wells in four of the places, and in each case have been moat
successful.
86 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
It may be said that water can be found anywhere —this is not my ex
perience. I have had the best engineering advice and have spent many
hundreds of pounds, and hitherto have not obtained sufficient water for my
requirements, but now I have an abundant supply.
1 certainly should not think of sinking another well without previously
consultmg John Mullins. Hkney Hakben.
Further details of this case are given later under the head of
The Horsham Experiments.
No. 59.—Having heard from Mr. Harben that a neighbour of his
at Horsham had sunk two wells with very poor results, but that an
abundant supply had been obtained at a spot indicated by Mullins, I
wrote for particulars, and received the following letter from the owner
of the estate in question : —
Hedgecocks, near Horsham, Sussex, May 3rd, 1897.
There were two wells previously, but only land springs, about 27 feet
deep, and apt to get dry. I then employed Mullins, and sank a well at a
place where he said I should find water. The result was I found a good
supply at about 26 feet. The water was found within 6 inches of where
Mullins divined it.
I have employed him since with equal success with three wells.
William Renton.
No. 60.—The following is from Mr. F. Bastable, 14, Foskelt Road,
Fulham, and appeared in the Carpenter and Builder, of September 30th,
1892. The contractor of the Somerset and Dorset Railway, Mr. T. A.
Walker, here employed Mullins under the following circumstances :—
At the Shepton Mallet Station, on that line, it was decided to sink a well
close to the rails to supply water for the locomotives. We had sunk a depth
of 250 feet entirely through blue lias rock as dense and hard as possible, and
as dry ns a bone, and began to look upon it as a forlorn hope, when Mr.
Mullins was mentioned as a man likely to help us in the matter. After
much hesitation and fear lest it should turn out to be a hoax—we were very
incredulous—it was decided to ask the advice of Mr. Mullins, who came at
once, and with very little trouble discovered for us close at hand that for
which we had sought so long. . . . The most favourable spot was found
to be about 50 feet from our well. Mr. Mullins, from his observations of
the action of the forked twig, advised us to commence and drive a heading
about 50 feet down the well, and under [where the twig turned] we should
have abundance. This was done, and when at that spot our miners had to
rush out and up for their lives, leaving behind them their steel drills,
hammers, clothes, etc. The well soon filled up, and when we left in 1879
the water was within 12 feet of the surface. _
We procured two pairs of smith's tongs to see if the twigs did actually
twist, and held them in a tight grip, with one pair securing the tips and the
XXXII.] 87
On the So-called Divining Rod.
other the fork, but the contortions still went on between the points held.
What the power consists of I am still at a loss to conceive ; but this I know,
not one of us present at the operation had any doubts afterwards as to his
ability in discovering water in the earth.
In a letter to the Daily Graphic for March 30th, 1892, Mr. T. J.
Hickes, of Truro, describes this same case. He writes from a personal
knowledge of the facts, but both he and Mr. Bastable appear to write
from memory, and it is, therefore, not surprising that the figures they
give do not quite correspond. Mr. Hickes remarks that the water was
found exactly at the spot Mullins predicted and came with such force
that the well sinkers had to fly and leave everything. Mr. Hickes adds,
" I have used the divining rod on many occasions myself to find and
trace springs and thus been able to be of benefit to others."
Mr. F. J. Clark, F.L.S., who lives in Somerset, and kindly sent me
one or two cases in Group 1, writes to say he is well acquainted with
the foregoing facts, which came to his knowledge at the time they
occurred, his father being then a director of the line. Mr. Clark
adds :—,
I went to see my father on receipt of your letter, and he tells me that the
account you have printed [as above] is correct, though his impression is that
the well was not quite so deep.i My father proposed their having a dowser
from the first, but the contractor laughed at the idea ; however, afterwards
he was very sorry he had not taken my father's advice at the beginning.
No. 61.—I have to thank Mr. Clifford Gibbons for the following
interesting case :—
Great Walstead, Lindfield, Haywards Heath,
January 7th, 1897.
In reply to your letter, I have much pleasure in giving you particulars of
the success of Mr. Mullins in finding water on my estate.
Three old welis, 20 feet apart, sunk without the dowsing rod, are 50 feet
deep and communicate with each other by means of a tunnel. About 150
yards to the west of these, and at the spot indicated by Mr. Mullins, a large
supply of water was found at a depth of 30 feet, and with much difficulty the
well was sunk another 15 feet. There are two wells both about 50 feet from
the above, one being to the north- and the other to the south-east ; the
latter is a very old farm well. When these two wells are dry, as they wore
last season, Mr. Mullins' well stood at 12 feet of water, ami at least 1,000
gallons a day were pumped out. The three wells first mentioned were
pumped once or twice a week, but gave only a little water.
The most remarkable thing to me is, that when Mr. Mullins was survey
ing the ground with his rod, I tried it myself without any result, but on
going over it again with my wrists held by him the twig rose in my hands in
the same manner as it had done in his.
i On further enquiry, Mr. Clark informs me the depth was 100 feet.
88 [PAUT
Professor W. F. Barrett.
The thing is altogether a mystery to me, but certainly if I were to sink
another well, 1 should get Mr. Mullins to select the snot, as I have (pent
very large sums of money almost fruitlessly before 1 knew him.
Any further particulars you may desire, I shall be pleased to give you.
S. Clifford Gibbons.
Writing again to Mr. Clifford Gibbons, I asked him to give me the
exact depth, distance apart, and relative level and position of the wells.
Mr. Gibbons replied as follows :—
Great Walstead, Lindfield, January 20th, 1897.
The accompanying rough sketch plan shows the relative position of the
six wells on my estate at Lindfield.
Noitth.
05
West. SO-™ - * W East.
1
SOL'TH.
Nos. 1,2, 3, are the old wells about 50 feet deep. Nos. 4 and 5 wells
are about 28 feet deep, the surface level of these west wells being about one
foot higher than those at the east. No. 6 well is the one made by Mullins.
It was commenced in October, 1893 ; abundant water was found at 30 feet
deep, but it was sunk to 45 feet.
Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, were almost dry in September and October last,
but No. 6 well stood with about 12 to 16 feet of water in it, and supplied all
the water that was required. s Clifford Gibbons.
This remarkable case would be still more instructive if Mr. Clifford
Gibbons would sink either No. 4 or 5 well two or three feet lower, and
see if the supply found in No. 6 would be reached. I wrote to ask
Mr. Gibbons if this could be done as a matter of scientific interest, but
he replies it is impossible at present, "as it might disturb all the
pumping arrangements I have, which are most satisfactory, and the
supply of water excellent from Mullins' well."
No. 62.—The next is from Mr. E. G. Allen.
Highfield, Metheringham, Lincoln, March 2Uh, 1893.
Having frequently availed myself of Mr. John Mullins' services during
the last 20 years, I can say I have never known him to fail. I have sunk six
wells, two on a heath farm about 30 feet deep (surrounding wells measuring
XXXII.] 89
On the So-called Divining Rod.
about 70 feet) in limestone rock, thus saving a great expense in sinking. I
took him one morning to a farm which was at that time fanned by the
owner, the Right Hon. H. Chaplin, M.P. The well in the yard (nearly
always dry) was about 30 feet deep, and water had to be led some distance
from the Carr Dyke. In a few minutes, Mullins, carrying in his hand his
twig, found a good spring a very short distance from the old well. A new
well was sunk, and at 10 feet a splendid supply of water was found. It has
never failed, and has supplied the yards, etc., with water ever since.
Being in want of water for a large grass field, called "Catley Abbey
Field," I went with Mullins, who placed down a peg to denote a spring. We
sank a well, and bored 70 feet, obtaining a good supply of water. Being
struck with a peculiarity in the taste, it was submitted to Professor Attfield,
Ph.D., who pronounced it to be the only natural seltzer spring in the kingdom.
E. G. Allen.
No. 63.—There is an interesting sequel to this case. The Lincolnshire
Chronicle of June 8th, 1895, contains a long report of a visit of Mr.
H. W. Mullins, the son of John Mullins, to Catley Abbey. The
newspaper report, which I have abridged, is as follows :—
The object of the Catley Abbey Company in sending for Mr. Mullins was
to secure a well of pure water for bottle washing. A well on the adjoining
farm of Mr. Allen had run dry, and recently the seltzer water had been
used for the purpose of bottle washing. Eight years ago Mr. J. Mullins,
the father of the family, located the spot at Catley,where now stands the only
natural seltzer spring in Britain, and the Company had ample evidence of
the success which had attended the diviner in other directions. Proceeding
to the site of the dried up well, Mullins took out a V shaped twig, the forks
of which were each about a foot long, and walked slowly along the ground a
short distance from the well. Suddenly the twig revolved, having the apox
at the top, and Mullins confidently asserted that he was standing over a
subterranean water-course. Proceeding to the other side of the well he
traced, or professed to trace, the course of the hidden stream, and marked a
spot contiguous to the buildings, where he asserted a good spring would be
tapped at a depth of from 120 to 130 feet, and he advised that a well should
be sunk there.
It was told to Mullins that his father asserted the seltzer spring flowed
under a hedge on the other side of the field, in which we were then standing,
and he was asked to indicate the place. Starting at one end of the field he
walked close by the hedge side. He had gone about 100 yards when the
twig began to play, and digging his heel in the ground, he thus marked the
spot. Mr. Allen, who was present when Mullins, senr., also located the
spring, sent a man for a spade, and a stake was dug up, which eight years
ago was driven in by Mr. Allen to mark the place. Mullins, junr., had
touched the spot exactly.
The same newspaper of August 23rd, 1895, announces the result
of digging in the spot indicated as follows :—
Our readers will remember that a few weeks ago our columns contained
an article relative to the finding of water at Catley Abbey by means of hazel
90 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
twigs in the hands of Mr. Mullins, the eminent "dowser." We are now
able to state that a well having been sunk in the position indicated by Mr.
Mullins, a valuable supply of water has been obtained, and that at a depth
of about five feet less than mentioned by him.
I sent Mr. Allen the foregoing account, and asked if it were correct,
he replies that "it is perfectly accurate, the facts being most interesting,
and occurred as stated in the letter and newspaper report."
No. 64.—The Bath Chronicle (date missing) gives the following
account :—
Captain A. K. Barlow, who recently purchased an estate near Braintree,
Essex, had made several borings for water, but without the desired result,
and he had reluctantly made up his mind to sell the property and leave the
neighbourhood ; but, being strongly urged to try the divining rod, he,
without having much faith in the efficacy of the powers of the hazel twig,
resolved to send for Mr. Mullins. Mullius came, and next morning walked
up and down a portion of the estate with his hazel twig before him, and
eventually marked a spot about 250 yards from an empty well. Mullins
remarked that this spot was the very best place to sink a well, and if it was
bored 50 feet a capital supply of water would be found. Captain Barlow set
men on to dig a well at the place marked, and they have, at a distance of 34
feet from the surface, dug right into a fine body of water in a gravelly soil.
I wrote to Captain Barlow for confirmation of the above state
ments, which I enclosed, and he replies :—
Wivenhoe Hall, Essex, February 24th, 1897.
I can only say that the report, as printed, is perfectly true and accurate.
1 have since sold Lynden Wood. The supply of water there is unfailing and
constant. Lynden Wood also stands on the top of one of the highest points
of land ill this county. 1 remember noticing that Mullins had hard
callosities on his hands just where the hazel twigs fitted between his fingers,
and seemed to be in a very highly nervous state when operating with the twigs.
Alexander Barlow.
No. 65.—The following letter from Mr. W. D. Little, estate
agent to the Earl of Jersey, is addressed to Mr. J. Mullius : -
Estate Office, Middleton Park, Bicester, Oxon,
August 20th, 1890.
In reply to your letter of inquiry, I have much pleasure in informing
you that since August, 1884, I have had upwards of 25 wells dug on sites
where you had found springs by means of the dowsing rod, and in every
instance an abundant and unfailing supply of water has been obtained.
These wells have been sunk on the estates of the Earl of Jersey in the
counties of Oxfordshire, Warwickshire, and Middlesex, and on the Charter
house Estate in Wiltshire. I send you a copy of a letter which appeared
in Farm and Home in 1885.
W. D. Little.
XXXII.] 91
0)1 the So-called Divining Rod.
The following is the letter Mr. Little addressed to the journal he
names :—
As it may, perhaps, interest some of the readers of Farm and Home,
I venture to send a statement of the practical results of seven wells sunk
during the autumn of 1884 on the Earl of Jersey's estate at Middleton
Park, near Bicester, Oxon, on sites located by John Mullins, of Colerne,
Chippenham, Wilts, by means of the dowsing rod. I may preface the
following statement by saying that the unprecedented drought of last year
was most severely felt in Oxfordshire, and water had to be carted a consider
able distance at great expense for several months, for all descriptions of
stock. Mullins' search for water was made during the last week in August,
1884, and the smking of the wells was proceeded with as soon after as
possible.
No. 1 was sunk 22 yards from a well sunk in 1879, which had proved to
be useless even for supplying two cottages only. At a depth of 18 feet an
abundant supply of water was obtained on the spot selected by Mullins.
No. 2 was also sunk to substitute a well made in 1879, which, although in a
position likely to yield plenty of water, had turned out useless. At a
distance of 60 yards from the old well, the new well, sunk on a site selected
by Mullins at a depth of 12 feet G inches, yielded more water than two
ordinary portable pumps would keep down, the continued drought not
seeming to affect it in any way. No. 3 was a well that had gone dry, and
was deepened on the strength of Mullins' recommendation with a satis
factory result. No. 4, a well sunk to supply the mansion with drinking
water ; it is 49 feet deep, and has an excellent spring with the water
standing about 25 feet deep in the well, the diameter of which is of large
size. It is proposed to further iucrease the inflow of water by boring at
some later period. No. 5 sunk to supply two cottages. Although situate
in a district proverbially dry and badly off for water, a good supply was
found at a depth of 30 feet. No. 6—this is perhaps the most remarkable
well of the seven alluded to in this notice. At a depth of 13 feet 6 inches
a spring (whose existence was not even suspected) was found that has been
proved, after being tested by steam pumps for several days, to yield between
20,000 and 30,000 gallons of water per diem ; and this after an abnormally
low rainfall during the year. No. 7—at a depth of 18 feet an abundant
supply has been found, and, like the wells Nos. 1 and 2, has been sunk to
substitute a well that cannot be relied upon.
W. D. Little.
No. 66. —Among Mr. Edmund Ourney's papers were found several
communications on dowsing. Here are two which relate to Mullins.
The first is from Mr. Henley of Oxford.
Waterperry House, Oxford, January 2nd, 1887.
Having heard from Lord Jersey that Mullins had been successful in
finding water on his estate in the previou year, and that his wells (eight in
number) had stood the test of the late exceptional summer, I requested
Mullins to come here for one day only to search for water on two farms that
92 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
had been without any water for months, with the exception of one pond fed
by a gravel spring.
(I) Mullins commenced at Park farm, situated on the clay, with gravel
one field distant ; he marked two spots where his stick indicated water : 1,
near the house (clay), 2, near the pond before mentioned ; result, water
found near the pond at No. 2, but no water in bore of 30 feet at No. 1. The
house is vacant, and having found water in one place I did not persevere
at No. 1.
(II) Baker's farm—no water all summer, two places marked ; water in both
at bore hole about the depth indicated, well thereupon sunk ; result,
excellent supply. (Ill) Baker's house in village—present well in clay, no
spring : place marked by Mullins near the existing well, bored between
30 and 40 feet without success, but I did not persevere as the other wells in
the village are well supplied. (IV) Entrance Lodge—well sunk at place
indicated—ample supply.
About fifty people, men, women, and children, tried the rod without
success, with the exception of a young lady who was on that day and
subsequently able to deflect the rod in the same manner as Mullins, though
it appeared to have an injurious effect upon her nerves and this, I am told,
is commonly the case.
Mullins has lately been employed by Messrs. Franklin Bros., the well-
known land agents, to find water at Charndon, Bucks, on the estate of
Mr. Wykeham Musgrave, and has been there eminently successful. You
ask me to mention failures and I am only in a position to quote one in this
neighbourhood, i.e., at Colonel Miller's on the top of Shotover Hill, where
they are said to have gone to considerable expense without finding water,
but it is only fair to Mullins to suggest that the depth of search was
insufficient.
I was a disbeliever before seeing the experiment on my estate, but the
evidence of my own eyes convinced me of its practical utility.
I tested Mullins by taking him over springs of which I alone was aware,
and to other spots where I knew no springs existed, and he was in both
instances correct.
J. J. Henley.
No. 67.—The next letter is from Mrs. Burton, of Shrewsbury :—
Longner Hall, Shrewsbury, January 3lst, 1888.
On December 22nd, 1887, we sent for Mr. Mullins, the water-finder.
He was driven from the railway station to the Weir Hill farm, where water
has been scarce (and sometimes altogether absent) from time immemorial ;
and the consulting engineer thought it useless to make any further
search.
Mr. Mullins having cut a number of twigs from nut trees, hold one by
the two prongs and proceeded to walk over a field ;—it sprung up suddenly
and broke; he said, "there is water at a depth of 60 feet." He then
followed the spring up a ploughed field and marked the spot where we were
to dig. He said we should find a strong spring from 35 to 45 feet down, but
if we failed at that depth we were to go on ; he then took his fee and
departed. We sunk to a depth of 45 feet and began to despair and doubt
XXXII.] 93
On the So-called Divining Rod.
Mr. Mullins' powers extremely. However, we went on through a seam of
coal, when suddenly, at 48 feet, the water rushed in and is now 29 feet in
dePUL C. I. Burton.
Mr. Gurney thereupon wrote to Mrs. Burton the following letter,
which I quote as an illustration of the vast amount of letter writing
that he undertook, and the admirable way he seized the main issue of
an investigation.
26, Montpelier Square, S.W., February oth, 1888.
Dear Madam,—Very many thanks for your account of the water-finding.
But one would need to know one thing. Had there been ever digging to as
great a depth as 48 feet before ? If not, we cannot be sure that water might
not have been found at numbers of other places, had the digging been
continued to that depth ; and so the evidential value of the case is left
doubtful. Would you kindly let me know this ? and believe me, yours very
truly' Edmund Gurney.
Mrs. Burton replies :—
Yes, we had dug before deeper than 48 feet, about 200 yards nearer the
farmhouse 50 years ago and some water unfit for use was found. Last year
we sank a very deep well also near the house ; blasting through the rock we
came to what is called a " pocket " of water and all the water disappeared
and the well remained dry, the foul gas being too strong to continue the
work- C. I. Burton.
Mr. Gurney's letter happens to be preserved, as Mrs. Burton
attached it to her reply.
No. 68.—The Bristol Times and Mirror of October 9th, 1888, con
tains the account of water finding by Mullins at Cirencester, " under
circumstances of great interest " according to the newspaper report :—
Some farm buildings at Bagendon, occupied by Mr. J. Hayward, had no
water supply, except the runnings from the roofs. The buildings stand on
the summit of the rolling Cotswold district, the ground level being on a level
with Cirencester church tower, and 144 feet above the road from Cirencester
to Cheltenham. Mullins undertook to sink a well, the depth he estimated
as necessary being from 70 to 80 feet ; whereas owners of house property in
the vicinity situated on much lower levels have sunk from 120 to 150 feet,
and then often failed to keep a supply of water in dry weather. By the
terms of the contract, Mullins is to receive a certain stated sum on finding a
supply of water, but if he fails he receives no payment whatever. His men
have now been at work for seven or eight weeks, and have sunk just over 70
feet through the rock without coming to water, but they entertain no anxiety
as to the result. The termination of the undertaking is being looked forward
to with interest.
A subsequent report informs us that the men sunk the well to a
depth of 101 feet, when an abundant supply of water was obtained
94 Professor W. F. Barrett. [part
standing 1 1 feet in the well. This case is quoted to show the absolute
faith Mullins had in dowsing, as tested by a heavy pecuniary loss had
he failed.
No. 69.—In the Bath Natural History and Field Club Proceedings
for 1889 (Vol. VI., p. 411), is a lengthy paper on the divining rod, by-
Mr. T. Forder Plowman. In this paper the author gives the evidence
of his friend, Mr. W. J. Brown, of Middlehill House, Box, Wilts,
a gentleman occupying a high position in the county, and a member
of the council of several public bodies. Mr. Brown states (p. 415) : —
I employed Mullins to try for water near Box, the only well near, which
was 180 feet deep, being often out of water from September to December
after a dry summer. Mullins marked the track of four different springs,
one of which, he said, was rather stronger than the others. I asked him
how.deep the best spring was under the surface, and he said about 110 feet.
I then directed Mullins to search for an old well, which, when I was a lad,
my father had discovered in an open quarry at the time the Box tunnel was
being made. Although it had been filled up many years ago and there were
no outward signs of it, I had an opinion as to where it was and directed
Mullins to try. They worked all day, but came upon no trace of it, and
the general opinion was that I was mistaken as to the spot. However, [
ordered them to go on in the same direction next day, and in the afternoon,
after working a little more westward, they suddenly came upon the well,
and, on examining, wo found that the marks Mullins had made in the first
place to denote the position of the strongest spring pointed exactly into the
centre of the well. [In another communication Mr. Brown says they found
the depth of the old well to be TO feet, and that he contracted with Mullins
to sink it 50 feet deeper.] I then directed him to sink down further for
water, and strange to say, at 111 feet, viz., within a foot of the distance ho
had stated at first, we found the spring come in, and just where he had
marked it. The well now supplies twenty cottages and if, in a very dry
season, they draw all the water out by night, there is plenty again the next
morning.
Whilst this work was in progress, some friends and myself arranged to
test Mullins' capacity for discovering metal. In his absence we took ten
stones off the top of a wall, and having placed them on the road, we
deposited a sovereign under three of them. Mullins passed his rpd over
the top of each stone, and without the slightest hesitation, told us at once
under which stones the sovereigns were. When he came to a stone under
which there was no sovereign, he at once said, " Nothing here, master," but
when he got to the others, he remarked, " All right, master, thankee," turned
the stone over and put the sovereign in his pocket.
He afterwards tried for water on the Cottle's House Estate, the then
owner, Dr. Parfitt, being very anxious to obtain it, as there was none on the
ostate. Mullins, however, tried in vain, and, having given it up as a bad
job, was leaving for home, when just as he passed the front of New House
Farm, with his rod in his hand, it suddenly-indicated the presence of water
XXXII.] 95
On the So-called Divining Rod.
He at once said there was a strong spring at a depth of only about 18 feet
below the surface. He sank a well on the spot, and the water was found at
the depth he stated. [In another letter Mr. Brown says the depth of the
well was 20 feet.] The tenant told me it is capital water, and the supply
never runs short. '
After Mullins has indicated water I have blindfolded him and turned
him round and round, but whenever after this he crossed the spring up went
the rod directly. I conclude by saying I believe in him thoroughly.
The author, Mr. Plowman, bears testimony " to the open and
straightforward manner of Mullins, and that he is without any of the
outward characteristics of the professional charlatan." In answer to
enquiries Mullins stated to Mr. Plowman that whenever .he is dowsing
and gets over a stream of water he feels a tingling sensation in his
arms like a slight electric shock, and the strength of this sensation
enables him to guess the approximate volume or depth of a spring.
Somewhat similar evidence of the success and accuracy of the dowser's
art was also given to the author of the above paper by Mr. Maiton
Druce, of Abingdon, by Mr. W. D. Little, estate agent to the Earl of
Jersey, (I have referred to this evidence elsewhere, p. 90), by Mr. W.
H. Ashhurst, J.P., of Waterstock, by Mr. F. Webster, of the Queen's
Home Farm at Osborne (whose testimony is endorsed by Mr. A.
Blake, Her Majesty's Steward) ; Mr. Webster discovered to his
surprise that be himself was a good dowser. The author also quotes
at length the remarkable evidential cases furnished by Sir W. E.
Welby Gregory, Bart., and by the Hon. M. E. G. Finch-Hatton, now
the Earl of Winchilsea and Nottingham. (See Nos. 73 and 74).
No. 70.—Another interesting case is given in full by Mr. Fordev
Plowman, on p. 424, Vol. VI., of the Proceedings of the Bath Field
Club. It is from Mr. H. D. Skrine, J.P., D.L., of Claverton Manor,
Bath. Mr. Skrine writes : —
My first acquaintance with the divining rod w>is in January, 18l>5. I had
heard that one John Mullins, a well sinker, who lived at Colerne, had the
gift of finding water by the rod. I sent for him and took him to a field
adjoining the village of Conkwell, where I had thought of building a cottage
as a sort of sanatorium for my wife. On the way he tried the divining rod
several times, and I was aware that in a line below the points where the
twig turned with him, there was a spring in the wood which came to the
surface.. Arrived on the field, the twig turned with him in several places,
and he sset a mark on the wall opposite the spot.
A-JeW days after I asked Mr. Earle, Rector of Monkton Farleigh, to
meet John Mullins and myself on the field on January 20th, 1865 ; as I had
heard that.Mr. Earlc had the gift, and had discovered water by it on his
own land at Monkton Farleigh. He was not aware of the marks on the
wall, but the twig turned with him at the same places as with Mulline ; they
06 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
differed only in the position in the field as to the best place to sink the well,
both being in the same line. The well was sunk, and water was found at
about 80 feet in yellow clay under the rock, but this not being of sufficient
depth and the clay being a thin bed, Mullins went down about 25 feet lower
and came on a good spring in the blue lias.
Mullins afterwards found some springs near the house and traced them
up to the spot where, under the croquet lawn, a spring had been found some
years before. Since then I have employed him at Claverton, and sunk two
wells succesfully, and he has again traced several springs which have been
verified. In two instances where the line of a drain had been lost, he
recovered the spot and was always correct. My two sons, who had watched
the operation, found they also had the gift. I cannot resist the conclusion
that it is a real gift possessed by some persons, and that it may have been a
natural provision to enable men to obtain that very necessary element
(water) when there are no signs above the surface.
The following abstracts of cases already published in our Pro
ceedings are added here for the convenience of the reader :—
No. 71.—Captain Henry Smith, J. P., of Horbling, Folkingham, Lincoln
shire, writing on December 26th, 1882, states that his scepticism as to the
practical value of the indications given by the divining rod, as used by
Mullins, were overcome by what he himself witnessed and describes in full
in Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. II., p. 95, etc. Mullins fixed on certain spots
where water would be found, and again indicated the same spots when
unable to see the previous places. Against Captain Smith's opinion, Mullins
said an abundant supply of water would be found at a particular spot, and
on sinking a well, this was found to be the case. Other evidence is also
given.
No. 72. —Mr. G. Hancock, of Corsham, Wilts, writing on January 23rd,
1883, states he employed Mullins to find the best place for sinking shafts for
mining operations, so as to avoid the inrush of water, which had previously
hindered their work. Mr. Hancock says, " In every case Mullins was
right." (Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. II., p. 96).
No. 73.—Sir Welby Gregory, Bart., formerly M.P., of Denton Manor,
Grantham, writing on January 28th, 1883, states he employed Mullins to
find water for a new country house he was building. As a test, Sir W.
Gregory first tried whether Mullins could find water on the lawn, through a
certain part of which a drain-pipe carried running water ; the exact position
was known to Sir W. G., but not to M. ; the twig instantly moved whenever
M. crossed the drain. After traversing the grounds, Mullins fixed on two
lines, A and B (about 30 yds. apart), where he said water would be found,
from 20 ft. to 30 ft. deep at A, and from 30 ft. to 40 ft. deep at B, the latter
the more copious supply, the former small. A neighbouring hill, which
Mullins thought likely to yield a better supply, was traversed, but no indica
tions of water were given by the rod. Subsequently Sir W. Gregory
consulted an eminent civil engineer, who stated from his geological knowledge
of the country, that the hill was the best place to bore for water, but that none
XXXII.] 97
On the So-called Divining Rod.
would be found at the places indicated in the grounds, A and B, at a less depth
than 120 feet to 130 feet. This opinion was confirmed by another geological
authority. Sir Welby's gardener having found the rod moved in his hands,
tried his skill, and fixed on the same spots as Mullins had done ; the rod, held
by pincers, violently twisted itself over the spots, A and B. Sir Welby
blindfolded the man, and at the same spots again the rod moved. Hence he
decided to sink on both the lines indicated. In one (A), he found water at
20 feet, and in the other (B), as stated by Mullins, a much larger supply at
28 feet. Between the two lines Mullins said there was no water. Sir Welby
sank a shaft midway, and went down 10 to 12 feet deeper than the deepest
well, but found no water, although the formation appeared precisely similar ;
neither well was affected by this trial shaft. This is a striking case, and is
given in full in Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. II., pp. 97-99.
In a speech Sir Welby Gregory made at Grantham (reported in the
Gratttham Journal, September 28th, 1888) ho refers to his experience of the
practical value of the divining rod and remarks that in future he prefers to
trust to the dowser rather than to the geologist in sinking wells.
No. 74.—The Hon. M. E. G. Finch-Hatton, then M.P. (now the Earl of
Winchilsea), writing on February 29th, 1884, from 23, Ennismore Gardens,
S. W.,describes his own experience with Mullins, at HaverholmePriory, a place
Mullins had no previous acquaintance with. (1) Mullins found and traced
the water-supply pipe up to the house, though no indication on the surface
was visible, nor had any information been given to Mullins. (2) He found a
spring on the lawn, the existence of an old well at the very spot being after
wards proved, though unknown at the time. (3) He was unable to find another
water pipe, when the distant tap was nut turned on, but when the water
was running he fixed the spot correctly. Mullins was then blindfolded, and
though led round by a different route, again fixed on the same spot. "At
first he slightly overran it a foot or so, and then felt round, as it were, and
seemed to be led back into the exact centre of influence by the twig. All
present considered the trial conclusive of two things : (1) of the man's perfect
good faith ; (2) that the effect produced on the twig emanated from an
agency outside of himself, and appeared due to the presence of running,
water." (See Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. II., p. 101).
No. 75.—Mr. F. T. Mott, F.R.G.S., whom I know personally, writing
from Bristol Hill, Leicester, states that on his estate at Charnwood Forest
there was no spring water. The formation was metamorphic slate ; several
wells had been sunk, and no water found ; in one case the boring went to
100 feet, but unsuccessfully. Mullins was employed, and by the movement
of the twig, which Mr. Mott states he could not restrain, though he tried to
do so, certain spots were marked. " Anywhere along that line," Mullins
said, "you will find water if you sink about 30 feet." A well was sunk, and
at 28 feet water was found. On sinking to 31 feet, a constant supply, standing
1i feet in the well, has been obtained. (See Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. II.,
p. 100).
I have, after considerable enquiry, met with two or three failures
on the part of Mr. J. Mullins, which are narrated on a later page.
h
9S [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
(0) Mr. H. W. Mullins.
Although no conclusive evidence exists to show that the faculty of
" dowsing " is hereditary, yet in several instances one or more of the
children of notable dowsers do possess the "gift." Mr. H. W. Mullins,
of Colerne, Box, Wilts, son of the late J. Mullins, is a case in point ,
judging from the following cases of his that I have investigated.
No. 76.—Having been informed that Mullins, junr. had been suc
cessful in finding water for a brewery where an old well existed that
was of no use, I wrote to the proprietor, Mr. Bean, and the following
is his reply :—
Wothorpe House, Stamford, May 24th, 1896.
I had Mr. Mullins, the water finder, some time last year down to my
brewery at Ketton, in which there was an old well with only a very small
quantity of water.
Before Mr. Mullins came I had the well covered over so as to completely
conceal it from view. Mr. Mullins walked up my yard and when he came
to the spot marked B on sketch, said, "there is a very strong spring here,
flowing in this direction," marked 0. I then showed him the well, W, and he
said the amount of water we got from it was not as large as the spring he
found at B. He advised me to sink lower, when I should probably top the
spring which, according to him, ran in the direction of the wells. I asked
how many gallons per hour did he think I should find ; he said from 1,000 to
1,500. I did nothing to the well until three months ago, when I sank three
feet lower in the well and tunnelled four feet in the direction of the supposed
spring, when one day the men heard a rumble and a large amount of water
broke in and rapidly rose in the well. I gauged the amount and found it
about 800 gallons per hour (by pump).
W, .site of old well. B, position of
strong spring indicated by Mullins, said to
be flowing in the direction of C. Water
broke into the well at the spot A, when
tunnelling towards B.
This is all I can tell you as to water finding, but if you write to my
friend, Mr. W. Barber, C.E., 22, Buckingham-street, Strand, W.C., he will
give you some more information about water finding at different parts of
the country.
W. Bean.
1!
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 99
Mr. Barber kindly replied to my enquiries and gave me informa
tion that appears elsewhere.
No. 77.—The next letter furnishes a still more striking case of Mr.
H. W. Mullins' success. In answer to my enquiries Mr. Bayley
writes :—
Arnold's, Holmwood, Surrey, December 29th, 1896.
In reply to your communication of the 26th inst., I beg to inform you
when I bought this property 10 years ago there was an old well about 60
feet deep on the premises which was said to have a good supply of water,
but when I came to put it to the test I found it quite inadequate for the
wants of my house, so consulted Messrs. Isler and Co. as to the best means
of increasing the supply. On their advice I got them to bore through the
bottom of the old well to a depth of about 100 feet, making in all about 160
feet, but found no water. Some time after, seeing an account of the divining
rod, I sent for Mullins and he said there was water to be had at about 60
feet deep on the top of a hill 300 yards from the old well. He dug a well on
the site and found water at a depth of 90 feet, and now we have an abundant
supply. Holmwood is 28 miles from London and is under the Surrey Hills.
Edmond K. Bayley.
No. 78.—It is sometimes urged that only springs yielding a limited
supply of water are found by dowsers, who fix on spots where more or less
surface water can be got from shallow wells rather than run the risk
of sinking a deep well. Many of the cases already cited refute this
notion, and the following sent to me in answer to my enquiries bears
on the same point. It is from Messrs. Beamish and Crawford, the
well-known brewers of Cork.
Cork Porter Brewery, Cork, December 30th, 1896.
In reply to your letter of 26th inst. we beg to state :—
1. We had an old well yielding a small supply of water. It was about
30 feet deep.
2. No new well was fixed on by Mullins. He bored down to a depth of
about 60 feet below the bottom of the old well, and therefore about 90 feet
below the surface of the ground.
3. The supply of water now obtained froivi the new pipes sunk by Mullins
is, as nearly as we can estimate, about 10,000 gallons per hour.
Beamish and Crawford, Ltd.
No. 79.—The next letter in answer to my enquiries is from the
Rev. H. F. Ramsay, M.A. :—
Brendon, Lynton, N. Devon, December 30th, 1896.
In reply to your letter of the 26th instant, I beg to state that before
commencing the building of the new rectory at Oare we sunk a well close to
the site of the house to a depth of 28 feet. As hard rock full of fissures was
there met with, and there was no sign of water, we decided to discontinue
the sinking. It was at this stage that we called in Mullins, who went all
h % • -
100 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
over the ground in the usual way holding a hazel twig. He tried about the
site and pronounced our well to be absolutely hopeless ; afterwards he tried
below the site and at the lowest spot on the field he pointed out a place where
we should get 400 gallons a day at 35 feet deep and a big spring at 70 feet.
We soon started to dig and came to a small spring yielding about 200 gallons
at 26 feet. I find the supply insufficient, so I propose to deepen the well
somewhat, as there is not more than three feet of water in it. The new well
is about 40 yards from the old well.
I do not pretend to explain Mullins' modus operandi, but it does appear
to me that he has a marvellous power of finding water underground. To
test him we took him to two fields (far apart from each other), and in each
case he discovered a hidden covered spring, of the existence of which he
could not possibly have been aware beforehand. In the one case the water
was drained off by underground drain tiles into the river Badyworthy, and
in the other the water shows on the surface of the grass only when the
springs burst after prolonged heavy rain. tj p rAMSAy
P.S.— Perhaps I ought to mention that the house is in the Lynn Valley,
but not quite at the bottom of the slope.
No. 80. —Mr. F. T. Elworthy, of Foxdown, Wellington, sends me
the following :—
At the Parsonage Farm, Bishop Nympton, North Devon, the owners had
expended large sums in the hope of finding a better supply of water, but all
to no purpose. At last they determined to avail themselves of the assistance
of Messrs. J. Mullins and Sons, water-finders, of Oolerne, Chippenham,
Wiltshire. Mr. Henry Mullins (one of the firm) visited the farm, and, by
the aid of a twig of hazel, pointed out several places where springs might
be found at depths varying from six feet to twenty-five feet. He succeeded
in finding one six feet deep at a short distance from the farmhouse, and two
more a little further off, from eight to ten feet deep, each of which Mr.
Mullins estimated would produce from 300 to 400 gallons of water per day.—
From North Devon Herald, September 27th, 1894, communicated by Mr.
G. M. Doe to the Devon Association, Vol. XXVIII. (1896) p. 96.
Mr. Elworthy adds :—
Parsonage Farm is well-known to me. It belonged to an uncle of mine
up to and since his death, when it was sold to the present owners.
With reference to the foregoing, Mr. R. S. Crosse, solicitor to the
trustees of the estate, writes as follows :—
25, Broad Street, South Molton, North Devon,
October 16th, 1895.
I am pleased to say that the result of Mr. Mullins' experiments on
Parsonage Farm, Bishop Nympton, Devon, has proved highly satisfactory.
At the second place indicated by Mr. Henry Mullins a well has been sunk
and water found at the exact depth he foretold. His judgment as to the
quantity of water was also quite correct.
Reginald Stawell Crosse.
XXXII.] 101
On the So-called Divining Rod.
I wrote to the present proprietor for further information, and Mr.
Crosse replies :—
25, Broad Street, South Molton, North Devon,
January 6th, 1897.
My tenant, Mr. George Rudd, has handed me your letter, and in reply I
may say that the divining rod as used by Mr. Mullins was a complete success.
I had spent (on behalf of my trustees) a considerable amount for sinking
wells prior to Mr Mullins' visit, and the places indicated by Mr. Mullins
were not far away from where the first sinking operations took place.
I was with him at Oare, near Lynton, and he was just as successful there.
Reg. S. Crosse.
No. 81.—Writing on December 29th, 1896, in reply to my enquiries,
Captain Hobbs states he is the agent for some property nearWarrington,
Cheshire, where a supply of water was obtained by sinking a well at a
spot indicated by the dowsing rod, though several other wells had
previously been sunk unsuccessfully without the use of the rod. In a
subsequent letter, Captain Hobbs gives me the following details :—
8, King-street, Manchester, January 7th, 1897.
I have to-day been able to get all the information about the finding of
water on the farm at Burtonwood, near Warrington. The property is owned
by the executors of the late Wm. Bindloss, and is situated about five miles
from Warrington. Up to the visit of Mr. H. W. Mullins, the farmer had
used the rain water, filtered.
On November 29th, 1895, Mr. H. W. Mullins accompanied me and several
ladies and gentlemen to the place (he had never been in that neighbourhood
before), and after walking over the farmyard, garden, and field near the
house, he fixed on a spot about 50 yards from the house, in the garden, where
he said we should find a supply of water sufficient for the use of the house.
There a well has been sunk, and a supply of from 60 to 70 gallons
(probably more, as we have never pumped it out quite dry) an hour was
found. The water was first found at 40 feet from the surface, but sinking
was continued for 5 feet more (through quicksand). There is now an ample
supply at all times in the well.
In 1880 a well was sunk about 12 yards from the house ; 48 feet were
sunk and 18 feet bored (a total of 66 feet), but no water was found. No
further steps were taken since that date until Mullins' visit.
On the opposite side of the road from the farm in question, in or about
1877, three wells were sunk about 50 feet deep. In two of them no water
was found, and hardly any in the third, but the supply was so small that it
was useless. The farm on which these wells were sunk is in a north-west
direction from the Forest Farm (that is the name of the farm where our well
is), and about 80 to 100 yards distant.
These three wells were all in sand ; our well was through 15 feet of clay,
then sand, and lastly quicksand.
The river nearest to these farms is the Mersey, distant about four miles.
The following were present at the finding of the water [a lengthy list of
names and addresses is here given.]
102 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
We all were, and are, convinced that the operation of the divining rod in Mr.
Mullins' hands was perfectly honest and genuine, as well as very wonderful.
J. C. Hobbs.
Replying to my further enquiries Captain Hobbs writes :—
8, King Street, Manchester, January 2ld, 1897.
The ground all round the house is nearly level. I give below a sketch,
as you wish, of the relative position of the wells ; but I am a bad hand at
drawing.
i
O w
Farm O O W'
O
W. W. W. Three wells sunk in 1877.
F. Farm house.
W. Old well, 12 yards from F. house, and 22 yards deep ; no water.
W". New well, abont 50 yards from F.; good supply.
No. 82.—Another illustration of young Mr. Mullins' faculty is given
in the Warrington Guardian for the last week in April, 1896. The
report states that a Mr. Beck Chadwick, J. P., having sunk borings and
failed to find water, was led to employ Mr. Mullins, who from the
indications given by the dowsing rod fixed on a certain spot, where he
asserted an abundant supply of water would be found at about 70 feet
deep. A well was accordingly sunk, and, at between 50 and 60 feet, a
great inrush of water occurred and a copious supply has been obtained.
The Editor of the Warrington Guardian to whom I applied, referred
me to Mr. Chadwick's agent, Mr. J. Shaw Green, F.S.S., an accountant
at Warrington, who could vouch for the facts. Mr Shaw Green's
reply to my letter is as follows :—
18, King Street, Warrington, January 11th, 1897.
The whole of the circumstances are very familiar to me. The spot is in
the township of Kingsley at a place where a valley runs for a considerable
distance. Two trial borings were made by an eminent firm of well-sinkers
at places selected by them, but without result, and it was upon their failure
that the services of the water diviner were brought in.
In reply to the queries stated in your letter :
1. The facts [in the newspaper report] are correctly stated.
2. Two previous attempts, as stated above, had been made, one of them
immediately before the water diviner was called in. I cannot give the
exac^ depth.
XXXII.] 103
On the So-called Divining Hod.
3. Tho results are set out in the cutting. A well already existed with a
small quantity of water in it at about 35 feet. The distance between place
indicated by water diviner and well is about 18 yards. One of the trial
borings was made at a distance of about 25 yards from the spot indicated by
the diviner.
It is altogether a most interesting case and the full particulars of the
search appeared in the Warrington Guardian, I believe, in the month of
APril k8t. J. Shaw Green.
In reply to my inquiry, Mr. Shaw Green writes :—
18, King Street, Warrington. January 20th, 1897.
The gentleman who made the search for us was the eldest son of J.
Mullins, who died nearly three years ago.
The date of the search was Friday the 24th April, 1896.
I will obtain and send you particulars of the abortive borings, but it may
be a few days before I can do so, for the particulars are at Kingsley and not
in my office. J. Shaw Green.
No. 83.—The Pall MM Gazette of February 20th, 1897, publishes
the following letter from Lord Burton :—
We are situated in Needwood Forest, on the top of a mass of marl thrust
up between the rivers Dove and Trent. Our water is derived from wells
averaging from 140 ft. to 180 ft. deep, and owing to a series of dry years our
supply has recently been very scanty. Our best well gives about 4,000 gallons
in the twenty-four hours.
About three months ago I sent for Mr. Mullins, the well-known water
finder, who walked round the property with a small hazel wand or twig in
his hands. Every now and then the wand seemed to twitch, and he indicated
that water would be found in these places, naming an approximate depth and
probable supply. At last we came to a field where the twig gave indications of
a row of springs, and Mullins informed us that if we sank we should probably
get a supply of nearly 40,000 gallons in the twenty-four hours. We have sunk,
and at 140 feet to 150 feet we have a most abundant supply, quite equal to
what was promised, and we expect to get more by driving adits right and left.
One curious thing was that when the twig was placed in another person's
hands turning towards the ground, on Mullins grasping the hands the twig
slowly turned up ; but this happened only with two out of four persons
experimented on. I cannot explain the phenomenon, but it appears to me
to be perfectly genuine, and certainly in my case the result has been very
successful. Bcrton.
February 18th.
I wrote to Lord Burton asking him whether any wells had been
sunk on his estate unsuccessfully prior to young Mr. Mullins' visit.
His reply is as follows :—
Rangemore, Burton-on-Trent, March 9th, 1897.
I fear I can add no facts to the short letter I sent to the Pall Mall. [Prior
to Mullins' visit] we may have sunk a dozen wells in all, varying from 40 to
104 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
60 yards in depth ; the supply is not copious in any of them ; the stable yard
is the best, about 4,000 gallons in the 24 hours at the most,—this well is
over 60 yards deep. The supply at the new [Mullins] well about half a mile
to the east of the above and about 300 yards below and south of the village,
is so good that we-are going to considerable expense in sinking and putting
down pumps, erecting tank and tower and so forth. Mullins marked five
springs in a line extending over perhaps 30 yards or more. We are driving
side adits from the well and they seem to be producing a quantity of water.
Burton.
No. 84.—The Essex Times of January 29th, 1896, reports : —
Considerable difficulty has been experienced in finding a sufficient supply
of water for the Bower House, Havering, the residence of Mr. A. Money
Wigram, M.P. As Havering stands on very high ground, the only chance of
finding supplementary sources of supply lay in the discovery of the course of
the underground springs. Investigation in this direction by the ordinary
methods having proved fruitless, Mr. W. H. Pemberton Barnes a few days
ago invited Mr. John Mullins. i A field near the top of the hill was selected
as the sphere of operations. Providing himself with the indispensable rod,
Mr. Mullins began by walking slowly across the ground, holding one end of
the rod in each hand with the point downwards, until he came across what he
intimated was an underground spring, when the twig would turn in his hands
in a half-circle. He indicated a certain spot as the place where the spring
was strongest, giving as his opinion that water would be obtained at a depth
of from 30 to 35 feet. Here a shaft was afterwards sunk, but before the
specified depth was reached the water came in so rapidly that operations had
to be suspended, owing to the impossibility of working the pumps fast
enough to keep the well empty.
I wrote to Mr. Money Wigram for further particulars, and the
following is his reply, which has been delayed for the reasons given :—
101, Eaton Square, S.W., May 15th, 1897.
I have left Havering, and for the last few months have been travelling in
the East.
In answer, I would say the first experiment made at Mullins' suggestion
failed through no fault of his. He said, " You will find water [atj 37 feet."
We did, in a shifting bed of sand, but on going 3 feet lower we struck clay
and lost it all. Afterwards he indicated two springs within a few feet of
each other, and both were tapped with success.
I believe in him strongly for surface springs, and should always consult
him were I building cottages, &c., where the supply required is small.
A. Money Wigram.
It will be seen that none of these cases, where Mr. H. W. Mullins
was the dowser, afford such striking evidence on behalf of a dowsing
i This is the name of the firm, but here and elsewhere in this group (•3) the dowser
is the son, Mr. H. W. Mullins.—W. F. B.
xxxn.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 105
faculty as was given by the portion of his father's work that I have
been able to investigate. Though I have not heard of any distinct
failures on the part of the son, beyond wrong estimates of the
depth and volume of the underground water, (if the Richmond
Experiments to be narrated later are excepted), yet this is not
MR. h. W. MULLInS.
surprising, as Mr. Mullins, junr., has not long been engaged at this
particular work. That he has had, or will have, occasional failures
is likely enough, but what proportion they bear to his successes I
have no independent means of ascertaining.
106 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
The Waterford Experiments.
In the group of cases under the head of the late Mr. J. Mullins
will be found a very striking one, No. 52, (p. 77), the particulars of
which were kindly sent to me by Mr. Christie-Miller. Subsequently
my friend Mr. Kilroe, of the Geological Survey of Ireland, told me
of a very similar case occurring at Messrs. Richardson's factory at
Waterford. I begged Mr. Kilroe to put the facts in writing for me,
which he did in the accompanying letter. Afterwards additional
evidence of eye-witnesses was obtained and it then became evident the
case was the same as that sent to me by Mr. Christie-Miller ; this led
to enquiry and it turned out that Mr. Christie-Miller, though not
living at Waterford, is the proprietor of Messrs. Richardson's factory.
As the case is of special importance it will he necessary to give some,
I fear, rather tedious details.
Mr. Kilroe writes :—
Geological Survey of Ireland Office, 14, Hume Street, Dublin,
January 23rd, 1897.
In or about the year 1888, Messrs. Richardson, bacon curers, of Water
ford, required a considerable water supply and got professional advice, based
upon geological grounds, as to where to obtain it by sinking. The amount
procured on sinking proved entirely insufficient. This was surface water,
and when the rock was reached it proved quite dry, giving a worse rather
than a better prospect as the sinking progressed. The strata at the place
are nearly vertical and the bedding much folded.
An English "diviner" was engaged, and to hinder collusion, the chief
clerk of the firm met him at the boat on arrival in Waterford ; who also
brought him to the works. There the diviner was accompanied by the head
of the firm and his staff of clerks, as he went around the premises. He
carried in his two hands a forked hazel twig, holding a branch of the fork in
each hand, the stem extending from him in front horizontally. He almost
immediately came to a spot over which the rod bent slightly and quite
spontaneously, as well as could be observed. This spot was marked and the
search continued. Similar indications appeared at two or three other
places. At one, the effect was so manifest that the rod twisted completely
round and broke .'—also of its own accord. (The man had several of these
rods with him.) The firm sank at one of the places indicated and obtained a
copious supply of water.
Mr. Budd, a local amateur geologist, ascertained the above particulars
and communicated all to Mr. Clark, of the Irish Survey, who gave them
to me. t t> xr „ „
J. R. Kilroe.
I wrote to Messrs. Richardson requesting them to give me a reply-
to a series of questions I enclosed. The following are my queries and
their answer to each :—
Query. Name of the "dowser"? Answer. The late J. Mullins.
XXXII.] 107
On the So-called Divining Rod.
Q. Were any borings made or wells sunk prior to the dowser's visit !
A. Yes ; three.
Q. If so, how deep? A. One was 300 feet, one 1,011 feet, and one
52 feet deep.
Q. With what success as to water supply ? A. Neither of the three wells
yielded more than 120 gallons per hour.
Q. How far from the old well did the diviner fix on for a new well 1
A. 40 or 50 feet (shortest distance).
Q. How deep was the new well—sunk on the spot indicated by the
divining rod ? A. 82 feet.
Q. With what success as regards water supply I A. 3,000 to 5,000
gallons per hour ; according to the rainfall.
Q. What was the date of the dowser's visit ? A. 1889.
As I was anxious to get exact details of this case, I again wrote to
Messrs. Richardson for further particulars and an accurate plan of the
respective position of the wells. Their reply is as follows :—
February 2nd, 1897.
In reply to yours of the 28th January, I regret the delay, but owing to
the dispute in our trade at present I am very pressed with work. I have
had a rough sketch made out of the lie of the wells, and a description of same,
and trust it is what you require. Should you want any further information
I shall do my best to get it for you. W RlChARds0n
Memorandum from Messrs. Richardson and Co., Waterford.
February 2nd, 1897.
In the year 1887, we received an estimate for boring a 2& inch artesian
lx>re from John Henderson and Son, Glasgow. He started to bore on the
18th May, 1887, with jumper steel drills. The first 15 feet was clay, the
following 17 feet was slaty sandstone, after which the rock became harder
with the result that the rate of boring slowed, varying from 2 to 5 feet per
day. When going through extremely hard rock they bored (on Monday, the
18th June, 1887) only 4 inches. We continued boring until we had reached
a depth of 292 feet, after which we widened the bore for 100 feet to allow a
pump to be lowered, but the yield was not sufficient to justify our going
deeper, so relinquished this bore.
We next started to bore, in 1888, a 7 inch bore hole at the bottom of a
well 62 feet deep. This bore was executed by the Diamond Rock Boring
Co., of London, and was bored by a revolving tube 7 inches in diameter
having black diamonds set in a nose piece fastened to bottom of tube. We
bored 612 feet with this size tube and then reduced to 6 inches and with
the 6 inch tube bored 337 feet 7 inches, making a total depth bored of
949 feet 7 inches from the bottom of well, and from the ground level of
1,011 feet 7 inches. We had, during the process of boring, tested at
intervals for yield of water but with no satisfactory result. We again tested
at 1,011 feet 7 inches, and again failure, so relinquished this bore.
We then asked Mr. Kinahan [senior geologist of H.M. Geological Survey
of Ireland] to come down—which he did, and suggested a spot to bore.
This bore we started with a 4 inch tube diamond drill, and bored 40 feet
108 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
through yellow sandstone when we came on blue slate for 8 inches ; we then
stopped and wired Mr. Kinahan what we ought to do. In the interval we
tested for water ;—result, 230 gallons per hour, not one-tenth part of what we
required. Mr. Kinahan advised going on again. Went on 11 feet more,
tested again, with the yield 180 gallons per hour, a loss of 50 gallons ; wired
Mr. Kinahan again ; — reply, give up boring— which we did ;—another failure.
We then sent for John Mullins, the water diviner. He suggested that
we put down a bore on a marked out line, which we did, with the result that
we have an ample supply. See below for rough plan of wells.
No. 1.
O
No. 4. 150 ft.
No. 2.
O
No. 3.
113 ft. 335 ft.
No. 1. First Bore Hole, sunk to a depth of 292 feet :—not satisfactory.
No. 2. Second Bore Hole, sunk to a depth of 949 ft. 7 in. from bottom of well
62 feet deep ;—from ground level 1,011 ft. 7 in. :—another failure.
No. 3. Bore Hole suggested by Mr. Kinahan :—third failure.
No. 4. Bore Hole suggested by John Mullins, around which bore hole we sank
a 6 ft. well, 82 feet deep. Yield from 3,000 to 5,000 gallons per hour
depending on rainfall.
Line from No. 4 shows course of spring as suggested by Mullins, anywhere along
which line, he says, water will be found. The line runs N.N.E.
The particulars sent me by Messrs. Richardson are obviously of
great interest and evidential value in connection with our subject.
I was therefore anxious to obtain the best geological evidence on this
case. Happily Mr. G. H. Kinahan, M.E.I.A., who at the time was
senior geologist of the Irish Geological Survey, had not only been called
in by Messrs. Richardson, prior to Mullins' visit, but had kept the
contemporary notes and correspondence relating to this case. The
letters which Mr. Kinahan sent me (with an accompanying note from
himself) are from Messrs. Richardson and from a local geologist, Mr.
Budd, and, as will be seen, they were written at the time of Mullins'
visit to Waterford.
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 109
Mr. Kinahan writes to me as follows :—
[January 25th, 1897.]
I am glad to learn through Mr. Clark that you are taking up the
Divining Rod question. I, therefore, through him, send you a rather
interesting case. These letters [which follow] I give solely up to you, and
you are at liberty to use them as you like. I should, however, let you
know how I was connected with them. A bacon firm in Waterford (Messrs.
Denny and Co. ) were looking for water, and their trials were unsatisfactory.
My friend, the late Mr. James Budd, advised them to apply to me. This
they did, and as their case was a simple one, I easily put them right. Then
another firm, Messrs. Richardson's, was in a similar predicament ;—they
had a water supply, but not sufficient. They employed a borer who bored,
I think, 1,000 feet, without finding water. They were then advised by Budd
to employ me ; when I visited their premises I found it was probably
crossed by three water lines, one south, another at their well, and the third
to the northward—as the strata was hard, impervious ordovician shale. It
was evident that unless the bore hole was exactly on one of the water lines a
bore was useless. I, therefore, advised sinking and driving. While they
were considering my report, young Richardson heard of the water-man,
and what happened afterwards you will know from the letters. I have
my theory about their "water-finder," and would like to talk it over
with you.
G. H. Kinahan.
The next letter is from Mr. Richardson, addressed to Mr.
Kinahan in the year 1889 :—
Waterford, October 2Uh, 1889.
In reply to your favour, re John Mullins, Colerne, Chippenham, Wilt
shire, I will give you a short account of his doings here. The morning he
came I had him met at the Milford steamer, in order to prevent his having
communication with any one in Waterford, and making inquiries about our
premises. I myself went with him when he began his searches for water.
He had in his hands a hazel fork of this shape holding an
end between his fingers of each hand. He then walked about until the
hazel fork twisted suddenly in his hands. He did this over and over again
to test it, and marked several places for us to bore where he said he was
certain we should find water, and gave the depths. One place in particular
he pointed out to us and advised our boring, saying we should find about
1,500 gallons per ho\ir at a depth of 80 to 90 feet. We procured the boring
people, and the result of it was we obtained water at the depth of 79 feet
from the surface. We tested to 1,672 gallons per hour, but we are sure
there is more, only our pump could not test a greater supply. He [told us
he] has six sons, and not one of them has this power.
It is a most curious thing, but must be genuine without doubt. I know
several people in the north who had Mullins there, and found water where
pointed out by him. It was from them I heard of Mullins in the first
instance.
110 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
The rod often breaks with the force it turns in his hands. The greater the
movement the more water is there, and by this he tells the depth.
W. Richardson.
Mr. Richardson adds later :—
He holds the twig straight out in front of him, with the ends passing
between his finger and thumb and coming out between his second and third
fingers ; backs of hands downwards.
The next letter is from Mr. Budd, addressed to Mr. Kinahan, and
is interesting on account of its having been written whilst the boring
experiments were in progress :—
Tivoli, Tramore, Waterford, September 3rd, 1889.
Your being interested in Messrs. Richardson's case here will be my
apology for my inflicting on you the following authentic account of the late
proceedings there.
Well, they pierced where you pointed out to a depth of about 40 feet,
got a little water, and then came on our blue metamorphic rock. Then the
boring machine was, I believe, out of order, and while waiting for some new
parts from London the borers got some jobs in Clonmel ; this delayed work
here. Meantime young Mr. R. heard in the North of a man named Mullins, I
think from Chippenham, who had been most successful in finding water
with his hazel twigs. He is one of a few who possesses this "faculty." He
cannot communicate it, for none of his own sons possess it. They sent for
him, and to prevent any collusion or prefatory inquiries, one of their clerks
met him at the Milford boat, and walked up with him to the concern.
He carried with him about a dozen fresh forked twigs as thick as a quill,
each side of the fork 12 or 15 inches long.
He traversed the whole of the premises, marking out four places where
water might be got. The premises are about 700 feet long [see diagram].
O
X.
o
G.H K.
o o
.T.M. (1) J.M. (2)
^ 700 ft. —}
X = the abortive 1,000 bore ft. hold.
No. 1 he said was the best place. No. 2 was not 20 feet from the place
that you marked out (marked G. H. K.).
He held the twigs near their ends, between his second and third fingers,
as if you were going to write, the point of the fork pointing downwards.
At No. 1 the point lifted itself up till it turned over backward and twisted
itself till it broke ! "Water here not more than 80 feet deep," said he.
He used another and another twig. The clerks then held them with him,
and held his hands, always the same effect. I saw to-day two of the broken
twisted twigs.
XXXII.] Ill
On the So-called Divining Rod.
Now for the result [at J.M. (1), which corresponds to No. 4 in Messrs.
Richardson's drawing.]
The diamond borers pierced through 41 feet of boulder clay, then through
39 feet of our ordinary clay slate. Then on the 2nd [yesterday,] touched our
old friend, the blue metamorphic rock, and stopped, sounded, and found
36 feet of water in their four-inch tube. They were told to pump, a steam
one, which they did all night, 3 o'clock on 2nd to 9 o'clock on 3rd—18 hours
—without any diminution of the supply, their estimate being 800 to 900
gallons per hour.
Arrangements were then made while I was there to pump into a cistern
containing 270 gallons. After repeated trials the average was found to be
1,560 gallons per hour without the slightest sign of abatement. To-day it is
reported to me to be 2,000 gallons per hour. Good water, temperature 52°,
an important item to Messrs. Richardson's.
I would like to know what you think of this thing. To me it is wholly
unaccountable. All I know is, they are singing "Jubilate " at Richardson's.
What would Professor Huxley say ? J glTdd
Mr. Budd gives additional particulars in the next letter, also
addressed to Mr. Kinahan :—
Tivoli, Tramore, September 11th, 1889.
I have been not only considering the bearings of the case, and it is an
extraordinary one, but I have been making myself up on all the facts of it.
Mullins was never in the South of Ireland before, and certainly had no
idea of Messrs. Richardson's locality. As to reading faces : they had no
expectation of success ; indeed, the failure of your boring made them give
up all hope, and one of their principal persons utterly scoffed at the idea of
the twigs ; their faces, they tell me, must have expressed only incredulity
and curiosity. I can quite believe that some nervous or muscular
force, voluntary or involuntary, affected the twigs, for certainly they could
not move of themselves. But was this force derived from some innate
faculty? Mullins made no pretence of magic ; there was nothing about him
of "See now vot you till see." Quite in a business-like way he walked
through the premises as each door was opened for him, most of the clerks
following him, and stopping every now and then. Up to the present there
has been no effect on other wells with them or elsewhere. As to his know
ledge, he did not know whether there was any well in the concern, but
he had the general idea, which every one in Waterford has, that they had
bored and utterly failed.
The clerk who accompanied him from the steamer, and whom I cross-
examined to-day, is a reliable man. He was warned to answer no questions
as to wells, water, or strata. Mullins did not ask him a single question.
When M. was asked before he left about his successes elsewhere, he said
he had often gone to places where there was no water, but when he had
indicated water in any place, as far as he knew, it had always been found,
but he made no boast of this, said only he could not account for it.
As to 80 feet, no one said this to him, nor did any one know the depth
of the strata there. Four boring was only 41 feet deep. The well through
which the 1,000 feet was bored was originally 60 feet deep, and it was only
112 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
to-day that I learned for the first time, with some difficulty, that the steam
pump well is 72 feet deep. This I learned from the clerk who manages the
machinery ; none of the others knew it, nor had ever asked.
As to the sailors> ;—as I said before, every one [here] knew of their
boring, and failing, but no one outside the office but myself knows the
particulars. They keep their business to themselves. I believe it was quite
impossible that any sailor could know anything about their [Messrs
Richardson's] concern, or, indeed, would care to know.
Well, he [Mullins] was written to, to come over and try his hand, as
they were very anxious to get water.
He came, drove up to the concern, and they first brought him to the
field you indicated. He walked about and said there was water in a spot
about 20 feet east of yours. "Oh," said they, "We tried near this and
failed." " No matter," said he, " There is water here." They then brought
him through each of their yards and stores. In most of them he paused,
and said, " There is no water here," but in two of them he said, " There ia
water here," and they marked them in red.
The last place they came to, to their surprise, he said, ' ' This is by far
the best place I have come to. Mark it No. 1." "Now mark the first
place I went to No. 2, the others 3 and 4. I am sure you will get at least
half the quantity you require at No. 1."
He has the look of an honest John Bull master mason, has picked
up a good deal of information going about, and is of quiet manner, but
answers any question he is asked promptly and in the most straightfor
ward manner. He said he could not tell the depth at No. 1, but probably
it would be within 80 feet. Their since finding it, at exactly 80 feet, was a
mere coincidence. He left by the boat that evening. He asked no questions
as he walked about, nor did they volunteer any information.
Jas. Budd.
In reply to my enquiry as to the exact direction of the spots
marked by Mullins, and as to the cost of boring prior to Mullins'
visit, Messrs. Richardson kindly send the following additional
particulars :—
Waterford, February 22nd, 1897.
The Mullins line runs N.N.E. and almost in the direction of the bedding
of the rocks.
This was merely a coincidence, as Mullins had no local knowledge what
soever of the locality, it being his first visit to this part of the country, and
we gave him no knowledge in any way, as to position of wells, or that we
had bored. In fact we kept him in entire ignorance, until he had located
his line.
The line as marked on our map, and position of well, is the correct
position, and all the borings and old wells are to the east of Mullins' line
except the final well, which of course is on the line.
i In reply to my enquiry Messrs. Richardson tell me this probably refers to the
sailors on board the steamer in which Mullins crossed over from England to
Waterford.—W. F. B.
xxxn.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 113
Mullins' line was not theoretically straight, but was comparatively so.
Mullins started with his twig (a light hazel fork) at the top of Hodges
field, and worked down through the concern,i and when finished the marking
and pegs were almost a straight line running N.N.E.
No. 1. Bore Hole,—sunk to a depth of 292 feet, cost £267 13s. 4d. ;
widening same down to a depth of 100 feet, cost extra £100, total
£367 13s. 4d. [These numbers refer to the plan on p. 108.]
No. 2. Bore Hole,—sunk to a depth of 949 feet 7 inches from bottom
of well, cost £916 16s. fid.
No. 3. Bore Hole, —cost about £40, with pumping teste and delay,
awaiting Mr. Kinahan's advice.
The cost of a bore hole depends on the size of the bore, and depth, as
the contractors will not bore a 100 foot bore at the same rate as the first
100 feet of a 5 or 600 foot bore. Carriage of engine and gear, and pumping
test have to be paid for, and add also to the comparative cost of the shorter
bore hole.
The No. 4. Bore Hole—bored on Mullins' line—was composed as
follows :—
First 38 feet clay, loose shingle 3 feet, yellow shaley sandstone 39 feet,
last few feet slate and j ellow shaley sandstone.
Mullins works his rod with the back of hands down, and holds each rod
of fork between the second and third finger of each hand with the apex of
the fork pointing to the ground, and each rod of fork passing over the
second and first finger, and under the thumb, and held firm by thumb.
When the rod passes over any flowing water, the apex rises from the
downward position, to a position with the apex of the fork in an almost
vertical position and pointing upwards with a very perceptible jerk, although
the diviner's hands are apparently inactive and without any movement
whatever.
Exoes. of J. J. Richardson, per C. F. Hodges.
It will thus l>e seen that the cost of the unsuccessful borings and
well sinking prior to Mullins' visit was some £1,324,—an expensive
experiment.
One other point required elucidation, viz., the level of the water
in the Mullins' well compared with the level of the water in the
adjoining tidal river. As to this Messrs. Richardson write as follows:—
March 11tfc, 1897.
In reply to your enquiry, the surface of the well is 95 feet above low
water level ; while the bottom is 13 to 14 feet above it. The level of the
water in the well when not pumping is 44 feet from the surface.
W. Richardson.
So that the water level in Mullins' well is some 50 feet above the
low water level of the river ; the well is therefore not supplied by
percolation from the river.
i The ground is covered with buildings and sheds, and I understand Mullins had to
go in and out of these in the course of tracing out the water line.—W. F. 13.
I
114 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
Mr. Kinahan has also sent me the following as to the geological
aspect of the locality :—
February 21st, 1897.
The Waterford rocks are Ordovician with protrudes or intrudes of basic
igneous rocks. From the wells above and below the premises there seemed
to be two water lines crossing it, both of which our friend [Mullins] found
by instinct, due either to his being able to smell water, or that water has
such an influence on his nervous system that he can tell the distance and
quantity when he is near it ; unless he was a Sherlock Holmes who could
draw conclusions from trifles that no one else could detect. G H K
Having submitted the foregoing case to the Geological Survey of
Ireland, Mr. J. R. Kilroe was good enough to send me a memorandum
on the subject, discussing the whole matter from a geological point of
view, accompanied by a geological map and section of the locality. Mr.
Kilroe's memorandum is as follows :—
H.M. Geological Survey of Ireland, Dublin.
Notes on the Borings at Waterford.
The rocks of the neighbourhood arc of Silurian age (Ordovician), and are
in great part concealed by glacial drift. The drift area is indicated
by stippling on the accompanying map ; the portions enclosed by chain
(boundary) lines are those where the rock is devoid of drift, and appears at
or comes very near the surface .
The strata consist of slates and grits in alternating bands ; the former
are comparatively impervious to water while the latter are more or less
porous, and some may be sufficiently so to constitute reservoirs for under
ground water.
The beds of rock are set at a uniformly high angle—about 60° to the
horizontal near Waterford,—technically called the dip : they are also much
folded and contorted and dislocated by faults, as may well be observed
along the sea coast not far distant, though no faulting, and but little
contortion of the strata, seems to have been noticed at, or near, Waterford
city.
The strata at Waterford, moreover, are cleaved in a direction which
accords with that of the stratification ; but stratification and faulting, in
general, affect the location of underground waters, rather than cleavage,
so that the latter is not of apparent import in our case.
The futility of the first three attempts to find water proves the absence
from the rocks pierced, of water-bearing strata, in other words, of porous
sandstone or grit bands of any importance. A particular case in which a
thick sandstone band might be supposed to exist, concealed, notwithstanding
the unsuccessful sampling afforded by the first experiences, is discussed
below ; about this, however, one cannot speak confidently without a more
intimate knowledge of the ground.
The lack of water in those borings does not seem to me to be accounted
for by concealed faults or breaks in the strata ; for if the rocks were thereby
sufficiently shattered to admit of leakage, and descent of the water from the
ground tried, it would not descend lower than the level of the Suir and the
XXXII.] 115
On the So-called Divining Rod.
116 [pakt
Professor W. F. Barrett.
same conditions would with equal facility and greater probability admit of
percolation from the river to the point reached by the borings.
The water in Mullins' well, however, stands at 44 feet from the
surface, and is dependent on the rainfall. It cannot therefore be due to
percolation from the river ; and must collect beneath the more or less
porous drift which covers the rock at Richardson's works (see section).
Diagrammatic Section along a vertical plane supposed to cut through strata
at Waterford, at right angles to Mullins' water line. The wells are
numbered as on page 108.
Assuming that water would be found at the other points indicated by
Mullins, equally with that at which the successful boring was put down,
we should have a wet zone stretching N.N.E.-ward, in which a copious
supply would be, in fact t(xts, tapped [at one point] at some 80 feet below the
surface.
This zone might be coincident with a line of fault in which water fallin
upon the sloping surface northwestward would collect ; and such a supposition
is favoured by the circumstance that it is not coincident with the direction
taken by the outcrop of the bedding.
On the other hand, a break of sufficientdimensions to supply over 1,500
gallons of water per hour would in all probability extend to and beyond
the river, and admit of very great if not entire leakage of the water entering
it, to a much lower level than 44 feet from the surface at all events ; and no
fault is represented here, on the published maps of the Geological Survey.
An alternative supposition is that of a porous stratum concealed beneath
the drift, in the slight hollow at Richardson's premises. The only manner
in which such a stratum could occur, consistently with the direction and
amount of dip recorded for the beds in the vicinity, is such as that repre
sented in the above section, drawn at right angles to Mullins' wet zone,
And showing the relative distances from the latter of Kinahan's boring B,
the 1,000 feet boring C, and the first one D. In this section the porous
stratumand the thin grit beds are represented by dots, Mullins' boring by
A, and the glacial drift by larger dots immediately beneath the surface line.
The stratum mentioned cannot be regarded as continuous (see line X Y)
according to the dip of the beds, as seen at the surface, for in this case it
would have been tapped by the 1,000 feet boring. It therefore should assume
I 2
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 117
a synclinal curve, and form a trough-shaped reservoir receiving the rainfall
between the point marked 99, Gallows-hill (241 A) and the water shed
south-westward. Such folding of the strata is common in Silurian rocks
throughout the country. j R Knjt0B
The bearing of this case on the general theory of a " dowsing
faculty" must be considered in connection with the rest of the
evidence.
The Horsham Experiments.
Reference to this remarkable case has already been made in the
preceding group, No. 58, p. 85. The facts are briefly as follows :—
The owner of an estate near Horsham, in Sussex, Mr. Henry Harben,
found there was a scarcity of water on his property. He called in the
aid of an experienced local well sinker and had a well sunk some 90
feet deep (well A, see p. 118), but got little water—in fact, this well,
Mr. Harben states in a memorandum he sent me, is "absolutely
useless." In an adjoining field, some 200 yards off, and at the lowest
part of the estate, another well was sunk under the advice of another
well sinker (well C) ; at some 55 feet down a small spring of water
was met with running into the well, but the quantity was so small
that the supply was quite insufficient.
Having spent a considerable sum uselessly in sinking these two
wells, Mr. Harben determined to obtain from London the highest
engineering and geological advice. His position, as one of the
directors of the New River Company, and his ample means, rendered
this comparatively easy. Acting under such advice another well was
sunk (well B) not far from the first one (well A). This well was of
large dimensions and sunk to nearly 100 feet, with, however, little
result as regards water ; tunnels were then driven in various directions,
and finally, after £1,000 had been spent on this last attempt—made
under the best scientific advice and with the most modern and
approved engineering methods—the well B was abandoned.
Finally Mr. Harben was induced to send for the dowser, Mr. J.
Mullins, of whom he had heard, and whom he had distinctly refused
to employ before sinking well B, as he utterly disbelieved in him.
Mullins came some time in the year 1893 (not long before his death),
and, to prevent his gaining any local information, Mr. Harben met
Mullins at the railway station and drove him to his estate, Warnham
Lodge, some four miles off. Mullins said it was his first visit to that part
of Sussex, and there is no reason to think otherwise. Arrived at Warn
ham Lodge, Mullins traversed the estate, said there was no water
118 Professor W. F. Barrett. [part
WARnhAM LOdGE PARK.
From t6 inch Ordnante Survey Map of Sumex (West), 1s97, tnd Edition.
The numbers, 260, etc., indicate height above sea level.
XXXII.] 119
On the So-called Divining Rod.
where wells A and B were situated, unless an immense depth were
bored. As he came near well C he was narrowly observed. Mr.
Harben tells me he and the well-sinker alone knew the exact direction
of the streamlet of water which entered this well ; no hint of any
kind was given to Mullins. Suddenly the rod turned—"There is a small
stream here," he said, "flowing in this direction." This was absolutely
correct, 1 am informed ; Mullins indicated the exact direction the
streamlet was known to enter the well. Mullins told Mr. Harben
that the depth of this well was between 50 feet and 60 feet, the
actual depth being 55 feet. Dissatisfied with this supply, Mullins
said he would try the higher ground. Mr. Harben tried to dissuade him,
as that part had been examined and rejected by the scientific experts.
" Never mind," said Mullins, "I am going to try it." At the top of
the hill the rod turned vigorously, and the spot was marked ; 30 feet
further on (absolutely on the crest of the hill) it turned again. " Call
this No. 1," said Mullins; 20 feet further it turned again. "Call
this No. 2," said Mullins, " and the first No. 3." Mr. Harben then
remarked that water doubtless existed everywhere at a certain depth
beneath the hill. Mullins tried carefully and said " No. Nos. 1 and
2 are independent springs, there is no water between them, but you
will find plenty of water at either of these places at 12 feet or 15 feet
deep."
Mullins was then taken across the road to find a well for the supply
of some cottages on the estate, about 250 feet distant from these last
springs ; he found a place where he said water would be obtained at a
depth of about 40 feet. Here a well was subsequently dug, and at
35 feet deep a good spring was found, which, however, on analysis,
proved to be chalybeate ; accordingly this well was filled up. Mullins
had indicated another place for a well, 75 feet distant from No. 2
spring, and some little distance from the cottages. Upon sinking
here, water was found in this well in sufiicient quantity for the require
ments of the cottages (well G.).
The spots Mullins had marked as springs Nos. 1 and 2 on the crest
of the hill were then dug ; soon a hard limestone was encountered
and after blasting and sinking at each spot to a depth of 12 feet from
the surface, a copious supply of excellent water was suddenly met with
(wells E and F). At No. 3 a good spring was also found at 19 feet
deep (well D). Much to Mr. Harben's surprise, Mullins had proved
right in each case.
Mr. Harben, fortunately for our enquiry, then resolved to go to the
expense of testing Mullins' assertion that no water would be found
between wells E and F, but that^ both were independent springs. By
means of a powerful pump he had one of the wells pumped nearly dry ;
the water level in the other was unaffected. To leave no room for
120 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
doubt, however, Mr. Harben went to the expense of further testing
Mullins' statement by tunnelling through the solid rock the inter
mediate 20 feet from the bottom of well E to the bottom of well F.
Mr. Harben assures me from his own personal observation, corroborated
by the overseer, whom I saw, that no water was found between the
two wells, the intermediate rock being dry.i As the tunnel joined the
water in the two wells a large storage tank has thus been formed some
5 feet in diameter and 20 feet long. " We have had," Mr. Harben
writes to me, "ever since, even in the driest season, a most abundant
supply of water, and Mullins was right not only in indicating the
precise spots where water was to be found, but also in his assertion that
water would not be found between the two wells E and F."
Writing to me on April 8th, 1897, Mr. Harben says :--
I had forgotten to tell you of another illustration of Mullins' power.
He was walking with me towards my Farm Buildings [marked Home Farm
on the map] trying his rod occasionally ; when he came to the spot marked
with an asterisk [see right hand side of map], he stopped and said that here
was another spring. I told him there was n well in the neighbourhood.
Mullins then said, " I shall be able to tell you whereabouts it is." He walked
to and fro with his rod and said, "The spring runs that way, and the well is
probably behind that chimney " [see map, well H]. This was perfectly
correct ; a well with pump attached was in an outhouse behind the Farm
building. There was no possibility of Mullins seeing the well or pump, as
it was entirely out of sight and in a closed building ; nor had he left my
side to make any enquiries. We had not yet verified his other predictions
and this incident, together with his discovery of the direction of the spring
running into the well C, and the depth of that well, impressed me much.
On visiting Warnham Lodge, I found what Mr. Harben said was
strictly accurate as to the impossibility of Mullins seeing the well and
pump H from the position he occupied. In fact, I could not discover
it until taken into the building where it was situated.
The foregoing account was compiled from information Mr. Harben
gave me either in writing or verbally ; it has been seen and revised by
M r. Harben, who writes as follows :—
Warnham Lodge, Sussex, May 5th, 1897.
I return the account you havo written, which is quite accurate, and have
added one or two additional particulars. I have just heard of another
feat of Mullins'. After doing his work at Captain McCalmont's, Mullins was
i What is known to geolosists as "jointing" in the rocks suggests itself ui
possible explanation of this peculiar distribution of water. But I should be glad to
have some competent geological opinion on the whole of this case ; no geological
explanation, however, can lessen the remarkable character of Mullins' water-finding
faculty. A geological section of Sussex is given in the maps of the Geological
Survey, and runs very close to Warnham Lodge ; the district is Weald clay with
Horsham stone ; the latter is a sandstone often calcareous.
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 121
in the dining-room. He said there was water below the floor. On opening
the floor a disused well was discovered.i u „
H. Harben.
Failures.
The evidence thus far presented shows that certain persons, among
whom the late John Mullins was conspicuous, certainly possess some
faculty which is not given to all men, and not recognised by the science
of to-day. It would be interesting to know how many failures Mullins
had in the course of his career ; but this, I fear, it is impossible now
to ascertain. There could not have been very many, or news of them
would probably have reached me, as I have made numerous enquiries
for this purpose throughout the districts visited by Mullins in England
and Ireland. A few cases have, however, been reported to me which
I will here detail.
The first was the case of the Hastings Board of Guardians, who
engaged Mr. J. Mullins in 1888. A new workhouse had been erected
and attempts to find an adequate supply had, I believe, been unsuccess
fully made before Mullins was called in. The Guardians were subject
to some criticism for asking a "dowser " to advise them where to sink a
well, and this was increased when, after sinking some 80 feet at
one of the spots indicated by Mullins and no water found, the case
was reported a failure. Later on, however, after the well had been
sunk some 200 feet, the architect reported (according to the local
papers and the Gas Journal of June 4th, 1889), that a supply of
2,300 gallons daily was obtained. In a letter to Mr. Vaughan Jenkins,
John Mullins writes that he marked three places where water would be
found, and indicated the best, but " the Guardians chose to sink
on the worst and had to go deeper than they expected, but they did,
at last, get a good supply of water, though not sufficient for their wants,
which were great." In the Sussex Daily News of May 23rd, 1890, a
meeting of the Board of Guardians is reported, at which a discussion
took place concerning the success that had attended Mullins. Councillor
Perrins moved that whilst the Board believed in Mullins' sincerity
they regretted their hopes had not been realised, as at the best spot
indicated by Mullins they had sunk 80 feet and found no water. [This
was evidently a second well.] Others raised some objection to Mr.
Perrins' motion, and Councillor Chapman thought it only fair to say
i I wrote to Captain McCalmont, M.P., who informed me that this incident did
not occur at his house, but at a neighbour's in the country. The name, I learnt on
enquiry, was Mr. Crawshay, to whom I wrote. It is, I find, a reference to the
incident that occurred with the dowser Mr. Tompkins, related by Mr. Crawshay,
particulars of which are given on a subsequent page. See latter part of No. 102
p. 151.—W.F.B.
122 [PAltT
Professor W. F. Barrett.
that at the first well they had a yield of 2,300 gallons a day and that
they had not driven headings as Mullins recommended.
I wrote to the local newspaper and also to the Chairman of the
Board of Guardians to know whether any greater success had been
obtained later, as I saw by another newspaper report that such was
the case. To neither of my letters was any reply sent. Through the
kindness of a relative at Hastings who saw Councillor Perrins on my
behalf, the following letter from Mr. Perrins was sent to me :—
157, Queen's-road, Hastings, March 26Wi, 1897-
The Hastings Guardians a few years ago purchased a piece of land for
a workhouse site, and for the purpose of determining the best spot to sink
a well, the late Mr. Mullins was engaged to test the land by means of the
twig . . .
[Mr. Perrins then describes the modus operandi, and the evident
sincerity and absence of trickery on the part of the dowser.]
Mullins, at the end of his experiments, was able to indicate the best
spot at which the well should be sunk, as being the place where the various
springs converged nearest to each other ; he also stated the probable depth
at which the water would be found, but would not absolutely pledge himself
on that point. Suffice it to say, water was ultimately found in fairly large
quantity, and the well only needed the requisite headings to store the water
to make it a complete success. The water was found at a depth of about
25 to 30 feet. W pERR1nij.
It will be noticed that the foregoing letter gives a much more
favourable account of Mullins than the statement made by the writer
of the letter at the Board of Guardians in 1890, nor was I able to
obtain from Mr. Perrins any explanation of the discrepancy.
This case cannot therefore be regarded as a complete failure, in fact
I am informed by Mr. Percy Clive that it was hearing from a friend of
his of the success which attended Mullins at this Hastings visit that led
Mr. Clive to employ Mullins on his estate in Herefordshire (see p. 35).
F. 3i.—The next case, however, is more properly a failure ; here
also I found it extremely difficult to obtain precise details. Mullins,
it appears, was called in by the governors of the Berry Wood Asylum,
near Northampton, to find a water supply, and as no water was found
at the depth he estimated, he was considered an impostor. I wrote
to the authorities at the Asylum for particulars, and eventually
obtained the following information :—
Berry Wood, Northampton, February 27th, 1897.
Mullins, father and son, were here in March, 1892. They said we should
find water at a given place, and there we sunk a well about 70 feet deep right
through the ironstone and drove headings in two directions without result.
i The numbering, "F. 3, etc," is continued from p. 64.
XXXII.] On the So-called Divining Rod.
I should say that water is often found under the Northamptonshire
ironstone, and one of our wells draws its supply from that source.
The marlstone lies about 300 feet from the surface here. We knew we
could obtain water at that depth, as numerous wells in the county get their
water from this marlstone. Having failed with the ironstone we bored to the
marlstone and found abundant water. Of course, Mullins had nothing to do
with this, as it was well known the water was there.
Richard Greene.
With reference to this case Mr. H. WT. Mullins writes that he went
to Berry Wood with his father and that a very large supply of water
was ultimately obtained, only at a greater depth than they had
estimated. This does not, however, put any different construction on
the result.
F. 4.—The next case is from Mr. Denny, of Waterford, whose
large bacon-curing establishment is near Messrs. Richardson's premises,
where Mullins had the remarkable success detailed under the head of
the Waterford Experiments.
Mr. Denny writes to me as follows :—
Waterford, February 5th, 1897.
Mullins indicated several spots on which he said water would be found,
but in our case we got nothing practically but surface water. In fact with
us here Mullins' plan proved as great a failure as it proved a success in Mr.
Richardson's case.
Mullins also indicated a spot on our Cork premises whore water would
be found, and following his advice we dug a well and found a good supply at
about the depth he mentioned. E H M Denny
I wrote to ascertain some further particulars, and learnt that at
Waterford they sunk through clay and slaty rock down to 57 feet,
and then bored a six inch hole to a depth of 207 feet from the
surface, but found no good spring, the water obtained from the well
being mostly surface water.
When the Waterford case (p. 106) is read in connection with this,
it will be seen how easy it is to miss the exact water line in this
locality. Messrs. Denny tell me Mullins pointed out several places
where they would find water, and they sank at one of these ; it is,
however, conceivable that a very small deviation by the dowser, or the
well-sinker, would be fatal to success in this particular instance.
These are all the failures o9 the elder Mullins which I have been
able to obtain ; even if multiplied tenfold they probably would not
amount to one per cent of the successes which he appears to have had ;
for it must be borne in mind that whilst I have printed all the
failures of which I can get any corroboration, only those successes are
given which I have heard of that appear to bear upon the main object
of this paper.
124 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
Group V.—Mb. W. Stone.
Mr. W, Stone, now residing at Bolingbroke Hall, Spilsby, Lincoln
shire, is a native of Burbage in Wiltshire ; he is a contractor for
well-sinking, etc., and has had a wide and successful experience as a
dowser. Though he has, I believe, risen from humble circumstances,
his local standing is seen from the fact that he is Rector's Church
warden and a District Councillor of his parish. I wrote to Mr. Stone
and asked him to tell me how he found he had the art of dowsing, and
to furnish me with evidence of his success and of any failures he has
met with. He replies as follows :—
Bolingbroke Hall, Spilsby, October 13tfc, 1896.
In reply to your first question in your letter of the 17th inst., 1 was
invited by a friend who had some suspicion that I possessed the power of a
' ' diviner " to try the rod ; I did 60, and when walking with the rod in hand
I felt a peculiar twitching in the rod, and hearing that the rod would turn
with any one who had this feeling, I was determined to stop it, if possible ;
but, to my astonishment, the rod twisted itself over until it broke in my
grasp ; a good spring of water was found to be running beneath. I was, of
course, sometime before I would take hold of the rod and try it, as I was an
unbeliever, and after I found I possessed the power, I was a long time before
I would practise it, though I had numerous invitations.
Since then I have discovered thousands of springs of water with my
divining rod, and can openly say that I have never failed to find water at the
spots I have indicated. In numerous cases I have been called in after great
expense had been incurred without success ; also in many instances I have
discovered water within a very few yards of the unsuccessful operations. I
may say that I have discovered over a hundred springs within a radius of
about 30 miles of where I am now living. I still feel a peculiar tingling
sensation passing through my body, when standing immediately over springs
of water.
The power to use the rod is not, I think, hereditary. My father did not
possess the power, but I have a little daughter who possesses the power to a
slight degree. W ^E
On my venturing to question Mr. Stone's statement that he " never
had a failure," he replies, "I would frankly tell you, if I could recall
a single failure, but I do not know of even one that I have had."
This statement is, however, not quite correct, as Mr. Stone, like other
dowsers, has had occasional failures, particulars of which have reached
me and will be given in a subsequent section In another letter, Mr.
Stone adds, " The sensation I experience when over an underground
spring is very like what is felt when grasping the handles of an
electric machine, often seen at railway stations."
The book of testimonials Mr. Stone sent me certainly contains
a very remarkable and lengthy list of successes testified to by
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 125
owners and agents of landed property, manufacturers, etc. ; the
following is one of these.
No. 85. —The manager of a brewery in Newcastle writes :—
Newcastle-on-Tyne, November 7th, 1894.
The success which has attended the sinking and completion of our well
affords another striking proof of Mr. Stone's marvellous power in the use of
the divining rod. He visited us in May, 1894, and with his divining rod
directed us to a spot where he said we would find water about 40 feet from
the surface. His prediction was correct, for after sinking 41 feet, we came
upon a spring of beautiful water, large enough to supply our wants at this
brewery. We need scarcely say that our confidence in Mr. Stone's ability is
beyond doubt, and he fully merits the fame which he has achieved in this
district. pro rphB Arthur's Hill Brewery Company,
A. H. Higginbottom.
In reply to my enquiries Mr. Higginbottom writes :—
Post Office Chambers, Newcastle-on-Tyne,
October 23rd, 1896.
Before engaging Mr. Stone no attempts had been made to find water by
boring. I cannot believe Mr. Stone's success in our case was a mere chance.
His prediction as to the depth at which we should find water was about
accurate.
These replies answer your questions. I may now add that the experi
ments were made inside and outside the brewery ; the strongest indication
of the presence of water exhibited by the twig in the hands of Mr. Stone
was in a cellar, the floor of which was covered with cement about three inches
thick. Having in my own mind perfect confidence in the power of
Mr. Stone I did not even bore, but at once proceeded with the sinking of
the well with the result that at a depth of 20 feet we came across good
feeders ; but at 40 feet, predicted by Mr. Stone as the depth at which we
should find a good supply, we found all the water we wanted and now can
draw 3,000 gallons per day. In order to put Mr. Stone to a further test 1
took him to a back street about 25 yards from the brewery where very many
years ago there was a pump (but of which Mr. Stone knew nothing) and on
the very spot where it stood the twig denoted the presence of water, but not
of sufficient quantity for our requirements.i A H Higginbottom.
I wrote to Mr. Stone to furnish me with particulars of any
cases where, as he stated in his letter of October 13th, he had been
called in to find water by the rod "after great expense had been
incurred without success." He replied he had not kept a list of all
these cases, but quoted a few he remembered as follows :—
No. 86.—Colonel Grantham, West Keal Hall, Spilsby, dug to the depth
of 50 feet for a water supply for a house, without success, and sent for me
i This is referred to by another correspondent see No. 94.—W. F. B.
126 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
to come and test with my divining rod. I did so, and tested, and about
ten yards of where his deep sinking had been carried out, I discovered a
beautiful spring of pure water at a depth of 30 feet. The water came in so
strong when tapped, that the men had great difficulty in bricking the well.
I have had just the same results in other parts of the estate.
I wrote to Colonel Grantham asking him if the foregoing state
ment, which I sent, was correct. Colonel Grantham, I learnt with
regret, had recently died. His son, Captain Grantham, who was
present at the experiments and took much interest in them,
writes :—
West Keal Hall, Spilsby, Lincolnshire,
October 19f/i, 1896.
Mr. Stone is quite correct in saying that he has sunk two most successful
wells for us in West Keal ; the spring, or as it was in this case the run, of
water, being found by use of the divining rod. Certainly in one case a well
had been sunk to considerable depth, without success, within twenty yards
of where Stone found a large supply at, as he says, about 30 feet. I do not
know the depth of the well originally sunk without success, but could find
out if you care to know. Not only did he find the stream of water, but
could tell in what direction it was running. Having found two streams
running at right angles he pointed out the spot where they would meet, and
on walking over it with his rod proved to be right within a few feet. He
also told us pretty nearly, if not quite, the exact depth of the water both
times he has sunk for us. There is an under-drain running a small run of
water across the drive in front of my house, with nothing to indicate the
place ; I got him to walk along the drive with the rod ; as soon as he stood
over the drain the twig turned over.
E. M. Grantham.
In reply to further enquiries, Captain Grantham writes :—
West Keal Hall, Spilsby, October 27th, 1896.
Mr. Stone assured us that we should get a sufficient supply of water by
sinking on what he said was the strongest run. It being a suitable place we
did so, with, as I have already told you, every success. That there is some
thing in the indication of the rod, after seeing it used, is not in my mind
open to question. I consider it is of the greatest use and saving in finding
springs, and should not now think of sinking a well when I was not sure of
water without the use of the divining rod. I have not as yet been able to
ascertain the depth of the unsuccessful well you mention, as I have been
away from home, but will do so and let you know.
E. M. Grantham.
Asked the exact depth of the wells, in a subsequent letter Captain
Grantham informs me that the unsuccessful well was 42 feet deep ;
28 feet of this were dug and 14 feet bored. The successful well sunk
by Mr. Stone was only 30 feet deep, and was 15 yards distant from
the useless well.
XXXII.] 127
On the So-called Divining Rod.
No. 87.—The next " evidential " case Mr. Stone quoted was as
follows :—
Mr. Shirley, Ettington Park, near Stratford-on-Avon, had gone to
great expense in a field this summer, and had to give up the same as
Colonel Grantham did, without any success, and he sent for me to go and
test. I at once went, and in the same field, only 15 yards from his expensive
excavation, I discovered an abundant supply of water at 7 feet deep, and my
men have just completed the laying on of the water, by natural gravitation,
to the top of a very large mansion, gardens, stables, and yards. Many
expensive trials had been made in trying to obtain a water supply to this
house, but without success. Therefore the house could not be occupied
through not having a water supply.
I wrote to Mr. Shirley, sending him the foregoing statement by
Mr. Stone, and asking how far it was correct. Mr. Shirley replies :—
Lough Fea, Carrickmacross, Ireland,
October 23>d, 1896.
Mr. Stone's statement is correct. I was with him when he went over
various portions of my English property. He marked five or six places
where he said there would be water, but so far I have only had one actually
tested ; this was, however, perfectly successful, the water was found where
he pointed out and at the depth he stated. I had previously gone to
considerable expense in sinking, but could not find a sufficient supply. I
was quite satisfied with Stone. S -g ghIRLBy
In a subsequent letter, after reading the proof of the above, Mr.
Shirley writes :—
Ettington Park, Stratford-on-Avon, March 23rd, 1897.
We sank at various places looking for water before Stone's visit ; the one
nearest to the subsequent supply found by Stone was about 20 or 30 yards
off and about 10 feet deep : Stone went a little deeper but there was water
before we got to this depth. The supply has continued very good. . . .
Stone found the main supply at once and without hesitation, and certainly
saved me a great deal of expense. s g Shirley
No. 88.—The following is the next " evidential " case quoted by
Mr. Stone :—
A large hall called Preston Hall, Uppingham, Rutlandshire, had been
standing empty for several years through not having a water supply.
Major Codrington, of 110, Eaton-square, London, went to look at it with the
view of purchasing, and when he found there was no water on the place he
refused to purchase, but agreed he would wait and see if I could find water.
I was, therefore, sent for, and upon my arrival I met Major Codrington and
the agents of the estate. They had also a gentleman from London to meet
me who is a leading geologist.
I at once tested with my rod, and said a spring of water would be found
flowing at about the depth of 60 feet. The geologist said water would be
128 [paht
Professor W. F. Barrett.
found at 20 feet anywhere about the place, and he said to the Major, " If
you don't find water at 20 feet, don't sink deeper whatever you do, for you
won't find water until you get to 150 feet." It was decided to have a trial
for the water, and the well is now sunk ; not a drop of water was found at
20 feet, so the well was carried deeper until it reached 60 feet. Just at this
depth, to the inch, a beautiful spring of water was tapped, which yields an
abundant supply for all purposes, and through this result Major Codrington
has purchased the estate.
Nine wells had been sunk on this estate before I visited it, without
success, and useless wells are on each side of the well I have just sunk. My
sinking plant is still on the spot and the well is just completed and open for
inspection.
I sent the foregoing to Major Codrington and asked him how far it
was an accurate statement. Major Codrington's reply and subsequent
letters are as follows :—
110, Eaton-square, 8.W., October 19</i, 1896.
Stone's account is substantially accurate. There are a few details which
are not quite accurate, however. There was water on the place, but the
supply was insufficient. The geologist did not imply that water was to be
found at 150 feet, but he merely said, ' ' The clay is 150 feet thick at least,
and there is no water in it."
At about 60 feet the clay was noticed to be very wet, and the actual
supply of water comes from a point 66 feet below the surface of the ground,
where there is a band of rock about 7 or 8 inches thick.
I sent a piece of this rock to the geologist, and he pronounced it to be
a band of limestone, such as frequently occurs in the upper lias clay.
I may say that the soil which lies above this clay, and which is from
20 to 25 feet thick, is known as " Northampton sand." All the old wells are
merely dug in this, but they have apparently been neglected for years.
They nearly all contained some water, but, as I have said, the supply has
not been sufficient for the place.
As. to the name of the geologist, I do not like to give it to you without
his permission, but I will ask him, and if he has no objection, send his name
to you.
I had the water in the newly made well analysed, and the first analysis
was not satisfactory. Being told that it frequently happens that new wells
are contaminated, either by accident or design (men washing in them, etc.),
I had precautions taken, and the well cleaned, and the water analysed
again. The final analysis being satisfactory, I decided to purchase the
Pr0Perty- A. E. CodEinoTOn.
110, Eaton-square, S.W., October 22tui, 1896.
Stone is a very decent man, and I am much struck with the confident
way he works, and the practical knowledge he appears to possess. I saw
him test for water ; he walked very slowly, holding the rod thus Y> the
point being about 12 inches from the ground. At one spot it curled up.
We tried again. This time he held one branch, and I held the other,
and it curled up again.
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 129
Then I tried alone over the same spot, but absolutely no result whatever.
On the spot where the rod curled up we found water at 60 to 66 feet
deeP- A. E. COdrIngTOn.
110, Eaton-square, S.W., November 5th, 1896.
My geological friend preferred that his name should not be mentioned.
He said to me the other day that the presence of the water where it was
found was a great surprise to him. A_ K Codrihoton.
No. 89.—The next case quoted by Mr. Stone was as follows :—
I discovered a spring in an estate in the North of Ireland for a
gentleman who lives at Newcastle-on-Tyne, after he had spent an enormous
amount of money without success. Upon my arrival on the scene, I pointed
out a spot where a spring of water would be found, after walking about five
minutes. Water waa found at this spot, less than 20 feet deep, and the
previous sinking and boring had bean abandoned after being put down to the
depth of about 50 feet with no results. This had been done in the same
field I discovered the spring in at 20 feet deep. Qjqjjj
Having obtained the name and address of this gentleman, I wrote
to him for particulars. He replies as follows :—
6, Brandling-park, Newcastle-on-Tyne,
December 23rrf, 1896.
In reply to your letter of the 13th, with reference to Mr. Stone and his
" divining rod " (whom I employed on my place in county Down, in 1895),
before employing him I had quarried through 17 feet of granite for water
without success. I then sent a man from Northumberland with proper
appliances to bore through the granite, still hoping to find water. He
worked for several months. In December, 1894, he reported to me that he
had found a good spring. In June, 1895, we had no water ; after a great deal
of expense it had turned out a complete failure. In December, 1895, I sent
for Mr. Stone, and I must confess my faith in him was not very great at first,
but I was soon convinced he could point out where there was water. He did
so on several places on my land, and on one spot where he said there was a
good spring, we started and quarried down some 20 feet in hard granite ; we
found a splendid spring and we have a great supply of water. Through all
the long drought last spring and summer, when most of the springs in the
neighbourhood were dry, ours showed no signs of diminishing. Where Mr.
Stone found the spring was not near where we thought we had a spring ; in
fact, I would never have looked for one in the place he pointed out.
I have great confidence in Mr. Stone and his divining rod, and I am very
pleased to recommend him. He has been successful in finding water in
several places in Northumberland and Durham to my knowledge.
I shall be very pleased to answer any more questions with reference to
the finding of water on my land.
J. McKay.
K
130 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
I wrote again to enquire the exact depth of the unsuccessful boring
nd of the successful well, and the locality. Mr. McKay replies :—
January 3rd, 1897.
(1) The depth of the old well quarried was 17 feet deep. We then bored
through hard granite 29 feet, in all 44 feet. There is a lake a little distance
from where the well was sunk. We were 6 feet 6 inches below the level of
this lake. We expected to have a good supply of water on account of this.
The depth we quarried where Mr. Stone pointed out was 23 feet, and we got
a good spring.
(2) The locality where the land is situated is in South Down, between
Rathfriland and Castlewellan (about midway). Cabra Towers, Cabra by
Newry, is the postal address, and the nearest railway station is Ballyroncy
Scarvn' J. McKay.
No. 90. —The next "evidential " case which Mr. Stone sends me is
a remarkable one. The place, Woodside, is on the north coast of the
Isle of Wight, between Osborne and Hyde ; it is indicated on the
geological map of the district. Mr. Stone's account is as follows :—
Woodside, Wootton, Isle, of Wight.
The owners of this estate had never been able to obtain a supply of water,
although they had gone to a great expense to try and find a supply. I was-
therefore sent for, and upon my arrival I cut a hazel rod and immediately
commenced to work. I had not been walking ten minutes before I discovered
an enormous spring of water, and being convinced by the action of my rod
that there was an abundant supply for all purposes beneath the spot upon
which I was standing, I did not trouble to test further. I was then asked
at what depth I thought the water would be found. I said at about seven
feet. The agent said to me, "Mr. Stone, there's a well over the fence there,
80 feet deep and no water in it, and another well 30 feet deep, just behind
you and no water." I said, "Never mind the old wells ; you will find an abun
dant supply at the spot I indicate, at about seven feet deep." I was asked if I
would undertake to carry out the necessary work, and agreed to do so. I
started two of my sinkers to dig at the spot I had marked, and they had not
been at work a day before they struck the water, which rapidly rose to the
surface. I then laid on the water by gravitation to the mansion, garden,
stables, etc., and after all was completed Dr. Morgan expressed himself
entirely satisfied with everything I had done.
My first visit to the Isle of Wight was to a village called Arreton. Several
attempt* had been made, at great expense, to obtain a water supply to this
village without success, and upon my arrival I was told by the old men that I
should never find a spring of water in their neighbourhood. I said, "Well,
you must wait and see," and I started to work with my rod in hand, and in a
few minutes I discovered a spot, beneath which a good supply of water was
flowing, and all the company who were with me were astonished, and said
that was a spot they thought water would never be found at ; I, however,
guaranteed a spring at 10 feet, and the work was entrusted' to me to
curry out, which I did, and my men tapped water at nine feet, which quickly
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 131
rose to the top, and I laid it on to the rectory and village by gravitation. A
well had been sunk within 20 yards of this spot, to a depth of about
50 feet, and not a drop of water was found.
An account of this case, I find, appeared in the Isle of Wight
papers, and also, as follows, in The Morning Post for September 20th,
1892 :—
No little astonishment has been caused amongst the inhabitants of
Fishbourne and Wootton, Isle of Wight, by the successful use of the
divining rod. On the shore near Wootton Creek, overlooking the Solent, is
a yachting estate known as Woodside, the residence of the Rev. J. B.
Morgan, which has hitherto been without a good supply of water. Two
wells have been sunk at considerable expense, but without success. It was
thereupon decided to call in the assistance of Mr. William Stone, a well-
known operator with the divining rod. On his arrival, Mr. Stone, after
cutting his rod in the neighbouring coppice, set to work, and within ten
minutes indicated a spot which every one seemed to consider the most
unlikely on the estate. It was on the brow of the hill, and over 100 feet
above the house, whereas the wells had been previously sunk in low-lying
land. Men were, however, quickly set to work, and at a depth of 7 feet the
water rushed into the well so fast that the men were obliged to get out, and
the water came to the top of the well. This spring has been found an ample
supply, and the quality is excellent. This is Mr. Stone's third visit to the
Island. On his first visit he discovered a spring at Arreton, which yields
enough water to supply the wants of the village, and he subsequently found
water on another estate near Ityde.
On writing to Mr. Morgan for information, he replied to me as
follows :—
5, Avenue Montaigne, Paris, October 21st, 1896.
I do not know the details of the account of Mr. Stone's work at Wood-
side House, I. W.—which has readied you,—but it is quite true that he
discovered an abundant supply of water where efforts had previously been
made in vain. J B MORGAn.
I then sent Mr. Morgan the above particulars and he replies :—
Paris, November 6th, 1896.
The account which you sent to me of Mr. Stone's work at Woodside is
suostantially correct. J B MoRgAn
Mr. Morgan, in answer to my request for further details, wrote
to say Mr. Taylor, of Woodside, would be able to give me the
facts desired. I, therefore, wrote to Mr. Taylor, at the same time
enclosing him a copy of Mr. Stone's statement, and asking him if it
were correct. Mr. Taylor returns Stone's statement, endorsed, "Quite
correct, William Taylor,'" and also sent the following letter and plan
of the respective position of the wells. It will be seen that " quite
correct " does not apply to the relative depths of the wells.
132 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
Woodside House, Wootton, Isle of Wight,
March 3ld, 1897.
In reply to your letter as to Mr. Stone nnd his finding water, I heg to
inform you his statements are quite correct. The good well is about 200 feet
from the old supply, which was very scarce through the summer, and I am
pleased to say the supply from the new well is abundant . I enclose a sketch
of the land, with the wells marked. The well said by Stone to be 30 feet
deep is only 12 feet, and the one said by him to bo 80 feet' deep is 120
feet deep.
William Taylok.
C O Well, sunk by Stone, 7 feet deep.
Abundant supply always running.
Well 12 feet deep.
Small supply.
■5
J-
A O
WeH 120 feet deep.
No water.
Wells A and B were sunk before the diviner's visit. C is sunk at a spot selected
by Mr. Stone. C and B are on the same level. A is 14 feet lower-
In a subsequent letter, dated April 5th, Mr. Taylor says in reply to
my inquiry—" The well that Stone sunk is only 7 feet deep and is
XXXII.] 133
On the So-called Divining Rod.
nearly always running over ; it is on the same level as the well with
hardly any water, as you will sec by the sketch, and 14 feet above the
deep well with no water."
I should be glad if any friends living in the Isle of Wight would
kindly make further enquiries into the Arreton case mentioned on
p. 130. The various replies to my enquiries show that, after making due
allowance for occasional exaggeration, the accounts of the various cases
Mr. Stone has given me were substantially correct, and I have no
reason to think it would be otherwise in the case of Arreton.
Subsequently Mr. Stone sent me some fine photographs that had been
taken of the springs, one of which we reproduce (see next page), and
which he describes as follows :—
[It] shows me standing by the spring of water I discovered for the
Kev. Mr. Morgan, Isle of Wight, and the rod I have in my hand shows me
holding it just as I did when I tested for this valuable spring. The moment
I put my foot over the water the rod turned in spite of me, broke itself, and
left the two ends between my fingers and thumb. I was photographed with
the same rod, but of course it was much shorter than when I first tested, as
about three inches from each end had been broken oft". I always hold the
rod in the position you see. The photograph is taken near the house, the
water from the spring having been " laid on."
No. 91.—The next case Mr. Stone sends me is an interesting one,
but unfortunately, owing to the death of the gentleman for whom the
work was undertaken, the account given is only imperfectly
corroborated.
The Hareby Estate, Spilsby, Lincolnshire.
This estate recently belonged to, and was occupied by, the late Mr. F.
Tooth ; it is now occupied by Mr. George Marriner. It comprises
about 1,000 acres of land, upon which is built a large mansion, several
cottages,—forming the village,—farm premises and a church. No water was
obtainable here, only by two water carts, continually being used to fetch
water from a distance. In addition to the mansion, cottages, farm buildings
etc., the cattle had to be supplied with water. In this case numerous well
sinkers had been called in and they all failed. Hearing of me Mr. Tooth
visited mo when I was engaged carrying out some extensive work, and
having satisfied himself, there and then specially engaged me for his estate.
On my arrival there I found five wells had been sunk, from which no water
was obtainable. I tested with my divining rod, and near one of these wells,
I discovered a spring of water, at a less depth by some 80 feet ; this was only
within a few yards of one of the previous sinkings. When I discovered
this spring, I guaranteed to bring the water to the surface and above it. Let
me say at once that that spring now delivers itself into a reservoir rising four
feet above the ground, and when tested was yielding 24,000 gallons per 24
hours ; this same spring is now supplying the whole of the wants of the
above named mansion, village, farm buildings, etc.
iUL- W. STONE.
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 135
In connection with this, Mr. Tooth, since deceased, wrote to Mr.
Stone as follows :—
Hareby, Spilsby, Lincolnshire, June 12th, 1893.
I am greatly pleased with the result of your discovery of springs by the
" divining rod " on this farm in October last, and by the practical way you
have since carried out the necessary works.
I have hitherto had great difficulty in keeping my stock supplied with
water during the winter months, while in the yards, let alone the cost of
leading ; now I am pleased to witness a constant supply, which has begun at
about 17,000 gallons per twenty-four hours, of clear, pure, spring water ; an
advantage to a stock farm that cannot be too highly estimated. I shall be
pleased to answer any inquiry upon the subject ; meanwhile the drainage
work to my grass fields will have your attention.
Frederick Tooth.
I wrote to the present occupier of the farm, Mr. Marriner, and his
reply is as follows :—
Hareby, Spilsby, January 13th, 1897.
The water discovered on the Hareby estate has proved most satisfactory,
and I can faithfully substantiate the late Mr. Tooth's testimonial, for the
water discovered by Mr. Stone has proved abundant all through last summer,
which as you know was exceptionally dry.
G. T. Marriner.
In reply to further enquiries from me, Mr. Marriner writes :—
Hareby, Spilsby, January 20th, 1897.
In answer to your first question : Was a well or wells sunk prior to the
diviner's visit, and if so with what result and at what place ?
Only one new well had been sunk by Mr. Tooth, and that one proved a
failure ; he had sunk 28 feet. Mr. Stone then commenced operations and said
there was water three yards away, and he sank 15 feet and found plenty of
water ; this well is some distance from the house and buildings and simply
supplies a tank in the field for stock. There are several old wells about the
place which Mr. Tooth had opened into, but from information learned from
present foreman, who was here before Mr. Tooth came into possession, I
gather that the above well was the only one sunk by him.
Second question : How deep were the useless wells, and how deep the
well or wells successfully sunk by Mr. Stone, and how far apart ?
One old well is 80 feet deep. The well sunk by Mr. S., which supplies
house and buildings, is near one which supplied same before Mr. Stone did
anything, but which used to run dry in summer. The well sunk by Mr.
Stone was only seven feet deep ; it proved and has all along proved, a never-
failing supply ; the water here rises to the surface, and is conveyed into three
circular reservoirs.
I myself think that Mr. Stone could very well do without the "divining
rod," it being simply a visible sign of the effect which water has upon his
body.
G. T. Marrinee.
Professor W. F. Barrett. [part
Writing again in explanation of the difference between Mr. Stone's
statement and the foregoing letter, to which I called his attention,
Mr. Marriner says, " I am afraid my last letter was misleading, as I
understood from the foreman only two wells had been sunk ; he now
tells me that several others were dug before Mr. Stone's visit ; our
water supply now never gives us any trouble."
I sent the proof-sheets of the above, with Mr. Stone's statement, to
Mr. Marriner for revision. In his reply Mr. Marriner states that
further careful enquiry led him to make one or two slight corrections
in his letter of January 20th, which I have incorporated, and he
adds :—" I find eight wells had actually been sunk on this place prior to
Mr. Stone's visit, but no satisfactory water supply was got until Mr.
Stone came. Three or four of these wells had been dug by Mr. Tooth
and filled in again. Stone discovered a spring at 15 feet below the
surface, only three yards from the useless well sunk to 28 feet by Mr.
Tooth, as shown by Mr. Tooth's letter, a copy of which I enclose."
The letter enclosed is from Mr. Tooth to his agent, Mr. Parish, dated
October 23rd, 1893, and corroborates Mr. Marriner's statement. The
subjoined plan and explanation were also sent to me by Mr. Marriner.
O w
O S>
O w
IO w O w
w,Jw, etc., are the wells sunk before Mr. Stone came and are practically useless,
and considerably deeper than Si and S-, the wells sunk by Stone. Si supplies the
house and buildings. Sa is the 15 feet well, 3 yards from the well, w, which i» 28 feet
det'p and has no water.
XXXII.] 137
On the So-called Divining Mod.
No. 92.—Mr. Stone also sends me the following :—
The Blyth and Tyne Brewery, Blyth, Northumberland.
At this place they had a well which had been sunk, and they only got a
very little water. I was called in and tested with my divining rod. I found
a spring from six to eight feet from the well. I suggested I should send
some of my skilled men and that they should cut a drift from the side of the
well in the direction of the spring. My suggestion was adopted ; the men
cut the drift and immediately the spring was tapped it commenced to flow
into the well and the supply was and is sufficient (and amply so) for all the
purposes of brewery, etc. I have heard nothing from Mr. Carmichael, the
manager's director, lately, but he would, no doubt, furnish you with the
plain facts of the case.
I wrote to the managing director, Mr. Carmichael, enclosing the
foregoing account, and he replies as follows : —
Blyth, Northumberland, Februury 16th, 1897.
In reply to yours of the 12th inst., I have to say that what Mr. Stone has
informed you about his work here is practically correct.
The date when the work was done was in May, 1894. The site was
in the brewery yard. Depth of old well 24 feet ; it was by no means
useless, as we had a regular supply of water, although small. The well is
now 28 feet deep, and tho supply is what I would call fairly good but not
large.
The place in the rock where Mr. Stone found the spring would be about
6 feet from the bottom of the old well in a drift which had previously been
made by us ; this was where we were getting the water from, and when the
rock was cut away it so relieved the spring as to give us a much larger
quantity and a quicker supply.
James Carmichael.
In subsequent correspondence with me, Mr. Stone remarks that
he thinks Mr. Carmichael's recollection of the facts is not quite as
favourable as the case deserves, and mentions some additional
particulars. I forwarded Mr. Stone's remarks to Mr. Carmichael, who
replies that, though Mr. Stone's recollection of certain particulars is
not quite accurate, yet "both I and my co-directors were very pleased
to get the increased supply."
No. 93.—The Lincolnshire Chronicle of November 7th, 1896,
describes some experiments in water-finding by Mr. Stone in front of
the Sessions House at Spilsby ; at a certain spot the "little twig
which had been held horizontally, rose perpendicularly and curled
towards the operator." Digging was commenced, and at 15 feet a
copious supply of water was met with. I wrote to the magistrate s
clerk at Spilsby—Mr. Thimbleby, a solicitor,—to enquire whether
previous attempts to find water near the Sessions House had been
138 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
made without the dowser's aid, and with what result. But this
,question Mr. Thimbleby does not answer ; he replies :—
Magistrates' Clerk's Office, Spilsby, January 9th, 1897.
Mr. Stone's power to find water is something marvellous. " The only
instrument he uses is a branch of hazel or willow. He can tell at once
where the water is, and approximately the distance to bore. I saw Mr.
Stone "divine " for water at the Sessions House at Spilsby with great success,
and his prediction of depth, namely 15 feet, was exact. I have seen what
he has done at Hareby on the estate of Mr. Tooth and he was most successful.
He found water at Newcastle for a laundry company on a space between two
disused coal pits. Every one thought he was mad when he stated that there
would be water, as each of the pits showed no signs of the presence of water,
but by the aid of his rod he struck a spring which has supplied the laundry
•company at a saving, I believe, of some £500 or £000 a year. i
Thos. Wm. Thimbleby.
No. 94.—Reference is made in the foregoing letter to water-finding
.at Newcastle-on-Tyne. I have had some correspondence with the
Laundry Company referred to and obtained full particulars from them,
though the facts named by Mr. Thimbleby are not mentioned ; possibly
Jie was mistaken.
A long account of the Newcastle experiments was given in the
Newcastle Daily Leader for April 12th, 1894. The reporter minutely
describes Mr. Stone's appearance and mode of using the rod, " merely
a small V-shaped branch of a sapling, the legs not more than nine
inches long and the sixth of an inch thick,"—and how it rose up and
pointed to the dowser's chin whenever " he had struck water." The
positions were marked and then trials were made at the Moor Edge
Laundry, where a spot was marked as likely to yield a large supply
" about 50 feet below." The reporter states that " the keenest
scrutiny could not see a persuasive movement of his [the dowser's]
fingers."- Then other persons tried their hands but the rod "would
not rise, not even for a reporter." The dowser's hands were swollen
by the strain, the report adds.
The Newcastle Daily Journal gives a very similar account, and in
its issue of May 17th, 1891, states that after digging a well a powerful
spring was struck at only 15 or 16 feet deep, at the precise spot
marked by Mr. Stone.
i The secretary of the Laundry Co. (see next case) informs mc this should be £50
or £00 a year.—W. F. B.
2 To this statement one of the directors of the Laundry Co., Mr. R. J. Charleton,
who was present at the trials, replies in a letter he has kindly sent me. I will quote
this letter subsequently,—when dealing with the question of unconscious muscular
action in the motion of the rod.
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 139
The secretary of the Newcastle Laundry Co., in reply to my
-enquiries, writes as follows :—
The American Steam Laundry Co., Ltd.,
New Bridge-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne, March 5th, 1897.
I had the pleasure of reading your letter of enquiry hefore my directors
,on Monday last, and one of them who took notes at the time of Mr. Stone's
visit, promised to look them over and communicate his impressions to me.
The notes he has evidently mislaid, hut I enclose you his letter that you may
peruse and judge of his opinions.'
In reply to your queries—
(1.) No previous attempts had been made to find water within my
knowledge.
(2.) The well we sunk at the identical spot marked by Mr. Stone and
,only went 15 feet deep.
Personally, I consider the extract from Daily Leader a very true report
-of all that took place.
Perhaps another instance may be of interest to you :—
Some little time after the experiment at our works I was invited to meet
Mr. Stone whilst he tried the ground at a brewery here. After indicating
•one spot inside the building where water would be found, he was conducted
over some adjacent property and stopping short at a spot some 50 yards off,
he indicated another find. The principal of the brewery then stated to Mr.
Stone that the ground he was upon was not theirs, but that he had conducted
him thither to test him, adding that "the ground you are now on is the
-exact spot where an old public well was closed by the Newcastle Corporation
years ago, owing to the unfitness of the water for drinking purposes."
I should add that Mr. Stone was a perfect stranger to this part of
Newcastle and I cannot see that he could possibly have known of the
,existence of this old well. yy Bird
The description given by Mr. Bird, in the latter part of his letter,
•appears to refer to the incident already mentioned in No. 85.
In the beautifully illustrated pamphlet issued by this Laundry
,Company, there is a reproduction of a photograph taken of Mr. Stone
in the act of discovering the spring which now supplies this laundry ;
the picture, which we have to thank the directors for allowing us to
reproduce (see next page), is prefaced by the remark :—
An important item in Laundry-work is to get pure water and plenty of it.
An abundant supply, fulfilling its requirements, we are pleased to say, has
been found on the premises at the spot indicated by Mr. Stone. It will be
noticed in the photograph that the rod is pointing upwards, indicating the
presence of water below.
i This letter, from Mr. Charleton, will be quoted later on, as alreadv stated.—
W. F. B.
140 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
No. 95.—Mr. Bolam, the agent to the Duke of Buccleugh, writes
to say he has employed Stone for several years, and that he is most
successful in finding water by means of the divining rod. Mr. Stanton,
MB. w. STOnE.
a contractor, gives several instances of Stone's success. Here is one in
a letter addressed to Mr. Stone :—
Geddington, near Kettering, October, 1891.
I have sunk the well on Acroland Farm, where you found the spring, and
got a good supply of pure water at 54 feet. This is a great success, as there
have already been three wells sunk and no good water. In fact there never
has been any good water on the farm before. All the old men on the place
said there would not be this time. Akthuk Stanton
xxxn.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 141
In answer to my enquiries, Mr. Stanton writes :—
Geddington, Kettering, March 20th, 1897.
Acreland farm in about half way between Geddington and Grafton-under-
wood, by the roadside ; the old wells were about 20 feet deep, the new one
sunk was about 80 feet [distance] from one of thi old ones which I filled
up ; one is in use now for the cattle, and the other was filled up some
years ago.
I have also sunk wells after four men using the divining rod, but most
after Mr. Stone and Mr. Mullins. In every case I found water, but in some
cases a very short supply where the springs were shallow. At Barnwell
Castle where I sunk a well, after Mr. Stone's trial, in a field for the use of
cattle, I found a stiong spring about four feet below the surface. At Burton
Latimer 1 deepened an old well 40 feet, which was 35 feet before, making the
total depth 75 feet. I came across the spring exactly in the line as Mr.
Stone indicated. . „
Arthur Stanton.
Mr. Stanton's reply shows the importance of ascertaining the
relative depth of the old and new wells. It appears that at Acreland
the old wells were "about 20 feet" deep and the new one 54 feet, and
as there is no evidence to show water might not bo found anywhere in
this locality at 50 or 60 feet deep, the case ceases to be of the evidential
value it first appeared.
No. 96.—Having heard that attempts to find water had been made
unsuccessfully at the Oakworth Mills, Keighley, Yorks., prior to the
use of the rod and that Stone had found an abundant supply, I wrote
to Messrs. Haggas and Co., the owners of the Mills, and the following
is the reply of the managing director :—
Oakworth Mills, Keighley, March 24th, 1897.
In reply to your questions : 1. We have made attempts to get water
previously by boring without success. 2. We bored 50 feet without finding
water in one place, and 60 feet in another, about two years ago.
Recently Mr. Stone has had men sinking on places indicated by himself
with the following results :—
(1) A well sunk 10 feet and found water to fill a half-inch pipe.
(2) A well sunk 14 feet and found a small supply, fill perhaps quarter-
inch pipe.
(3) A horizontal drift into a hill perhaps 25 to 30 yards long, and 25 feet
deep at far end, yielding water about equal to a one inch to one and a-half
inch pipe.
(4) A well sunk about 25 feet ; the water rose to within 10 feet of
top, and then ran off. This will necessitate our drifting the water off at
10 feet down.
(5) A well 30 feet deep without result, and we have abandoned this, as
we think we have got the underground stream in about 100 yards distant (6),
where at a depth of 18 feet we have got a strong run, perhaps 250 to 300
142 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
gallons per hour. This will not rise in the well, but will require drifting off
at 18 feet down, or pumping. We shall drift, as the ground falls rapidly,
and we shall have a short adit only.
For W. Hagoas, Sons, and Co., Ltd.
William W. Vint, Direttor.
No. 97.—The Liverpool, Daily Post of March 12th, 1897, has the
following. Holywell is in North Wales, Penymaes is a village near
Holywell.
A remarkable instance of the finding of water by means of the divining
or "dowsing" rod has just occurred at Holywell. The governors of the-
intermediate school now in course of erection at Penymaes were desirous of
obtaining a supply of water, and with that end in view sank a well, but
although the excavation reached a very considerable depth and was a very
expensive undertaking, there was not the slightest trace of water. In their
difficulty the governors decided to employ a " water finder," and Mr.
William Stone, of Spilsby, Lincolnshire, was consulted. He duly appeared
upon the scene, and, having procured the usual hazel twig, went with it over
the grounds of the school, and ultimately indicated a spot where water would
be found. On this spot accordingly a borehole was made, and at a depth of
about twenty feet an abundant supply of water was discovered, and yesterday
there were fourteen feet of water in the hole, with every indication of a
splendid supply.
A very similar report was also published in many other Lancashire
and Welsh papers. I wrote to the governors of the school at Penymaes,
but received no reply. I then wrote to the solicitor to the board of
governors (whose name I obtained from Mr. Stone), who had engaged
Mr. Stone and again had no reply. Hearing that Mr. S. K. Muspratt,
Grove Park, Liverpool, was chairman of the board of governors of the
school, I asked my friend, Professor Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., if he would
kindly make enquiries. Professor Lodge had an interview with Mr.
Muspratt, who is also mayor of Flint, and forwards me the following
notes of Mr. Muspratt's replies to his enquiries.
" The newspaper account is correct, except that they had not
previously sunk for water (an important exception). But there is not.
a full supply of water yet. The dowser asserted a depth of 70 to 100
feet, and the boring is going on and has reached 45 feet about at
present. No previous boring was made, but advice from local men and
others was got, and not being very satisfactory, was not acted on.
" The. general impression, however, is that there is a good deal of
water about Holywell altogether. The dowser indicated four springs,
and on one of these spots the boring is being made and seems likely to
be successful. There is no supply to the town, except surface water.
The town and school are near top of the hill."—O.J.L.
xxxii ] On the So-called Divining Rod. US
Here I may remark by way of caution that newspaper paragraphs
on behalf of the success of any particular professional dowser are
often mere paid advertisements of the man ; so that little value should
be attached to them until corroborated by independent testimony.
The rivalry of the professional dowsers and the network of corre
spondents who are in communication with me from all parts of England,
enables me to hear offailures as well as successes in the use of the rod.
In fact, it is my practice specially to ask for information as to any
failures. One correspondent gave me a list of three or four failures
Stone had made. I wrote to each of the persons concerned. One or
two appear to be failures, and are given in the list of " failures "
below, whereas another writes that, though he does not like Stone
personally, he would certainly employ him again if he wanted to find
water elsewhere on his estate.
No. 98.—Again, another of these reported failures turns out to
have been more or less a success, and brought the following letter :—
Conheath, Bellingham, March 24th, 1897.
There is not the slightest doubt of his (Mr. Stone's) powers to find water;
the only objection I have to him is that his rod is too susceptible and finds
water in too small quantities to he of practical value in all cases ; although
in justice to him it is only right to say that when I had him the weather had
been extremely wet, so that at the time small springs were running abun
dantly.
He gave one remarkable instance while sitting in the room at an inn with
a piece of steel in his hand ; he said, " there is water here," and on taking
the hazel twig and walking round the room he indicated the spot where it
could be found. An old man in the room at the time then spoke up and
informed the company that he could remember a former tenant of the place
having a well in the cellar below the room where we were sitting.
It. Riddle.
In reply to my further enquiries, Mr. Riddle writes : —
Conheath, Bellingham, March 29th, 1897.
The incident of Stone finding the water in the inn is quite correct, and
there was no possibility of him getting any previous knowledge, as I met him
at the place and was in his presence during the whole time. Another
incident of the same nature occurred in one of the fields, where he indicated
a supply of water which had been drained away at some time, and no
indication of such was visible ; another old resident that I had with us to
mark the places called out, "I believe in him now, I have carried water from
this place when I was a boy. "
The scheme [of well sinking] was not carried out properly ; the part that
was done was at my own expense, and as the other proprietors did not join
with me in going to a source where I have every confidence plenty of water
could be found, I, of course, gave the thing up.
Robt. Riddle.
144 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
In reference to this case Mr. Stone says, " the ratepayers com
plained that the sinking was not done skilfully, which is the usual
cause of these so-called failures."
In the case of another failure of Stone's that was mentioned to me,
I could get no reply to my repeated enquiries addressed to the
gentleman named ; but from other enquiries I have made it appears
that in this case a supply of water was obtained, only not of the
volume, nor at the depth anticipated.
F. 5.i—The next letter, however, records a more distinct failure.
Mr. Hodgson writes to me as follows :—
Redesdale Cottage, Otterburn, Northumberland,
March 24th, 1897.
I have yours of the 23rd inst., respecting Mr. Stone. He made a good
many tests for me, and on one estate I followed up three of them, and
in each instance got a good supply of water, though generally at a greater
depth than that named by Mr. Stone.
I tried two places on another estate, at each of which Mr. Stone said I
should get water at about 4o feet. I sunk a well of about 5 feet in diameter
to over 50 foet in depth in each case. I then bored from the bottom of the
well- in one case over 100 feet, and in the other about 70 feet, and never
got a drop of water in either of them. When "divining" Mr. Stone
pronounced the last mentioned to be the best and strongest spring he had
found in Northumberland. After the two trials above referred to, I lost
faith in Mr. Stone, and several other places which I have marked out remain
untried. William Hodgson.
I sent the preceding letter to Mr. Stone and asked what he had to
say to it. He replied that the well sinking and boring was not done
by him, that the work was badly carried out, and he was in no way
responsible for the failure. I sent Mr. Hodgson Stone's explanation,
and he replies as follows :—
Otterburn, Northumberland, March 20lh, 1897.
I tried by boring at one place, and went deeper than Mr. Stone said,
hut did not get sufficient water to be of any use. This boring, I must say,
was not very satisfactorily conducted, as it was done for me gratuitously,
and I could not have the same command of the men as I should have had if
they had been employed and paid by myself. William Hodoson.
It will be noticed that Mr. Hodgson now speaks of boring at one
place, and getting some water. I do not understand the discrepancy
hetween his two letters. Mr. Hodgson adds that Stone was a
complete failure at Otterburn. On the other hand Mr. Reynard, a
gentleman who formerly resided at Otterburn, states that it was
owing to Stone's success which he witnessed in that town, that he
i The numbering, "F. 5, etc.," is continued from p. 123.
XXXII.] 145
On the So-called Divining Rod.
recommended his employment elsewhere. Without attempting to
reconcile these different points of view, it is sufficiently clear that,
even after wide enquiry, and making allowance for cases that have not
reached me, the ratio of Stone's failures to his successes is a very small
fraction.i For here, as elsewhere, it must be borne in mind that, whilst
all the failures I have been able to substantiate are cited, only such
successes are given as are needful for the main object of this
investigation.
Group VI.—Mr. B. Tompkins.
The next group of cases relates to Mr. B. Tompkins, of Pipsmore
Farm, Chippenham, Wilts, whose experience as a professional dowser
only extends from 1890. Prior to that time Mr. Tompkins was a
tenant farmer, and gives me the following account of how he discovered
his dowsing power.
On his farm he had been to some expense in trying to obtain a
good supply of water for his cattle and at last was advised to send for
Mullins and get the aid of the divining rod. This he did ; Mullins
came and found a spot where he said a plentiful supply of water
existed at a depth of less than 30 feet. A well was sunk and at
15 feet deep a strong spring was tapped, which has yielded an unfailing
supply ever since. After Mullins left Tompkins tried his own skill,
and found the forked twig also moved in his hand. He traversed
another part of his land, and found three spots where the twig turned
vigorously. Mullins was asked subsequently to try the same ground ;
he came during Tompkins' absence from home, tried over the place, and
fixed on the same spots that Tompkins had found, and privately marked,
unknown to Mullins. This led the former to test his own powers in
other ways, and, having gained confidence, he was asked by Messrs.
Smith and Marshall, of Chippenham, the agents to the late Lord
Methuen, to try if he could find a spring on Lord Methuen's estate, as
a well already sunk had proved useless. Mi. Tompkins tried, and after
a long search the rod moved at a certain spot on a hillside, where he
predicted a good supply of water would be found. A well was sunk,
i Albeit one correspondent holds a very poor opinion both of Stone's success and
of his veracity ; but there appear to be extraneous personal reasons for this opinion.
I have never seen Stone : judging only from the evidence before me, he certainly
oeems one of the best dowsers now living.
L
146 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
by blasting through 9 feet of solid rock, and at 18 feet a spring was
struck, which rose some 9 or 10 feet in the well. Messrs. Smith and
Marshall afterwards wrote as follows to Mr. Tompkins :—
Chippenham, Wilts, and 7, Whitehall Place, London,
November 24i/i, 1891.
The decision you arrived at was perfectly correct, and it is our opinion
that if we had made the well six feet either way to the right or left of
the spot you marked, we should have missed the water, which is now
abundant.
Smith and Marshall.
I wrote to Messrs. Smith and Marshall, sending them a proof of
the foregoing paragraph and letter, and begged them to make
any corrections that were necessary. They replied from Chippenham
that " the statements in the proof are perfectly correct," both as
regards their own letter and the facts mentioned in the preceding
paragraph.
No. 99.—Mr. Charles Maggs, who is a Wiltshire county magis
trate, and proprietor of the Melksham Dairy Company, required a
large supply of pure water for his butter factory, and, after ineffectual
attempts to obtain it, wrote to Mr. Tompkins to come over and try the
divining rod. This was done, and subsequently Mr. Maggs writes to
Mr. Tompkins as follows :—
Melksham Dairy Company, November 10th, 1890.
We found water at 30 feet, as stated by you at time of finding the spring
— a very strong spring. Our hopes had almost gone and faith was all but
spent. I have written an article thereon in the Wiltshire Times.
Charles Magqs.
The following is an extract from the article Mr. Maggs refers
to :—
Proof positive of the efficacy of the divining rod has been recently
supplied in this town for water in the paddock in the rear of Mr. Charles
Maggs' Butter Factory. To obtain a good supply of cold water for the dairy,
a well had been sunk in close proximity to the buildings ; but after going
down 21 feet and boring a further 18 feet, no water of any consequence was
met with. This led Mr. Maggs to request Mr. B. Tompkins, of Chippenham,
to come over to ascertain if water was present in the field. After considerable
search, the twig began to rise, and the upward movement was so strong that
the rod bent considerably in its frantic endeavour to turn over, which it at
once did on coming over the spring head, and broke. Sinking operations
were shortly commenced ; but the faith of the workers, after going down 25
feet without any results, was well nigh gone. However, they were instructed
to continue, and on reaching a depth of 30 feet, the axe " pricked " the
XXXII.] 147
On the So-called Divining Rod.
spring, and up came the water straight in a column (if about 9 inch circum
ference with great force. It continues to rise, and Mr. Maggs has now a
good supply of cold spring water, which rises to within three feet of the
surface level and as fast as the powerful centrifugal pumps carry it away to
the Dairy ; during the extreme drought of 1893 this spring has stood the
test and yielded a plentiful supply for our use.
MR. B. TOMPKInS.
I wrote to Mr. Maggs, and had the following interesting letter ire
reply :—
Bowerhill Lodge, Melksham, March 8th, 1897.
Briefly the facts are :—
I sunk a well to find water for my dairy, and found none. Then I wrote
to Mr. Tompkins, who came the following day ; he cut a forked stick out of
148 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
the hedge, and having placed it over the well, said, " There is no water here,"
but found a slight spring within 10 feet, too small to be of any service,
he reported. He walked all over the field, and said he had not come across
any spring at all. However, in the extreme corner of the field a bunch of
nettles was growing, and he entered this, and instantly exclaimed, "Here it
is ; and a good head of water, too ! Not running away, but just ready for
tapping, and as soon as you strike it, it will come surging up." "How
deep?" "Not over 25 feet." He cut out a turf to indicate the spot, and
we commenced sinking next day. The person employed was an old well
sinker, and he came to me two or three times whilst engaged in sinking,
showing specimens of the soil or marl, assuring me there never was water
where such existed, and it was worse than useless to go further. I told him
to go on if he had to get to New Zealand—it was my money, and he need not
regard me nor my pocket. When he had gone about 22 feet, his pickaxe
tapped the spring and the water came up like a fountain, and at such a rate
he feared ho should be drowned before he could get pulled up—his mates
being away ! The water rose rapidly to within twelve or fifteen inches of the
surface. We put on pumps and kept the water down whilst he went a little
deeper, but the rush of water was such that we had to desist going lower.
Since then we have had a splendid supply. This was the beginning of his
[Mr. Tompkins'] public career, and since then he has found water in several
English counties, and has been doing like work in the African Bush, also
with equal success. Cras Maqgs
No. 100.—Following the preceding case, the local newspapers give
an account of Mr. Tompkins' success in finding a strong spring on the
estate of Sir Gabriel Goldney, Bart., at Bradenstoke Abbey, Wiltshire.
Having heard that the agent to Sir Gabriel' Goldney could give some
evidence bearing on our subject, I wrote to Mr. H. B. Napier, the
agent, who replies as follows :—
Chippenham, Wilts, May Uth, 1896.
In reply to yours of the 6th inst, on the subject of water finding or
" dowsing," as we call it :—
I have employed Mr. Tompkins on several occasions, and up till now he
certainly has not been at fault, except in his estimate of the depth of the
spring. Undoubtedly there is a great deal of humbug about the practice of
these water finders, but at the same time I am satisfied that they have the
power of detecting a spring, but I am driven to the opinion that beyond this
their powers do not extend.i I remember an interesting case where Mr.
Tompkins traced gold. When the Bath and West of England Show was held
at Gloucester some years ago, a sovereign was lost under the board floor in
the Finance Office. The members of the Council did not themselves know
exactly where to find it, and sent for Mr. Tompkins, who indicated a parti
cular spot on the floor, and on a carpenter being sent for, the sovereign was
found to be immediately beneath the spot. In conclusion I may say that I
i Mr. Napier probably means that their powers do not extend to finding the depth
:tnd volume of water.—W. F. B.
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 149
am so satisfied of the "dowsers'" power, that I should never dream of
sinking a well without their asssistance. u u xr ™
With reference to the finding of the sovereign, this is certainly an
interesting fact, and appears inexplicable by the hypothesis hitherto
advanced of sign-reading or possible thought-transference. I am dis
posed, however, to consider it merely a chance coincidence. It is true Mr.
Tompkins gives a detailed account of his finding concealed coins on
other occasions ; see pages 16 and 17 of a little book on the "Theory of
water finding" which he has published.i Here, however, the persons
present knew where the coins were hidden : the experiment narrated
by Mr. Napier is much less common and the result probably due to
the cause I have assigned.
No. 101.—Mr. Cowper Coles, who is agent to the Duke of Beaufort
and Sir Joseph Bailey, at Crickhowell, near Abergavenny, informed
me in May, 1896, that he was sinking two wells at spots where Mr.
Tompkins predicted water would be found, and would send me the
result when the work was complete. Writing a few months later, Mr.
Coles tells me the result in both cases was successful. I wrote to ask
in either case had prior attempts to find water been made, and with
what result. Mr. Coles replies :—
Penmyarth, Crickhowell, September 19th, 1896.
In the case of Penprisk, Crickhowell, two wells had previously been
sunk ; both were failures. Tompkins said water would be found at a certain
spot at about 100 feet deep. After going through 98 feet of rock we came on
a gravel bed, and partly lost the water ; we are going deeper now into the
next rock. The rock is a very hard stone.
The other case, at Easton Court, near Tenbury, no prior attempt to find
water had been made. The rock here is sandstone. The well was sunk 50
feet, and is doing well. We are now pumping with a windmill.
I am sinking several other wells now under Tompkins' guidance, and
believe in the man. S H CowPEll CoLES.
I wrote to Mr. Cowper Coles again this year to ask whether they
had yet sunk deeper at Penprisk. Mr. Coles replies, under date
i Like all the other pamphlets and book'ets issued by the various professional
dowsers, this is simply a traHe advertisement of Mr. Tompkins, and is not so remark
able a collection of testimonials as some others of the same kind. The late Mr.
Mullins' little Ixiok, e.y., is far more striking, and contains numerous instances of his
success which I have not quoted in Group IV. On asking Mr. Tompkins what his
" theory" was, for it is not mentioned in his brochure, he replies, much as I expected,
as follows :—"My theory is, it is the action of the water naturally which produces
electricity and magnetism in the body; this acts upon the twig, which serves to indicate
the presence of water, and the greater the strength, the stronger is the pressure on the
operator, who is of a sensitive nature." ! !
150 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
March 22nd, 1897, that, "owing to the continued wet weather, they
had not been able to do anything more to Fenprisk well."
No. 102.—The next case, from Mr. Codrington Crawshay, D.L.,
J.P., of Abergavenny, is instructive from the precautions taken by
Mr. Crawshay to avoid any local knowledge being gained by the
dowser. The letter is quoted from Mr. Tompkins' list of testimonials.
Llanvair Grange, Abergavenny ; Aug'ut 29th, 1893.
For the last four months I have been almost without water (and in con
sequence could not have my family home), and I now find that my prede
cessors were short every summer. Having ascertained from Mr. Tompkins
his fees, I wired for him to come, and met him at the station myself, so as to
prevent him speaking to anybody who knew my place. He at once started
work, cutting a V-shaped twig from a white thorn in the garden. He soon
came on a stratum of water, and. following it up through my smoking-room,
eventually came on the spring at a distance of 80 yards from the house. As
my readers may imagine, I did not believe him, and told him I wanted to
see the water. He immediately offered to sink the well on the condition of
no water, no pay, which offer I closed with. After arranging terms, which
were the ordinary well-sinking charges, phm the fee for finding the water, he
started sinking the well, and at a depth of 14 feet struck a very strong
spring—so strong that it was impossible to sink deeper than 18 feet, as no
pump was able to keep the water down so that the men could work. Since
then I have connected my engine, etc., to the well, and I am glad to say
that I now have an abundance of water, and I find it impossible to lower
the well more than 2 feet 6 inches. The water never rises more than 5 feet at
the most. Codrington Crawshay.
I wrote to Mr. Crawshay to ask if he had sunk any wells unsuc
cessfully prior to Mr. Tompkins' visit ; Mrs. Crawshay replies to me
from Llanvair Grange, under date of February 10th, 1896, that her
husband was at the Cape, but she believes that no previous attempt to
find water had been made by them. Mrs. Crawshay kindly sends me
her own recollection as to the particulars of Mr. Tompkins' visit, which
coincides with the facts stated above. Mrs. Crawshay adds that Mr.
Tompkins has been most successful elsewhere, but " he is not always
correct as to the probable depth of the spring; he said we should have to
sink between 30 and 40 feet, and instead of that it was only 14 feet."
I wrote again subsequently to Mr. Crawshay with reference to the
incident mentioned by Mr. Harben at the end of the " Horsham
Experiments," p. 121, and enclosed the printed account of what is
there said. Mr. Crawshay replies :—
Llanvair Grange, Abergavenny, May 2oth, 1897.
Mr. B. Tompkins, of Chippenham, Wilts, was the water-finder I
employed, and I can't speak too highly of the work he did for me. He came
here a perfect stranger, and after casting round with his twig he came on a
xxxit.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 151
stratum of water, which he eventually ran to ground under our kitchen. This
afterwards proved to be true, as the following November the spring
burst through the floor, and nearly flooded us out, and I had to cut a drain
to run the water off. He, after having found the above stratum, carried the
line through the house, and found the heart of the spring about 80 yards
away. At his advice, we sank the well, and at a depth of 14 feet came on
water in marly rock, and on driving the crow bar through, we came on a
spring, enough to supply a large town. We had the greatest difficulty in
sinking the well to a depth of 23 feet, which we eventually did. From that
day to this we have had a most abundant supply of water, and although I
have an engine, I don't think we can pump the well out, as the water comes
in with a regular stream.
One of the curious things in sinking the well was, at a depth of 12 feet,
we came across several green frogs in the marl, and as soon as they were
exposed to the air they turned black and died.
I see by the paper you enclosed me that Mullins is the name mentioned
as having found the water in the dining-room ; I don't know anything about
this, but the facts I have told you happened under my own eyes. Captain
McCalmont, M.P., has an estate about 25 miles from me. Any other
information that I may have I shall be only too pleased to give you.
CODRInUTOn CEAWSHAY.
In a subsequent letter Mr. Crawshay writes in reply to mine :—
Llanvair Grange, Abergavenny, May 28th, 1897.
Prior to Tompkins' visit we had a well sunk over 60 feet deep, which
always ran dry in the summer. Tompkins knew nothing about this well, nor
its position : 20 yards from the old well he came on the stratum of water I
have previously described ; this led him to the spring where we sank the new
well. The depth of this well is only 23 feet, and it gives us, as I have aaid,
an abundant and never-failing supply of excellent water.
I am sure there are many people who, like myself, would greatly benefit
if they only believed in water-finding by the so-called divining rod ; in fact,
1 can never repay Tompkins for the service he did me at Llanvair. You are
Huite at liberty to publish anything I have told you.
COdRIngTOn H. CkAWSHAV.
No. 103.— Another spring was found by Mr. Tompkins for the
Rector of Llanvair, under circumstances of considerable importance in
connection with the theory of the dowser's art, for the ground was
covered with snow at the time. This was the case also with the ex
periments recorded on page 83, No. 55, where the dowser was the late
J. Mullins. The Rev. W. J. C. Lindsay writes to me as follows :—
Llanvair Rectory, Abergavenny, September 7th, 1896.
The snow was on the ground when the "diviner" came here the first week
in February, 1895. There was the usual walking over the grounds round the
house, with the forked hazel rod in his hands, which occasionally gave an
upward movement that, he said, indicated the presence of water. At last
the evolutions of the rod became so marked and vigorous, that it almost
152 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
skinned the fingers of the holder, and he said a strong spring would be found
here. Thus was at a distance of some 250 yards from the house, and at an
elevation rather above the level of the top of the house.
A well was sunk and water found at a depth of 34 feet, the water rising
to as high as 29 feet in the well. During all the dry weather we have had an
abundant supply, and little pumping, as the cisterns are mostly filled by
gravitation. W J c LlndSAY.
In reply to certain specific enquiries I made, Mr. Lindsay writes as
follows :—
Llanvair Rectory, Abergavenny, September 11th, 1896.
My gardener will give you answers to your questions. Mr. Crawshay's
well is about a mile and a-half from this. The diviner was anxious in my
case to find a good spring as near the house as possible, to save the expense
of pipes to convey the water to the house. He knew nothing of the
surroundings, and made a diligent search all round, and found this splendid
spring in a place where we should have never thought of looking for it.
W. J. C. Lindsay.
The gardener's letter is as follows :—
Abergavenny, September 11th, 1896.
(1) We had not tried to find water before Mr. Tompkins came. (2) It
is therefore impossible for me to say whether a spring would be found
anywhere on the grounds. (3) I am sure the diviner had no knowledge of
the place to guide him. (4) Mr. Crawshay's place is about two miles from
here, but I had not seen Mr. Tompkins before he came here.
James Hughes.
No. 104.—Of more value, from an evidential point of view, is the
following letter, sent to me in reply to my enquiries. It is from the
proprietor of the " Western Counties' Creamery Company " :—
Marston House, Marston Magna, Bath, May 28th, 1896.
In reply to yours, I beg to say that previous to Mr. Tompkins' visit I had
sunk two wells, one 20 feet, and the other, plus boring, 50 feet, with the
result of only a very limited supply of water.
After a careful search by Mr. Tompkins, he assured me he had found
a good spring at less than 30 feet. 1 agreed to let him sink the well,
and at 18 feet he struck on a rock more than a foot thick, which, by the bye,
we had not found in the other two instances. The water came in so fast
that for several months I hoped I had sufficient, but some time after I found
the supply was not enough, and I was then induced by a friend to bore at
the bottom of Mr. Tompkins' well. This we did, and went down 130 feet, but
then came on salt water, and had to plug down the bore hole. I then
consulted some civil engineers, and they advised me to tunnel at the bottom
of the 18 feet where Tompkins stopped. This I did ; and followed the
springs 10 feet each way, with (I am pleased to say) success. We now have
plenty of water for factory, and I have just connected the well to the
house besides. E_ Makden.
XXXII.] 15*
On the So-called Divining Rod.
In reply to my enquiries as to the nature of Mr. Tompkins' search,
and the position of the useless welh, Mr. Marden writes :—
Marston House, Marston Magna, Bath, June 1st, 1896.
The search by Mr. Tompkins was with the divining rod. The other two
instances were wells we had previously dug nearer the factory. Perhaps I
should add the first well was sunk as close as possible to the building for the
convenience of machinery, but we found no water. No. 2 is only 6 feet from
No. 1, and I dug down 25 feet with this ; I here bored at the bottom of it,
25 feet more, making a total of 50 feet from surface. In neither of
these wells did we come across any material rock, and at the bottom of No. 1
we drove a pipe to connect the two wells for storage. Why I made the two
wells so close together was on account of an amateur twig-man assuring me
that although there was no water in the first well, yet there was some within
6 feet of it. This proved true, but when Mr. Tompkins (the expert) came
down, he informed me that the real spring was exactly under the engine.
Of course it was not practical to sink there, so Tompkins started to find a
spring elsewhere. After a search of about an hour he came upon No. 3,
which, as before said, he told me was within 30 feet from the surface.
Tompkins sank No. 3 himself, and at 18 feet came upon a thick rock, and a
good supply of water. E MarI)En
Plan of Factory and Wells.
V#5
vt oo
•TV-- 2 1
o
3
Section of
No. 3 Well.
10 ft.
10 ft.
n
No. 105.—I am indebted to Captain the Hon. T. S. Brand, R.N., a,
son of the late Viscount Hampden, for the following evidence. Mr.
Brand writes to me as follows :—
Home Farm, Glynde, Lewes, Sussex, Mny 28</i, 1896.
In reply to your letter, I have made the enquiries asked for, and am now
able to enclose a statement of what happened on this estate with regard to
" water finding."
Thomas S. Brani,.
154 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
Statement Enelused.
(1.) An uttempt was made to find water about 30 years ago. After sinking
some distance, air came into the well. This was then abandoned. After this
another attempt was made, and a well dug 167 feet deep, but no water was
found. This was given up.
(2.) In 1893, Tompkins of Chippenham was engaged. The spot selected
by him was 450 feet from the old well, the ground rising from 8 to 10 feet.
He went over the ground, tracing all the springs t,> one point, saying that
water would be found at a depth of 70 feet. We dug at the spot selected,
and found indications of water at 70 feet, and struck the spring at 124 feet
below the surface. We have since run a bore something like 20 feet, to
obtain a better supply, but I do not think it has improved it.
(3.) Site of well, Southdown Hills, in white chalk, with flints. When
Tompkins visited the place, he was taken over the old well, which was then
covered up, and according to him there was no spring in the old well, or
anywhere near it.
Some further particulars of the case (2) were given at the time by
Mr. Pickard, the steward of the estate, in the following letter addressed
to Mr. Tompkins :—
Home Farm, Glynde, Lewes, Sussex, October 2iul, 1893.
You will be interested to hear that water has been found at the Toy
Farm ; at a depth of about 118 feet a spring was found, and within a few
inches from an opposite direction a second has broken forth, giving a strong
supply. The digging operations were carried on for a day or two, gaining an
Additional 6 feet before the water gained the upper hand. We have, there
fore, a well of 124 feet in depth, with 12 feet of water in the well, which
certainly is very satisfactory. Water has been found where you indicated.
The spring flows from the directions you named from either end of the
Plantation, and I am very thankful for the supply.
I think as you have found a spring of water on the Toy Farm, you will
find one anywhere. I should not have a well dug unless I employed you.
T. W. PicKArn.
No. 106.—The next letter is addressed to me from the Rev. G.
Booker, M.A., and gives particulars of Mr. Tompkins' dowsing for water
at Woolhope, Herefordshire :—
5, Norfolk Terrace, Brighton, May 11th, 189H.
In reply to your queries, my brother in his lifetime tried to deepen a
small well at his lodge gate ; and he lost the very insignificant quantity of
water which he had. There was on a high level, not far from the stable
yard, a small well ; but there was no quantity of water in it ; quite in-
,sufficient for the supply of the house, and much more of the stables and
gardens. The principal supply of the house and stables, &c. , was drawn
from two ponds used as reservoirs to collect the surface water from the rain,
and a so-called land spring on a neighbouring estate. There was trouble about
the water supply almost every summer. Under these circumstances, I being a
trustee of the estate, had Mr. Tompkins' work as a water-finder brought under
xxxn.] On the, So-called Divining Rod. 155
my notice. I communicated with him at once, and he came, and without any
trouble or delay found two springs, one of which, more convenient in
position, we adopted, and found water, sinking through the hardest blue-
stone, at 51£ feet. Mr. Tompkins, in reply to an enquiry of mine when he
found the spring, named 50 to 55 feet as the probable depth we should have
to sink ; you will see that the actual distance was between his two limits.
As to your third question [whether any prior attempts to find water
in the neighbourhood had been made without the aid of a dowser] I have
heard of attempts being made to sink wells and get water in the immediate
neighbourhood of my son's property ; but without success.
The hitter part of the sinking in our well had to be done with dynamite.
The water came in too quickly for the use of gunpowder. When last I
enquired, there were 25 feet in the well, and the workmen are now fixing a
wind-pump to lift the water from the well and force it to the house and
stables. There may be charlatans amongst the so-called water-finders : but
Tompkins is a genuine man and may be trusted. ^ Booker
Two days later, the Rev. G. Booker kindly sent the following
further details :—
May 13tfc, 1896.
The spring was found on the 19th September, 1893 ; but the well was not
sunk for some months after that date, as Tompkins was very busy ; and when
he got to work he had to proceed by blasting with large charges all the way
down. It was past midsummer in 1894, I think, before he finished the well,
and had a head of water of 30 feet. I said 25 in my last, but it is recorded as
last mentioned. The parish where the well was sunk is that of \Voolhope,
which is in County Hereford, and distant (speaking roughly) equally from
Hereford, Ledbury and Ross. It is, you may be aware, well known to geo
logists from its presenting a sample of the silurian formation ; and is, I
believe, mentioned by Sir Bodcrick Murchison in one of his works.
Tompkins' success on my son's estate got him employment on the Earl of
Chesterfield's, which is close at hand. If you were to see him at work you
would not doubt him. It is most interesting to see him following the run of
the spring. GEO- Booker.
No. 107. —I am indebted to Mr. Eastes, the Clerk to the Parish
Council at Yelling, Huntingdon, for the following statement. I have
also to thank Mrs. Rowley, of The Priory, St. Neots, who, at my
request, kindly made enquiries at Yelling, and confirmed the facts
narrated below :—
Yelling Parish Council, Yelling, Huntingdon,
January 24th, 1896.
Yelling is a village and parish on the borders of Cambridgeshire, six
miles from St. Neots, and seven and a-half from Huntingdon. The inhabi
tants have suffered much at times from scarcity of water, there being in
reality no supply. What was procurable was from ponds and brooks, and
was known to be contaminated with organic impurities. There are several
surface wells in the place, but their position at once indicates that the water
156 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
which percolates into them would be unsatisfactory,i and a chalybeate spring
situated at some distance from the village is useless for domestic purposes.
In February, 1895, the water-supply question was brought before the
Parish Council, and it was decided to seek the services of a water-finder.
Mr. B. Tompkins, of Pipsmore, Chippenham, Wilts, was communicated with
and engaged to visit Yelling. This he did on April 8th. Mr. Tompkins-
carried a white thorn twig in front of him. Following quickly its lead, Mr.
Tompkins was soon [as he alleged] upon the spring-head, when round
and round went the twig, over and over, twisting below whore it was being
held firmly, and eventually breaking off on one side. Mr. Tompkins then
stated that here was what he termed " a water-fiat " ; the spring pointed out
was the strongest point. It was [he said] about 80 feet down, and capable
of supplying 2,000 gallons of water a day. (Spring No. 1.) This was
satisfactory, but it was hardly in the right position. Another start was made
from the centre of the village, and shortly round went the twig again,
over and over ; this was in the right place, near the centre of the village ;
he said, about 20 to 25 feet down [we should have a] supply of about 1,000
gallons a day. (Spring No. 2.) A third spring was also afterwards found in
the same manner.
The Parish Council then set to work. Had a well dug over Spring No.
2. Found water at 23 feet 8 inches. Water analysed and found good. The
Council have laid pipes from the well to the roadside, and there erected a
pump to supply the central part of the village. They have also dug over
No. 3 Spring, found good water and erected a pump. The rock over the
Spring No. 2 was 2 feet 8 inches thick ; the soil consisting of blue gault.
The rock over the Spring No. 3 was thicker. There appeared to be two
rocks to got through, between which was a layer of blue gault.
J. P. Eastes.
In reply to enquiries Mr. Eastes writes, " No definite attempt to
find a spring by sinking a well beyond the surface wells hud been made
before Mr. Tompkins came." In a subsequent letter, Mr. Eastes tells
me that the depth of No. 2 Spring was 23 feet 8 inches, and of No. 3
was 80 feet.
Further particulars were also sent to me, in answer to enquiries, by
Mr. Anthony, of Yelling, who, Mr. Myers informed me, could also use
the dowsing rod. Mr. Anthony writes :—
Yelling, Hunts, December 24th, 1896.
The water-finding here has proved very satisfactory. Although no
attempts had been made to find water by sinking wells in Yelling prior to
Mr. Tompkins' visit in 1895, yet I am (mite satisfied that we should not find a
spring of water by sinking a well anywhere in Yelling.2 For there are several
i In a subsequent letter Mr. Eastes informs me that the Parish Council emptied the
best of these surface wells and after it had refilled had the water analysed. The
result showed " it was highly charged with organic impurities," and unfit to drink.
Xo spring therefore existed in the well.
2 Mr. Anthony tells me he means " anywhere at random/' as will also be seen from
the latter part of his letter.
xxxii.] On tfte So-called Divining Mod. 157
old wells in the village which have been sunk many years ago, not with the
idea of finding a spring of water (as no such spring was ever found in those old
,wells), but the idea was to sink wells and lay drains in the land 2 or 3 feet
deep so that the surface water might be drained into them, and so storing
water in winter for summer use ; frequently, however, the supply fell short
in summer and great inconvenience was caused thereby. Since [Mr. Tompkins'
visit in] 1895, we have had a plentiful supply from two wells sunk last
summer, and which proved to be two good springs.
I find I can also tell where there is water [even] without the use of the
rod, but the rod indicates more distinctly the spot or strata where water
may be found.
I would further say here, that I know instances in the neighbourhood
where boring, or rather digging and boring operations, have been curried on
to a depth of some 200 or 300 feet without success. I am quite satisfied if
we sank wells in Yelling, in many places we should find no water, and yet by
means of using the rod it is possible to find water within a few yards of such
wells without going many feet down. R Anthony
In a subsequent letter, Mr. Anthony replies to my inquiry as to
the depth of the surface wells which existed prior to Tompkins' visit :—
January IWl, 1897.
The surface wells are various depths, from 30 to 40 feet. The success which
attended the sinking of two wells in the neighbouring village of Croxton is
satisfactory, although water was not found at the depth Mr. Tompkins
expected. In one case it was found at about 12 feet, in the other at 80 feet.
Mr. Tompkins said they would find water about 35 or 40 feet from surface.
Those two wells are sunk where the surface is about level, but in our case
fat Yelling] one is on a hill, the other in a valley. t, .
*J J R. Anthony.
In a recent letter I am informed that, Mr. Anthony having found
that the rod (in his own hands) moved strongly at one particular spot
on his farm, he determined to sink a well there, and has just obtained
a good supply of water at a depth of 65 feet. The last sentence of
Mr. Anthony's letter of December 24th should be read in connection
with this result.
No. 108.—The next two letters are from a tenant farmer and
fruitgrower, Mr. Beaven, of Hereford. I had heard of the use which
the dowsing rod had been to his fruit farm, and wrote to Mr. Beaven.
He replies :—
Highfield House, Holmer, Hereford, May 9th, 1896.
In answer to your questions, in the summer of 1893 we had not a drop of
water on the premises—a farm of 50 acres—other than what was carried
from a road-side spring. Though the house well was 80 feet deep, it was
dry, and never could be depended on in a drought. No attempt [besides the
above named well] had been made to obtain water here prior to the visit of
the "diviner," nor should we have been at all likely to sink for water without
15S [fart
Professor W. F. Barrett.
some certainty of fmding it, as the whole formation of the subsoil is of a very
dry nature. The farm lies on a bank, and the dwelling-house is at the foot of
the bank. The spot where Mr. Tompkins discovered water is some 50 feet
above the level of the house, exactly on the highest point of our fruit plan
tations. The spring had two subterranean outlets,i and by means of one of
these the water finder traced the head of the spring, the twig pointing and
leading him in a zigzag course till at length it revolved rapidly in his hands.
There, he said, water would be found, probably at a depth of 60 feet. The
well sinkers, however, had to go to 97 fe^t, through dry marly strata, before
they tapped the spring, which has since yielded at the rate of 2,000 gallons
per day. No sooner had the confined water been properly released, than
the rod refused any further action, though up to that time it had been tried
almost daily, not only by Mr. Tompkins himself, but by a workman on the
farm who discovered he had the power, and the twig indicated, and turned
over the spot up to the very hour the full flow commenced. A windmill
pumps the water for us into a 5,000 gallon tank, and at the present hour we are
using it on a freshly planted strawberry plot of 1J acres, the water being con
ducted through pipes, and from taps at intervals by means of hose.
E. W. Beaven.
Highfield House, May 2Ut, 1896.
(1) No attempt was made to find water previous to the arrival of the
diviner, for the simple reason that we should not have thought of attempting
anything of the kind. It was only on the guarantee that water would, be met
with, and, in fact, the absolute certainty of the rod's indicating power, a
power that every unprejudiced mind must admit to be undoubted and
genuine, that induced us to sink for water. I am convinced that a thousand
pounds might have been laid out in boring, Ac., with no successful result.
It would have been entirely chance work without the divining rod.
(2) As I said before, a workman on the premises discovered, quite
unknown to us at first, that the twig would turn in his hands just over the
spot indicated by Mr. Tompkins, and this was the only instance, although
many ladies and gentlemen tried their hands. g -yy' Beaven
Mr. Beaven, it will be seen, is (as, in fact, he tells me) "a thorough
believer in the divining rod," and has, I understand, published a book
called "Tales of the Divining Rod." Although the dry well was 80
feet deep and the well sunk at the spot indicated by the dowser was
97 feet deep, the surface level of the dry well appears to be 50 feet
lower than the other. Geological opinion on this case would be
important.
No. 109. —Mr. Tompkins has recently returned from a visit to
South Africa, where he was engaged in sinking for springs by the rod.
The accompanying picture, from a photograph taken on the spot,
i Mr. Beaven, I understand, means "the spring supposed to be indicated by the
rod."—W. F. B.
MR. TOMPKInS dOWSInG In SOUTh AFRICA.
ICO [part
Professor IV. F. Barrett.
shows him at work in British South Africa, and the following letter,
addressed to Mr. Tompkins, is from the same quarter :—
Prieska, Cape Colony, South Africa, October 19th, 1896.
We have struck water at the spot indicated by you, 57 feet deep. The
news came in yesterday. You can imagine we are all delighted with the
success. The mining work was completely at a standstill for want of water.
We are sinking at three other spots you marked, and we believe we shall get
lots of water in the ''Bult," and make the property a valuable one. The
drought is still very severe, and the difficulties of obtaining water for the
men and Kittle are very great. Hedley Bros.
Mr. Tompkins, in a letter to me, states that "The syndicate which
owned this large South African property had spent some £7,000 in
the attempt to find water, but completely failed. Within 100 yards
of one of the borings made I found a good spring." This statement
must be taken for what it is worth, for [ have no independent
information whether any unsuccessful boring for water had been made
previously at this place.
I wrote to Prieska, and also to Mr. Hedley's brother, who lives in
England ; the latter can give me no further information, and from the
former I have not yet heard in reply.
No. 1 10. —Mr. R. C. Warner writes to Mr. Tompkins as follows :—
Oaksey, Malmesbury, October 27th, 1892.
We have sunk the well in the rick-yard, and at 49 feet we found the
water. There is now 9 feet standing in the well ofjS feet diameter, and I
believe we shall have a sufficient supply for my requirements. We have also
sunk the second well for the garden and house supply, and believe that both
will prove very successful. At the second well the water rose quickly to
within 4 feet of the top, the well being 25 feet deep. At the first well we
have 12 feet "of water now, and from this one we can draw 400 gallons per
day continuously, and this quantity is as much as we are likely to require in
any one day. R c Warner.
I wrote to Mr. Warner to ascertain whether any prior attempts to
find water had been made ; he does not reply to this, but writes :—
Eversley, Oaksey, Malmesbury, April l\th, 1897.
In reply to yours I have very little to add to the testimony already given
as to the utility of the divining rod in finding springs of water ; in my case
the result is still very successful, for during the last two seasons, which, as
you know, were extremely dry, we had quite sufficient water for my use.
R. C. Warner.
In a subsequent letter, Mr. Warner adds that " many failures had
occurred in my district in sinking wells at hap-hazard."
xxxn.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 161
I have not space to quote the replies to other enquiries I have made
in this group, as they merely indicate that a copious supply of water
was found at the various places indicated by the dowser ; the Rev. G.
Piatt Dew, of Shirenewtown Rectory, Chepstow, and others, write to
me to that effect. The Press Cutting Agency has also sent me
newspaper reports of similar results in other places, including some
Parish Councils who have engaged this dowser to find water in their
localities. Mr. Tompkins also sent me a lengthy list of different
persons for whom he has found underground springs by the rod, and
no doubt among the list evidential cases are to be found.
Whether the dowser's estimate of the depth and volume of the
underground spring be pure -guesswork, or is arrived at by some
instinct or experience, only a careful examination of the evidence can
establish. As I have quoted some letters which mention that Mr.
Tompkins was often incorrect as to the depth, it is only fair to say
other correspondents tell me he was singularly accurate in his
prediction of the probable depth of the spring.
No. 111.—Here, for example, are two letters which reached Mr.
Tompkins unasked, and the originals of which he has sent me :—
Parnacott, near Holsworthy, Devon, July 22nd, 1896.
I should have written to you sooner to say how extremely gratified we are
with the result of your " findings " here. The spring I sank upon last year
which we found at 34J feet (you guessed 33 feet I think) keeps the 5 feet
diameter well even now supplied with 20 feet of excellent water. I am now
sinking for the deeper spring you found (the firstj for my fruit plantations.
D. C. Cousins.
Stapeley House, Knighton, Radnor, January 27th, 1897.
I am pleased to inform you that we have found a good supply of water in
my meadow at the spot indicated by you in September last. You reported
the spring to be about 30 feet below the surface, and as we " tapped " it at
33 feet, I have every reason to be satisfied with the result of your water-
finding- A. H. Wainwright.
In answer to my enquiry as to whether he experiences any sensa
tion when over an underground spring, Mr. Tompkins replies :—
I feel a tingling sensation, and the twig begins to quiver when I get on to
a running stratum of water, and when over it the twig rises immediately.
It does not move for surface water nor water in pipes or drains, only
natural live water, as I term it. The moment I cross a stratum of water I
feel a sort of bracing sensation, which passes up my legs, back, and shoulders,
and down the arms to the twig ; when I get off the water course I feel the
loss of this power, till I cross the water again. When I get over the exact
spot the twig revolves over and over, and I am powerless to keep it stdl.
162 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
Whether this tingling sensation which is described by most dowsers
is due to their imagination or not, I have no means of knowing ; and
meanwhile we must not attribute too much importance to it. Every
dowser believes electricity moves the rod, and the chief effect of
electricity is popularly believed to be this tingling sensation. Hence
it is possible enough that if the dowser thought electricity always pro
duced a peculiar taste, we should find taste substituted for tingling
when over a spring. I shall, however, return to the question of the
physiological effect alleged to be produced when dowsing for water.
Failures.
F. 6.i—Mr. G. F. Lambert, of Bridgend, Glamorganshire, informed
me on September 10th, 1896, that Tompkins had been engaged by the
Urban District Council of Porthcawl, to find a supply of water for
that favourite seaside resort.
Tompkins fixed on a certain spot where he said " an ample supply
of water would be found at a depth of 80 feet." A well was sunk here
and on September 18th, 1896, in reply to my enquiries, Mr. Lambert
informed me that water was found at the spot indicated at a depth of
50 feet ; and he adds, " the water collects in the well, which is 8 feet
in diameter, to a depth of 20 feet in one night." Subsequently, how
ever, I heard that the supply was insufficient and that the Local
Government Board had disallowed the expenditure involved, which
was stated to amount to £800.
In response to my further enquiries, Mr. Lambert kindly went
over to Porthcawl, and writes to me on June 24th, 1897, that he had
seen the clerk to the District Council, who explained that, hoping to
get a larger supply, the well was sunk to a depth of 140 feet, but
though some additional springs were intercepted, the total yield was
quite inadequate to the requirements of the neighbourhood. The well
was sunk through a conglomerate magnesian-limestone (well known to
exist round Porthcawl).
Mr. Tompkins had previously, in answer to my enquiry, frankly
given me particulars of three cases where he had not been successful.
He states these are the only failures of his he had heard of ; quite
possibly, but the dowser's estimate of the number of his own failures,
as well as the usual attempt he makes to explain them away, must
obviously he taken cum grano salis. After ascertaining where the
failures occurred in these three cases, I wrote to each person
concerned, and asked for further particulars.
i The lettermg F. 6 is continued from p. 144.
XXXII.] 163
On the So-called Divining Rod.
F. 6a.—From the agent to the Kemble Estate, Cirencester, I
received the reply that they "bored to a considerable depth at the
spot indicated by Tompkins, but found no water."
F. 7.—The only other information of these failures I have been
able to obtain is from Sir Henry Mather Jackson, Bart., D.L., etc.,
who kindly gave me full details of his case, and to whom I sent Mr.
Tompkins' own account of this failure. After some correspondence,
Sir Henry gives me permission to publish the following letter :—
Llantilio Court, Abergavenny, April 6th, 1897.
I am obliged to you for allowing me to see Mr. Tompkins' statement in
reference to his attempt to find a water supply for Buguderi—a house of my
mother's near to here.
Mr. Tompkins advised sinking on the top of a hill, and stated that in his
opinion there would be water enough to supply a cottage.
Boring was first adopted, and at one period there was, as Mr. Tompkins
states, a certain amount of water in the bore-hole, but whether this was
spring or surface water it was impossible to say.
After boring to a depth of 87 feet without any satisfactory result, Mr.
Tompkins came over to see the place again, and he then said that it was a
mistake to have bored, that sinking should have been adopted, and that
though a considerable quantity of water had been allowed to escape, enough
was left for the purposes for which it was required. Sinking operations were
then commenced on the same spot, and after going down 122 feet without
any sign of water, or evidence of there having been any water, the whole
thing was abandoned. Mr. Tompkins is mistaken.in stating that the boring
was continued in the hopes that the "water would rise to the top of the well;"
no such hope was ever entertained, and had any quantity of water been
found in the bore-hole, sinking to that point would at once have begun.
In my opinion Mr. Tompkins failed entirely in this instance, but I know
of so many cases of success that I do not myself doubt the existence of
the " gift " ^moreover, as you say, the fact of his giving my name to you,
though he failed here, shows his honesty. Henry Mathbr JACKs01I.
In concluding this group I have to acknowledge the readiness with
which Mr. Tompkins has offered to assist me. He writes : " I will
gladly submit to any test or experiment you may like to impose, in
order to arrive at the truth of the enquiry you are engaged in." Not
only so, but Mr. Tompkins, at his own expense, came from Chippenham
to the meeting of our Society in London, when this paper was read,
to meet me and also to show the members of the S.P.R. the method
he adopts in dowsing.i Since then he has been to Cheltenham to submit
to a series of experiments which Colonel Taylor has made for the
purpose of this enquiry, the results of which will be given later on.
i Mr. Chesterman, another professional dowser, also did the same, kindly coming
up from Bath to London.
M 2
164 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
Group VII.—Mb. J. Stears.
Mr. Stears' name has already been mentioned in connection with
the very interesting case sent me by Mr. Clark (No. 7, p. 31). Mr.
Stears is now living at Westholme, Hessle, Yorkshire, and was until
recently engaged in business as an engineer in Hull. For some time
he was hon. sec. of the Hull Field Naturalists' Society, and is much
respected by all who know him. My attention was first directed to
Mr. Stears' use of the divining rod by the following letter which
appeared in the Pall Mall Gazette and the Leeds Mercury for October
9th, 1890. The writer is the Rev. W. Spiers, M.A., F.G.S., of Hulk-
Recently in the company of a few geologists on the Yorkshire Wolds,
it was stated that one of our company (Mr. John Stears, engineer of Hull)
was able to discover hidden water or metals by means of the rod. Our
friend cut out of the hedgerow a fork of hawthorn, shaped like a long V.
Holding a prong in each hand with the apex downward, we soon had an
opportunity of seeing " there was something in it. " Here and there, as he
slowly walked along, the apex of the branch curled upwards as if alive. I
know the gentleman too well to suspect that he was cheating us ; but in
order to see that he was not self-deceived, I placed my hand around those
muscles which must have moved had the contortions of the rod been due to
unconscious muscular contractions. I quite satisfied myself upon that
point.
I then requested him to close his eyes, and I led him over a small
stream that was running down the hill on which we were walking, and the
moment we reached it, the rod commenced its remarkable movements. As
soon as I touched it with my fingers it resumed its natural position. For
water, it moved away from the operator, but for metals it swung round in
the opposite direction.
I wrote to Mr. Stears, and the following is his reply :—
My experience has been most satisfactory (extending over 30 years), and
I have always found water where the rod indicated it, also iron pipes. In
some towns I have mapped out their position for the purpose of repairs, and
the pipes have been found exactly where I stated, some even left deep
where a road had been raised.
I may say that I notice a different sensation with waters and metals ;
there is a chilly feeling creeps up my legs when the rod shows water.
My powers vary with health ; if tired I lose the power ; provide the
animal system with a fresh supply of food, and back the power comes. I do
not like blindfolding. It seems to interfere with that calmness which is
desirable, but I have tried it on roads where I denoted water ; having been
taken backwards and forward I have been started in the middle of the road
and stopped at the part previously marked. Darkness does not interfere
with the power in the least.
Mr. Stears then relates how he finds the nature of hidden metals by
trying various metals in his hand along with the rod, the corresponding
xxxir.] On the So-called Divining Mod. 165
metal stopping all movement This is referred to in Appendix C;
it is the survival of an old tradition, but is nothing more than the effect
of the dowser's own idea. Experimental proof of the fallacy of this
among other superstitions connected with the divining rod will be
given subsequently.
Mr. Stears states that it was after watching the noted dowser,
Adams (see No. 25, p. 48), that he found he also possessed a similar
power, and he adds that in 1870 he and Adams, quite independently
of one another, located the same spot as the source of a good under
ground spring. On sinking a well a strong spring was found some ten
feet beneath the surface in the magnesian limestone. When in Brazil
in 1872, Mr. Stears says he occasionally tried his powers as a dowser
and found a good supply of water for a resident, who sank a well at
the spot indicated by him through the motion of the rod.
Mr. Stears has at my request furnished me with a tabular statement
showing the places and the depths at which he has found water by the
rod within the last two years only, at the same time furnishing me
with references to those who had engaged him for this purpose. The
list includes several local boards, noblemen, landowners and their
agents, mill-owners, farmers, ,fec., a lengthy list. From many in this list
I have received several letters in answer to my enquiries, and there can
be no doubt of the success Mr. Stears has obtained as a water finder.
No. 112.—At a farm belonging to Mr. J. Letts, at Rillington, near
Malton, in Yorkshire, a previous bore of 120 feet had been made
unsuccessfully, not a drop of water being obtained ; nevertheless, close
by Mr. Stears found, by the use of the rod, a tremendous spring which he
informs me " fires up as high as the house and continues to do so when
the pipe is open." I wrote to Mr. Letts and had the following reply :—
Rillington, Yorks, January 23rd, 1897.
1. Boring for water had been made prior to Mr. Stears' visiting the farm
at my recommendation, but without success, although they bored a distance
of 120 feet.
2. The place where Mr. Stears selected to bore would be about 30 yards
distant from the previous place. Mr. Stears found a very good supply at
84 feet.
3. The site of the farm is in the valley between the Moors and the Wolds.
I may add Mr. Stears selected another spot for boring on my other farm.
Although he found water, it was not nearly a sufficient quantity, consequently
I didn't consider in that case he was so successful. I know several other
places where he was most successful. John Letts
In correspondence Mr. Stears informs me that in addition to the
120 feet useless boring, there was also another well close by, some 70
feet deep, which was contaminated with sewage, and that by the rod
166 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
he traced an underground stream, which fed this well, to a spot where
the new and successful well was sunk. It was important to know the
exact position of the useless deep boring, and in reply to my enquiries
Mr. Stears sent me the accompanying sketch plan. The dotted lines
To Ma.l£on
N
4i
C
1 j sh^Zs ~T
OB
PLAn OF MR. JOhn LETTS' STABLES AT RILLLNGTOn, YORKS.
A—Old bore, strong but contaminated with manure, about 70 feet deep.
B—120 feet bore, 5 feet off A ; no water found by Halliday.
C—Bore ordered by J. Stears ; plenty of good water with pressure at 84 feet
D—Stream which feeds A and C.
XXXII.] 167
On the So-called Divining Rod.
marked " underground streams," Mr. Stears has put in solely on the
faith of the indications afforded by the rod ; they must therefore be
taken as merely hypothetical. Moreover, as the well A is con
taminated, if a stream flows towards the river in the direction
indicated by Mr. Stears, one would expect the well C to show signs
of contamination also. I sent this plan, with the foregoing remarks,
to Mr. Letts, and asked him if he had any corrections to make. Mr.
Letts returned it with merely a verbal correction, and marked
" correct."
I am indebted to Mrs. Williams, of Temple House, Great Marlow,
Bucks, for a list of places in Aberdeenshire, where it was stated Mr.
Stears succeeded in finding water by the rod after other attempts had
been made in vain. This latter statement, however, is not shown in
the correspondence that follows. Mrs. Williams says, " The facts were
related to me by my brother-in-law, Mr. Muirhead—Lord Aberdeen's
estate-agent—who would tell you about his experience with Mr. Stears.
Mrs. Irvine, of Drum Castle, tried the rod, but it made her quite ill
and exhausted."
No. 113.—In reply to my enquiries, Mr. Muirhead writes :—
Estate Office, Haddo House, Aberdeen, March 23rd, 1897.
On July 7th last, accompanied by Mr. Stears, water-finder, I visited the
farm of Braiklay, on the Haddo House estates of his Excellency the Earl of
Aberdeen, in the parish of Tarves, and county of Aberdeen, the tenant of
which is Miss Elizabeth Bean. The object of our visit was that Mr. Stears
might indicate a place on the farm where a supply of water might be found,
which could be introduced to the buildings on the farm by gravitation.
The farm lies entirely, according to the Geological Survey Map, on the
gneiss formation, and slopes generally to the east and south, from about 380
to 250 feet above sea level, the farm buildings lying about half-way down
the slope.
Mr. Stears proceeded from the farm buildings up the slope, and very soon
indicated by means of the rod a stream of water whose course he followed to
the highest point on the boundary of the farm. Leaving this stream he
proceeded along the boundary until he found another stream, which he
followed down the slope until he reached a point where he said that this
second stream joined the first, which he had followed upwards from the
farm steading.
The crop on the field at the time of the visit was turnips, and as the
tenant did not wish the crop interfered with until the turnips were ready to
be consumed by cattle, it was not until the month of November last that
Wing operations were commenced. After boring 21 feet water was found,
which flowed at the rate of four gallons per minute, with steady pumping.
The boring was continued to a depth of 40 feet where a great supply was
found and which has never been pumped dry.
The water was recently introduced to the farm buildings.
168 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
Mr. Stears also, about the same time, visited the farm of Newton, in the
parish of Methlick, also on his Excellency's estates, the tenant of which is
Mr. Robert Wilson.
Here Mr. Stears also indicated a spot where water might be found,
and, on boring operations being carried out, water was found at a depth
of 10 feet. The boring was continued to 25 feet, where a satisfactory supply
was got.
I will be glad to afford you any further information in my power.
George Muirhead.
In a subsequent letter, Mr. Muirhead writes, in reply to mine :—
No attempt either by boring or sinking for water had been made in the
neighbourhood of the place where Mr. Stears indicated that water would be
found, prior to Mr. Stears' visit.
There was no evidence of there being any water at hand either at
Newton or Braiklay, both farms being on hills, and water had previously
to be carried some distance. There is now a good supply.
George Muirhead.
No. 114.—I wrote to Mrs. Irvine and the following is her reply :
Drum Castle, Aberdeen, March ldth, 1897.
In reply to your note I beg to state that in 1893 we had the late Mr.
Lawrence of Bristol to find us water, which he did successfully in three or
four different places. In 1897 Mr. Stears came twice and marked a great
many places. Some for future use we have not yet tried, but in seven cases
we have found water on the exact spot marked by him. Both with Mr.
Lawrence and Mr. Steers I tried the divining rod several times, but on each
occasion it made me feel so ill that I do not care to repeat the attempt.
M. A. F. Irvine.
I asked Mrs. Irvine if any previous attempts to find water, without
the aid of a dowser, had been made on her property. Mrs. Irvine
writes in reply:—
Drum Castle, Aberdeen, March 30th, 1897.
We had been obliged to provide water for various cottages and farms
prior to the diviners' visits, as there was not a good supply, and one that
was very apt to fail in the summer. Our attempts were not very successful,
so hearing that Mr. Lawrence was coming to our neighbourhood, we decided
to have him before making any fresh attempts in new places, with the
result that I have told you. I am afraid that is all the information I can
«ive y0u- M. A. F. Irvine.
No. 115.—The following report I abridge from the Bury Times of
August 15th, 1896 :—
Some interesting experiments, in regard to the search for underground
water, took place on land occupied by Mr. J. Eddleston, farmer, Wrigley Carr,
XXXII.] 169
On the So-called Divining Rod.
Birtle, yesterday. The experiments were occasioned owing to a well which
had supplied the wants of the farm since 1888 having recently become dry.
In consequence Mr. Eddleston has been put to some inconvenience in
obtaining an adequate supply of water, and he decided to invite Mr. John
Stears, of Hull, to visit the locality for the purpose of ascertaining by
means of a "divining rod" where water could be found. About twenty
persons, including farmers and others interested, witnessed the experiments.
. . . After proceeding for some little distance, the "divining rod'' (a
forked branch of hawthorn) held in the hands of Mr. Stears about three feet
from the ground, began to turn, and Mr. Stears announced that a good
stream of water would be found underneath where they were standing, some
distance below the surface. Wooden pegs were driven into the ground, in
places indicated by Mr. Stears, to mark the course of the stream. . . .
While tracing this stream the current indicated was so strong that the twig
was snapped in two, and a little further on a second twig which had been
obtained was also broken. . . . The well which had previously supplied
the farm, and which had been worked by one of Mr. Webster's wind-power
pumping engines, was next visited, but no satisfactory result was obtained
in the vicinity of the well. A route was then taken in the direction of the
farm, and it was soon apparent that another stream had been struck. This
was traced for some distance and eventually found to cross the stream first
discovered, although the two water-courses were, according to Mr. Stears,
at different levels. He found the junction of the two streams, and a number
of pegs were driven into the ground. Boring operations will be commenced
in due course, and if these are successful the wind engine will be removed
to the place from the well previously referred to The spot indicated is on
rising ground.
I wrote to Mr. Eddleston to ascertain if the foregoing report were
correct and whether water had been found as indicated. The following
is his reply :—
Wrigley Carr Farm, Birtle, near Rochdale,
September loth, 1896.
I gladly comply with your request for report of the water found by means
of the divining rod. Having been very much troubled this dry summer for
good water, at the suggestion of Mr. Jonas Webster, water engineer, of
Bolton, I agreed that he should get Mr. Stears from Hull. At the time
appointed Mr. Stears came, and on a very dry hill above the house he found
a good stream running in a west to east direction, and another smaller stream
crossing the same north and south.i We considered [it] best to take the
crossing point, so I at once engaged men to sink a well there ; they went on
sinking, and bricking as they went on, through the different minerals as dry
and hard as possible until they got to the depth of 30 feet ; then they came to
the stream [running] north and south, which made a fair supply of water. But
I kept them sinking on till they came to the next stream at the depth of 42
feet, which was an excellent stream running across the bottom of the well,
i Mr. Eddleston, of course, means that Mr. Stears stated these underground
streams existed.—W. F. B.
170 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
just in the direction the diviner indicated. I should think we get as
much water as would supply four or five farms ; and it has risen in
the well ten feet. I am glad to say the result is very successful, and
Mr. Webster is now going to put up one of his wind pumping engines.
Joseph Eddleston.
No. 116.—Another case, which needs further investigation, is
given in a letter to a journal called The Carpenter and Builder, of
November 18th, 1892. Mr. W. Smith, of Atherby, Malton, Yorkshire,
writes :—
" In order to supply a small cottage property with water, I dug a new
well, and got to a considerable depth, when to our dismay, we struck solid
rock, when on account of the cost it might entail, we were compelled to
cease further operations, and in despair, filled it in again.
" I was relating my experience to Mr. Nelson, the courteous surveyor of
the Norton (Malton) Local Board, who suggested Mr. John Stears, of
Hull, with his divining rod. . . .
"Mr. S. proceeded to cut out of the hedge a forked thorn, which he
held by the forked ends, with both hands straight out before him, and
walked leisurely across the ground. Immediately he came across the
spot underneath which he said lay water, the rod, which he held firmly
with both ends, began to move upwards until it touched his breast. At
that spot we have dug, and found water at a depth of only seven yards,
which has set at rest any doubt as to the success or otherwise of the
experiment."
No. 117.—The following is from the Peterborough Express of
September 12th, 1895.
As we briefly announced in a recent issue, the Arborfield Paper Mills at
Helpston, owned by Messrs. A. Towgood and Sons, are being provided with
a fresh supply of water, a spring having been discovered by means of the
divining rod in the yard at the rear of the premises. A plentiful supply of
water is highly necessary for the manufacture of brown paper, and the
finding of the spring will give to the mill that which has long been required.
The services of Mr. J. Stears, water expert and engineer of Westholme,
Hessle, near Hull, were called into requisition. He found water in the yard,
and it was eventually decided to bore at a spot behind the mill. The boring
operation was placed in the hands of Mr. J. E. Noble, builder and contractor,
of Bourne. Boring proceeded steadily for several days, various strata of
earth, including rock, being passed through. At a depth of 49ft. rock was
again reached, and at 52ft. a steady stream of water was discovered. The
operations were still continued, the rock being again pierced, and at 69ft. the
main spring was tapped, a volume of water of tremendous pressure shooting
up. The boring was intended for a two and a-half inch pipe, but it has
since been decided to have a four inch pipe. The quality of the water is to
all appearances exceedingly pure, and the volume of water is estimated to be
XXXII.] 171
On the So-called Divining Rod.
between seven and eight thousand gallons per hour. The method of passing
the water into the mill has yet to be dealt with.
Mr. Stears sent me the following letter from Messrs. Towgood
to him :—
Arborfield Mill, Helpston, May Uth, 1896.
The boring for water which we made here at the spot indicated by you by
means of the divining rod has proved entirely successful ; a continuous supply
at the rate of 10,000 gallons per hour is now rising to the surface.
Alfred Towgood and Sons.
I wrote to Messrs. Towgood asking if the above newspaper report
were correct, and if a previous boring had been made, and, if so, how
deep. They reply :—
The printed report you send is quite correct. No previous boring had
been made. We quite believe in the divining rod.
Alfred Towqood and Sons.
No. 118.—Mr. Stears, writing to me, states that he was also
engaged by the local authorities at Helpston, who were in want of a
better supply of water, and that he succeeded in finding an abundant
supply by the indications of the rod. This is described at length in the
local papers. I abridge the following from the Peterborough Express
of August, 1896 :—
The question of the water supply of Helpston has been the one absorbing
topic for some time, and the villagers have been in sore straits owing to the
inadequate supply. So short was water in the village a few weeks ago that
the inhabitants trooped to the pump in the early morning, but many had to
return disappointed. A well sunk last year proved to be of little use. Mr.
Howes, the representative on the District Council, interested himself to a
great extent, and his efforts resulted in the matter being placed in the hands
of the Parish Council with power to act. This body called in the service of a
"diviner," Mr. Stears, of Hull, who successfully operated in the case of the
water supply at the Paper Mills. One of the spots tried was at the four
cross roads in Woodgate. Here so strong was the current that the divining
rod was broken, and Mr. Stears recommended that boring operations should
take place. The work was placed in the hands of Mr. Noble, of Thurlby,
and boring operations were commenced. By Saturday night a depth of 37
feet had been reached, 6J feet of rock having been passed through at the
top, followed by a thick layer of clay. By Monday a depth of 46 feet had
been reached, a second layer of rocks being pierced at about 43 feet. The
water was " struck " on Tuesday and rose to the surface in great quantities.
The flow from the top, notwithstanding that the drill had not been removed,
was more than a six-inch pipe could take away, and the immediate locality
was flooded. Immediate steps had to be taken to open the drains. There
is every reason to believe that a supply has now been tapped which is more
172 [part
Professor W. F. Baivett.
than sufficient to supply the whole of the village, besides providing an
unlimited quantity for flushing and other sanitary purposes.
Mr. Stears has sent me a copy of Mr. Noble's letter to him which
is as follows :—
Thurlby, Bourne, Lincolnshire, September 4th, 1896.
I am pleased to tell you the bore on the Village Green at Helpston,
marked out by you, has given very great satisfaction. At a depth of 50 feet,
the water rushed up, the overflow being measured at 7,000 gallons per hour ;
the Helpston people are delighted at the success, having been without water
so long.
J. E. Noble.
No. 119.—The next case was described by Miss A. W. Richardson,
of Moyallon House, Gilford, Co. Down. She wrote to Mrs. Sidgwick
in 1885, as follows :—
On one occasion, being with my father on business at one of our homes in
Ireland, Mr. Stears offered to tell him if there were water beneath a certain
part of my father's property, in which he wished to build, and in which being
very rocky, it was troublesome to bore.
The idea was quite novel to us then, but upon his "assuring my father that
water existed there, it was proved to be the case. This is the only instance
where the process was at all removed from the possibility of thought-
transference. At our other home (he had never been to either before) he
was led over a piece of ground where several of us knew that drains at
periodical distances existed, and his rod went up quite correctly as he passed
over them.
In this case, of course, it could at once be referred to transference of
thought. Of course in these cases it is almost impossible to devise a plan by
which it may be tested without the knowledge of some spectator.
I have observed that the very slightest muscular motion sends up the
vertex of the rod ; but, of course, the ambiguous part of the process is the
coincidence of the sensation which produces this movement with the presence
of water.
My sisters were interested in finding that the custom commonly obtains
in a remote part of the South of France, in which they spent a winter, lately.
A. W. Richardson.
Mr. Stears is now on a " water-finding " visit to the West Indies,
where he has been professionally engaged.
Failures.
I have heard of a few failures in connection with Mr. Stears ;
others doubtless exist which have never reached me. (As before,
the numbering F. 8 is consecutive, following on from p. 163.)
XXXII.] 173
On the So-called Divining Rod.
F 8.—Here is one where the failure has led the Parish Council
to a very heavy and useless expenditure :—
Bardney, Lincoln, February 16th, 1897.
Bardney Water Supply.
Mr. John Stears, of Westholme, Hessle, Yorkshire, diviner, was
employed hy our Parish Council to find water. He tried many parts of the
village, and indicated several places where he was sure water would be
found, particularly in one spot, where he was satisfied a very copious supply
would be found. At this spot we commenced boring about three months
ago, and have got to a depth of about 240,feet still in blue clay, but at
present without any signs of water. No engineer has been consulted. As
soon as water is found I will let you know.
J. R. Hird,
Clerk to the District Council.
In reply to my subsequent enquiry, Mr. Hird writes :—
Bardney, Lincoln, April 13th, 1897.
A depth of 340 feet has now been reached, but unfortunately without
any signs of water. They are still in blue clay. At a depth of 286 feet they
came to rock 2 feet 9 inches in thickness, and at 300 feet the like 3 feet in
thicknesS- J. R. Hird.
From the following which arrived as this paper is going to press, it
will be seen the boring has been made still deeper. I enquired who
was the Chairman of the Parish Council.
Bardney, Lincoln, May 21st, 1897.
A depth of 390 feet has now been reached, without at present any signs
of water. They are now in rock, and have got about 18 feet into it. Mr.
John Sharpe, of Bardney Manor, is our Chairman.
J. R. Hird.
F. 9.—In the next case my informant, Mr. Bradley, gives me
evidence of Mr. Stears' success as well as failure. Here is his
letter :—
Estate Office, Ebberston, York, May 20th, 1897.
I heard of Mr. Stears being at Ileslerton, Ganton, Knapton, etc. ; several
parties bored where Mr. Stears said there was water, and were successful.
I went over to some of the places, and saw for myself.
I recommended Mr. Stears to the managers of Trainton School, and they
sent for him. He came over, and pointed out where there was water, and
they sunk a well and bored about 80 feet, and got plenty of water.
I also recommended Mr. Stears and Mr. Gataker to the Parish Council at
Appleton le Moors. They sent for Mr. Stears, and he went over and
pointed out to them that there was water in a certain field, a very high
point. They also sent for Mr. Gataker, and he sent his assistant, named
Wills, and he fixed on the same place that Stears did. But some of the
17* [part
, Professor W. F. Barrett.
Parish Council thought that Mr. Wills had overheard them say, " That would
be the best place if there was water. " Mr. Wills said there was water, and a
good supply could be got.
The Parish Council sunk a well about 45 feet, and bored 36 feet (81 feet
altogether) and then stopped because there were no signs of water. They had
been told they would get water at 60 feet, or might have to go 80 feet.
The Parish Council then asked me to go over and see the place. I went
and inspected the well, etc., and the whole district, and 1 have not the least
doubt in my mind they would have to go down a great depth. At the place
where the well is sunk there is at least 280 feet of limestone before they get
to the clay bed. JosEph Bradley
Mr. Bradley adds a geological section of the district, which
confirms his statement. Mr. Bradley informed Stears and Gataker of
this failure, and both say the water is there, only somewhat deeper
than the Parish Council has bored !
F. 10. - I have also had some correspondence with reference to
another case of failure on the part of Mr. Stears, which occurred at
Flamborough in Yorkshire. Here a well was sunk at the spot
indicated by Mr. Stears, and sinking or boring carried down to 170
feet through the clay into the chalk, and no water reached. My
correspondent, however, does not wish his name or letters published.
Mr. Stears, in reply to my enquiry, gives as his explanation that " the
boring was not carried deep enough, as the chalk is upheaved and the
strata contorted at the place."
Doubtless, if a boring goes deep enough, water might be reached,
but failure is the only name to be given to cases where water—
predicted at a certain spot and limit of depth—is not found, after
sinking to this depth, or, say, 20 per cent, deeper than was indicated
by the dowser.
Experiments in Kingstown.
Mr. Stears happening to be on a visit to Ireland, in July, 1892, I
requested him to submit to some tests of his powers, to which he
readily consented.
Experiment 1.—The experiments were made in the private pleasure
grounds opposite my house, at Kingstown, a place entirely new to Mr.
Stears, who had never been in this neighbourhood before. Cutting a
forked twig, Mr. Stears started from the point marked A in the accom
panying plan, and walked to and fro until he reached the point
marked with an asterisk, when from the sudden and vigorous movement
XXXII.] 175
On the So-called Divining Rod.
of the twig he asserted that a considerable spring of water was under
neath this spot. There was nothing whatever to indicate that such
was the case, but on enquiry from the gardener (who was not present
during the experiment) I learnt for the first time that the very
spot upon which Mr. Stears had fixed was the site of an old well, now
completely hidden beneath the level greensward. I now begged Mr.
Stears to walk slowly over the ground, and if the rod indicated any
other springs, to allow me then to blindfold him and so retrace the
ground. Mr. Stears consented, and with this object he moved in the
direction of the dotted line. The rod moved at the points marked xi
on the plan. At the point B., Mr. Stears, notwithstanding the very
reasonable objection he had made in his letter to me 18 months before,
(p. 164), was carefully blindfolded, and endeavoured to retrace his
steps : the rod moved at the points marked x2. He now asked me to
let him try the same course with his eyes closed and the bandage
removed. This I did, and the rod moved at the points marked X3.
Finally, at C, he consented to be again carefully blindfolded, and once
more he retraced his steps, the rod moving at the points marked x4.
It will be seen that these points do not coincide, but in two or three
places they are nearly in the same straight line,—approximately N.
and S. It is possible that there may be underrgound water in this
176 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
direction, as Mr. Stears subsequently declared there was from the
movement of the rod, and tracked out the supposed course of two or
three imaginary streams.
Experiment 2.—Mr. Stears having stated that the rod moved over
comparatively small masses of metal, I procured nine bandboxes and
removing their lids, put large lumps of iron beneath some of them, and
nothing under others ; Mr. Stears did not see this arrangement I made
on the lawn till it was completed, when, as the boxes were all inverted,
it was impossible to tell under which one the iron weights were con
cealed, nor was I quite certain in each case myself, so that thought-
transference need hardly be considered. The result was that out of
the nine boxes Mr. Stears indicated five correctly ; that is, he was
certain from the movement or non-movement of the rod that iron was
or was not beneath the box ; three indications were wrong, and one was
doubtful. The trial was therefore inconclusive, as the number told
correctly was not beyond the probability of chance coincidence.
Experiment 3.—Another trial was made with three bandboxes, a
mass of iron, unknown to Mr. Stears, being placed under No. 3. On
testing with the rod, Mr. Stears asserted from the movement of the rod
that the iron was beneath No. 2, and nothing under No. 3. This was
therefore a complete failure.
Experiment 4.—Finally I chose two exactly similar boxes and put
a half cwt. beneath one and nothing beneath the other ; recalling Mr.
Stears, I begged him to make a succession of trials, at short intervals,
on the two boxes, whilst I noted the results. I got some one to
change the position of the iron each time (or not change it), and then
go away without letting Mr. Stears or myself know what had been
done. On adding up the number of successes and failures, I found
that the result was just what chance coincidence would have given,
that is to say, there was almost exactly an even number of successes
and of failures.
With the exception, therefore, of the location of the old well, the
first experiments with Mr. Stears were inconclusive, and the latter,
metal-finding, distinctly adverse to the existence of any such alleged
power. At the same time I am perfectly satisfied of the bonafides of
Mr. Stears, and have cordially to thank him not only for so readily
acceding to every test I proposed, but for having put himself to some
expense and inconvenience by prolonging his stay in Ireland to enable
me to carry out these trials.
xxxn.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 177
Group VIII.—Mr. Leicester Gataker.
One of the younger water finders is Mr. Leicester Gataker,
formerly of Weston-super-Mare, now residing at Crescent-gardens,
Bath. He is a gentleman by birth and education ; his father was a
captain in the Bengal Staff Corps, and the son, after leaving Bath
College, where he was educated, discovered to his surprise that a
forked twig revolved in his hands in the same way as it did with
a local "diviner." Mr. Gataker states that whenever he is over a
spring of water a sensation not unlike a slight shiver comes over him,
chiefly in his arms, and the forked twig, or wire, he sometimes holds,
continues to revolve—independently of his volition —so long as he
remains over the bed of the stream or spring ; running water alone
affecting him.i Judging from his sensations, or the movement of the
i In conversation, Mr. Gataker told me this sensation was most marked, and
usually began at the pit of the stomach : a feeling of sickness often being produced.
This is what some other professional dowsers have also told me, quite independently
of each other. How far this experience is due to a preconceived idea, I do not know.
n
178 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
rod, he asserts that by practice he has been able to estimate the
depth and volume of the underground spring or stream. Repeated
trials having satisfied Mr. Gataker that his success was not due to a
mere " fluke," he determined to make water finding his profession,
his health not permitting him to continue the sedentary life of a
London office. In addition to finding water, Mr. Gataker, like many
other professional " diviners," employs workmen to sink the well ;
like others also, he agrees to the terms of " no water, no pay,"
but charges 25 per cent, extra for his work if carried out under
these conditions !
Unlike other dowsers, Mr. Gataker does not, ordinarily, use a
forked twig or any kind of rod. An eye-witness thus describes his
proceeding. The rod, it will be seen, is discarded :—" His procedure
seems to be a rapid survey of the ground. He walks along with
a quick step, with his hands hanging by his side, until (according
to his statement) he strikes a stream of water, when he at once
becomes visibly agitated. With outstretched hands he appears
carefully to feel his whereabouts, until he ascertains the direction
the stream is flowing and follows it up. Then he marks the spot
of greatest supply and estimates the depth and quantity likely to
be obtained."
The accompanying woodcut (taken from Black and White) shows
Mr. Gataker at work (see p. 177).
Again, Mr. G. F. Tregelles, of Barnstaple, gives me the following
description of Mr. Gataker's procedure :—
On October 28th, 1896, I went down to Ilfracombe to join a party of
members of the Ilfracombe Local Board, who had engaged Leicester Gataker,
of Weston-super-Mare and Bath, to look for additional supplies of water for
their reservoir. . .
Gataker, who is a young man, did not use the forked twig, but walked
about with long strides, holding out his hand, or hands, palm down, and
every now and then making a dash or lurch to one side, diverging right or
left, sometimes walking straight, and sometimes in a circle, and at last, if
satisfied, digging his heel into the turf at the chosen spot. He seemed to be
following a sensation, which is what he professes to do, and he looked very
like a dog following the traces of a rabbit over the gras«.
On questioning him he said that when over a hidden spring, even with
arms folded, he felt a tingling all through his body, and still more so when
one or both hands were extended. The depth and quantity of water he
estimated by the intensity of this feeling, coupled with experience.
I wrote to Mr. Gataker and asked him to furnish me with a
summary of any cases where he had been called in to find an under
ground spring, by the exercise of his dowsing faculty, after previous
XXXII.] 179
On the So-called Divining Rod.
attempts to find water in the ordinary way had failed. In reply, Mr.
Gataker sent me brief particulars of some two dozen cases —drawn up
in a business-like and excellent manner,—and writes as follows : —
Bath, January 12th, 1897.
1 think I am right in saying that water was sought for unsuccessfully
prior to my visit, in each case. However, clients can substantiate my claim
or not. If the latter, I should like to know of it.
I can give you other cases, only my own time being so much occupied, I
came to the conclusion that the few I have sent will be sufficient.
Leicester Gataker.
The particulars given by Mr Gataker were, in nearly all these csises,
followed by a copy of a letter from the person who employed him,
supporting in general terms Mr. Gataker's statement ; these letters,
some of which I here quote, did not, however, indicate that previous
attempts to find water had in each case been made.
No. 120.—Mr. Ashworth, agent to Mr. Arkwright, of Hampton
Court, writes as follows to Mr. Gataker :—
Hampton Court Estate Office, near Leominster,
October 30t)i, 1895.
Referring to your visit to Bodenham on August 3rd, 1894, I am writing
to inform you that a well was sunk at the spot indicated by you at the back
of the keeper's cottage, and water was found at a depth of 53 feet, being 13
feet lower than the extreme depth as estimated by you.
The supply of water is sufficient for the purposes for which it is required,
the water rising about 3 ft. 6 in. in the well, and being of excellent
quality. Henry A. Ashworth.
Respecting this, Mr. Gataker states he was employed on this
occasion to find water in consequence of a deep well formerly in use
having run dry ; and he succeeded in locating the above supply within
a few yards of the old well.
I wrote to Mr. Ashworth asking if Mr. Gataker's statements were
correct, and received the following reply : —
Hill House, Bodenham, Leominster.
In reply to your letter of the 5th inst, Mr. Gataker visited Hampton
Court Estate in the summer of 1894, and asserted, after searching, that water
would be found at a certain depth—about 20 ft. east of the old well which
has been sunk for the use of the cottage, for which a supply was required—
the old well proving dry. An excellent supply of water was found on sinking
at the spot he indicated, but at about 10 ft. lower than he thought it would
be found.
n 2
180 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
No attempts [beyond the old well] to sink had been made previous
to his visit.
H. A. AShWORTH,
Agent, Hampton Court Estate, Near Leominster.
In reply to my enquiries Mr. Ashworth writes further :—
Hill House, Bodenham, Leominster, April 26th, 1897.
The following are the particulars you require :—
(1) Depth of new well, sunk at the spot Mr. Gataker indicated, 53 feet.
(2) Character of ground sunk through : hard marl, with the exception of
a thin bed of stone 6 inches thick, 6 feet from surface.
(3) Depth of water in well : from 36 to 42 inches.
(4) Depth of old well, which was situated 8 yards west of new well :
about 72 feet.
H. A. Ashworth.
No. 121.—The next letter is addressed to Mr. Gataker, from Mrs.
Holloway, of Stroud :—
Farm Hill, Stroud, Gloucestershire, December 13th, 1894.
Your search for water at Farm Hill, Stroud, was most successful, the
water being found at the spot indicated by you.
The men told me there were 18 feet of water in the well, which I have
had analysed twice, and it is found very good.
Anne Holloway.
Here Mr. Gataker states that, prior to his visit, boring for water
had been made to a depth of 70 feet, but no water found. I wrote to
Mrs. Holloway and asked if this statement were correct ; the following
is the reply :—
Farm Hill, Stroud, Gloucestershire, March 16th, 1897.
The statement made by Mr. Gataker is correct. The distance between
the unsuccessful and the successful bore was a gradual ascent of about 300
yards. Mr. Gataker gave the limit of depth at 50 feet, but a good spring of
water was actually found at 45 feet.
Ann Holloway.
No. 122.—In the next case Mr. Gataker writes to me as follows:—
" I was engaged on the estate of Mr. Geake, near Launceston, and after
searching for water in Mr. Geake's field, I was brought to an old well
(dry), and which was looked upon as useless. Full particulars of the
work carried out following my advice will be found in the letter I
received, as follows " : —
Millways, Launceston, Cornwall, October 4fA, 1895.
You will be pleased to hear we found the spring, after sinking one well to
65 feet, and driving a heading about 15 feet, exactly as you predicted. This
we had to do to get at the spot marked by you.
XXXII.] 181
On the So-called Divining Rod.
The find was more remarkable because you said we ought to come to this
spot very soon, and you could not see how the well should go quite dry,
considering the spring was so near. The well was not straight, and was sunk
the opposite way.
We have now 10 feet 6 inches of water deep, 15 feet long, and about an
average of 5 feet wide, which has kept to the level through September.
John Grake.
In reply to my enquiries, Mr. Geake writes :—
Millways, Launceston, April lit, 1897.
The well was sunk many years ago to supply 20 acres of grazing land.
Originally it was about 25 feet deep. It was taken in hand from time to
time by different men, and put down to 55 or 56 feet. Even after that it
went dry for three and four months, according to the summer weather.
When we sent for Mr. Gataker, we did not open the well ; it had been quite
dry, as usual, for some time. Mr. Gataker came upon it suddenly. He had
been going over other ground. We had hoped he would find a shallow
spring somewhere else. After asking a few questions about the well, he
walked on one side of it, and simply said, " I have it." He turned and said,
"There should be a certain quantity of water at the bottom of that well, if
it is 55 or 56 feet deep ; there is a spring running near," pointing to one
side of the well, " and it should have touched the top of it." We found out
afterwards that if the well had been sunk straight down, as we supposed it
to be, this should have been the case, but in order to escape some hard
ground, the men, years before, had gone all on one side, quite the opposite
side to where Mr. Gataker was pointing. He gave instructions to sink the
well 10 feet deeper, and drive to the place he marked. When it was
accomplished we had a room of water, about 15 feet long and 10 feet deep,
at the bottom of the old well ; the water rose to the level of the bottom of
the old well.
An old Cornish miner, who went down, said that at the spot Mr. Gataker
pointed out, and depth, there was a lode, about 12 feet wide, showing
" Manganese." The water is of excellent quality, and we have raised the
rent accordingly. [!] John Geake.
In answer to my enquiry whether Mr. Gataker's predictions were
verified upon actual trial, and whether it was probable water might
have been found elsewhere on the estate, or by sinking the existing
well deeper, Mr. Geake replies : —
Millways, Launceston, April 13th, 1897.
We verified Mr. Gataker's predictions. The spring was found at the very
place he indicated. We [probably] should not have found a similar supply
by sinking deeper, or anywhere about but the place he marked. In my last
to you, I quite forgot to mention that we had gone to great expense by
having two holes bored at the bottom of the well, 20 and 30 feet, which
made the well and holes 86 feet deep. We had given up trying a year or
two before Mr. G. came to us.
John Geake.
182 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
No. 123.—Mr. Gataker states that being engaged by Messrs.
Ruscombe Poole and Son, the well known solicitors of Bridgwater, he
found a spring less than 14 feet deep, and within 3 or 4 yards of a
useless well, 20 feet deep, sunk prior to his visit. In corroboration,
he encloses the following letter :—
Bridgwater, Somerset, July, 1896.
We have sunk a well in the garden, and a copious spring has been found
at 13ft. 6in., which amply verifies your prediction.
J. Ruscombe Poole and Son.
I wrote to Mr. Ruscombe Poole, and asked him if Mr. Gataker's
statement were correct, and he replies :—
Bridgwater, January 15th, 1897.
We return the paper you sent us. As regards the statement that there
was a well about 20 feet deep which was useless, this is perfectly true,
because the water in it was foul, and smelt badly. The supply found is a
very much more copious one than the old well, which contained very little
water.
J. Ruscombe Poole and Son.
No. 124.—In the next case, Mr. Gataker states he was engaged by
the Messrs. Pacey, of Melton Mowbray, who, prior to his visit, had
sunk a well on the advice of a water-finder, but the supply proved
useless ; that he found a spring close by, and agreed to sink a well
on the terms of " no water, no pay."
I wrote to Messrs. Pacey, who replied on September 17th, 1896,
that they had not yet got to the depth of 50 or 60 feet, predicted by
Mr. Gataker, but would write later. In December they wrote to Mr.
Gataker they had found " abundance of water at the depth of 58
feet." In reply to my specific enquiries (1) Whether Mr. Gataker had
been successful ? (2) Who was the unsuccessful diviner previously
employed 1 (3) What was the distance off and depth of the old well 7
Messrs. Pacey write :—
Egerton Brewery, Melton Mowbray, Decemba- 19th, 1896.
Replying to yours of the 17th, we beg to say, in answer to your questions
(1) Very successful. (2) No other diviner was employed by us. (3) There
is a well 5 yards distant from the site the diviner indicated. The new well
has 14 feet 6 inches of water, the old well only 2 feet 6 inches. ,
Adcock, Pacey, and Co.
I had to write again to get the depth of the wells, when I was
informed the unsuccessful well was about 45 feet deep, and the
successful one 56 feet. After all, therefore, this case is not of
evidential value.
XXXII.] 183
On the So-called Divining Rod.
No. 125.—The next letters are addressed to Mr. Gataker from the
agent to Sir J. de Hoghton, Bart., of Hoghton Tower, near Preston,
Lancashire :—
Hoghton Estate Office, Walton-le-dale, Preston.
April, 1895.
Several farms on these estates being short of water, your advice was
obtained, and you pointed out places where water would be found, giving the
depth.
In a field close to Hoghton Station, at one of these spots, where the
depth was estimated at from 10 to 15 feet, a boring was made and water
reached at 10 feet ; a well will probably be sunk there at some future
time.
At Hardshaw Hillock, Walton-le-dale, you indicated a place where water
might be found at from 20 to 25 feet. Here, in March, 1895, water
was found in a bed of sand, after sinking through 22 feet of stiff marl, and a
large supply is being yielded.
In this latter case, you used your hands only, without any rod.
Walter de H. Birch.
Jidy 30M, 1895.
Another well has been sunk at a neighbouring farm, Leigh House,
Walton-le-dale. Here you had indicated a spot where water would be found
at from 30 to 35 feet deep.
After getting down 30 feet of exceptionally hard clay and marl, the
well sinkers were beginning to lose heart, and the tenant suggested
that a rain-water tank would answer his purpose, but continuing to
sink, they struck a vein of sand at about 31 feet, with a good supply
of water.
At 34 feet, clay was again reached, and boring 10 feet more at the bottom
of the well showed only hard clay, so it was decided to "let well alone," as
the result was so satisfactory.
Walter de H. Birch.
I wrote to Mr. Birch to inquire if any previous attempts to
find water had been made, and what was the result, and whether
Mr. Gataker had any failures. The following is the reply I
received :—
Hoghton Estate Office, Walton-le-Dale, Preston,
April 12th, 1897.
Mr. Gataker certainly has been remarkably accurate in his estimate of the
depth at which water will be found, though sometimes he has been wronsj.
I do not place much reliance upon his estimate of quantity.
His most notable failure was the last. Here he gave the depth at from
12 to 18 feet, but after sinking that in quite dry sand, he came again and said
there must be a quicksand, which threw him out, and that it was about 60 to
70 feet deep. We bored through dry sand, and found a quicksand at a depth
184 Professor W. F. Barrett. [part
of 72 feet, so that he redeemed his character in this. This is a list of his
predictions, and the results :—i
Actwd.
good supply.
two springs one above the other,
very small spring.
Estimated. Actwd.
a. 20 ft. 22 ft.
6. 20 ft. 8 and 37
c. 25 ft. 10 ft.
d. 30 ft. to 35 ft. 34 ft.
e. 10 ft. to 15 ft. 10 ft.
/• 15 ft. about 15 ft.
9- 20 ft. to 30 ft. about 11 ft.
h. 30 ft. Here water
a fair stream,
was found on boring and rose
in the bore to 22 feet from the surface.
Exact depth of spring not ascertained.
i. 12 ft. to 18 ft. No water, but on boring deeper, a quicksand
struck at the depth of 72 feet, as already
mentioned.
In " g " there was more water lower down, and you will notice that in the
least accurate estimates there were two springs at different depths.
Walter de H. Birch.
No. 126.—Lord Llangattock writes as follows to Mr. Gataker:—
The Hendre, Monmouth, June, 1896.
Mr. Gataker, at my request, has been searching for water in several
places on this estate, and has been most successful.
Water has been found wherever he has indicated, and at the depth
mentioned by him.
I cannot speak too highly of him and the wonderful skill he shows as a
water finder. T
Llangattock.
With reference to this case, Mr. Gataker informs me that, prior to
his visit, attempts had been made to find water by digging deep
trenches in many directions, but without success. I wrote to Lord
Llangattock for corroboration, and he replies as follows :—
The Hendre, Monmouth, April 12th, 1897.
I sent your letter to Mr. Lipscomb and asked him to give you all
information. I have great faith in Mr. Gataker. I wanted to find springs
in the Park to strengthen a pond, and he marked several places, and told me
exactly the depth we should find the water, and he was always correct.
Llaugattock.
Mr. Lipscomb writes :—
The Hendre, Monmouth, April 12th, 1897.
Mr. Gataker was asked to find water to strengthen the supply of water to
the lake in the park. He located five springs, near the lake, within a 100
yards of the margin of the lake at separate points, and varying from 11 to 20
i Mr. Birch explains that the lettering indicates different places on the estate
where the trials were made.—W. F. B.
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 185
feet in depth. There was no sign of water on the surface at these points.
In every case his predictions as to depth and yield were correct. This is as
far as we have proved him. No sinking had been done previous to his visit,
the lake being fed by natural surface streams. In Pearson's Magazine, p. 31 1,
you will find some account of Gataker's work here. He is there depicted
hunting for springs in the bed of the lake. He had let the water out of the
lake to repair a hole in the bank. I shall be glad to answer any questions
you may wish to ask. c Lipscomb.
No. 127.—The Rev. A. T. Fryer, of Cardiff, who has frequently
given most valuable assistance in the course of this research, sends me
the following letter addressed to him by Captain Stansfeld, in answer
to Mr. Fryer's enquiries : —
Dunninald, Montrose, N.B. , September 18th, 1896.
On the 24th of July Mr. Gataker visited this estate, and as he was rather
pressed for time on that occasion, he is to give me another call. We,
however, walked over two fields, in each of which points were marked where
Mr. Gataker said springs of water at various depths would bo found. I have
up to the present only experimented on one, and this at about 9 feet deep,
which is well within the estimated depth made by Mr. Gataker, and the
apparent water supply is nearly as stated by Mr. Gataker, viz., about two
gallons a minute. Mr. Gataker, when pointing out this supply, told me that
in a previous digging I had just missed the proper spring by about 4 or 5
yards, and in this he seems to be correct. The excavation was almost
entirely through rock.
I shall be happy to report further if you desire it, but work is necessarily
slow, as there is so much rock to go through. John Stansfeld.
Subsequently I wrote to Captain Stansfeld, who stated he was
expecting another visit from Mr. Gataker, and that the spring the
water-finder had previously found continued to give a plentiful supply.
Later on, I received the following :—
Dunninald, Montrose, October 2Ath, 1896.
Mr. Gataker did not use the rod in discovering water, but in order to
show the working, he took a forked hazel rod, and this rod twisted round in
his hands. A gentleman then tried the rod, but in his hands it did not
move, till Mr. Gataker put his own hands on the wrists of the gentleman,
when the rod immediately turned round. John Stansfeld>
No. 128.—The Bath Chronicle of January 7th, 1897, has the
following :—
Mr. Leicester Gataker was recently engaged by the Belfast Brewery to
put them in the way of obtaining a good supply of water. They had
previously sunk four wells, and had also some time before had the services of
another diviner. Acting upon Mr. Gataker's advice, they have sunk two
186 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
wells. In the case of the second one, he advised the company that at a depth
of from 120 to 150 feet they would obtain what they required. After going
80 feet they tapped a spring. This did not come up to their requirements,
so they asked Mr. Gataker to come again, doubtless in view of their previous
failures. He accordingly went, and informed the company that they must go on
to the depth originally given—150 feet. They went on, and at the depth named
they secured a second spring of large power. While in Ireland last month
he again visited the place, and after descending the well, he predicted that by
going nine feet deeper they would obtain an even stronger (third) spring.
They no longer had any doubt as to what course to pursue, and by doing as-
last advised, they have increased the supply by 2,000 gallons a day.
A subsequent issue of the same newspaper states that : —
Well No. 2 has now been carried out, and Mr. T. R. Caffrey, the pro
prietor, gives the yield at 7,000 gallons per 24 hours. He has also stated
that "it would have been a saving of many hundreds of pounds had I known
Mr. Gataker when I first started looking for water." Both wells are 197
feet deep.
I wrote to the proprietor of the brewery as to the accuracy of the
foregoing newspaper reports, and asked for further particulars. Mr.
Caffrey replies :—
The Brewery, Belfast, February 26th, 1897.
The enclosed cuttings are quite correct, save and except the No. 2 well
is now giving over 9,000 gallons in the 24 hours.
I had a water-finder before I met with Mr. Gataker, who marked out four
places. I got water in one of the four, none in the other three. Mr.
Gataker marked the two wells I have opened and found the water all right.
Thomas R. Caffrey.
I could not ascertain from Mr. Caffrey the name of the previous
unsuccessful dowser.
The next letter is from Dr. A. A. Mantell, of Bath :—
The Elms, Bathampton, Bath, July, 1894.
On June 4th, 1894, I took Mr. Leicester Gataker to a neighbour's tennis
lawn in Bathampton, which was made by him, and during the excavations a
spring of water was found, which now runs diagonally across the lawn.
Mr. Gataker had not entered the premises before, nor had he the slightest
knowledge that there was any water there ; I therefore proposed to the
owner of the lawn to put him to a severe test as to his powers of divining. I
carefully blindfolded him, and in order to prevent his injuring himself
fastened a rope to his arm, and held it loosely in my hand ; he was then
asked to walk about and see if there was any water to be found. Imme
diately, when he walked over the spring, which lies about three or four feet
deep, the rod revolved, and whilst still blindfolded he traced its passage most
accurately across the lawn. At a recent meeting of the Bath Field Club to
witness some experiments by a " Water Dowser," we asked him to walk on
XXXII.] 187
On the So-called Divining Rod.
a row of bottles, which were placed over a spring, and which was known to be
there. When he was quite insulated by these bottles, the rod ceased to
revolve, and several members of the Club were under the impression that
the bottles acting as non-conductors prevented the current of electric fluid,
or whatever it may be, from passing into the dowser's body. I therefore put
Mr. Gataker to a similar test, but with him the rod revolved as well with
as without the intervention of the bottles ; this seems to indicate Mr.
Gataker's great susceptibility to the influence.
My neighbour and those present on this occasion feel convinced that Mr.
Gataker has the power of water-finding in a remarkable degree, and we hope
that he may be successful in making it his profession.
A. A. Mantell, M.D.
The foregoing letter illustrates how necessary it is to guard against
giving unconscious indications and suggestions, which may account
for the dowser's success on this occasion. The failure of the insulation
test corroborates what has already been said about the fallacy of this
experiment.
No 129.—The next letter to Mr. Gataker is the result of work
done on the Duke of Devonshire's Estate.
Chatsworth, Chesterfield, June 22nd, 1895.
You stated that you believed we should mid water at a depth of between
60 and 70 feet. We found a supply at 69 feet, and there is every probability
that it will be sufficient for the requirements of the farm.
You are no doubt aware that we had previously sunk a well to a consider
able depth without success.
I was much surprised to find that you first indicated the locality of water
with your hands and no rod, only using the rod as a secondary aid to confirm
your indication. Gilson Martin.
In reply to my enquiries Mr. Martin writes :—
Chatsworth, Chesterfield, January 14M, 1897.
Mr. Gataker's statements enclosed are quite correct. The well which
was sunk before he came was, so far as I remember, about 45 feet deep ; the
well which proved successful was about 300 yards from the useless one, and
upon much higher ground. GlLSOn Mamik
Mr. Martin adds that he has increased the cheque due to Mr.
Gataker, as he was so gratified with the success attained.
Failures.
I have received reports, but no details, of several failures on the
part of Mr. Gataker. I spoke to Mr. Gataker about these when he
called upon me in Dublin, and he frankly said there was no doubt ho
188 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
was occasionally wrong, but he did not think his failures averaged
more than 10 per cent, of his total engagements. He told me he kept
a careful record of all his work, and he had, as I had requested, gone
over all his cases to find the number of failures of which he had heard,
with the result stated. This statement I have, of course, no means of
verifying.
The Rev. A. T. Fryer sends me some particulars of the failure of
Gataker and H. W. Mullins to find water for a Brewery near Bath,
but I cannot ascertain which of the two dowsers was really at fault,
as it appears the well was sunk, not on the spot where both dowsers —
independently of each other—agreed there was a spring, but at a spot
where one said there was a spring and the other said there was not.
In the Richmond Experiments which follow, Gataker and H. W.
Mullins were also employed, with the result described below.
It will have been noticed on a preceding page (p. 173), that Mr.
Gataker sends an assistant when he cannot go himself. These
assistants Mr. Gataker professes " to train " for a fee. If there is a
peculiar instinct, or faculty, for finding underground water, such as
the dowsers themselves claim to possess, this so-called " training " is a
piece of the charlatanism which crops out in so many of these " water-
experts." Here, for example, is an extract from the Richmond Times,
of January 11th, 1896, where an account is given of Mr. Gataker's
dowsing for water at Richmond, as fully detailed in the " Richmond
Experiments," which follow. The account, the editor informed me, was
written by an experienced reporter, who states that
' ' Mr. Gataker was closely questioned as to whether the stream of
running water in the channel of the adit might not affect his judgment. To
this he replied most positively in the negative, saying that it might affect
the twig, but that by ' a new dodge ' which he had discovered about ten
months ago, in working with his hands, he could absolutely eliminate that
disturbing influence. He could also discriminate between natural and
artificial currents, and could even tell if there were two springs, one
immediately beneath the other, and could divine the depth and quantity
of each."
This is the sort of thing that can only provoke well-deserved
contempt.
The Richmond Experiments.
Among the more extensive and costly series of experiments made
to test the value of the " divining rod " as a means of finding under
ground water, must be included those carried out at Richmond,
Surrey, in the spring of 1896. Though the results were only of
XXXII.] 189
On the So-called Divining Rod.
transient success, the experiments derive additional interest from the
following facts :—
(1) Prior to the "diviners'" visit, a series of borings for water
had ineffectually been made ; (2) the independent opinions of two
different "diviners" were obtained; (3) a full record of the experi
ments, as they took place, was published from time to time in the local
newspapers ; and (4) the opinion of the highest geological authorities
on underground water was also obtained and borings made according
to their directions. It will be necessary, therefore, to consider this case
at some length, the more so as public attention was widely called to
these experiments by the reports in the London papers which will be
quoted presently.
It appears that the water supply of Richmond is derived from wells,
but was found inadequate to the growing needs of the township.
Attempts to increase the supply were made, whereupon a corres
pondence arose in the local newspaper suggesting that the aid of the
" divining rod " should be called in. The whole question was discussed
by the "Water Supply Committee of the Borough, who, however, could
not officially take so novel a course ; but the chairman of the committee,
Mr. T. H. Watney, acting upon the suggestion of the editor of the
Richmond Times, undertook in his private capacity to defray the cost
of putting the " divining rod " to the test. Arrangements were
therefore made for two " dowsers " to come to Richmond. The
dowsers selected were unfortunately two young and comparatively
unproved men.
In the Richmond Times of January 11th, 1896, a lengthy and
admirable report is given of the search for water by the two young
"diviners," who were first Mr. H. W. Mullins and afterwards Mr.
Gataker. From this report I condense the following :—
The water hitherto obtained from the chalk at Richmond is taken from
a depth of over two hundred feet, and as there appeared to be no record of
the divining rod being influenced at so great a distance, it was determined to
take the diviners or dowsers down the Borough well and along the adits, of
which there are some miles. It was decided that the two " dowsers " should
make independent examinations on different days, and that the first report
should be kept secret till after the other had been obtained. Accordingly on
December 11th, 1895, " Messrs. Mullins " came as requested. Before going
down the well Mullins showed the use of the rod on the surface of the
ground. At one spot it was found to twist violently, Mr. Mullins stating that
water was to be found not far from the surface at that spot. Mr. Peirce, of
the Borough water works, confirmed this, stating a water pipe passed under
the ground there only a few feet down. Mr. Mullins had no previous
knowledge of this fact. The party then went down the well and spent some
hours exploring the adits, Mullins walking in front carrying the forked twig.
The indications of the rod, he said, were against a good supply. One place,
190 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
however, was better and the quantity promised went as high as 1,000 or
1,500 gallons a day, the other places much less. In all some thirty places
were indicated by the "diviner," but Mr. Mullins repeatedly said, "I
cannot hold out any hopes of large quantities of water." The depth to be
sunk he estimated at from thirty to seventy feet. Mr. Peirce marked the
places indicated.
Three weeks later Mr. Gataker made his examination. Here a noticeable
difference was observed in Gataker's method of working, as compared with
Mullins'. He discarded the twig or any other artificial aid whatever, and
simply walked about with his arms held stiffly down by his sides, the palms
spread outward. There were consequently no outward manifestations to
indicate the supposed presence or absence of water beneath the ground, and
it was necessary to take his word entirely for the matter. A twig, however,
was carried by his pupil who accompanied him, and by its lively dippings and
twistings sustained the divinations of the master. As before, the party, after
descending the well, tramped for some hours through adit after adit, until
Gataker had explored every portion of the workings. The results were
rather startlingly different to those obtained per Mullins. Gataker marked
many more points than the other, and he predicted for each a vastly larger
flow. The range of depth at which water would be obtained was, in his
opinion, from 50 to 200 feet below the floor of the adit. In one or two cases
his points tallied almost exactly with those of Mr. Mullins, and in several
other cases they were within a few feet, but this could not be said of the
great majority. Altogether he marked 55 places where a good supply
could be obtained at an average depth of t>0 feet ; the points marked
were distributed pretty equally all over the present headings. The total
daily supply he predicted would be 277,000 gallons. It should be added
that one of the members of the Richmond Town Council, who accompanied
the party, found the "twig " moved in his hands, also at some of the points
which were indicated by Gataker as likely to yield the best supply.
In the Thames Valley Times of January 15th, 1896, a week after Mr.
Gataker's visit, is a report of a meeting of the Richmond Town Council,
when the chairman of the water committee announced that borings
had been made at a spot indicated by both the diviners, working
independently of one another, one stating water would be found at a
depth of 50 feet, the other 30 to 50 feet, the former naming 800
gallons a day as the yield, the latter 7,000. Water to the extent of
8,000 gallons a day was actually found here at a depth of 21 J feet.
Public attention was directed to the matter by the following notice in
the London Times of January 17th, 1896 :—
A supply of water, estimated at about 8,000 gallons a day, has just been
tapped at Richmond in somewhat remarkable circumstances. For some time
past extensive borings have been made in the adits of the Richmond-terrace-
gardens well, but with comparatively little success. Last week two " water
diviners," named Gataker and Mullins, visited the well, and both predicted
that water would be found at certain indicated spots, the former alleging that
by making 50 borings, at a cost of about £800, an enormous supply might
xxxii.] On tfte So-called Divining Rod. 191
be obtained, worth to the town about £5,000 a year, on the Southwark and
Vauxhall valuation. On Monday last it was decided to begin boring at a
point where both the " diviners " predicted a find, from 30 feet to 50
feet below. At a depth of about 20 feet a spring was tapped which is
yielding 8,000 gallons a day. The experiments have been carried out at the
expense of Councillor Watney, and he has undertaken to bear the cost of
further borings at other points indicated by the water-finders.
The Standard of the same date also had the following :—
A remarkable discovery of water by the aid of professional water-finders
has just occurred at Richmond, Surrey. The Corporation have had wells
sunk to a considerable depth to procure water sufficient to meet the
requirements of the borough, and a supply, which for the past five or six
weeks averaged 233,000 gallons per day, was discovered. Further borings
for a greater yield have, however, been attended with little success. Last
week two water diviners, named Gataker and Mullins, visited the Terrace-
gardens Well, and indicated a number of places in the adits at which they
alleged water would be found. The former stated that by making about
50 borings at indicated spots a supply of water would be found worth about
£5,000 a year to the town, on the valuation of the Southwark and Vauxhall
Company. This suggestion was acted upon, and when the boring reached
about 20 feet, a spring of water was tapped yielding about 8,000 gallons
per day.
The local newspaper, in commenting on these facts, states that
the finding of the water may be merely a coincidence, though a large
number of borings had been previously made with practically no
result. It also points out that the " dowsers " worked under
conditions entirely new to them, not on the surface of the ground, but
in tunnels far underground, with water probably all round them.
The editor and proprietor of the Richmond Times, Mr. F. \V.
Dimbleby, J.P., in reply to my enquiries (1) as to the accuracy of
the reports in his newspaper, and (2) as to evidence of any previous
boring for water being made prior to the use of the " divining rod,"
writes :—
Richmond, Surrey, February 5th, 1896.
(1) You may entirely rely upon the reports referred-to. Being interested
in the matter (as a former member of the Water Supply Committee of the
Corporation), I went down the well with Mullins myself, so that the part of
the report referring to his visit is my own work. The part relating to
Gataker was written by my chief reporter, an experienced and reliable
man.
(2) By this post I send you another paper of mine, the Thames Valley
Times of January 15th, which answers your question as to previous
unsuccessful attempts to find water, and shows that a supply has now been
obtained at the spot indicated by Gataker and Mullins. I should add,
however, that since that date the yield of 8,000 gallons a day has greatly
192 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
diminished. This usually happens when a fissure is tapped, and the water
" backed up " in it has had time to run away.
(3) Gataker paid us another visit on January 23rd, as reported in the
Richmond and Twickenham Times of January 25th, also sent by this post.
We have now had three visits in all, at a cost (including expenses) of from
ten to fifteen guineas each, and as the work has been done very thoroughly
by two independent men, both well-known as expert " water-finders," it does
not appear to me to be necessary to go further until the reports of Mullins
and Gataker have been fully tested. -c, ,,, ~
J Fredk. vV. Dimbleby.
The newspaper of January 15th, referred to in the above letter,
contained the following extract from the official report of the
Borough Engineer to the Town Council as to previous borings to
find water :—-
During the past five weeks the workmen have been engaged boring in the
adits in various directions 624 feet, viz., 179£ feet horizontally, six holes from
7 to 70 feet, 248 vertically (downwards), seven holes 13 to 80 feet in depth
(since increased to 88 feet), 196J feet inclined upwards, thirteen holes 8 to
20 feet, yielding a very little water.
The local paper of January 25th states that the supply of 8,000
gallons from the boring made at the place indicated by both Gataker
and Mullins had diminished, as was usual in newly tapped chalk
springs, to 5,000 or 6,000 gallons. Concerning Gataker's second visit
on January 23rd, the Richmond Times of that week gives a detailed
account which I here condense :—
At more than one point Gataker's " divinings " were in close proximity
to the places previously marked by Mullins and the depths given approxi
mately equal. At two points where bore holes had been sunk and only a
moderate supply obtained, Gataker advised deepening the holes to the limit
named in his former predictions, viz., about 80 feet. In the south adit
Gataker estimated the depth of water as greater, reaching from 100 to 150
feet, and in one place as probably 200 feet. At the next point reached, five men
were then engaged in sinking a bore hole at the place Gataker had previously
marked, a depth of 63 feet had been reached and no spring as yet tapped.
Gataker advised going down to at least 80 feet, which was also the limit
he had given on his previous visit. Two other places where borings were
going on Gataker also advised that the bore holes should be carried deeper.
Commenting on this visit the same paper remarks :—
The result of the inspection may be described as fairly satisfactory.
There are certain points of difficulty in connection with the experiments,
which cause a critical test to be arrived at less easily than would otherwise
be the case, and tend to lessen the practical value of the method. Chief
amongst these may be mentioned the apparent impossibility of fixing the
exact spot, to a foot or two, where water may be found, and as the diameter
of the bore-hole is only about four inches, a slight error in giving the precise
XXXII.] 193
On the So-called Divining Rod.
point might render that particular bore-hole useless. But notwithstanding
these difficulties, a sufficient prima facie case has been made out to justify
Mr. Watney proceeding with these experiments, which he is carrying out at
his own expense.
My friend, Mr. W. Whitaker, F.R.S., F.G.S., who is well known
both as an eminent geologist and authority on underground waters,
writes in answer to enquiries as to his opinion of the foregoing
reportsi :—
Southampton, January 28th, 1896.
I know the Richmond waterworks, having been all along the underground
galleries, etc , on two occasions. ... As the two "rodders" were more
or less surrounded with water, their rods ought to have been twiddling
everywhere ! I enclose the Engineer's answer to a letter of mine which
lowers the reported success.
The enclosure is as follows :—
Borough Waterworks Office, Richmond, Surrey,
Jamiary 22nd, 1896.
With regard to the divining rod reported in the London press, too much
has been put forward. The truth is our new chairman has engaged both
Mr. Mullins and Mr. Gataker at his own expense, to prove whether
there is any power of proving water springs, as had been suggested in our
local paper by one who had seen the rod used. We have not yet had much
from the experiment ; that reported was at a spot where both the diviners
said there was water and so we bored a threo-inch hole ; it has now very
sensibly diminished. We have benefited most by the adit driving and must
go in for more, that being the only sure method of getting water here.
W. G. Pbirce.
The next information comes from the local newspapers of February
8th, 1896, as follows :—
We are compelled to mention to-day, and we do it with no small regret,
that the prospect of obtaining any greatly increased supply of water from the
Richmond well through the assistance of the " water diviners " has darkened
this week considerably. The bore-hole in the south adit, at which during
each of his visits Mr. Gataker has so confidently promised that a supply of
five to six thousand gallons a day would be found within the extreme limit of
a depth of 100ft., has been abandoned after being driven to a depth of 125ft.
without producing a drop. This is the second of Mr. Gataker's points that
have been tested, the first being that at which an additional supply of 8,000
gallons a day was tapped, but quickly ran itself off. However, in the
absence of any other guide as to desirable localities, some more of the points
indicated by Mr. Gataker and Mr. Mullins, where borings havo already
begun, will be thoroughly tested.
i 1 am indebted to the Rev. Osmond Fisher, M.A., for this information.
O
194 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
Probably the bore-hole referred to above was the one at which the
five men were working in the previous report which Gataker advised
to be sunk to at least 80 feet ; otherwise there seems a discrepancy
in the statements, as in the south adit the reporter stated previously
that Gataker advised boring to some 150 feet or even deeper in
one place.
A month later, at a meeting of the Richmond Town Council,
reported in the Thames Valley Times, of March 11th, 1896, the
borough engineer reported as follows :—
During the past four weeks the workmen have been engaged boring in the
adits at various places indicated by Messrs. Mullins and Mr. Gatalter, 409^ft.
in all, viz., thirteen bore-holes completed and in hand, varying from 10\it. to
125ft. in depth, yielding 220 gallons of water per day. Messrs. Mullins
estimated 1,500 gallons per day, and Mr. L. Gataker 30,000 gallons per day,
at the places selected and depths bored during the past month.
Six feet of adit driving in the North-East Adit has been completed, and a
bore-hole put down to the depth advised by Mr. L. Gataker, but without
result as regards an increase of water.
The total quantity of water pumped from the Terrace Gardens and Water-
lane wells during the past four weeks has been fi, 464,670 gallons, averaging
230,881 gallons per day.
Councillor Watney said he was afraid he had very little to report in
regard to the work at the well. He regretted that there was a decreased
supply this month of water pumped from the well. They had been most
unsuccessful during the past month in tapping any new fissures or supplies of
water. He was not going himself to he a prophet, or to predict what would
happen in the future. He desired to remind the Council that, although not
mentioned in his report, the period of his three months' holiday at the well
would expire before the next Council meeting. He thought if they would
allow him, he would go on with his experiments until the next Council
meeting, when he would ask leave to continue for another three months.—It
was resolved that Councillor Watney's application should be acceded to.
In Notes and Queries of April 25th, 1896, there is a letter from the
Borough Engineer, who writes as follows to a correspondent of that
journal :—
The diviners' success was of short duration ; the one bore-hole that
yielded 8,000 gallons a day on the first day, gradually fell off and was
exhausted at the end of the week. About 22 bore-holes have been driven to
the directions with a very small increase in the quantity of the water.
W. G. Pbirce.
Writing to me on October 2nd, 1896, Mr. Dimbleby says, in
answer to my enquiry :—
Mr. Watney is still carrying on the boring operations at his own expense,
pending an application to the Local Government Board by the Corporation,
for power to borrow more money for these works. Small fissures, yielding
XXXII.] 195
On the So-called Divining Rod.
very small quantities of water are frequently met with, but no large increase
in the supply has been obtained. Fredk W Dimbleby.
Finally, the same kind correspondent, in reply to my recent en
quiries, writes on May 24th, 1897 :—
14, King Street, Richmond, Surrey, May 24t/i, 1897.
The Richmond Corporation have now resumed the boring works on their
own account ; the Local Government Board having, after a public inquiry,
sanctioned a further loan of £5,000 for this purpose.
No reliance is now placed on the advice of the so-called "water-finders."
I send you the last report of the Water Committee, dated May 4th, 1897,
and also the one for the previous year. Feedk W Dimbleby.
In the last report of the Water Committee it is stated that the
total length of adits driven is 6,991 feet; "one fairly good fissure,
passed on April 8th, still keeps up the yield of 5,846 gallons per
day . . . The total quantity pumped from the wells during the
past four weeks averaging 225,848 gallons per day." Though this is a
less amount than that given above for the preceding year, yet, as the
report shows, a regular increase in the water supply has been obtained
in proportion to the length of adits driven. The cost of the wells and
adit driving at Richmond has been considerable. The Water
Committee's report shows that the Water-lane wells and bore-hole cost
£20,753 ; the Terrace Gardens well, adits and boring, cost £16,590, or
a total of £37,343.i Of this, Mr. Watney has refunded £670, the
expense only incurred up to March 31st, 1896, in his public-spirited
experiments.
With regard to these experiments, it is greatly to be regretted that
John Mullins was not available. But Mullins was not living when
his "firm" were invited, and nothing could be more misleading
than the practice adopted by " Messrs. J. Mullins and Sons," of
sending out a book of testimonials, which chiefly relate to their father's
success, and not stating the fact that their father is dead. The public
ignorance of the whole subject, which ignorance this paper will, I hope,
in some measure dispel, is, however, the most fruitful source of errors
like the preceding. The respective qualifications of various dowsers
should be ascertained from independent evidence, or their work paid
for in proportion to the success achieved.
i Nevertheless, as the report shows, the actual cost to the ratepayers is less than if
they had bought the water from the London water companies.
O 2
196 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
Group IX.—(a) Mr. H. Bacon.
I heard of this dowser, who lives at Newport, Essex, through Mr.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers. In reply to my enquiries, he sent me several
testimonials from those for whom he had successfully found water by
the divining-rod. In some of these cases Mr. Bacon tells me that
attempts to find water by sinking or boring had been mode unsuccess
fully before his visit to the place. Stagnant water he cannot detect,
only running water, and he says it is a matter of indifference to him
whether he goes over the ground at day or night ; or whether blind
folded or not. Having seen a dowser at work some five years ago, he
tried, and found the forked twig moved with him ; hence, he was led
to take up this business. According to his own statement,—which
must be taken for what it is worth,—he has never had a failure,
though he admits he is sometimes mistaken in estimating the depth
and the volume of the spring. When over an underground spring
he states that the rod revolves strongly, and " I begin to shake from
head to foot ; in fact, I shake so much that often my knees begin to
knock together."
Among Mr. Bacon's testimonials are letters from Lord Calthorpe's
agent, from Sir Walter Gilbey, Bart., from Hudson's Breweries, etc.
Mr. Hudson writes that he was " previously very sceptical, but the
proof of the pudding is the eating," a good supply of water being
obtained on his premises at 19 feet deep ; whereas in the immediate
neighbourhood (according to Bacon's statement to me) a deeper well
had been sunk prior to his visit with no result.
No. 130.—I am indebted to Mr. J. Christian Smith, the Clerk of
the Works on Colonel Houblon's estate in Essex, for the following
interesting facts :—
Great Hallingbury. Bishop's Stortford, Essex, December 1st, 1896.
I have pleasure in giving you some particulars of water-finding by the
divining rod on the estate of Col. G. B. A. Houblon, Essex.
We were making extensive alterations in the year 1893 at Threenhall
Priory, Essex, which necessitated a new water supply. We looked about for
what we thought was a suitable place to have a well sunk ; we proceeded to a
considerable depth without any signs of a supply. We then resorted to the
divining rod, and sent for a Mr. Stone out of Northamptonshire.i By the aid
of his rod he informed us where we should find a good supply of water ; the
depth he could not give, but did not think it was very deep. He also traced
the direction the spring took. We sank at the point indicated, at the depth
of 38 feet. The spring proved to be so strong that it rose and filled the
[} Now of Spilsby, Lincolnshire. See Group V.]
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 197
well nearly full. It was only about twenty yards from the well we had
previously sunk and failed ; the nearer Mr. Stone went with his rod to this,
the weaker the latter became.
The latest experience we have had was with Bacon. I took him to several ,
places where we were anxious to obtain a supply of water. I am pleased to
say that those places we have tried have been most successful. The first
well we sank was 20 feet deep ; at this depth we obtained an excellent supply,
indeed, it has been up to the top. The second well we obtained a bountiful
supply at 53 feet deep ; standing supply, 17 feet. This well was sunk within
200 yards of the old well, where there was an inefficient supply after being
bored (depth of sinking, 30 feet).
Bacon informed me that he invariably finds that the springs run from
east to west, or vice versa ; he, therefore, carries in his pocket a small
compass, so that he may be enabled to cross the spring ; walking as the
spring runs, he says, punishes him more than he can bear.
If I can be of any further service, I shall esteem it a great pleasure.
John Christian Smith.
In answer to my further specific enquiries, Mr. J. C. Smith writes :—
Great Hallingbury, Bishop's Stortford, December 7th, 1896.
Bacon is, I understand, a clever mechanic, and at the present time acting
as foreman to a local builder, unknown to me, until this year, when his
services were required. Living near, and hearing of his successes, we were
induced to try him.
(No. 1.) The exact locality of this estate is about 28 miles north-east of
London, 20 miles south of Cambridge, 5 miles west of Great Dunmow,
1 mile east of Bishop's Stortford.
(No. 2.) Bacon's trials were on the same estate, about four miles distant
from Threenhall Priory, where Stone was. I do not think water is likely to
be found anywhere.
(No. 3.) The well [at Threenhall Priory] was sunk to the depth of twenty-
eight feet only, with no signs of water, nothing but boulder clay coming out.
Stone went over this, " said we should never find any water there ;" the
nearer he came to it from the present spring, the weaker did the crutch
[effect] become.
(No. 4.) I cannot say how deep the old 30 ft. well had been bored.
When we were anxious to get a better supply here we examined this, and
found that a false bottom of wood had been put in and the bore hole plugged
up ; we concluded that the boring had taken away the little water there was,
and had to be plugged up again. Bacon went all round this, but could find
no trace of water. John Christian Smith.
Again my correspondent kindly replies :—
Great Hallingbury, December 12th, 1896.
I have no hesitation in saying that my experience proves that the
indication of the rod has enabled us to find water when other means had
failed.
198 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
I am trying to get at the depth of the boring of that well ; if 1 succeed I
will inform you. [In a subsequent note I am informed it was 50 feet deep.]
I mentioned in my previous letter to you that I took Bacon all round this
old well, in hopes that we might find water near to the dwelling house, but
there was not the slightest indication of his rod moving.
The 28 feet well does refer to the one we sank at Threenhall Priory with
out success. The 38 feet well, sunk where Stone indicated, where an
abundant supply was obtained, was about 20 yards distant. At the 28 feet
well Stone went over and around. He said, " You may go as deep as you
like, you will get no water there." We therefore abandoned it.
The nearer he came to the unsuccessful one, the weaker the indication
became, losing it entirely before he got to that well.
w
20 yards
Unsuccessful O
E
I can only add my experience of this method of finding water has been
highly successful on this estate. In the future there is not the least doubt
we shall resort to the same methods ; not having a single failure gives us
every confidence. Jfm Cheistian SmTh_
No. 131.—Through the kindness of Mr. Salisbury Baxendale, who
has sent me several letters on the subject, I have received the
following information regarding Bacon's success on his estate at
Henhain in Essex. Bacon informed me he had found a considerable
underground spring at 18 feet deep, not far from a useless well which
was deeper than this. Mr. Baxendale's reply to my enquiry is as
follows :—
1, Sloane Gardens, S.W., December 2nd, 1896.
In answer to yours of 30th, Bacon was a very satisfactory " water
diviner."
I went down to see him "divine," and he " found water " at about the
depth he mentions, on the top of a hill, which looks down east and west on
the source of the Cam, the "Bench Mark" at the top being 321-5. There
was a waterless well very near.i
After this we went to look for water near some cottages, and he marked
a spot where he said water would be found, but in my absence my tenant
thought that ho could make one well do for two sets of cottages—sunk a well
some 70 yards to the north of the place marked by Bacon, and found much
i Subsequently Mr. Baxendale tells me this was not a well, but a very deep pond,
18 feet deep. By " found water " is meant on a well being sunk water was found at
about the depth indicated by the "diviner."—W.F.B.
O Successful Well.
\
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 199
chalk and no water. As he was an honest fool I declined to sink another
well, and told him to use the chalk for "top dressing."
Since then Bacon has been divining in Hampshire for Lord Calthorpe—
and successfully. He was very modest as to his powers, there was no
"conjuring" about his manner ;—nor could any of my party do the same—
though we tried it. Salisbury Baxe.ndale.
In reply to my enquiries, Mr. Salisbury Baxendale sent me the
following plan and memoranda concerning the second place that Bacon
fixed on for a well, and adds, " my father sank many wells without
finding a reasonable water-supply."
Farm I I
[TTT
i A
D. Situation of well—70 feet deep—that held chalk, and not water.
C. Small pond at corner of road that always, or nearly always, held water,—not
more than 3 or 4 feet deep.
B. Well—50 yards from C -sunk by my father and his agent, guided only by the
lightof nature, and not by the light of Bacon. My tenant tells me that it
is 100 feet deep (I think not so deep, but cannot go and measure it), that it
holds 2 feet of water in winter, and is dry in summer.
A. The place that was suggested to me by Bacon, and where the well should
have been sunk.
Salisbury Baxendale.
In answer to enquiries whether a well or boring could be made at
the spot A, marked by Bacon, and also as to the exact locality, Mr.
S. Baxendale writes :—
1, Sloane Gardens, S.W., December 17th, 1896.
In answer to yours of yesterday, I do not feel inclined to spend any more
200 [PAHT
Professor W. F. Barrett.
money in search of water at present— although I have a benevolent wish to
give any kindly person permission to do it at his own expense. Times are
hard with landowners.
Henham is 6 miles N.N.E. of Stortford, and about 6£ miles S. of Saffron
Walden. Brayshots is one-third mile from Little Henham Hall—where tho
unsuccessful well was sunk by my father at (B).
Salisbury Baxendale.
F. 11.—In the Herts and Essex Observer lor December 19th, 1896,
is a;i account of the employment of Bacon by the Maiden District
Council to find a water supply for that neighbourhood. The rod
indicated a strong spring at a certain spot where it was decided to
sink a well. I wrote to Mr. Blyth, of Tolleshunt D'Arcy, who had
taken an interest in the matter, who replies as follows :—
Oxley Lodge, T'Darcy, Witham, Essex, May 17th, 1897.
We have not yet bored, but have driven a tube to a depth of 27 feet with
no result. It is a difficult matter to move a Parish Council to bore where
they have always been told there can bo no water. They fear a failure and
also a surcharge by the auditor. But if they will not move, I shall try on
my own account, and will then let you know the result.
Fred. W. Blyth.
So far, therefore, this may be taken as a failure by Bacon : other
like cases of his doubtless exist of which I have not heard.
(6) Mr. H. Chesterman.
Among the many West of England dowsers is Mr. H. Chesterman,
of Bath, who states—in the course of a lengthy account he has sent me
—that 30 years ago he found he had the " gift " of dowsing, and has
been, to some extent, engaged as a " water expert " ever since, though
it is not the business of his life, his occupation being keeper of some
recreation grounds in Bath. Mr. Chesterman, like the late Mr.
Lawrence, prefers to use a loop of wire instead of a forked twig when
dowsing, and states that when approaching an underground spring he
experiences :' a peculiar sensation, like an electric shock, creeping up
the hands and arms, becoming more violent when directly over the
hidden spring ; the wider the space over which the shock is felt the
nearer the spring is to the surface, and the smaller the space the
deeper the spring." Mr. Chesterman also adds that he has made a
scale by which he can approximately tell the depth of the spring ; this
he has described at length to me ; an account of it is also given in the
Gentleman's Journal for October 1st, 1896, but it is of no value to any
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 201
one but himself, and not much to himself, judging from Mr. Cree's
experience given below.
Like other dowsers, Mr. Chesterman states that the rod ceases to
move, and the sensation he experiences is completely cut off, when he
is insulated on glass vessels. Again, like others, Chesterman
finds that when he holds the wrist of a person, in whose hands the rod
would not previously move, then the rod or wire instantly revolves if
•over a spring. This transference of what is apparently involuntary
muscular action is doubtless an effect of suggestion, which plays so
large a part in the present as in the past history of the divining rod.
Like other dowsers, also, Chesterman believes the faculty of dowsing
is hereditary ; out of his seven children he tells me five have the " gift."
He claims to have " trained " Mr. Gataker in the proper use of the
gift he possessed, just as Mr. Gataker offers to train other appren
tices—for a substantial fee. The utter nonsense of this so-called
training is obvious enough.
I am indebted to Mr. Cree, of Over Moigne, near Dorchester, for
giving me particulars of an abundant supply of water found for him by
Chesterman ; but though geological information had been obtained,
-and a well dug unsuccessfully prior to the dowser's visit, yet the case is
of no evidential value, as the unsuccessful well was only a third of the
•depth of Chesterman's well. Moreover, Chesterman's prediction of the
depth of the spring was completely wrong, the prediction being 20 feet,
the actual depth double this. At the same time I believe Chesterman
has been much more successful in other instances.
I have to thank Mr. Chesterman for kindly coming to London
from Bath at his own expense to exhibit his method of dowsing before
the members of the S. P. R., when this paper was read.
(c) Mr. P. Rodwell.
Another dowser is the lad who bears the appropriate name of
Fred Rodwell, and who came into some notoriety a few years ago
through the animadversion of Professor Ray Lankester.
Rodwell is the son of a mining engineer and surveyor, living in
Wensley, Yorkshire, and in this case the use of the rod has chiefly
been for the purpose of finding mineral veins. I shall, therefore,
reserve the evidence of Rodwell's success in this direction to the next
part of my paper. I have before me an extensive correspondence,—
partly addressed to me and partly to Mr. Vaughan Jenkins,— from
the father and other friends of young Rodwell, relating the tests to
which the lad was subjected in his search for minerals, till at last he
was regularly employed by the Grinton Mining Company to prospect
202 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
for mineral lodes on their property. The Graphic of November 2nd,
1889, gave an account of the lad and a wood cut illustrating his method
of procedure. From this account the following extract is taken.
" Not long ago there was a long and animated correspondence in the
Standard on the use of the 'divining rod' for finding water and minerals.
A good many of the writers held that it was a mere superstition, handed
down from the dark ages, and that the belief in it was due to a few
accidental successes on the part of the water-finders. On the other side,
however, a multitude of evidence was adduced showing that there are certain
persons who do possess this peculiar faculty. One such is the lad named
Rodwell. He is in the employment of the Grinton Mining Company in the
North of England, and according to the chairman of the company has never
failed when tested. Wherever he has indicated the presence of water or
minerals, at that very spot a spring or lode has been discovered. He proceed*
thus. Taking in his hands a light rod, or, if he has no rod, with his hands
clasped in front of him, Rodwell walks about in likely places. As soon as
he steps over water or a mineral-vein the rod springs up to his breast, or the
hands clench themselves immovably, and he cannot unclasp them till he
moves from the spot. The lad in whom this strange faculty has developed,
is about 14 years of age. We are not told whether his peculiar employment
has any effect upon his health."
For the above wood cut, which illustrates young Rodwell at work
as a dowser, I am indebted to the kindness of the proprietors of the
G'raphk.
No. 132.—The following letter relates to Rodwell in his capacity
as a dowser for water.
The Grange, Aysgarth, Yorks., May 13th, 1893.
It may be interesting to you to know that there is a youth (Fred Rodwell
by name), who has on three separate occasions found the eiaet locality of
underground water on my property. The first occasion was the location of
XXXII.] 203
On the So-called Divining Rod.
water pipes underground, of the existence of which he could not possibly
have had any previous knowledge. The other two instances were the discovery
of two powerful springs of water, one of which has since been taken for a
village for the supply of 500 people, and in neither of these two cases was
there suspected or was there the least external appearance to indicate the
presence of underground spring. These facts speak for themselves.
James C. Winn.
I sent Mr. Winn the printed proof of the foregoing letter and
asked him to correct any inaccuracies. Mr. Winn replies :—
The Grange, Aysgarth, R.S.O., N. Yorks, June 10th, 1897.
The proof of my letter is absolutely correct in every particular. I believe
Rodwell is now residing at West Witton, near Leyburn, but I have no-
particulars of him recently. j p -yyInn
The evidence in my possession respecting Rodwell's water-finding
power is very meagre and inconclusive ; he may have had more success
of late, but of this I have not heard.
The following account of experiments I made with Rodwell at
WTimbledon were conducted and recorded in the year 1890. Had I
then the information I now possess, I should hardly have selected this
young dowser for the purpose of experiment.
The Wimbledon Experiments.
I was anxious to obtain some direct experimental evidence of my
own as to Rodwell's ability to find hidden water or metal. Accordingly
I wrote to Dr. McClure, who is the Chairman of the Grinton Mining
Company in Yorkshire, and from whom I learnt that the lad was
not only employed by this Mining Company to seek for mineral lodes,
but according to Dr. McClure he was also under an engagement to go
to Australia to " dowse " for water and minerals. Hence I arranged to
examine the alleged powers of the lad before he left England ; for
this purpose instead of going to Yorkshire, on ground with which
Rodwell was acquainted, my friend, Mr. R. S. Donkin, M.P., kindly
allowed me to make use of his extensive private grounds on the edge
of Wimbledon Common, where it is needless to say the lad had never
been before. The experiments I am about to describe were made on
July 17th, 1890.
Before Rodwell arrived from Yorkshire I went over the place care
fully with the head gardener, and the various buried water pipes,drains,
disused wells, and underground springs were pointed out to me. On
the arrival of Rodwell, who was a fat heavy-looking youth, and who
was accompanied by Dr. McClure, I begged the lad to try first of all
204 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
the lawn beneath which (unknown of course to the lad or Dr. McClure)
-a troublesome spring was known to exist.
Experiment 1.—Pulling from his pocket a bundle of small forked
hazel twigs, he selected one and holding it in the usual way marched
to and fro across the lawn ; presently the twig turned up and he
declared there was a small spring below his feet. This was within a
foot of the right place and looked promising.
Experiment 2. —He then endeavoured to trace the course of the
stream, which ran through drain pipes in a direction that had previously
been pointed out to me, but here he blundered a good deal.
Experiment 3.—Next I told him to see if he could find any of the
water mains, and for this purpose to walk all round the grounds on the
pathway. He did so. I observed that as he walked along his eyes were
constantly on the alert, and when he came to a part of the gravel walk
that had lately been disturbed he said a pipe occurred there, but that
there was none under the path he had traversed. As a matter of fact
the pipe ran under his feet to the stables all the way he had gone, and a
branch had recently been taken off to a greenhouse at the only spot he
stopped at. The test was therefore a complete failure ; he was correct
only where it was probable that plumbers had been at work.
Experiment 4.—He then tried the archery ground and orchard ; in
the latter an Abyssinian well had been sunk for water, but had been
removed, as a supply had not been obtained ; here the result was
doubtful, as I was unable to test his assertion.
Experiment 5.—He then went to the paddock, an extensive field
where an old and long disused well existed. The grass had so com
pletely covered the site of the well that its position was hidden
I todwell wandered over the field, but found no water. He was told to
walk in the direction where I knew the well existed ; he did so and
crossed and recrossed the site of the old well, but found no indications
of water, though it is highly probable there was an abundance
below ; a little further on, however, the twig bent strongly upward
and he declared that there was a large supply of water under that spot.
The place was marked, and was subsequently tested by digging.
Experiment 6. —I now took the lad into the kitchen gardens where
a sunken tank full of water existed ; the tank was so well concealed
beneath the ground that its position could not be detected by the eye.
He walked twice over the place where the tank was buried, but gave
no indication. I then told him what we were looking for and suggested
he should try again ; after moving slowly about, presently at a certain
spot the twig turned and he said the tank was under that spot, but
it certainly was not. This trial also was therefore a complete failure;
it is fair to say dowsers state they cannot detect stagnant water.
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 205
Experiment 7.—I now proposed to blindfold the lad and take him
again to the lawn and paddock to see if he indicated the same spots
as when unblindfolded. But both Dr. McClure and Rodwell
strenuously opposed blindfolding. At last they gave way, but only
upon my insistence.i For the purpose of blindfolding a quantity of
cotton wool was placed over his eyes and on each side of the nose, and
an ample cloth tied round his head. I then led him to the paddock
and brought him near to the spot where he had found water before
(Experiment 5) ; he traversed and re-traversed the spot where he had
previously located water, without giving any indication, and walked
some distance in the wrong direction, when he pulled the bandage off
saying he was too hot. I readjusted the bandage and told him to try
again ; this time the twig moved violently very near the spot he had
lx^fore indicated. His hands appeared locked in a convulsive effort ;
he declared that he was perfectly sure that water was below, and he
thought near the surface. With the permission of my host I caused a
well to be dug next day ; two men were employed, but after several
hours' work, and a depth of about eight feet had been reached, no water
was found ; an unusual fact, as in that gravelly soil water springs
abounded very near the surface.2
Experiment 8.—Finally I took the lad back to the lawn and told
him, when blindfolded, to find the spring he had previously discovered
(Experiment 1). He crossed the lawn two or three times, going over
the right spot without giving any indication, and then fixed on another
spot where it is true there might be a spring, but its existence was not
known, nor could it be ascertained without injury to the lawn.
This ended my experiments with llodwell ; as will be seen the
result was unsatisfactory, or to say the least inconclusive, and if I were
to generalise from this one day's experiments, I should agree with
Professor Ray Lankester, who, the year previously, had— after a similar
but rather hasty trial with the same lad—come to the conclusion
that the boy was a rank impostor, and "the divining rod business of
i Rodwell's father, in a lengthy letter which he addressed to Mr. Vaughan
Jenkins, and the latter sent on to me, explains the reluctance of the lad to be blind
folded as due to the harsh treatment he received at the hands of Prof. Ray Lankester,
who, according to Mr. Kodwell's statement, almost frightened the boy to death !
Hence Mr. Rodwell says, " I charged my son never to submit to anything of the kind
again, and told Dr. McClure I would not allow it." It was for that rea.son, thinking
I was about to treat him as a rogue and impostor, that they objected to the
blindfolding.
'* Subsequently I had the hole dug deeper and about two feet of water came into
the hole, but the gardener, an experienced man, told me that in the light sand and
gravel soil that exists there, water would probably be found in any spot that was
dug 10 or 12 ft. deep. It would, of course, have been better to sink deeper, but it
seemed hardly worth going to the further exi>ense involved by so doing.
206 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
the same order as fortune telling." To generalise from a single
instance is, however, unphilosophical at all times and is absolutely
forbidden in dealing with those problems which come within the scope
of this Society.
Group X.
Welsh Bowsers.—(a) Mr. Thomas Heigiiway.
Mr. J. F. Young, of Llanelly, kindly sent me the name and
address of Mr. Heighway, who is a Welshman, the proprietor of the
Park Pump Room, Llandrindod Wells. His father, John Heighway,
was, I believe, most successful as a dowser, but he does not write
English.
Mr. Thomas Heighway tells me when he is dowsing and gets over
an underground spring his nervous system is so much affected that he
does not recover from it for some hours ; he therefore does not care to
use the rod much ; his father does not suffer in the same way. I have
not much information of Mr. Heighway's experiences, but the following
letters are interesting, and present a new aspect of the subject, viz.,
dowsing for mineral springs.
No. 133.—Mr. Heighway having referred me to Captain Penry
Lloyd, for whom he had recently found a sulphur spring, I wrote
to Mr. Lloyd, and the following is his reply :—
Glasbury, R.S.O., Radnorshire, February 27th, 1897.
I have only one fact of evidential value regarding the use of the rod, and
that is in the case of Mr. Thomas Heighway, of Llandrindod, Radnorshire,
who, in November last, discovered a sulphur spring on my land at Llanwrtyd,
Breconshire, at a depth of 75 feet from the surface, 68 of which was
solid, tough clay. Directly we struck rock, we struck water, and,
curiously, on the very side of the well which Mr. Heighway had predicted,
the water bearing lode crossing the diameter (6 feet) of the well on the
south half. From a profound sceptic, I am now a firm believer in the
power of the rod. p
Captain Lloyd kindly sends the following additional particulars in
reply to my enquiries :—
Glasbury, R.S.O., March loth, 1897.
(1) I had been seeking for sulphur mineral water previous to the dowser's
visit, and failed to find the spring.
(2) Mr. Heighway was engaged, and I went with him over the ground. He,
with the twig, soon found three several springs, and I selected the most
suitable for sinking, and found the water at 75 feet ; the vein of rock
carrying the water crossed the bottom of well from west to east, and if we
xxxn.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 207
had sunk 3 feet more to the north, should have missed it. When about
35 feet down he came again, and went down the well, and told me to mind
and sink well to the south side, as the water was there. And he was quite
right. He was confident from first to last, when I had given up all hopes.
I am now sinking, on his advice, for a chalybeate spring, and we are now
down about 25 feet, but have not yet come to the rock. He also traced the
springs across the river, which runs near the well.
There is no doubt whatever as to his power, and he can distinguish
between fresh water and mineral water.
I enclose rough sketch and section (see next page). p T
VICTORIA WELLS
NOTe.
t is where Mr. Heighway found sulphur spring, and followed it to No. 1 well.
No. 1. Sulphur, 75 feet deep.
No. 2. Chalybeate, 35 feet deep, running over.
No. 3. Sulphur. Now sinking
208 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
SECTION ON LINE A - B
wor to sc*ut
Subsequently, Captain Lloyd writes :—
Glasbury, R.S.O., March 23rd, 1897.
You will be interested to know that Mr. Heighway has again been
successful ; we have struck water at 32 feet from the surface, in a rock full
of minerals, mainly iron, I believe. Mr. Heighway's prophecy was,
" Chalybeate water, very strong spring," and ho has proved himself to be
correct.
I quite believe he has the power of distinguishing between mineral and
plain water ; at all events, he has succeeded in many instances, and I have
not heard that he has been wrong once. He tells me he acquired the power
by practising over known mineral springs, and finds that he is affected in
different ways. Mineral water, he says, has much more power over him, and
" draws stronger,'' and is more difficult to determine as to depth. He also
says that plain water intervening would not affect him, owing to the greater
strength of mineral. It is indeed a wonderful attribute of the human body,
and he certainly is an exceptionally good subject. Penry Lloyd
Writing again on May 14th, Mr. Lloyd says :—
Glasbury, May 14th, 1897.
We have just completed sinking No. 3 well, on the spot indicated by Mr.
Thomas Heighway, and found sulphur water 52 feet below surface, and
6 feet down in the solid rock. P. Lloyd.
One interesting feature in the above letters will be noticed,
namely, that the prediction of the dowser in two of the cases was
communicated to and received by me before the actual discovery of the
mineral springs.
XXXII.] 209
On the So-called Divining Rod.
(6) Mr. R. Rothwell.
Rothwell is a gardener living at Cardiff, (65, Upper George-street,
Cathays, Cardiff), and is, I believe, over 60 years of age. Our friend
and fellow-worker, the Rev. A. T. Fryer, of Cardiff, to whom I am
mainly indebted for the evidence concerning this dowser, knows
Rothwell, and was favourably impressed by his evident straight
forwardness. The Vicar of the parish also writes in answer to
enquiry, " I know Rothwell well ; he is an excellent gardener, and
quite trustworthy as far as I know."
Rothwell states that he experiences " a slight tingling sensation
when the rod bends, just the same as he has felt with an electric
battery." He determines the depth at which the water will be found
by walking away from the supposed stream at right angles to its
course ; the rod invariably bends with lessening force as he moves
away. Directly the rod is stationary, Rothwell stops, and then
measures the distance, from the spot at which the rod ceases to act,
to the stream. This, he asserts, gives him the distance down.
No. 134. —Mr. Lyddon, Rothwell's employer, sent Mr. Fryer the
following account of Rothwell's first essay at dowsing :—
Bute Docks, CardifT, July 5th, 1893.
A well had been sunk by the builder when my house was being erected,
but on my occupying the house the supply of water was found to be
insufficient ; not knowing where to sink a well, I was advised by a member
of a large firm in Bristol to let one of his engineers, who had the power of
discovering water by the aid of a divining rod, see if he could find
water by the aid of the rod. This person, a complete stranger to
the neighbourhood, came, and accompanied by W. Rothwell, my gardener,
went over my field. He told me I should find water in two places,
at the extreme north end, and at a spot in the south end, and nowhere else.
There was nothing to show that water was underneath. The Bristol man
advised me to bore in the north corner of my field. I did this, and found
water, but not a good supply.
Rothwell, when accompanying the Bristol man, thought the whole thing
ridiculous, and had no faith in it, but after the departure of the man
Rothwell tried the rod, and to his surprise found that in his hands it moved
as it did with the other person. With the aid of the rod he discovered
another spring, and considered I should find water, about 40 to 45 feet
down. I found some, I think at about 55 feet, and I believe a better supply
was obtained at 62 feet.
Rothwell has been in Cardiff many years, has worked for me three years,
and is, I believe, a perfectly truthful man.
The 4J inch bore to the spring did not give us sufficient water, so on
Rothwell's advice I sank a well, and have now a good supply.
E. T. Lyddon.
P
210 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett,
No. 135.—The next letter is from Mr. James, of the Malting
House, Cardiff, and Chepstow.
Cardiff, Jnne 30M, 1893.
Some years since, I called in the services of a man named Lawrence, a
"diviner," in order to find, if possible, indications of water on property
adjoining our Maltings, at Cardiff, with the result that he pointed out a spot
at which water would be found at a depth of 20 to 25 feet.
Two years since I made the acquaintance of Rothwell, a gardener, in
Cardiff, who had very recently found out he possessed this " gift." As I was
anxious to test his powers and see if he could find the same spring which was
indicated by Lawrence, he came up, and after carefully walking over the field,
in a few minutes found the precise spot, but fixed the depth at 28 to 30 feet.
Since then, we have followed up the course of this spring, which runs into
property belonging to the Bute Docks Gas Works, the manager of which
mformed us that when erecting a new gasometer two years ago, when about
26 feet below the surface, they were unexpectedly flooded out by some spring
breaking up, which necessitated a steam pump to keep the water down
whilst certain work proceeded.
We have to-day finished sinking a well at the place indicated by the
two diviners (Lawrence and Rothwell) and found a good spring—even in
this severe drought—in the upper strata of marl, at a depth of 18 to 24 feet.
The main spring is 18 feet below surface.
You will note the Bute Dock Gas Works found water at about 26 feet.
This may be explained by the stratum dipping very considerably as it nears
the sea-board.
Being successful at Cardiff, I took Rothwell up to Chepstow, at which
place we also have maltings, with result that he has pointed out a spot at
which we may expect to find water at about 28 feet.
We commence operations next week, and shall be pleased to inform you
of result later on. A A Jamm
I wrote to Mr. James to enquire whether Rothwell had any
means of ascertaining beforehand the site of the spring fixed on by
Lawrence.
Mr. James replied that the only information Rothwell had was
that Lawrence had somewhere indicated a certain spot where he said a
good spring of water would be found ; Rothwell was then left entirely
to himself to locate the place, which he found within a few minutes, after
walking to and fro over the ground. Mr. James adds that Rothwell,
so far as he knew, had never been in Chepstow before. Subsequently,
in answer to enquiries whether water had been found at Chepstow at
the place indicated by Rothwell, Mr. James writes :—
The Cardiff Malting Company, Limited, East Moors, Cardiff,
September 10th, 1896.
As regards the result of Rothwell's " divining " for water at Chepstow, in
1893, we found, by sinking a 30 foot shaft of 4 foot diameter, water coming
through the limestone at about 26 feet below the surface.
XXXII.] 211
On the So-called Divining Rod.
The rock is hollowed out by the action of the water, which no doubt at
one time was a very strong spring—but owing to the drought of the last two
years the supply has become limited, but the water is there.
I may mention a fact which I learned a few days after his visit, the
existence of a disused well near the river Wye, within the old fortified town
wall, on a direct line from our present well to the river, the course of which
he indicated exactly. A A JAMBs
The following letter was sent to the Rev. A. T. Fryer in answer to
his enquiries :—
Severn Side Brewery, Wick, Bridgend, May 22nd, 1897.
I am in receipt of yours of the 20th inst., and in reply have to say that
Mr. Rothwell visited my place for the purpose of finding water, and hit upon
a spot where he told me I should find a large supply at about 36 feet deep.
I then engaged a sinker, and when he got to the 36 feet a very weak spring
was discovered. Wet weather then set in and prevented any further
working, and nothing has since been done. I feel quite certain that there is
water at no great distance, and should we have a dry summer I intend
going a few feet lower.
I may state that I put a test to Mr. Rothwell, and that was to ask him to
trace the spring from a distance before reaching the spot by the Brewery ;
this he did, and followed it for about a quarter of a mile across the road,
under the buildings, and across the fields to an old disused parish well. Mr.
Rothwell, to the best of my belief, had never been in the neighbourhood
before. Not being altogether a believer in the art, I took care that every
thing was fairly carried on, and I am now a firm believer in it.
W. J. M. Herbert.
In the following letter the Rev. A. T. Fryer kindly gives me an
account of some experiments he made with Rothwell. Though the
results obtained are of no evidential value in connection with a
" dowsing faculty," yet several points of considerable interest are
referred to. The use of a wet pad on the rod to test whether the
motion of the rod be due to water or metal, is identical with the device
employed in America and elsewhere, see Appendix C. It is undoubtedly
an entire fallacy, the effect being in all probability merely due to
suggestion. It is possible Rothwell heard of it through Lawrence, but
it is curious how these traditions spread. Much the same remark
applies to the experiment with the glass bottles and insulation.
13, Dumfries Place, Cardiff, September Ulh, 1893.
We went this morning to a small estate at St. Briavel's, Gloucestershire,
named Woodside, and occupied by a Mr. Cuthbert, retired sea-captain and
merchant, of Cardiff. He has been without water for some time, and at last
determined upon sinking a well near where a spring had hitherto given a
good supply. Having gone down 30 feet and meeting with no reward, he
felt in a fix. [This well was marked D on an accompanying plan.] He then
made up his mind to give Rothwell a trial. R. had never been to the place
p 2
212 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
before he went with me to-day. We started the search in the field behind
the house, Rothwell having cut a hazel forked-twig from the wood, and
water was found in a very few minutes. To test the find, R. placed on the
top of the twig a piece of paper which he had wetted with water. The rod
remained quite unaffected, and did so also at other points. I have not heard
of this test in any other case, but R. is satisfied with it. I may mention
here that at another spot where R. said he felt the influence of iron, the water
test was also resorted to, and the paper made no difference, it remained on
the stick, and the stick bent down as for iron, all the same.
The water was traced up the field, into the wood above. Here we applied
the bottle test. I had two champagne bottles stuck into the earth, and
when R. stood on their broad, uppermost bottoms, the rod ceased to act.
Then we followed the indications of water across a wall, and into the next
field. At [a point marked A on the plan] the source was found ; no trace of
water above it, or anywhere else, in the same field. Then R. descended the
well, D, and held the rod over the water at the bottom of the well (a little
accumulation of surface drainage), and reported, "No spring there." Then
I blindfolded him and made him walk towards A ; the rod was quiet until
we came to A, when it dipped. It was settled that the well should be sunk
at C [a certain spot on the course indicated by R.], and Mr. Cuthbert has
promised me that I shall have the news of the result as soon as possible.
Writing to me six weeks later, Mr. Fryer says, " I sent Rothwell
over to Woodside the other day to see if they had begun sinking, and
he has reported to me that they are sinking 6 feet away from the spot
which he indicated ! Mr. Cuthbert is rather a self-willed man." On
November 4th, 1893, Mr. Cuthbert writes to Mr. Fryer, in a letter
which is before me, stating that he " has sunk 58 feet through very
hard rock, and according to my [Mr. C's] measurement of depth have
only to go two feet more, for the water is certainly under where we are
sinking. This is nearly the same place as Rothwell fixed upon. . . .
Had I not been able to use the rod, I would never have reached water
by Rothwell's advice." From which it would appear that Mr. Cuthbert
believed that he was a better dowser than Rothwell, and so preferred
to trust his own opinion. Upon subsequent enquiry I learnt that Mr.
Cuthbert had died, but had not found any water in the well, which he
had sunk to a considerable depth.
These particulars are given, as it is not improbable the case may
be quoted in the neighbourhood as one where great expense was
uselessly incurred on the strength of the advice given by Rothwell.
At the same time Rothwell's success as a dowser is not so marked as
many others. I have before me a letter from a Mr. Stacey, who lives
near Cardiff, dated July 5th, 1893, stating he sunk a well 12 feet deep
at a spot where Rothwell said a good spring existed, and "only a
little water was found, which went off in a few days; it cost me £12,
and as there is now no water, I do not believe in the man at all."
Rather a sweeping conclusion for one trial only 12 feet deep.
xxxn.] On the So-called Divining Bod. 213
Rothwell frankly informed Mr. Fryer that he had been asked to
find water at Vaynor Rectory, near Cardiff, but there he had partly
failed. This spontaneous admission on Rothwell's part is some
evidence of his undoubted honesty. Mr. Fryer wrote to the rector of
Vaynor, and the following is his reply :—
Vaynor Rectory, May 22nd, 1897.
Mr. W. Rothwell found water in our village two years ago, and was paid
by the local authority for his work, and his train expenses paid by myself
and another gentleman.
There was no failure, but we had him here twice. The men after sinking
down about 20 feet at the spot pointed out by Mr. Rothwell, came to a hole
or a fault, and there was no sign of water at the depth suggested. Fearing that
this hole or fault had something to do with it, we asked Mr. Rothwell to
come up again. He came and held his twig over the shaft, and said that water
was there, but had been thrown downwards by some convulsion or fault.
We asked him to point out another spot on the same [invisible] stream,
and he did ; we found beautiful soft water at a depth of 22 feet, and
it still runs a splendid [supply]. Mr. Rothwell had not been to Vaynor
before. He found another stream and followed it for a mile until he got to
the well.
Since that time I have practised the art myself, and can find water any
where where there is water. I found water on my own land here, in the
midst of lime-rock. I have not yet finished the well, but the men have gone
down 25 feet, and have found already nearly 3 feet of water.
I read in an old book that there was a stream of water running under the
old Castle of Brecon. I was there last Tuesday, and with my twig found the
stream.
I am writing a pamphlet on water-finding, which will include my questions
to Lord Kelvin. J Q JEnKInS
F. 12.—Mr. Fryer also sends me the accompanying letter, addressed
to him, which gives an account of a distinct failure on Rothwell's
part :—
Steam Flour Mills and Ship Biscuit Works, Cardiff,
May 24th, 1897.
In answer to your letter of the 20th inst, Mr. Rothwell's water finding
was not at all satisfactory. We did not come to water at the depth he
predicted, but had to go a good deal lower, and then, as far as we can judge,
only came to surface water. We think we should have come to the same
surface water wherever we had sunk the well, which is about 30 feet deep.
We could find no trace of a lead pipe in another place where Mr. Rothwell
said we should find one. Altogether, we regard his experiments with us as a
complete failure ; but we have heard that he has been very successful
elsewhere. Spillers and Bakers, Ltd.
Mr. Fryer, in a recent letter, tells me Rothwell has signed a
contract to go to Australia to dowse for water there.
214 [part
Piofessor W. F. Barrett.
(c) Mb. R. W. Robertson.
In the early part of this paper (p. 18) I referred to two
enthusiastic amateur water finders, Messrs. Robertson and Young,
of Llanelly, South Wales, several of whose children have inherited
their fathers' faculty. Mr. Robertson's son has now become a pro
fessional dowser, and has sent me a copy of the testimonials he has
received in this capacity. One of these is as follows :—
No. 136.—The following letter from Mr. G. S. Richmond, hydraulic
engineer, is addressed to Mr. R. W. Robertson :—
Llanelly, November 23rd, 1895.
My sinkers struck the spring on Wednesday last, at Goodig, at 28 ft. 6 in.
from the surface, and considering that this spot is less than 100 feet from an
old quarry, the rock in which shows no signs of water, and also that the
surface of the ground where the well is sunk is about 50 feet higher than the
farmyard only 107 feet away, I think it extraordinary that you should have
found a spring at all, and more so that you should have estimated the depth
at which it would be found, so near, being only 3 feet beyond your estimate.
The position of the well is quite unique, and I do not think a pump will be
necessar>' G.S.Richmond.
Mr. Buckley Roderick, a solicitor of Llanelly, for whom the well was
sunk, also writes to the same effect, and states that before the spring
was found, all the water for the farm had to be carried a great
distance. I wrote to Mr. Richmond, and he replies : —
Llanelly, September 22nd, 1896.
Goodig is a farm near Pembrey, South Wales. The place chosen by Mr.
Robertson was a very remarkable and unique spot for a well, which is sunk
on the side of a steep hill ; the bottom of the well being higher than the
farmyard. Water rose some 18 feet in the well, and a plentiful supply was
obtained, which I have laid on to the farm by a siphon. No indications of
water existed anywhere about, nor for 300 yards distance before this spring
was found.
I have sunk a good many wells in Monmouthshire and South Wales at
spots marked by the divining rod, and in every case with success.
G. S. Richmond.
Mr. R. S. Seymour, the agent to the Earl of Ashburnham, also
testifies to the fact that great difficulty has been found in providing a
sufficient water supply to Pembrey House, the property of Lord
Ashburnham, and in 1895, the springs that supplied the house having
run dry, Mr. R. W. Robertson was called in, and by the rod fixed on
a certain spot ; here a well was sunk, and at a depth of 13 feet from
the surface a copious spring was struck, yielding, by measure, 8,000
gallons a day.
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 215
Other letters are before me also testifying to Mr. R. W. Robertson's
success, whilst on the other hand I have heard of his being less
successful, particulars of which it is hardly necessary to give, as there
is not yet a sufficient body of evidence on behalf of young Mr.
Robertson's powers to enable a fair estimate to be formed of the
percentage of his successes.
No. 137.—Mr. G. Blake, the agent to the Stradey Castle estate,
writes to me as follows respecting Mr. Robertson, the father of
Mr. R. W. Robertson :—
New Road, Llanelly, Carmarthenshire, Febnmry 14th, 1897.
On the estate of C. W. Mansel Lewis, Esq., at Llanelly, three springs were
found at spots indicated by Mr. Robert Robertson (Steward). There was
not the slightest surface indication of wetness.
By means of the divining rod these three spots were suggested by Mr.
Robertson as likely to afford a subterranean supply. Tubes were driven
down from 18 to 23 feet and I with pleasure certify that a continuous supply
of water of great value to the cottagers on this estate has been regularly
pumped up since. As a result the expense of carting water has been saved.
G. Blake,
Land Agent for C. W. Mansel Lewis, Esq.
Mr. Robertson informs me that one of the above springs he
discovered on the Stradey Castle estate is 25 yards from a bore hole
that was sunk haphazard prior to his visit to a depth of 50 feet. The
bore hole was a complete failure, not a vestige of water being found ;
whereas the spring discovered by the rod was struck at a depth of
only 18 feet and continues to yield a copious and undiminished
supply. The Rev. A. T. Fryer has verified this.
An American Dowser.—Mr. Cyrus Fuller.
After the greater part of this paper was in type, I received from
our friend, Mr. Hodgson, Secretary to the American Branch of the
S.P.R., the following account of a successful American dowser, Mr.
Cyrus Fuller, of Plymouth, Wayne County, Michigan. Mr. Fuller
was a farmer and Quaker by birth, and died at the age of 85, three
years ago. An article was published about him in the Religio-
Philosophical Journal of December 9th, 1893, by Mr. Giles B. Stebbins,
who in reply to Mr. Hodgson's enquiries, writes :—
143, Pitcher Street, Detroit, Michigan, November 22nd, 1894.
Cyrus Fuller is over eighty years old, and his reply and handwriting may
be imperfect, but his mind was clear as ever when I last saw him. His
216 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett
integrity, judgment and ability are of high order. He is of Quaker birth—
a spiritualist of the higher grade, but has no theory as to his water finding
save of a subtle rapport in his temperament—no miracle in the case, but
natural law. He has found some 200 wells, with no single failure. Some
years ago he sent some twenty names, signed to a statement that he had
found water for them on the first trial, and a lasting flow, to the Detroit
Tribune, which had flippantly treated previous statements. Men of solid
influence, Hon. Mr. Penniman, ex M.C. of Plymouth, now departed, among
them. The Tribune published the list, and became respectful. I have
looked out from his home windows and seen a dozen windmills drawing
water to feed human beings and cattle from wells of his finding. It has
never been a money-making work, as he is not a poor man.
Giles B. Stebbins.
Mr. Stebbins attempted to find for Mr. Hodgson the Detroit
Tribune containing the statement referred to, but unfortunately with
out success. He quotes the following from a letter from Mr. Fuller
to him, dated April 19th, 1894:—"Two of my neighbours have
just opened wells which I located with my rod, both a success."
He also sent Mr. Hodgson a letter written by Mr. Fuller to the
Reliyio-Philosophical Journal to correct some inaccuracies in their
account, part of which we print.
Plymouth, Michigan, December l'Sth, 1893.
We have nine flowing wells in this school district, all located by the
divining rod, and not one has been found by putting the wells down at
random.
There are very few wells in this vicinity but those located by the divining
rod. I, myself, have located between four and five hundred. The depth of
the wells in this vicinity on the timber land is, as near as I can calculate, on
an average of forty-five feet. I have located a good many wells since I saw
Mr. Stebbins.
I went to Hudson, Lenawee County, 170 miles south, on the solicitation
of the water board of that village, and located a vein of water where they put
down five wells. The pump [with which] they tested the wells threw two
hundred gallons per minute. Each well would produce that amount of
water without being exhausted. The village contains fifteen hundred in
habitants ; they got all the water they wanted.
I have located wells every season, I think, for the last fifty years, and
/ never solicited a job of that kind, — they all come to me. I commenced on
this farm that we live on sixty-one years ago, and it's our home yet. There
are four wells I located this last season, that were to be put down this last
fall ; hard times prevented. One of these wells I located when the snow,
last winter, was a foot and a-half deep. The man was putting up a barn,
and wanted to build the barn by a well, instead of digging the well by the
barn, so as to have it handy. In the dry time this season I went to the
place and found it located all right.
I located a well at Plymouth that may prove celebrated. The medical
properties are said to be superior to almost any in this county. They sent
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 217
off twenty-five gallons of the water to be tested at Detroit. Since then I
met a load of jugs of the water going in the cars, destination Cincinnatti.
Cyrus Fcller.
Mr. Fuller having died a few months later, Mr. Hodgson was, by
the kindness of Mr. Stebbins, put into communication with his son-in-
law, Mr. Ransom L. Alexander, who writes to Mr. Hodgson as
follows :—
Plymouth, Mich., March oth, 1895.
I am sorry to say that I have not the newpaper article to which
you refer, and cannot obtain it, several years having elapsed since its
publication. Cyrus Fuller found many wells in this section of the
country ; I believe something over 100, but I do not find among his papers
any list of the names of those for whom he found them. I send you a few
names that occur to me. He found three flowing wells for himself, which
are still running. Two of them have run 50 years, the other 30. He found
wells for the following named persons :—
William Hake
Grant H. Joslin
Otto Melon
Albert Durfee
William E. Fry
William Riddle
William T. Rattenbury
Joseph Clizbee
Otis Warner
Robert Rhead
Plymouth P.O., Mich.
Since deceased
Plymouth
Grand Rapids
Northville
Plymouth
Stark
Bell Branch
Wayne
Hudson, Lenawee Co.
Flowing
wells
He used a forked peach tree or witch hazel twig, commonly the former.
R. L. Alexander.
Mr. Hodgson wrote to the persons named by Mr. Alexander, but
received only the following replies :—
No. 138.—The first is from Mr. Durfee.
103, Ottawa Street, Grand Rapids, Michigan,
March 25th, 1895.
Mr. Cyrus Fuller did locate not one, but two wells on my farm in
Livonia Township, Wayne Co., Michigan ; one is 50 feet deep, the
other 87£. The first-named is a flowing stream running into a tank, from
which stock may drink. The other, water rises within 20 feet of tho surface,
to which a windmill is attached, and by letting the mill run continuously for
forty-eight hours I was only able to lower the water two feet, and within a
few minutes after mill was stopped water came to the same level (namely,
twenty feet from surface). I have known Mr. Fuller all my life, having
lived neighbour to him, until five years ago I came to Grand Rapids.
During the past year Mr. Fuller has departed this life. I know of eight
wells located by him within a radius of one mile, all flowing ones, together
with a great many that were good ones, but not flowers.
218 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
Mr. Fuller's method of locating underground streams was by the
"divining rod." Those he used were either peach, witch-hazel, yellow or
swamp willow. He has told me no other kinds of wood that he had ever
tried would turn in his hands.
Some other things I can remember his having told me ; in following
veins, as he called them, through forests, that they would lead directly under
many of the largest trees, and one other thing was that if a tree was stricken
by lightning, he was sure to find a stream leading very near to it.
Within the past ten years he was called to many places to locate wells,
some out of the State, one in Canada, I think for a railroad company.
I will conclude by saying, I know Mr. Fuller to be a man honest in
purpose, and one whose name was above reproach. Deceived he might have
been, but dishonest never. If time and space would permit I could add
much more, and if of interest to you may do so at some future time.
A. B. DuRFEE.
No. 139.—The next is from Mr. Hake.
Plymouth, Michigan, March 25th, 1895.
Mr. Cyrus Fuller located five wells for me, and all are good ones.
We had no one else to locate them but Mr. Fuller. Two of those
wells are flowing wells, the others are plenty of water.
William Hake.
No. 140.—The only other reply received by Mr. Hodgson was
from Mr. Riddle as follows :—
Plymouth, Mich., March 2oth, 1895.
I went 112 feet in the ground where Mr. Fuller did not locate and
found no water. Then I went 56 feet in a four foot well, and got 30
feet of water in 30 minutes after I struck it. This last well Mr. Cyrus
Fuller, who was a neighbour of mine, located. This was about eight
years ago, and the well has never failed. Mr. Fuller died last summer.
William Riddle.
Mr. Riddle writes again as follows :—,
Plymouth, April 12th, 1895.
I had a well in my barnyard, but it was dry, and Mr. Fuller told
me that there was water if I would dig for it. I tried to, but it caved
in, and I had to abandon it. Then I moved about 10 feet from the old well,
and dug about 112 feet, as I told you before, and found no water. This last
well was not located by anybody. I dug there merely for convenience.
William Riddle,
It is to be regretted further details cannot now be obtained of Mr.
Fuller's work as a dowser. There is, I find, a letter of his published
in Light for August 30th, 1884, the substance of which is as follows:—,
(1) The "Michigan Central" officials invited Mr. Fuller to try at Esse
Centre, 15 miles south of Detroit. They had previously bored nearly 1500
xxxil] On the So-called Divining Rod. 219
feet to get water, but without avail. Fuller located a certain spot with the
rod where an abundant supply of pure soft water was obtained at 110
feet deep.
.(2) At Wayne, 18 miles west of Detroit, a large sum had also been spent
by "the officials" in boring for water, but in vain. Water was, however,
found at the spot fixed on by Mr. Fuller at 137 feet ; moreover a good
supply was also obtained at a second spot he located here a few years
after.
(3) At Northville, Michigan, W. Foy (Fry ?) had spent 200 dollars
digging and boring to 97 feet, but got no water. A short distance from this
useless well, the rod indicated a spot, where a good supply of water was
obtained at 20 feet from the surface.
It would be useful to have independent evidence of these state
ments. Several other instances of the success of dowsers in finding
underground water, often when other means had failed, are to be
found in the columns of Light from 1882 to the present time ; but as
the majority of the correspondents do not give their names, their
evidence cannot be corroborated. A dowser of whom I had not heard
before, Mr. Child, writes from Norwich in Light of October 8th, 1887,
stating he had repeatedly found water by the rod within a few yards
of wells that had been sunk unsuccessfully. I wrote to Mr. Child
asking for particulars of these places, but my letter was returned
marked "present address unknown."
Evidence has already been given showing the wide area of
distribution of the dowsing rod. This fact also comes out in the
correspondence on the subject that appears from time to time in
various journals. I have not heard of its use in Asia or South
America, though the North American Indians are said to have long
known and practised dowsing. The London Times of December 27th,
1881, refers to its use in Dakota, as Mr. E. T. Bennett has pointed
out.i In an article on "Farming in Dakota," reference is made to a
farm near Valley City belonging to a Mr. Kindred, and according to
the Times :—
Water is got in abundance from a bed of sand 30 feet deep, and brought
to the tanks by a pump worked by a windmill. An effort had previously
been made only 100 yards further north to find water ; a shaft, 138 feet, had
been ineffectually dug. The bending of the willow twig carefully carried
over the surface is said to have afforded indications which justified the
present successful opening.
i See Light for January 7th, 1882, where Mr. Bennett asks for authentic instances
of water-finding by the rod and originated the correspondence on the subject which
followed. Some remarkable cases of the use of the rod in Jersey, by a local dowser,
are given in Light for February 11th, 1882.
220 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
In Italy the rod has been in use for over three centuries. Lieut.-
Col. Cocks, in a letter to the Times, states he has seen certain Italians
travelling through the Riviera locating the site for wells with a twig
of olive bent into the form of a loop. The loop turns upwards wjth
jerks, often striking the breast of the operator when over a hidden
spring ; Colonel Cocks gives instances that came under his own
observation, of the success of these dowsers. This form of rod is, I
observe, pictured in a work on Practical Mining published in Bologna
in 1678, and is also described in various Italian essays on the rod of a
century ago ; a loop of wire is used by some English dowsers. In
parts of Switzerland the rod has also long been in use ; in the
neighbourhood of Lucerne the dowser appears to be called the
Brunnen-Schmecker (spring-taster) ;l in the United States he is often
called "water-smeller."
Part IV.
GEOLOGICAL OPINION.
Before bringing to a close the evidence for or against the dowser's
success, in the search for underground water, I wish to cite the opinion
of a few geologists.
PROFESSOR SOLLAS, F.R.S.
It is certainly a singular fact how very few attempts have been
made by competent scientific men to put the dowsers' claims to the
test of experiment. One such is recorded in our own Proceedings,
Vol. II., p. 73, etseq.- This is a report by a distinguished geologist,
Professor Sollas, LL.D., F.R.S., etc., which was made at the request
and at the expense of our Society in the year 1883. The experiment
consisted in sinking two adjacent similar wells in an alluvial plain at
Locking, near Bristol ; one well was sunk at the spot indicated by the
dowser, and the other at a spot 15 feet distant where the "rod" did not
indicate water.3 At the former, which Professor Sollas called the +
well, the dowser predicted that water would be found ; at the latter,
or — well, that it would not. Professor Sollas, as a geologist, predicted
i See Light of January 28th, 1882, where a good instance of the Swiss dowser's
success in water-finding is given.
8 Reprinted, as already mentioned on p. 18, with some additions and maps in the
Proceedings of the Bristol Naturalists' Society for 1884.
3 The dowser was Mr. Thomas Young, since dead, see No. 29, p. 52.
XXXII.] 221
Ovt the So-called Divining Rod.
water would be found in both or neither. Wells were sunk, and when
the + well was 16 feet deep, Professor Sollas reports, " it contained a
good deal of water, 8 or 9 feet. . . . The - well was 20 feet deep
and contained feet of water. Water was trickling into it, but not
so fast as into the other. The well-sinker said this 4J feet was merely
surface water." A fortnight later the bailiff to the estate visited the
wells, and reports that the + well was only sunk to a depth of 1 7A
feet, but the - well was sunk to 20 feet, nevertheless the former had
9 feet of water in it and the latter 4^ feet. Ten days afterwards a
pupil of Professor Sollas visited the wells and reported that the water
stood at the same level in both wells, and a similar report was given
some time later.i A month after this last Mr. E. R. Pease visited the
spot and had both the wells emptied of water. " The + well I found
(he remarks) now to be a mere hole some 10 feet deep, whilst the - well
was a carefully timbered shaft 24 feet deep." Measurements of the rate
at which water flowed into the two wells " seem to show that the +
well filled more rapidly than the - well, although its depth was so
much less. The tenant of the farm told me that the water in the +
well was of letter quality than that in the - well."
The conclusion Professor Sollas draws from this experiment is that
" The case for the dowser has conspicuously failed " ; any success
dowsers may have he believes due to their possession of much mother
wit and a large experience of the behaviour of underground water.
Mr. Pease, however, remarks " I cannot feel his [Professor Sollas']
complete confidence in the conclusive nature of this particular ex
periment." An opinion from which, with all respect to my friend,
Professor Sollas, few, I imagine, would be disposed to dissent ; even
although the - well certainly could not be called "dry."2
Mr. T. V. hOLMES, F.G.S.
Mr. T. V. Holmes, F.G.S., the President of the Geologists'
Association of London for 1889-90, who read a paper on the divining
i The dowser and his assistants attributed the water in the - well to an outflow
from the + well, and the tenant of the estate said he had seen it flowing in from the
side nearest the + well ; Professor Sollas confirms this from his own observation, but
adds it trickled in from the other sidesalso, and remarks that if the rock between the
two wells were so porous as to allow percolation from one well to the other, then the
rock would be water-bearing and furnish water tc both.
•At the close of his paper Professor Sollas draws attention to the incompatibility
of the dowser's pretensions, in this and like cases, with the assumption that some
physical effect is produced on the dowser by underground water, provided this
effect be assumed to radiate from the water and decrease as the square of the distance
increases. I shall return to this argument subsequently when discussing the suggested
explanations of the " dowsing faculty," if such there be.
222 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett
rod before the Anthropological Institute on March 30th, 1897,i writes
to me as follows :—
28, Crooms Hill, Greenwich Park, S.E., June 23rd, 1897.
A priori conclusions seem to me absurd and unscientific, whether put
forward by the President of the Royal Society, or by a village cobbler. As
regards the water diviner, I am only anxious that he should be brought
from the realm of disorderly mystery, which is ignorance, to that of orderly
mystery, which is science—to use a phrase of Huxley's. That a somewhat
abnormal nervous organisation may make given persons specially sensitive
in special ways, where ordinary persons remain unconscious, is a perfectly
possible, and not improbable thing to me. It is simply a matter of
evidence.
Whilst geology as a science is very modern, a knowledge of water
bearing surface beds is extremely ancient, as the evidence afforded by the
sites of ancient towns and villages amply demonstrates ; in fact, the presence
of a water-bearing stratum, such as a flat of old river gravel, was one of the
strongest attractions.2 Nowadays, the existence of water companies allows
the extension of London over thick clay. But the ancient London, "the
City," is on the first high terrace of old river gravel to bo met with on going
up the Thames from the sea. Innumerable instances of a similar kind
might be given. This perception of water-bearing surface beds is therefore
a knowledge quite independent of a knowledge of geological structure, and
one which has existed from time immemorial.
Indeed, (as I have elsewhere remarked), the rise of geology as a science
tended to put this older knowledge of water-bearing surface beds into the
background. The Geological Survey had been at work many years at the
deep-seated geology of England and Wales, before any " drift-maps," or
those showing the superficial beds, which lie indifferently on the older rocks
of various ages, were even thought of. But at a later period it was dis
covered that to ignore the superficial beds in such a district as the Eastern
Counties was to ignore the strata forming four-fifths of the surface to an
average depth of thirty or forty feet. So drift-maps became more common.
But geologists seldom bestow much thought on these various drift-beds,
unless interested in flint implements. Again, with the rise of geology as a
science came, pari passu, a distrust of water from surface beds as a source
of domestic supply, and a preference for deep wells and water companies.
In short, the tendency of the great bulk of geologists is to ignore utterly
surface beds as a source of water supply, and to care but little for them from
any other point of view ; while, as regards older rocks, most would l>e
found interested in them rather as showing deposition under marine,
estuarine, fresh water, warm or cold water, conditions, than in their
relations to water-supply.
Consequently, I am not surprised to learn from one of the cases you cite,
(No. 73, p. 97), that a " geological authority " had said that no water would
be found at a less depth than 120 to 130 feet, and that Mullins found water
i I am indebted to my friend, Mr. E. Westlake, F.G.S., for this information,
which reached me too late for insertion in the earlier part of this paper.
- This fact was pointed out some time ago by Professor Prestwich.—W.F.B.
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 223
at 20 feet in a surface deposit. Whether the geologist ignored the surface
deposit, or thought water from it unwholesome, I know not.
In another case (No. 42, p. 68) the geologist is not so wrong as he seems.
Limestone is a water-bearing rock, and water would tend to flow to the
lowest level in that rock, impervious clay beneath preventing it from getting
lower. But while water tends to percolate evenly through gravel and sand,
it flows through sandstones and limestones mainly along their lines of
jointing. Hence it is by no means rare to find that little if any water comes
into a shaft driven into a limestone or sandstone to a supposed sufficient
depth, and a very common practice of practical well-sinkers to run headings
in various directions to tap joints and fissures when such is the case, with
results as successful as in the above example.
In certain Essex cases north of Chelmsford and between Braintree and
Bishop's Stortford, where the diviner's success was thought wonderful, there is
a plateau of Boulder clay intersected by valleys which show the underlying
Fig. 1.
Glacial gravel and sand, London clay underlying both. The villages are on
the gravel and sand of the valleys, and any practical well-sinker would see at
once that water would be attainable at a moderate depth on the plateau on
sinking through the Boulder clay into the underlying gravel, see Fig. 1 ; the
London clay, of course, prevents the water from getting lower. The valleys
thereabouts are very close together, in addition. Non-drift maps of Essex
ignore almost everything above the London clay ; hence a Government official,
reporting a year or two ago on Essex agriculture, stated that most of the
soil of Essex was London clay. Much more of it is Boulder clay than London
clay. But drift-maps are of recent date, and all geological maps of less scale
than one inch to the mile necessarily ignore drift for the sake of clearness in
more fundamental points of structure.
With regard to Lady Milbanke's and Dr. Hutton's experiments (p. 42) ;
the " new college" was evidently the Royal Military Academy on Woolwich
Common, at which Dr. Hutton was Professor of Mathematics (1773-1806.)
Now the surface of Woolwich Common between the Military Academy and
the Artillery Barracks and Rotunda (northward) consists of Blackheath
Pebble Beds ; while from the Academy (southward) the Pebble Beds become
covered with a gradually increasing thickness of London clay. Whether the
spot at which the lady discovered the water had Pebble Beds at the surface,
or they were covered by a few feet of London clay, is immaterial, as the water
would be found only towards the bottom of the Pebble Beds. And as water
224 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
percolates evenly and freely through them, and they are lying almost
perfectly flat, water would be found thereabouts at very nearly the same
depth wherever the Pebble Beds are uncovered, and at a greater distance
from the surface as the thickness of the London clay above increased. It is
therefore obvious that whatever influence may have caused the lady's agita
tion and the twisting of the rod in her fingers, it could not have been a
peculiar and special nearness of underground water at that particular spot.
In this instance, too, there can be no suspicion that she was trying to give
herself a reputation for an abnormal faculty ; nor that her movements wero
the result of knowing that water was almost certain to be found at no great
depth in a bed of gravel. We learn also that the most perfect integrity is
quite compatible with complete, though unconscious, self-deception. In short,
this case is one best explained by the conclusion of Paramelle, that "the
wand turns in the hands of certain individuals of peculiar temperament, and
that it is very much a matter of chance whether there are, or are not, wells
in the places where it turns." Records of experiments with the divining rod
show many apparently similar cases.
In my paper I spoke of myself as afield-geologist, because having worked
on the Geological Survey of England and Wales about 11 years, in Yorkshire
and Cumberland, I have often since felt the advantage of having been
compelled from official duty to note much about superficial, and other beds,
which the non-official geologist almost invariably neglects. And when
president of the Geologists' Association, at a later date, (1889-90), it often
struck me how little many otherwise accomplished geologists saw in the field
of those points which would be instinctively noted by the Geological Survey,
who had to map the various beds in detail. But many of these points
would equally attract the attention of the professional diviner. But the
geologist—on water being found at a certain depth, whether in Carboniferous
sandstone, or river gravel, or anywhere else—would not call water so found
"a spring." A spring is a natural fountain. Where a permeable bed of sand
stone—for example—lies above impermeable shale, water will flow downwards
through the sandstone in the direction of its dip. Where the sandstone
becomes saturated to a level above that of the surface, there may be ono
strong spring, many slighter ones, or a belt of wet ground, according to local
circumstances.
If the permanent level of the water is at W. L. (see Fig. 2, representing
a section) then there will be springs along the line of the valley. But if I
Fio. 2.
xxxn.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 225
sink a well at my house at H. and find water 30 or 40 feet below the surface I
cannot call water so found a "spring." A geological surveyor or a practical
well-sinker would see the dip of the sandstone, and note any Kpring or belt
of wet ground in the valley, the latter telling him that the sandstone being
full of water there, he need not go very deep for it at H. In a map the
sandstone would probably be traceable for miles, and have a breadth of
perhaps a quarter of a mile. Anywhere towards the bottom of the slope
water might be expected at a moderate depth. In short, where water may
be found at a moderate depth is a question of acres or square miles, not of
feet or inches, as the diviner absurdly thinks. And when the finding of
water by diviners is, nevertheless, treated as though it were equivalent to
the finding, in each case, of a pot of ancient coins, six feet below the
surface of a ploughed field, belief in his abnormal powers follows as a matter
of course.
Nevertheless I may add, that to me abnormal sensitiveness to the
proximity of water seems quite as possible as abnormal sensitiveness to the
action of some special drug, or to the presence of some particular animal, of
which many curious examples are known.
As to the nature of the nervous sensibility which produces these
performances with the divining rod ; how much its possessors resemble in
nervous organisation persons subject to hypnotic influences, or those who
speedily become convulsed at fervid religious meetings,—that is a question
of much interest, but one into which I have not entered.
I am amused at the fee demanded (note p. 6 of your paper) for training.
For on the hypothesis that the diviner depends solely on his inner
sensations, "training" seems likely to do harm rather than good. The
usual dislike of diviners to be blindfolded also becomes unintelligible. For,
if blindfolded, he would be much more likely to be governed solely by his
inner sensations. I know that they do not always object. If I were a
diviner, I would object or not according to the nature of the ground. If I
were in the midst of a large flat of river or other gravel, I would cheerfully
consent. But if progress in a certain direction for 100 or 200 yards might
lead to a mistake, I would prefer to see. So far as I can make out, the
diviner acts in this way.
As to the question of sensitiveness to the nearness of mineral lodes, I
have not touched upon it. It seems to me that the two things are better
treated separately. And mineral lodes being confined to special lines of
country, to definite and very limited areas, it would be much more easy to
obtain satisfactory evidence in their case of abnormal sensitiveness than in
that of so broadly diffused a thing as water. Indeed, as regards water, I
cannot think of any country in which the matter could be tested satisfactorily.
And with regard to mineral lodes, it must not be forgotten that the practical
observer sees much in his own line where very able men, in other walks, see
nothing particular, as regards surface indications. The "Savage" is a far
better observer than most of our "educated" people, who see little and
argue much. Had I known you were writing on the subject I should not
have written my own paper, but have sent you my notes thereon. But I
heard of it oidy about two months ago.
T. V. Holmes.
Q
226 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
Mr. Holmes had not seen the whole of the sheets of my paper
when he wrote the foregoing letter. After receiving the rest of the
paper, Mr. Holmes writes to me as follows :—
I think no intelligent person can doubt the practical successes of dowsers
(pp. 4-7). The question with me is : Does a recognition of them involve
the recognition of an abnormal faculty in the dowser ? It seems to me too
much forgotten that a man may become a "Sherlock Holmes" as an
observer of the special natural phenomena in which he is interested, and
remain a very average observer in other departments. I am very far from
thinking that dowsers are guilty of conscious deception when they attribute
their successes to an abnormal power. But people who owe little or nothing
to education, so far as education means " booklearning," are particularly apt
to believe themselves the possessore of special abnormal gifts, simply because
they know that their success cannot be the result of what is commonly called
education.i In his special sphere a gamekeeper may point out many things
to a Darwin which the latter would not otherwise have noticed.
P. 48. —Adams. Blindfolding should have helped him by preventing any
confusing of his sensations—on the sensations hypothesis.2
P. 53. —Stokes doubtless was " an excellent dowser," but his sensations
deceived him very decidedly. Should like to have his views as to the origin
of " spring water." 3
P. 55.—As to Hale Park, I note on looking at the geological map that in
Hale Park Bagshot-sands come on eastward above Lower Tertiary clays, etc.
1 have not visited the spot, but have no doubt that the sands occupy higher
ground than the Lower Tertiary beds. As the sands occupy a large area of
the surface east of the house at Hale Park, they must contain a large amount
of water, which is "surface" water as coming from surface beds. Any
discovery more simple and less "uncanny" it would be hard to mention.
It makes one suspect that many other cases which seemed extraordinary to
the narrators would prove equally simple if one could get a similar
knowledge of the geology.4
i This is very true. I have already referred to the dowser's liability to self-
deception.—W. F. B.
- This is quite true, blindfolding mujht to help the dowser as it does the quasi
thought-reader, like Stuart Cumberland, whose performances are due to slight and
ordinarily imperceptible variations of muscular pressure unintentionally imparted by
those who know what has to be found or done. At the same time, if the rod be an
autotcopc (p. 11) one can quite understand how unexpected bhndfolding might
disturb, rather than induce, that passive state of mind which seems necessary for
success in the whole group of sub-conscious phenomena.—W. F. B.
3 This particular experiment of Stokes is recorded to illustrate what is said at
the top of p. 54 ; it ought not to have had a number, but should have been classed
among failures of a specific kind.—W. F. B.
4 Possibly this case, like some other successes of the dowser, is readily ex
plicable on geological grounds. I wrote to Major Goff to enquire why " every one
was astonished " at water being found. His reply is given on p. 55. Mr. Westlake,
F.G.S., writes, " I know Hale. The well referred to is near the top of the London
clay and not, I think, as shown in the old Geological Survey map, actually on the
Bagshot-sand."—W. F. B.
XXXII.] Oh the So-called Divining Rod. 227
P. 104. — Close to Bower House, but higher up, Edward the Confessor had
a palace. The patch of Bagshot-sand on which it stood gave a water supply.
P. 196.—The Bacon cases are in the Boulder clay district of Essex.
The thicknesses of the Boulder clay forming the surface of the plateau and
of the underlying glacial sand and gravel, seen in the valleys of the various
streams, vary considerably within certain moderate limits. But the water
is diffused through the gravel, and obtainable when the gravel is reached.
Perhaps the usual depth to which it would be necessary to sink through the
Boulder clay is from 20 to 40 ft. (See Fig. 1, p. 223.)
The Honham Experiments (p. 117).—The position of Warnham Lodge is
not shown on the old Ordnance map on which the geological surveyors
worked, but it evidently stands where the words " Lit. Mays " appear on
that map, about a mile N.W. of the village of Warnham, which is about
2£ miles N.W. of Horsham. Horsham stands on the Tunbridge Wells Sand
of the Hustings Beds, while Warnham and Warnham Lodge are both on the
overlying formation known as the Weald Clay, as the great bulk of it
consists of clay. Topley, in the " Geological Survey Memoir on the Weald
District " (p. 101), gives a section of a "well at Warnham, near Horsham."
ft. in.
Bluish clay 7 0
Red sandstone 0 9
Bluish clay 20 0
Red sandstone 0 8
Blue clay 49 7
Water-bearing bed 1 0
Clay, chiefly blue 73 0
152 0
[This is slightly condensed, the names of varieties of clay being omitted.]
Topley notes (p. 39C) that of 97 towns and villages on the Hastings Beds
(which consist of alternations of sands and clays, neither decidedly pre
dominating as regards the area they cover), 79 are on sandy sites. To obtain
a water supply by means of shallow wells and pumps has been the
chief cause of this selection, clay yielding no water. In the Weald Clay
district, the most important of the subordinate beds of stone is the
Horsham Stone, on which the village of Warnham and Warnham Court
stand. The presence of one of these beds of stone, where it attains a
thickness of a few feet, will be marked by the existence of a ridge, which
will make higher ground than that where the surface beds are almost wholly
clay. As water supply in such a district depends so largely on the presence
of these beds of stone, the dowser naturally has a keen eye for the elevated
ground, and will go there, to the horror of his backers at first, and to the
enormous increase of their wonder at his powers, when a well is successfully
sank at the top of a hill, after failures down below.
There are signs of the presence of a bed of stone on the high ground
where Warnham Lodge and farm buildings stand, and Topley mentions
(p. 104) a bed of sand and sandstone ranging by Hurst Hill, Gearing's,
Little May's, Charman's, and other spots to Rudgwick, which is evidently the
Q 2
228 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
stone in question.i Whether in Yorkshire, Sussex, or anywhere else, where
beds of stone alternate with others of clay or shale, the high ground is
composed of the beds of stone, and the lower of the shales, and the former
are waterbearing, the latter not.
I do not wonder that the non-dowsing advisers ignored the surface stone
bed, and thought of (I suppose) going down to the Horsham Stone, or even
the Tunbridge Wells Sand ; or, perhaps, of tapping a sufficient number of
waterbearing beds, which individually insignificant might collectively prove
sufficient, and be free from possible dangers arising from surface pollution—
dangers by no means uncommon in similar cases. The dowser's triumph is
to find water, and to find it as near the surface as possible ; he has no further
responsibility. But the geologist who should recommend water from a source
easily polluted, and which gave rise to disease in persons using it, would be
deemed to have shown a most culpable recklessness—at the very least.
However, the dowser in this case, after " blasting and sinking" in hard
limestone, obtained a supply of water at a depth of 12 feet, at spots known
as E and F, and at 19 feet at D (p. 119), all these wells being only a few
yards apart. The dowser, however, insisted that no water would be found
between wells E and F, as "both were independent springs." One of the
wells was pumped nearly dry, and the water-level in the other was unaffected.
But this merely showed that there were no lines of bedding or jointing giving
an easy passage to the water between the two wells. And the water from the
stone for some distance around having been collected into the two wells,
the space between them was likely to be a spot comparatively free from
water. Of course, ultimately, a well midway between E and F would have
become as full of water as they were. But the days necessary for this to
take place, in the absence of a good system of jointing, were not allowed,
but a tunnel was at once made connecting the wells E and F, and ensuring
a better supply than could otherwise be obtained.
This stone was evidently an extremely hard and compact rock, very much
more so than the chalk, but the best illustration I can think of to show the
difference between the restricted circulation of water in jointed rocks, and
its free percolation in gravel and sand is from the chalk.
In the Essex Naturalist, Vol. I. , p. 254, (1887) there is a brief account of
some " chalk wells " in Buckinghamshire. These chalk wells were situated at
a tile works, and consisted of some five or six shafts, about 70 ft. deep, which
after piercing through the surface beds, entered the chalk to a depth of about
6 ft., and then widened out into bell-shaped chambers. The object of their
makers was to obtain chalk for lime from the ground beneath the limited
area of the tile works. The chalk being locally full of water almost to the
top, these chambers were hollowed out as near the top of the chalk as
possible. After a considerable amount of chalk had been removed from one
of these chambers, it would become unpleasantly wet, and would ultimately
be abandoned and another shaft sunk, and so on. The important point is
that these chambers became unpleasantly wet only after some time had
elapsed, though from their size, as compared with that of a mere well, they
must have been comparatively far more likely to be speedily flooded. I
i It is called a limestone in your paper. Probably it is more calcareous than
usual at Warnham Lodge.
xxxii.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 220
have no doubt that the Warnham well between E and F would eventually
have had water in it, had sufficient time been allowed, just as in the case of
the chalk chambers at the tile works. That Mullins fixed upon the spot
midway between two wells as a dry place, seems to me simply caused by his
experience of the behaviour of water in jointed rocks, not as showing the
veracity of his sensations. The dowser in the case reported by Professor
Sollas no doubt fancied that he was directed by his sensations. But he
probably thought also that water circulated as irregularly through the sand
of an alluvial flat as through a jointed rock —and consequently deceived
himself- T. V. Holmes.
Mr. Holmes' criticism of some of the cases which I have cited is
extremely interesting and useful, and I am much indebted to him for
the trouble he has taken. Regarding the Horsham experiments, the
explanation suggested by Mr. Holmes presumes that Mullins had not
only local knowledge, but also a yeological knowledge of the locality.
This is in the highest degree improbable, (seep. 117). I never met
John Mullins, but every one who has done so testifies to the fact that
he never troubled himself in the least about gaining the advantage to
be derived from even an elementary acquaintance with geological facts.
Whatever information of water bearing strata he has gained by
experience was probably not consciously drawn upon, but may have
aided him in a kind of instinctive selection of the right spot where to
sink a well. The question to be discussed presently is whether this
instinct gained by experience is sufficient to account for the dowser's
success in the whole of the cases I have cited. At Warnham Park
there was absolutely nothing in the surface of the ground to indicate
which was stone and which Weald clay. The hill and its slopes as well
as the rest of the ground were covered with vegetation, under which
was a thick layer of alluvial soil. Moreover the water found, though
from a shallow well, is an excellent, abundant, and perennial supply.
If its discovery was so very obvious, as Mr. Holmes points out, why did
not the experienced local well sinkers and the eminent engineers who
were consulted,—aided as they were by geological maps and geological
advice,—indicate the fact to Mr. (now Sir Henry) Harben and save
him the fruitless expenditure of over £1,000? If Mr. Holmes visited
the site, he would see the source chosen is the highest point on the
estate ; it is not easily polluted and in fact it furnishes the whole of
the drinking water which is used in the establishment. It is, as we
all know, very easy to prophecy after the event, but in this case not
(1uite so easy beforehand, apparently.i
i Writing to me on July 8th, 1807, after the above was in type, Mr. Holmes says :—
I visited Horsham on June 30th. As you say, there is no evidence of stone on
the surface, but that would not matter to the dowser. He would see, as I saw, that
there was a ridge capped by stone of some sort there, i.e., by something harder than
230 [PAKT
Professor W. F. Barrett.
With regard to the absence of water between wells E and F
(p. 118) if I understand Mr. Holmes aright, he argues this is merely
relative, water would gradually have percolated into the intervening
space, if time were allowed for it to do so. Possibly, but that is not the
point in question. How did Mullins find the exact spots where bedding
or jointing allowed an abundant supply of water to be tapped ? And
how did he know that between E and F in the solid rock 1 2 ft. below
him there was "an absence of a good system of jointing," to use Mr.
Holmes' words ? He did not remove the trees, the shrubs, the grass,
and the surface soil, and explore the rocks beforehand. Had Mr.
Holmes himself been in Mullins' place, he must have been more
than a geological Sherlock Holmes to have discovered all this in a
rapid walk over entirely new ground.
No, Mr. Holmes' criticism leaves the solution of the question
as a whole as far off as ever. Many individual cases are, no doubt,
readily explicable; but nothing Mr. Holmes has said explains the
Waterford experiments, nor, I venture to say, the Horsham
experiments, nor the numerous cases I have cited where useless wells
or borings had previously been made, and where water was found by
the dowser at a less depth, or at a corresponding depth close by.
The next letter may be contrasted with Mr. Holmes' instructive
criticism, or with the opinions given on pp. 6, 7, and 67.
MB. J. h. bLAKE, F.G.S.
I wrote to several well-known geologists to ask for any information
they could give me either favourable or unfavourable to the pretensions
of the dowser. Among other replies, my friend, Mr. W. Whitaker,
F.R.S., referred me to Mr. J. H. Blake, F.G.8., of the Geological Survey,
who has had considerable experience in hydro-geology. I wrote to Mr.
Blake, and the following is his reply :—
Re "The Divining Rod."
16, Polstead-road, Oxford, October 1st, 1896.
I have received your letter of September 26th, desiring some information
as to the ntm-snetes* of the above. When was it ever successful ?
clay, which would be enough for his puqx>se. And the information which he would
inevitably gather from Mr. Harben and others would suffice without asking many
questions I did not notice the Waterford case, because I do not know the country
at all. The majority of recorded cases cannot be discussed by a geologist, from the
absence of sufficient geological details. ,1, y prOLMES
It was extremely good of Mr. Holmes to take the trouble to visit Warnhain
specially ; he is, however, entirely mistaken in his assumptions, as Sir Henry Harben
would inform him ; how, except by trial, or from some geological knowledge, was
Mullins to know the ridge was " capped by stone of some sort, " when Mr. Holmes
himself says " there was no evidence of stone on the surface "!
XXXII.] 231
On the So-called Divining Rod.
The late \V. J. Palmer, of the Biscuit Factory, Reading, wanting a
water supply at Kingwood House, Lambourn, Berkshire, employed a
divining rod man, who walked over the ground and stated water would be
found at a few feet beneath the surface over a certain area which he pointed
out. I was afterwards consulted, and having inspected the site, and made
some calculations, informed Mr. Palmer that no water would be met with
until the plane of saturation in the chalk was reached, which at the locality
mentioned would be about 300 feet from the surface of the ground. Mr.
Palmer then decided to have a well dug, six feet in diameter, which was
carried out by a man I know very well, and who supplied me with all
particulars, and no water was found until the plane of saturation in the
chalk was reached at about the depth I stated. This well was sunk
in 1892.
To mention a more recent case, last June, the owner of "The Hollies,"
Burghfield, near Reading, called upon me, and stated that her tenant—a
General, who believed in the divining rod—had employed a well-known
divining rod man, who went over the ground, and told him water would be
found at about 40 feet beneath the surface. After making some calculations,
I informed the owner that no water would be met with until the basement
bed of the London clay was reached, which at the site of the house would be
about 183 feet beneath the surface. This information was communicated to
the General, who shortly afterwards called upon me, when I explained
to him how I arrived at my conclusions, and that the divining rod
business was ab$olute iwnseime ! I advised a boring to be made, which
was completed a few days ago, and no water was met with until the water-
hearing basement bed of the London clay was reached at a depth of 190
feet from the surface.
I will mention one more case to show the fallacy of the divining rod, or
''dowsing fork," as it is sometimes called, but better known on the
Geological Survey as the "chousing fork ! "
A well-known divining rod man visited Reading a few years ago, when
Mr. Walker, the waterworks manager, took him along a street, at a certain
spot beneath which the Holy Brook (which used to supply the old Abbey)
flows in a culvert. When they came to it, all those present watched the hazel
twig, or fork, which he carried in the usual manner, and not the slightest
movement occurred, although all those present, excepting the divining rod
man, knew perfectly well there was running water beneath them !
In conclusion, I consider those who profess to find water by means of the
divining rod, and receive moneyi for their erroneous information, ought to
be prosecuted forfraud, quite as much as a fortune-teller, for deceiving her
Majesty's subjects. J H Blake
As Mr. Blake mentions two specific instances of failure, it was
desirable to obtain information alxmt these at first hand, so that they
might be recorded with other adverse evidence. Upon enquiry, I
i The General alluded to paid a fee of £3 3s., and Mr. W. J. Palmer, I believe,
amiiderably more.—J. H. B.
232 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
ascertained the name of the General referred to in the foregoing letter,
and wrote to him. General Buck kindly replies as follows : —
The Hollies, Burghfield, Mortimer, Berks., October oth, 1896.
In reply to your letter of October 2nd, 1896, I have to inform you that
Mr. Mullins, the diviner, came here and pointed out places where I should
find water, but I did not sink a well at the place pointed out, as he said I
should have to go down 70 or 80 feet. I subsequently consulted Mr. Blake,
Government geological surveyor, who informed me that I should get no water
nearer the surface than 186 feet. As a matter of fact, I had to bore 210 feet
before I got a supply. No doubt I should have found water at that depth at
the place pointed out by the diviner, as I was aware that if I went deep
enough I should get water. T d,.__
Yj, 15LCK.
The dowser in this case could not have been John Mullins, who was
dead, but must have been one of his sons. Mr. Blake, it will be
observed, is not quite accurate in his statements as to the depth
predicted by the dowser, or that at which water was actually found.
This, however, is immaterial, as the well was not sunk at the place
indicated by the dowser. Nevertheless, the geological evidence shows
that the dowser employed was probably mistaken. It would, however,
have been rash to make any such prediction in the case of a spot fixed
on by John Mullins, as the Waterford experiments, the Horsham
experiments, and other evidence already cited demonstrate.
With regard to the first case mentioned by Mr. Blake, that of the
late Mr. W. J. Palmer, of Reading, I wrote to the address given by
Mr. Blake, and received the following reply from Mr. G. W. Palmer :—
Elmhurst, Reading, February 2oth, 1897.
In reply to your letter, I write to say you have been entirely mismformed ;
my experience with the divining rod has, I am glad to say, been eminently
satisfactory. Geo Wm Palkbji
Upon explaining that the reference was to the late Mr. W. J.
Palmer, I was informed that the latter had been dead some years, and
no information was possessed by my correspondent as to the facts
narrated by Mr. Blake. In reply to my enquiries as to any one who
could give me the requisite information, Mr. G. \V. Palmer's private
secretary states that he has submitted my letter to Mr. Palmer, who
had to leave home on account of illness, and that " he is unable to throw
any light upon the matter." Whilst I do not in the least dispute Mr.
Blake's statement, it will be observed that his information in this case
does not appear to be first-hand. Certainly, Mr. G. W. Palmer's lettei-
disposes of Mr. Blake's assertion in another letter which is Iwfore me,
viz., " The Palmers now are no longer believers in the divining rod,
but strong believers in Geology and Hydro-geology."
xxxn.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 233
The parti-pris with which the investigation of our subject is
approached by most geologists is seen in the first sentence of
Mr Blake's letter, when the question is asked, " when was it ever
successful ? " By this is evidently meant, " when was a dowser ever
successful in discovering underground water 1 " Even without reference
to the bulk of the evidence collected in this paper, an answer to this
question is given by an experienced and practical man like the bailiff
to the Merchant Venturers' estates, who remarks (No. 28, p. 50) that
he " would as soon think of planting a tree with its root upwards as of
digging a well for water without employing a dowser."
MR. C. E. dE RAnCE, F.G.s.
Among English geologists who have made the question of water
supply their special study, few are more qualified to speak than Mr.
C. E. De Ranee, Assoc. Inst. C.E., F.G.S., of the Geological Survey of
England and Wales.i Mr. De Ranee was secretary to the British
Association " Underground Water Committee," and drew up the whole
of their twenty annual published reports. In a letter to Mr. E.
Westlake, which I am permitted to print, Mr. De Bance, like most
other geologists, speaks of the divining rod as a fraud, though he
thinks many of its operators are honest and deceive themselves ; and
adds, under date, November 16th, 1896 :—
With an experience of a quarter of a century I know of no public water
supply, or first class pumping station for trade purposes, which originated
with a dowser. As regards shallow wells for domestic use, sunk by local
well sinkers, it is very seldom that a small supply of water cannot be got for
the limited requirements, and failures are few. The dowser is in the same
general condition ; for a small quantity he can hardly go wrong, and one
never hears of his failures in the newspapers !
How far the evidence I have presented confirms this opinion of Mr.
De Ranee I leave the reader to judge ; certainly local well sinkers do
frequently sink without finding water, as a large number of the cases I
have cited prove. I wrote to Mr. De Ranee, and asked him if he
could supply me with anyfacts as to the relative success, or non-success,
of a good dowser on the one hand, and a good geologist on the other,
in determining the correct sites of wells for various private properties.
I received the following interesting letter in reply :—
55, Stoke Road, Stoke-on-Trent, December loth, 1896.
Divhung rod.—I agree with you that facts, and not belief or unbelief,
should^be the basis of the enquiry. But the difficulty is to get facts on both
i See Appendix B, where Mr. De Ranee's work on the Water Supply of England
and Wales, London, 1882, is referred to. Mr. De Kaneo kindly sent me a number
of press cuttings on the divining rod of older date than those I had.
234 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
aides that are comparable. It does not follow, because a man is an eminent
geologist or civil engineer, that he has studied " Hydro-geology"; the chances
are that he has not. There are at the present time barely twenty under
ground water-experts in the British Islands, so the " personal equation " is
of the greatest importance. There are probably 1,500 geologists, including
geologically inclined civil and mining engineers, but twenty would be the
outside who could give a reliable opinion on underground water, any more
than on fossil insects, or fossil fish.
It is a matter of common experience that local authorities do not know
who are the underground water specialists, and call in a leading geologist, who-
may, or may not, respond to the call, just as some surgical experts may, or
may not, advise, when asked for an opinion outside their special branch.
The opinions of such geologists rest upon chance, and I should not be
surprised to hear that their success, or non-success, was on all fours with
that of "the dowser."
Then again, as regards comparing successes, it is important to remember
an underground water-expert is hardly ever called in, except a daily supply
of from 100,000 to 4,000,000 gallons is required. So far as I am aware, no
public or private supply of over 100,000 gallons per day has ever been
advised by a "dowser," though such, of course, may be the case, unknown
to me.
Underground water travels in sheets and not lines, and though underground
" channels," or " courses," occur in limestones and impure limestone—like
the chalk, —occasionally, they are wholly absent in other rocks ; though, of
course, these throw up lines of springs, where the flow of water is intercepted
by faults, throwing in some impermeable material, forming a -water-tight
barrier. Such lines are well marked by melted hoar-frost at daybreak, on a
frosty morning.' C. E. De Ranxe.
Mr. Do Ranee is doubtless right that no large public water-supply
is due to a dowser ; this is one of the special functions of the hydro-
geologist, who will on scientific grounds accurately advise where to
sink deep wells. Here I should expect the dowser would be quite
useless. Mr. De Ranee is, however, mistaken in thinking no water
supplies of over 100,000 gallons a day (say 4,200 an hour) have ever
been found by dowsers, see e.g., No. 49, where 20,000, and No. 78,
where 10,000 gallons per hour were obtained ; but as a rule the supply
found is not so enormous, though ample for private purposes.
It is necessary to bear in mind that there are two distinct kinds of
wells, viz., shallow wells, sunk into a superficial permeable stratum ;
and deep wells, sunk through the superficial stratum and through an
impermeable stratum beneath, until the underlying water-bearing
i This is -tn interesting observation and one to which I shall return in discussing
the theory of a possible " dowsing faculty." In mining districts the melting of hoar
frost and the peculiar growth of herbage have long been known to afford some
indications of the direction of mineral lodes beneath.—W. F. B.
xxxii.]' On the So-called Divining Rod. 235
stratum is reached. Shallow wells are often contaminated and yield
as a rule moderate supplies of water ; deep wells generally yield a
much larger supply of pure water. Though the evidence in this paper
shows that some deep wells have been successfully found by dowsers,
an analysis of the whole of the cases shows that the success of
the dowser evidently lies in fixing the best spot where to sink
comparatively shallow wells, the average depth of the dowser's wells
mentioned in this paper being a little over 40 feet, and the average
supply found being sufficient for the purpose required, though
insufficient for a public water supply. There is, however, abundant
evidence to prove that in these wells, as a rule, the quality of the
water, even in the 12 foot well (p. 119) sunk by Sir Henry Harben, is
excellent for drinking purposes. The dowser, it must be remembered,
is rarely employed in towns, where shallow wells are undoubtedly a
source of danger.
Again, in estimating the success or failure of the dowser, it should
not be forgotten that the most experienced geologists are sometimes
mistaken in the advice they give as to water supply. Mr. De Ranee
goes so far as to say that even the opinion of leading geologists (the
result of their opinions is probably meant) "rests upon chance."
There is a well-known case of the serious and costly failure of scientific
advice in well-sinking recorded in the Encyclopa-dia Britannica, (Art.
Water Supply, p. 405). This was at the deep well on Southampton
Common, " which has only yielded a small supply of water, though
carried 852 feet into the chalk." This well has since been sunk, by
boring, to a depth of 1,317 feet, and was ultimately abandoned after
the ratepayers had been put to an expense of £13,000.i Other cases
of failure on the part of scientific experts in sinking deep wells have
occurred. A French engineer congratulates himself that out of 16
deep borings he has made, only two were unsuccessful ; that is, his
failures were rather over 12 per cent. The writer of the work in
Weale's Series already cited, an experienced hydraulic engineer, states
" the non-success of these borings is worthy of remark, as illustrating
the uncertainty of this class of operations." Nor do these deep wells
always yield a large supply ; according to the same writer, the artesian
well sunk at the " Model Prison, Caledonian-road, London " to a depth
of 370£ feet only yielded 800 gallons per hour. The artesian well at
Chichester is sunk and bored to a depth of 1,054 feet, but does not
yield 100 gallons an hour and "the water is of a repulsive taste and
smell." These, I suppose, would be cases which Mr. De Ranee would
i Treatise on WcU-dit>ging and boriwi in Weale's Series, 7th edition, p. 89. Mr.
Westlake, F.G.S., informs me the total cost of this well was £19,600 ; it did yield
from 2 to 5,000 gallons per hour, but this was a failure for the object intended and
the well was abandoned as useless in 1882 ; though now used for road watering.
236 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
maintain illustrate his contention. Whether this be so or not, the
significant point is that, when a failure on the part of a dowser occurs,
an outcry is immediately raised and his successes are ignored ; whereas
similar treatment is not accorded to the engineer or geologist. This
is, no doubt, inevitable, though the problem being to obtain a water
supply, it is a matter of supreme indifference to the user whether the
process by which it is obtained be rational and explicable on scientific
grounds, or irrational and inexplicable.
As these sheets are passing through the press a sheaf of newspaper
cuttings has reached me, containing comments on the surcharge of the
Urban District Council, at Ampthill, in Bedfordshire, of the fee paid
by them to the dowser.i The geological reasons for this surcharge are
fair enough, the site being on the Oxford clay, which it is said has
been bored 700 feet without finding water ; albeit it appears that a
fair yield of water was obtained at a moderate depth, on the site
selected by Gataker; but the supply was quite inadequate for public
use.2 A similar dispute has recently arisen at Porthcawl, in
Glamorganshire, which is referred to on p. 162. In both these cases I
am informed that the newspaper comments are based on misleading
reports. The solicitor to the Porthcawl District Council and Clerk to
the Board, in answer to my enquiry writes to say that the dowsing
i One of the legal reasons given by the auditor for the surcharge was based on a
decree of the High Court to the effect that " the pretence of power, whether moral,
physical, or supernatural, with intent to obtain money, was sufficient to constitute an
offence within the meaning of the law." Some sensible remarks on this case are to be
found in one or two papers, but the bulk of the Press make merry over " the
superstition," "the mediaeval ignorance," "the corporate blindness," etc., of the
District Council.
2 In justice to Mr. Gataker I append the following extract from a letter of his
which appeared in the Pall Mall Gazette for July 3rd, 1897 :—
"Two misstatements have appeared in the papers in relation to my work for the
Ampthill Urban District Council. The first misstatement is that a boring to 700 ft.
without result was made on my advice. This is not the fact. A boring to a depth of
700 ft. was, I believe, made at considerable expense, for a brewery company, long before
I was consulted by the Council, and in a totally different locality to that in which I
located the springs for the Council. . . . The second is that test borings were made
on my advice by the Council, and that my predictions were not verified. This, again,
is not the fact. At the monthly meeting of the Council held on Tuesday, June 15th, the
chairman of the Council, as reported in the Bedfordshire Mercury of Saturday,
June 19th, said : ' The Council had really tested but one of his spots (that is, the
spots at which I had located springs for the Council), and there, where he said they
would find a yield of 2,500 gallons, they had actually found 2,800. He contended
that Mr. Gataker had been treated in a very un-English way.'
" It would be a matter of great gratification to me were the whole question
investigated by some well-known scientific person, or scientific body."
Leicester Gatakek.
XXXII.] 237
On the So-called Divining Rod.
experiment was not, as stated in the papers, a complete failure, but the
quantity of water found was less than anticipated and insufficient for
public purposes.
The action of the Local Government Board auditors in sur
charging some District Councils for fees paid to a dowser is closely
connected with the hostile, a priori, geological opinion that is now
current. And rightly so, for our administrators cannot go behind the
recognised and authoritative exponents of any branch of science and
enquire whether their views are based on a wide, patient, and unbiassed
examination of the evidence for and against the possible existence of a
"dowsing faculty." It must be assumed that no competent scientific
authority would unhesitatingly give an opinion on any subject without
having scientific grounds for so doing. The a priori improbability of
any alleged phenomena, or the difficulty of finding any immediate
explanation, are grounds for demanding ample and trustworthy
evidence, but are not reasons for rejecting such evidence, or science
would not have accepted the aid to surgery given by the Rontgen rays
—among other instances that might be cited. On the contrary, it is
the received dictum of scientific investigation, as long ago pointed out
by Sir John Herschel, that "The observer ... in any department
of science . . . will have his eyes, as it were, opened, that they
may be struck at once with any occurrence which, according to received
theories, ought not to happen ; for these are the facts which serve as
clues to new discoveries," i—a sentence that might well form the
motto of our Society.
Part V.
BRIEF SURVEY OF THE EVIDENCE.
To those who have had the patience to toil through the wearisome
body of evidence which has so far been adduced, two things are
sufficiently clear. One is, that the absurd and preposterous idea
entertained by many advocates of the divining rod in the present
day, as in the past, that the indications afforded by the " rod " are
infallible for whatever special purpose it is employed, has, it need
hardly be said, no foundation in fact. The other is, that the current
view entertained by most men of science, especially by geologists, that
there is nothing to investigate but " absolute nonsense," " a miserable
i Discount on Natural Philosophy, section 127, p. 132. The italics are mine.
238 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett
superstition," "a pestilent heresy," "a bit of clever legerdemain,"
that dowsers "ought to be prosecuted for fraud,"—if not so absurd,
is equally erroneous.
Whatever be the explanation, the evidence shows that failures in
the use of the rod for the discovery of underground springs is a small
percentage of the total number of trials tv/ten a skilful dowser is
employed. How large the actual percentage of failure is, it is difficult
to estimate. It varies undoubtedly, and very largely, with different
dowsers ; with some, like the late John Mullins, the number of failures
seems to have lx>en very few ; with others, failure is far more frequent.
This is what might Iie expected if there be a peculiar instinct or
faculty in certain persons which is not common to all. Moreover, as
an easy way of earning a living without the trouble of any education,
the class of professional dowsers is sure to lie recruited by a number of
rogues and charlatans, and also by ignorant fools, who, because a forked
twig turns in their hands, without any apparent muscular action on
their part, call themselves " water experts," and, as such, demand big
fees from the credulous public who employ them. Such men are pretty
sure to quote in large type the first sentence of this paragraph to
advertise themselves. An emphatic caution is therefore necessary in
advance, to warn the public against putting the smallest faith in the
puffs of a dowser, unless his work has stood the test of thorough and
independent investigation.
It must not be assumed that all the professional dowsers whose
careers I have endeavoured to investigate are equally satisfactory.
The evidence shows that this is not the case ; on the contrary I have
grave doubts whether some of them are not self-deceived and their
successes due to mere chance. What is needed is a record of every
trial they have made for, say, a couple of years, and an exact statement
of the results in each case ; supplemented by a report from a
competent geological authority, as in many districts water-bearing
strata are easily reached over a wide area.
But how any reliable statistics of this kind are to be obtained I do
not know. All that was possible in the present investigation was to
make the range of evidence as wide and unbiassed as possible, and not
exclude a single case of failure that was substantiated. This has been
done, and I may add here that among other enquiries as to failures, I
addressed a letter to Uotes and Queries.\ For many years past this
useful and carefully edited journal has published a large number of
letters from various correspondents on the divining rod. Accordingly I
i Notes and Queries, Eighth Series, Xo. 248, p. 255. The case of a failure in
Northumberland, quoted by an anonymous correspondent ill the previous volume of
Notes and Queries, p. 336, probably refers to the one I have given on p. 144.
XXXII.] 28I)
On the So-called Divining Rod.
asked to be informed by letter or otherwise of any cases adverse to the
pretensions of the dowser. But I did not receive either publicly or
privately a single reply in the direction asked for, though fresh
instances of its successful use were given by subsequent correspondents,
and other similar replies were sent to my private address.i It must,
however, be borne in mind that (especially among amateur dowsers)
one is more likely to hear of success than of failure2; and therefore an
extensive and searching enquiry is necessary before any safe induction
can be drawn. This must be my apology for the tedious length of the
evidence cited, and the long delay in the publication of this paper.
Protracted as this enquiry has been, it does not pretend to be a final
one, but only the starting point for further and more exhaustive
investigation.
Two points adverse to the dowser must be noted. One is that their
general idea of the distribution of underground water is absurd. As
a rule, they imagine springs exist like a buried treasure, or as Mr.
Holmes says " like a pot of ancient coins," located to an area of a few
square inches beneath the surface of the ground : or they believe these
springs to be the source of narrow underground rivers, which they
profess to trace to within an inch on either side. Underground water
usually exists in wide saturated areas, as is fully explained in Appendix
B. Nevertheless, the evidence cited in this paper shows, as is well-
known, that narrow streaks of permeable water-bearing strata,—sand,
or gravel, or rock, — or water-bearing fissures, do often occur in waterless
localities, so that while water may not be found in one spot, it is found
in another a few feet away, see e.g., Nos. 11, 27, 42, 89, p. 108, etc.
I am not a geologist, and may be wrong, but it seems to me that
geologists have not sufficiently recognised this fact in their discussion
of the subject.
The other fact adverse to the dowser is the failure or inconclusive
character of test experiments ; e.g., those I have made with Stearsand
Rodwell, the one Professor Sollas made with Young, and those Mr.
Watney made at Wimbledon with Gataker and H. W. Mullins. To
this it may be replied that none of these dowsers are really in the first
rank—-like the late W. S. Lawrence and J. Mullins, (or Bleton of
the last century) ; and, except Young (whose case has already been
discussed) and Stears, they are all comparatively young and in
experienced. Moreover,—and this, I think, is the more cogent reply, —
i The Waterworks and Investment Review for May, 1807, contains an unsigned
article on the divining rod in which reference is made to a complete failure on the
part of some dowser ; but no names or localities are given. I wrote to the editor to
ask for these particulars, but received no reply.
'-'Of course professional dowsers give their "hits" and not their "misses" in
their pamphlets, but their failures get sooner talked about for obvious reasons.
240 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
the conditions of the experiment did not sufficiently resemble the
actual operations of the dowser in the discovery of underground
springs.i
After all, the best test that can be applied is the result of actual
trials in finding water where wate>- had not been found before the
advent of the dowser. And here the evidence is so clear that I have
not the least hesitation in saying that, had I to sink a well, I should
prefer to have the precise spot selected b)' a good dowser rather than
general advice given by a geologist,—provided that the depth of the
well did not exceed, say, 50 feet, and the quantity of water required
was for a private and not for a public supply.2 Deep wells and large
water supplies should always be left to the hydro-geologist.
As a practical and commercial test, the evidence afforded by the
owners and agents of landed property who have employed an expert
dowser is of considerable value. In several of the letters I have
received this opinion is incidentally expressed. Thus the Treasurer of
the Merchant Venturers' Society, Mr. G. H. Pope, writing to me from
Bristol, p. 67, says :—
On the estates which I look after we always employ a dowser, and I do
not recollect any instance of failuro to find water ; we never sink a well
before using the rod.
The forcible opinion of the experienced bailiff to these estates
(p. 50) has already been quoted. If these witnesses be considered
biassed by local custom, this objection could hardly apply to an
extensive Wiltshire land agent and surveyor like Mr. H. B. Napier,
who writes, p. 149 : —
I am so satisfied of the dowsers' power, that I should never dream of
sinking a well without their assistance.
Or again take the opinion given on pages 86 and 120 of Mr. Harben,
(now Sir Henry Harben), whose judgment as one of the directors of
the New River Company and a business man of wide experience is
certainly entitled to no little weight. Or the opinion of Sir Welby
Gregory, Bart.,(p. 97) who states that he prefers to trust to the dowser
rather than to the geologist in sinking wells ; or that of the Earl of
i If, as is asserted, dowsers can discover water iunning in pipes underground, the
experiment ought to bo capable of easy disproof or verification This experiment I
propose to try, though dowsers not being indigenous to Ireland makes the trial
somewhat more difficult for me to bring about. It need hardly he pointed out that,
if established, the fact adds enormously to the difficulty of whatever explanation bo
adopted. I am inclined to believe, in spite of the remarkable success which Bleton
had in this particularexperiment, that the results are due to indications unconsciously
given by those who were conducting the experiment.
3 The dowser will also, in most cases, take the risk of sinking a well on the
condition that if the promised supply be not found the loss will fall on himself.
XXXII.] 241
On the So-called Divining Rod.
Winchilsea, given on the same page. Or of Captain Grantham (p. 126)
who writes :—
I should not now think of sinking a well, when I was not sure of water,
without the use of the divining rod.
Or of Mr. Clifford Gibbons (p. 88), who says :—
The thing is altogether a mystery to me, but certainly if I were to sink
another well, I should get Mullins to select the spot, as I have spent very
large sums of money almost fruitlessly before I knew him.
Again, there is the opinion of a man of affairs and large landed
proprietor like Mr. Christie-Miller, whose wife writes, p. 77 :—
We are unable to quote an instance of failure with the divining rod,
and can therefore speak most confidently in favour of water finding by the
twig. We have seven wells sunk after marking by Mullins with his rod.
An astronomer, Mr. Leeson Prince, writes, p. 80, " I confess I have
been converted to belief in the divining rod," and then gives his
reasons, and the same opinion is expressed by others, e.g., Mr. Crump
says (p. 82), " I became a convert against my will and so did others."
Mr. H. D. Skrine, D.L., states (p. 96), "I cannot resist the conclusion
that it is a real gift possessed by some persons." Captain Penry Lloyd
writes, (p. 206), "From a profound sceptic, I am now a firm believer in
the power of the rod," and other similar expressions of opinion founded
on experience might be cited, e.g., Mr. F. T. Elworthy on p. 6.
It may be useful to contrast with the foregoing the opinion of a
leading English scientific journal. In Nature of June 10th, 1897, the
following comment appears a propos of the employment of a dowser
at Ampthill, Bedfordshire.
It is depressing to think that there exist not only private persons, but
public bodies, who put more trust in the wild assertions of charlatans than
in the matured conclusions of science. The latest instance of gullibility of
this character comes from Bedfordshire. . . . The decision [of the
Local Government Board auditor] will assist perhaps in reducing the number
of believers in the water-diviner's art.
The editor of Nature will have cause to be still more depressed when
he hears from the distinguished Bursar of Trinity College, Cambridge,
Mr. R.T. Glazebrook, F.R.S., that his College has employed with success
a dowser on one of their estates. Mr. Glazebrook kindly put me in
communication with Mr. Reginald Woolley, of Lincoln, the College agent,
who, in reply to my request for some particulars, writes as follows :—i
Minster Yard, Lincoln, June 20th, 1897.
We determined to try the dowser,—who had been successful for my firm
elsewhere,—before undertaking experimental boring.
i Owing to Mr. Woolley having been abroad for his health, his reply reached me
too late for the insertion of this case in its proper place, Group IV.
R
242 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
I met John Mullins at the Farm (Walkeringham), alone with the tenant,
on May 16th, 1893. I took him to the place which would be convenient as
the site of a windmill pump to supply the farmstead. He soon passed a
point at which the twig turned up strongly. He estimated the spring as
fairly good, and from 60 to 70 feet deep. He marked other points, but we
bored only at the first. A spring was found at 45 feet 9 inches, and others
at about 80 feet, the depth to which we went. These springs yield an
ample supply.
A point of interest is that the contractor for the boring, who was a local
man quite unconnected with Mullins, stated that if the boring had been
driven a few inches from the point fixed, the first spring would have been
missed-i Reginald Woolley.
Mr. Woolley's brother also wrote to me as follows : —
South Collingham, Newark, June 24th, 1897.
We have employed the late J. Mullins for other clients than Trinity
College, Cambridge, with satisfactory results.
I made use of his services in Gloucestershire on Lord Leigh's estate,
where he found us an excellent and invaluable spring of water.
It may interest you to know that in one spot where he indicated water,
I took the twig in my own hands and went over the same spot with no result.
He then took hold of my wrists without touching the twig himself and
when we together walked over the same place, the twig turned up in my
hands. This was, I suppose, caused by muscular action on my part, but if
so, it was certainly, as far as I was concerned, perfectly unconscious action.
My mental attitude was one of neutrality ! ^, qecil s Wooixey
The fact mentioned by Mr. Woolley in the latter part of his letter
is also described by others, see p. 244.
It will be noticed later on that in the discovery of metallic veins
there also exists a considerable body of evidence in favour of the
practical value of the indications afforded by the rod ; evidence that
stretches back from the present time to the year 1540. But when we
come to the other multifarious uses to which the rod has been applied
in the past, such as the finding of buried treasure, of lost property, of
strayed cattle, the settlement of disputed boundaries, the tracking of
criminals, and other uses in the moral world,—all of which were
rampant two centuries ago,—its history will be seen to have been a very
chequered one, ever apt to degenerate, as it once did, into a mis
chievous superstition. Even at the present day, owing to the impulse
that moves the rod being apparently derived from an unseen external
source, some perfectly honest dowsers will tell you they can find the
difference between a bucket of spring or rain water (e.g., No. 30),
i How the contractor knew this is not stated : I do not dispute the fact, as similar
statements by others abound, but the reason should in each case be given.—W.F.B.
XXXII.] 243
On the So-called Divining Rod.
can discover hidden coins, buried treasure and buried objects of all
kinds, can trace underground gas pipes and electric cables, find the
place where you intended to hide an object, or the spot on which you
have breathed, or on which a ray of light has fallen, etc. ! In a few
of these things the reading of natural signs, such as the disturbed
surface of the ground, or of unconscious signs or thought-transference
from those who knew the position of the object searched for, will
explain such success as is observed ; but otherwise, needless to say,
failure is absolute, when chance coincidence is excluded and a rigid
investigation made ; proof of this will be given subsequently.
Part VI.
THEORETICAL CONCLUSIONS.
These remarks will help to clear the ground, and enable me
presently to give a brief enunciation of the provisional laws which
appear to me to embrace the whole of the phenomena of the divining
rod. It is, however, desirable that the reader should bear in mind that
the subject before us is necessarily a most entangled one, and that the
usual rough and ready explanations, given by the scoffer on the one
hand and the believer on the other, are wholly inadequate from any
rational point of view. Problems of considerable scientific interest
appear to be involved.
(i.) Few will dispute the proposition that the motion of the forked
twig is due to unconscious muscular action. When the rod is held in
the manner described by Cookworthy (see Appendix C), as was the
custom up to recent years, it is more or less in a sensitive state (p. 11),
and an unintentional and almost imperceptible approach of the two
hands will cause it to turn upwards. But this is not the case when
the rod is held as J. Mullins used to hold it, or as many other dowsers
hold it at the present day. I have tried, and asked many friends to
try, to rotate the rod under these circumstances, and it is certainly
most difficult to produce any motion of the twig without a very visible
motion of the hands. This, however, is not all. Both with practised
professional dowsers like Lawrence and J. Mullins, and with amateurs
like the Rev. J. Blunt, Lady Milbanke, and others, the forked twig
not only rotates, but one limb is frequently twisted completely off by
the force with which it is driven round and round; see e.y., Nos. 1, 4,
12, 18, 45, 53, 60, 107, 115, and pp. 57, 110, 133. How is this to be
eitplained ? A good deal depends on the thickness of the twig. This
varies ; some dowsers use a thickish forked stick, others a much more
r 2
244 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
slender one. The twig that Colonel Waring, M.P., sent me, which was
the actual one he had seen thus twisted and broken in the hands of
Mullins, is about as thick as a cedar pencil in the thickest part and
tapers off ; the exact dimensions are given in the foot-note to p. 79.
Using this twig neither I, nor any muscular friends who tried, could
in the least imitate the effect produced by Mullins. One side must of
course be rigidly held and the other allowed to rotate, and the fists
must be kept practically still. Any one can cut a forked twig and try
the experiment ; the only advantage of hazel is that the two limbs are
more symmetrical in size, and the wood is tough. One witness states
that even when the rod was held between pincers (bottom of p. 86)
" the contortions still went on."
Certainly no voluntary effort, without long and laborious practice at
legerdemain, could produce an effect corresponding in kind or degree
to that which actually takes place in the cases cited. We may com
pare it, as regards the kind of motion, to the involuntary pressure
exerted by the " medium " or agent, which guides the percipient in
the " willing game," or the quasi thought-reader in writing down the
number of a bank note,—a sub-conscious pressure that cannot be
intentionally imitated by voluntary effort. And so also, in degree,
the amazing force with which the twig is sometimes twisted, without
apparent cause, is like the extraordinary and involuntary spasm of
muscular power, which often occurs in cases of hysteria or in moments
of great excitement, and which cannot be repeated at will in the
ordinary state.
(ii.) There is also another curious point which cannot be disputed,
for it rests not only upon the testimony of numerous credible witnesses
at the present day and in England alone, but, as historical investiga
tion has revealed, goes back to a remote period and was as noticeable
with Bleton, in Dauphiny, in 1780, as with Mullins, in Wiltshire, a
century later. This is the apparent transmission of the power to twist
the rod from the dowser to another person whose wrist he grasps.
The twig, hitherto passive, immediately begins to move in the hands of
the second person, without conscious effort on his part, and in a
manner he could not imitate at will ; among other instances which are
given, see Nos. 53, 6l, 83, and pp. 35, 242. Here also the directive action
may be analogous to the faint sub-conscious muscular pressure that is
transmitted from the agent to the quasi thought-reader. In any case
the phenomena described in this and the two preceding paragraphs
seem worthy of more careful investigation by the trained physiologist.
(iii.) The same remark applies to another interesting characteristic
of dowsing, which is as follows. A successful dowser has to " set "
himself (as some term it), when he uses the rod or trusts to his
sensations in dowsing. By this he means rendering himself as far as
xxxn.] On the So-called Divining Rod. 245
possible oblivious to the ordinary stream of sense impressions ; making
his mind as passive, as effortless, and as much a tabula rasa as he can.i
A psychical state appears to be set up, analogous to that which a good
subject in the " willing game," or in telepathic experiments, is able to
bring about. This is a well-known condition of automatism. Just as
when the sun sinks the stars become visible, so the dark continent
within us, the large unconscious background of our life, only emerges
when the light of consciousness is dimmed. A good dowser is largely
an automatist and the rod is a convenient form of autoscope.
Further it is occasionally noticed in the so-called willing game
that a sense of malaise, a faintness and trembling, sometimes even a
more serious nervous shock, is exhibited by a successful subject (see
Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. I., p. 57, etc.). A similar physiological
disturbance is still more frequently exhibited by the dowser. For one
of the curious and well-attested facts revealed in the course of this
enquiry is that an obscure pathological or sensory effect, sometimes
resulting in a convulsive action either of the limbs or epigastric region,
is exhibited by the dowser when he is on the "scent."2 This cannot
be a stage effect, nor a traditional idea transmitted from one dowser
to the other, for it crops up in all parts of Europe and will be found
amongst the most illiterate dowsers, from the time of Jacques Aymar
in 1692 to Bleton a century later, and is exhibited to-day by dowsers
in the country districts of England. I have given historic and con
temporary evidence of this in Appendix D, but the reader will have
noticed how this sensory effect is referred to incidentally in some of
the evidence already cited. The asserted sensations may be due to
causes purely imaginary on the part of the dowser, but to what
association of ideas is this widespread illusion due 1 It seems more
probably a genuine physiological disturbance, due to a pyschological
cause common to the group of sub-conscious phenomena of which the
divining rod is a remarkable type.3
i That a partial hypnosis occurs with some dowsers is very probable. I have
referred to this elsewhere.
2 The sympathetic nervous system, especially the solar plexus, appears to be
the chief seat of the disturbance with the dowser, as it is also frequently asserted
to be among so-called clairvoyantes in the hypnotic state.
3 In an article published in Light for August 4th, 1883, p. 349, it is stated that
Professor Lochman, of the University of Christiania, who is described as a
distinguished physiologist, recently read a pap>r on the divining rod before a
scientific society in Christiania, in which he stated that his scepticism on this subject
had lately been overcome by the discovery that he himself could use the rod success
fully He had personally tested its indications over and over again, and was now
convinced that a peculiar gift, of which he could give no explanation, was possessed
by certain persons that enabled them to find underground water He thought the
phenomenon was of a physiological nature, an opinion with which Professor Monrad,
an eminent confrere, agreed. I should be grateful if any friends at Christiania could
send me particulars of the foregoing report.
246 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
(iv.) Another point that appears worthy of enquiry is, why should
the rod move in the hands of some persons and not with others ? In
the answer to this there is, of course, involved the whole phenomena
of automatism, and the general theory of autoscopes, like plauchette,
etc. Reliable statistics are wanting as to the number of persons in
every hundred who can use the rod. Amoretti, working in Italy
towards the close of the last century, states, in his Sloria delta
Rahlomanzia, that he found 20 per cent, of the persons he tried had
the "gift." Sementini, Professor of Chemistry in the University of
Naples, who published a short treatise on the rod in 1 81 0,1 thinks this
estimate too small, and that probably in 4 out of 5 persons the rod will
move successfully : but I prefer Amoretti's estimate. The children of
dowsers almost invariably can manipulate the rod ; they have " caught
the trick," or "inherited the instinct " from their father,—the reader
will take which view he pleases : probably there is some truth in both
points of view.
(v.) We have now to consider what determines the automatic motion
of the rod ; what pulls the trigger 1 The first point to be noticed is
the prior intention of the dowser. As Malebranche pointed out two
centuries ago, the rod moves only for that particular thing the diviner
has the intention of discovering. When Jacques Aymar was in search
for underground water, his rod was unaffected by the track of a
criminal, or vice versd. And so to-day, if a mineral lode be the object
of quest, a sheet of underground water may be passed over without
any effect on the dowser or his rod. The object to which the dowser
" sets " himself is the determining factor in the unconscious move
ment he imparts to the rod.
Precisely similar is the preconceived idea that electricity is the
cause of the motion of the rod, an idea entertained by most dowsers
and by others ignorant of physics. Dr. Thouvenel was the first to
suggest this explanation in 1781, nor did the complete experimental
disproof of his explanation, given by some distinguished physicists in
Paris at the time, much affect his belief. " I strongly suspect it is the
devil ; but if not, it must be electricity " is still the explanation given
by multitudes who encounter any phenomena outside the daily range
of their somewhat limited experience. Hence it is improbable any
thing I can say will disturb so widely cherished and so simple a faith.
Lest, however, I myself should be accused of sacrificing truth to a
preconceived idea, I made some direct experiments on this very
point, visiting the N.E. of Ireland for the purpose of meeting an
unsophisticated amateur dowser, who, with his master, strongly held
to " electricity." It is needless to detail my experiments ; suffice it to
Pcmieri <• Sperimcnli sulla Bac/uita Divinatoria, p. 24.
xxxil] On the So-called Divining Rod. 247
say that when the dowser believed I had insulated him from the
earth, the rod ceased to move ; when he believed he was electrically
connected with the earth, the rod promptly moved. Nevertheless, in
the former case he was, unknown to himself, uninsulated and in
the latter insulated. It was the dowser's idea, and not electricity,
that moved the rod.
That the motion of the divining rod is determined by a fixed but
sub conscious idea is seen again and again in a historical study of our
subject. The most striking example of this will be found in the pre
cisely opposite behaviour of the rod claimed by some now, and by those
who used it in the search for metals 1 50 years ago. Some assert when a
similar metal to that in the vein was held in the hand, it arrested the
motion of the rod ; others that a similar metal held in the hand had no
effect, but a dissimilar arrested the rod.i Again take the following
from Dr. Mayo, F.R.S., who, in 1847, made some experiments with the
divining rod when he was staying at a watering place in Russia.
Four or five persons were found in whose hand the forked twig
moved, though they had, presumably, never seen a divining rod
before. With one of these the rod moved in the orthodox way
whether he walked backwards or forwards, with others the rod
reversed the direction of its motion when they walked backwards.2
Dr. Mayo then says :—
I tried some experiments, touching the point of the rod with a magnetic
needle. I found, in the course of them, that when my man knew which way
I expected the fork to move, it invariably answered my expectations ; but
when I had the man blindfolded, the results were uncertain and
contradictory. The end of all this was, that I became certain that several of
i In a little work on the divining rod by an American engineer, Mr. Latimer, C.E.,
it is stated that a Mr. Sangster, of Tennesse, wrote to the author in 1870, that he had
been 50 yearsexperimenting with therod, and added " I can tell to a certainty whether
I am over any substance, either water or mineral. ... I find out by taking a
sponge and saturating it with ordinary water, putting it on the top of the rod ; if the
substance beneath be water of the same kind, it will turn much stronger. If the rod
should not turn at all, it will be some other substance, either mineral or metal. The
tests are made in the same manner for metals. I put a piece of metal on the top of
the rod,—iron, lead, silver, copper, etc.,—until I find one of these that will cause the
rod to turn in a manner sufficiently strong ;—that indicates the same metal under
ground." Mr. Latimer, who could also use the rod, says that after receiving this
letter he made similar experiments, and arrived at the conclusion that Mr. Sangster1*
statements were quite correct ! " I took a wet rag,'' he remarks on p. 81, " and fastened
it on to the top of the twig or divining rod ; 1 found the rod turned over a cistern of
water, but would not turn over iron pii>es. I then put a key at the end of the rod
over the wet rag ; now the rod at once turned over the iron pipes." Contrast this with
the opposite results given by Cookworthy, etc., in Api>endix C ! Mr. Latimer also
says, " Upon insulating myself there was no motion of the rod, which proves the
motion is due to electricity." Contrast Mr. Blunt's experience, given on the top of
page 27, when he was insulated by thick rubber shoes.
a See also an example of this I have given in No. 13, p 38.
4.S [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
those in whose hands the divining rod moves [unconsciously] set it in motion.
In walking forwards the hands are unconsciously borne towards each other ;
in walking backwards, the reverse is the case. i
A curious example of the influence of unconscious intention is to be
found in Priestley's old work on Electricity. A distinguished scientific
man, Dr. Grey, in 1736 thought he had discovered the fact that light
bodies, when suspended and electrically attracted, always moved from
west to east. This Grey thought was the secret of the mechanism of
the heavens and he sent his results to Dr. Mortimer, the Hon.
Secretary of the Royal Society. Dr. Mortimer repeated the experi
ments and obtained similar results.2 Dr. Wheeler, however, repeated
with great care the experiments and showed that a preconceived notion
or the desire to produce this particular movement of an electrified
body, really determined its direction, unknown to the experimenter.
For the movement was only produced when the body was suspended
from the experimenter's hand, but not when it was suspended from a
fixed support. It was in fact a form of pendule explorateur,—usually
a ring suspended by a thread and thus held by the fingers in a glass ;
this will often strike the hour of the day or oscillate in a determined
direction. The motion of the divining rod and of the pendule are
equally due to a latent prior intention and unconscious muscular
action.
What then, it may be asked, remains to be investigated if this be
the key to the mystery 1 The answer to this has already been given in
the survey of evidence cited, where the success of the dowser remains
to be explained. Is this merely due to his practical knowledge of the
signs of underground water 1
(vi.) The opinion that certain appearances on the surface of the
ground do indicate the site for shallow wells,—i.e. the existence
of underground water comparatively near the surface—as other
appearances also indicate underground metallic veins, has long been
entertained, and with more or less justice. Mr. De Ranee, on p. 234,
has already referred to one of these signs, and Paramelle, in his
work on the Discovery of Springs, to which reference is made in
Appendix B, quotes several of these traditions. In the treatise on
Wells in Weale's series, 7th edition, 1877, p. 22, it is stated, as a guide
to the well sinker :—
(1.) That when the grass is of a brighter colour on one part of a
field than another, or when in ploughed ground the earth is of a
darker hue in one place, water may be suspected below.
i Mayo, Truths contained in Popular Superstitions, p. I!I.
2 See Priestley's Electricity, London, 1775, p. 60, et seq ; also Phil. Trans, of the
Royal Society (abridged edition), Vol. VIII., pp. 404, 405, and 418.
XXXII.] 249
On the So-called Divining Bod.
(2) That when gnats hover in a column at a definite height above
the ground, a spring will probably be found below that spot.i
(3) At all times of the year a greater humidity is said to exist
over the places where subterranean springs exist, and hence in the early
morning or evening a denser cloud of vapour will be seen at those
spots. It is said well sinkers in Northern Italy determine the site
for a well by lying on the ground and looking towards the sun in the
early morning ; wherever the exhalation of vapour from the ground is
seen to be more copious, that spot is selected.
This last appears to have been an ancient practice ; the power of
detecting the vapour doubtless varies with different people ; moreover
some appear to have an abnormal sensitiveness and it has even been
supposed that they are able to perceive it by other methods than sight ;
see e.g., the letter quoted at the end of Appendix D.
Thus also the learned Jesuit Dechales, in his Mundus Mathematicus,
which was published in Lyons in 1674, states in Vol. II., p. 190, that
a certain noble person, whom he knew, could not only find springs by
the bending of a forked twig of hazel, " so surely that he could
trace the whole course of the underground water ; but he had
also other signs, for he used to detect a vapour Issuing from the earth,
and by this means immediately pointed out the head of the spring."
Owing to the wonderful power of discernment of this ancient amateur
dowser, Dechales says:—"At first I suspected he had a compact
with the devil, but when I observed no incantations nor sorcery, I
suspended my judgment, as there are many things we know to be
true, but cannot explain." 2
This philosophical remark of Dechales' may also be applied to the
well known idiosyncracies of certain persons which afford an instruc
tive parallel, the faintest trace of certain odours or the presence of
certain animals, etc, being instantly detected by, and often causing
extreme discomfort to, such persons, who are abnormally sensitive in
one direction. Probably a divining rod held by these sensitives
would be unconsciously and vigorously moved by them, in the
i There is also a curious tradition referred to by the late Dr. Brewer, and used
by Thomas Moore in one of his poems, that in Arabia the lapwing indicates the
presence of an underground spring. I have not, however, been able to obtain any
confirmation of this tradition. In " Lalla Rookh " Moore sings :—
" Fresh as the fountain under ground.
When first 'tis by the lapwing found."
A note explains : "The hudhud, or lapwing, is supposed to have the power of
discovering water under ground."—W.F.B.
2 This passage translated from Dechales is the earliest account I can find of the
successful use of the divining rod for the discovery of springs. (See Appendix C.)
Dechales was a man of marvellous erudition, as seen by his folios on mathematical
physics.
2.50 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
presence of the obnoxious object, and thus reveal it, even before the
sense of discomfort had risen to the level of a conscious impression.
Doubtless in all these cases the impression comes through one of the
recognised channels of sense ; in the same way as acute vision enables
some persons to detect distant objects, invisible to others, or an acute
sense of smell enables the bloodhound to trace the footsteps of a
fugitive. The Zahories of Spain were credited with a miraculous sense
of vision i : a writer in the Quarterly Review (Vol. II., p. 264) says,
" The Zahories, by attending to indications which escape the less
experienced eye, are able to give a tolerable guess of underground
waters. Something similar is told of the Arabs of the desert . . .
who have the faculty of discovering distant wells by signs which do
not affect the senses of Europeans." The camel is said to have a
similar power of discovering unseen water.
According to Professor Milne, who was for many years Professor
at Tokio in Japan, and has devoted his life to a study of seismic
phenomena, the faint preliminary tremors of an earthquake, detected
by extraordinarily sensitive apparatus, are perceived by pheasants,
geese, ponies and some other animals. Professor Milne states that
" the late Professor Sekiya, of Tokio, kept pheasants in order to
observe their behaviour at the time of earthquakes, with the result
that he found they gave him a few seconds' warning of shocks of
local origin by screaming."
In the United States dowsers are often used to find mineral oil
springs and are called oil-smellers ; though it is probable keen observa
tion rather than a keen sense of smell is employed. So, too, in parts
of Ireland I am informed that the local fishermen term the look-out
man who apprises them of the approach of fish the herring smeller,
though I imagine in this case it is unquestionably the sense of sight,
and not of smell, that is concerned.
It is possible, therefore, that the professional dowser has the power
of detecting signs of underground water which escape the ordinary
observer, and as this power would be trained by long practice at one
employment, part of their success may fairly be taken to be due to this.
i The only authentic reference in history to the Zahories which I have been able
to find is in Delrio's Latin folio on Magic, published 300 years ago. In a passage which
will bp quoted in the subsequent historical paper, Delrio says in 1575 he met one of these
Zahories in Madrid, and that the man could see underground metals, water, and
buried corpses. No evidence is however adduced, but it appears to have been a long
standing tradition with this tribe of Spanish gypsies, as they probably were. Delrio
says the facts are "most fully received and well known," and he adds, "the
Zahuris probably know veins of water from the vapours exhaled at those places
mormng and evening, and veins of metal from the kind of grass growing there ;
but treasure and corpses I consider are indicated by demons." (!) Delrio spells the
word Zahuris, and says, " the redness of their eyes is particularly to be observed."
XXXII.] 251
On the So-called Divining Rod.
But it does not cover all the ground. The supposition of Mr. Holmes
that professional dowsers have a hereditary practical knowledge of
the geological features which indicate the presence of subterranean
springs has no support ; Lawrence was a stonemason, so was Mullins,
Tompkins was a farmer, Stone a drainage artizan, Stears a gas-
engineer, etc. The fathers of none of these were dowsers, nor did they
know any of the secrets of their craft, if such exist, when they scored
their early successes. Mr. Holmes, however, very justly points out that
uneducated persons, as many of these dowsers are, usually imagine
themselves the possessors of abnormal gifts when they find they can
discern natural signs overlooked by the ordinary observer, and further
they exaggerate their success by regarding the underground water,
which may really extend over acres or square miles, as if it were only a
few square inches in area, and located at one spot like a buried treasure.
But, as already remarked, the striking successes of the dowser in find
ing water where none existed in adjacent wells is probably due to his
discovery of fissures, or jointing, or water-bearing veins. But the same
problem meets us : how is he able to discern from a superficial inspec
tion of ground, often entirely new to him and sometimes covered with
snow (No. 103, p. 151), the signs which indicate these interruptions
of continuity in the strata below ? See e.g., Nos. 57, 88, etc.
(vii.) The question then before us is whether the success of a good
dowser is only due to his practical knowledge of surface water-bearing
localities, indications being perceived by him that escape an ordinary
observer ; or to some peculiar instinct or faculty, the explanation of
which involves considerations new to science. Mr. Holmes, F.G.S.,
writes to me to say that, " looking at the professional dowser as the
possessor of an ancient practical knowledge of surface water-bearing
beds, I should expect him to be right in detecting them 19 times
out of 20 . . . but when they trust to their sensations to 'locate
springs ' in the water-bearing bed, they become the victims of
delusion."
Four methods suggest themselves at first sight in order to test
whether the pretensions of the dowser have any more solid basis than
chance coincidence, or shrewdness gained from long experience at one
vocation. The successful issue of any of these tests would go far to
prove the dowser was not a charlatan, but the tests 1 and 3a would only
show that his success might be due merely to a useful practical
knowledge of water bearing localities. The suggested tests are :—
(1) Separate and entirely independent examination by different
dowsers.
(2) Blindfolding the dowser with care and taking him over the
ground again ; or repeating the trial on a dark night.
252 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
(3a) Geological opinion as to whether water is, or is not, likely to
be found on the spots and at the depths indicated by the dowser ; i.e.,
agreement of geologist and dowser. Or, more conclusive (3/3), dowser
versus geologist,—water actually found at the spot and about the
depth predicted by the dowser, in spite of geological opinion to the
contrary.
(4) A well or boring made to a corresponding depth in the
immediate neighbourhood of where water has been found by the
dowser, but at a spot where no spring was indicated by the dowser.
All of these tests, successfully made, are to be found in the course
of the evidence in the foregoing paper, e.g.,
Test 1 in Nos. 6 ; 7 ; 17 ; 23 (p. 47) ; 46 ; 54 ; 63 ; 70 and 135.
Test 2 in Nos. 2 ; 6 ; 17 ; 25 ; 45 (p. 70) ; 69 (p. 95) ; 73 ; 74.
Test 33, in Nos. 42 ; 52 (pp. 78 and 106) : 58 (pp. 85 and 117) ;
73; 88 (p. 128).
Test 4 in upwards of 50 of the cases cited.
But these tests are of very different value. Tests 1 and 2 are liable
to be vitiated by sign-reading or thought-transference from the
bystanders (assuming telepathy to be a vera causa). Test 3a is
occasionally quite misleading, as the Horsham and Waterford experi
ments, and other cases of 30, illustrate. The most reliable test is the last
named, namely, borings in adjacent places made either before or after
the advent of the dowser. The existence of such borings has chiefly
influenced me in the selection of the evidence presented in this paper.
Let me, therefore, enumerate the cases where adjacent wells or
borings, which yielded little or no water, had been made to at least
the same depth as the successful wells or borings located by the
dowser. So far as I am able to judge, 40 of these may be regarded as
good evidential cases ; these are :—
With Miscellaneous dowsers Nos. 3a; 9; 10; 11; 17;
23 (?) ; 24 ; 25 ; 26 ; 27 ; 28 Total, 11
W. S. Lawrence Nos. 42 ; 43 ; 47 ; 48 „ 4
J. Mullins Nos. 52 (p. 78 and 106); 55; 57; 58
(p. 85 and 117) ; 60 ; 62 ; 65 ; 67 ; 73 ; 75 10
If. W. Mullins Nos. 77 ; 81 , 2
W. Stone Nos. 86 ; 88 ; 90 ; 91 ; 96 „ 5
B. Tompkins Nos. 99 ; 102 ; 105 „ 3
L. Gataker Nos. 120; 121 ; 122 „ 3
Other dowsers Nos. 130, 140 „ 2
40
XXXII.] 253
On the So-called Divining Rod.
It is quite possible that further local or geological examination,
may lessen the significance of some of these cases ; but on the other
hand, the evidence presented is only a small portion of what might be
obtained by a wider and more exhaustive enquiry. It will, I think,
be admitted by every candid and careful reader that the evidence on
the whole affords a strong primd facie case on behalf of the existence
of some peculiar instinct or faculty in certain individuals, the explana
tion of which is not to be found in the narrow region of the dowser's
conscious experience, but in the wider realm of his sub-conscious life.i
"Whether this faculty, which we may provisionally assume to exist, is
so rare as it appears, whether it is hereditary, or whether it can be
exalted by cultivation, are questions to be answered in the future.2
The explanation of the divining rod is therefore probably a
complex one, and its full discussion cannot be appreciated until the
reader is in possession of the historical evidence to be adduced in a
subsequent paper. Here it will suffice to say that doubtless a sub
conscious suggestion, of some kind, evoked in the dowser's mind, excites
the reflex action to which the actual movement of the rod is due.
The evidence shows that this suggestion cannot come only from a
capricious idea in the dowser's own mind, but is also derived from an
impression he gains from without : how far that impression is cor
related to the object of his search, and if so, how much is due to
practical knowledge, and how much is due to some unknown
cause or unrecognised instinct, are questions which can only be solved
by a careful study of ample and trustworthy evidence. Cases such as
the Waterford and Horsham experiments, where special precautions
were taken, and the ground was entirely new to the dowser, or some
of Stone's cases, such as those on pages 128 and 129, and others, tend
to exclude the idea of any information being derived from surface
indications or practical knowledge, and suggest either a novel and
useful instinct on the part of the dowser, or that his perception is due
to some physical effect associated with underground water. The recent
discovery of a new type of obscure radiation from certain bodies, such
as uranium salts, and also from numerous common bodies with which
we are surrounded, renders it conceivable that a radiation, to which
opaque bodies are permeable, may be emitted by water and metals,
which unconsciously impresses some persons. The great difficulty in
i " The sum total of our impressions never enters into our experience, consciously
so-called, which runs through this sum total like a tiny rill through a broad flowery
mead. Yet the physical impressions which do not count are there, as much as those
which do." Prof. W. James' Text-book on Psychology, p. 217.
2 It must not be assumed, let me repeat, that ability to twist the rod necessarily
indicates the existence of a dowsing faculty in the operator. The motion of the rod
is an outward and visible sign of an inward and psychical state due to various causes.
254 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
the way of this, or any physical hypothesis,—a difficulty which would
be insuperable but for the fact that no hypothesis can be purely
physical where human automatism plays so large a part—is that
which Malebranche pointed out 200 years ago, viz., that exposed
running water and exposed metals ought to produce a still greater
effect than those that are underground and further off, and yet the
dowser appears for the most part insensible to these.
Assuming the actual motion of the rod to be caused by involuntary
muscular action, a summary of the causes determining that motion,
excluding of course cases of fraud or self-delusion, may, in my opinion,
be given as follows :—
(1) In every case the direction of the motion of the rod, upwards
or downwards, and probably in all cases the motion itself, will be found
to arise from a suggested or preconoeived, but usually latent, idea in
the dowser's own mind. It is the unconscious emergence of a fixed or
derived idea registered in, or made upon, the sub-conscious self.i
(2) In some cases (such as those already alluded to, finding coins,
etc.) an idea is unconsciously conveyed to the dowser's mind by almost
imperceptible signs, unintentionally made by those present ; or by (3).
(3) In many cases, an impression from without, derived through
the ordinary channels of sensation, appears to be unconsciously made
upon the dowser by faint indications associated in the dowser's mind
with the particular object of his search. These indications,—usually
visual, or it may be a vague diffused sensation,—would probably
entirely escape the bystander : the impression that comes in through
the sensory apparatus going out through the hands of the dowser
without recognition or conscious effort on his part. Added to this we
have the ordinary observing power of the dowser, trained by years
of continuous practice at one particular occupation, and constantly
confirmed or corrected by the results of his previous trials.
(4) In other cases, however, an impression from without appears
to be gained, not through the ordinary channels of sensation.
Thought-transference will, I believe, be found to receive remarkable
i An amusing illustration of the effect of suggestion in determining the motion
of the rod is given by Mr. E. B. Tylor, D.C.L., F.R.S., (Nature, May 17th, 1883,
p 58) ; the suggestion in this case arising purely from an association of ideas. Mr.
Tylor remarks that he does not believe that the dowser fraudulently moves the rod,
but that slight movements of his hands unconsciously cause the twig to turn, and
he adds, " I noticed that, when I allowed my attention to stray, the rod would from
time to time move in my hands in a way so lifelike that an uneducated person might
well suppose the movement to be spontaneous."
XXXII.] 255
On the So-called Divining Rod.
confirmation from experiments with the dowsing rod. But only here
and there can this agency be even supposed in the evidence cited in
this paper : it may occasionally come into play in finding hidden coins,
or tracing the direction of underground pipes conveying water.i
(5) There appears to be evidence that a more profound stratum
of our personality, glimpses of which we get elsewhere in our
Proceedings, is associated with the dowser's art ; and the latter seems
to afford a further striking instance of information obtained through
automatic means being often more reliable than, and beyond the reach
of, that derived from conscious observation and inference.2 The whole
of the evidence cited, in my opinion, cannot be explained away merely
by the practical knowledge of the dowser, nor by the explanations
given in 1, 2, 3, and 4.
In some cases a peculiar pathological effect is produced upon
the dowser, often strong enough to rise to the level of consciousness
and even discomfort ; or it may be so weak that it is not perceived,
though sufficient to start the motion of the rod.3 This effect appears
to be associated with the object of the dowser's search, and may be
merely due to nervous excitement, or a secondary result of some
hitherto unsuspected impression made upon the nerve centres of
certain individuals. Whether, if this latter be the case, it can be
traced to an abnormal sensibility of one or other of the recognised
channels of sensation, resembling the hyperesthesia of hypnotised
subjects, or is due to some more transcendental psychological condition,
or, far less probably, to some physical cause, can only be conclusively
ascertained by a persevering and unbiassed investigation, which this
paper may perhaps help to stimulate.
i The fact that the water must be running and not atagnant (see Nos. 56, 74, etc.),
suggests that hearing, or possibly a slight tremor produced by the running water,
may be the means whereby the desired information is picked up by the sub-conscious
or secondary self. Sir Philip Smyly, M.D., told me of a hypersesthetic patient of his,
who heard and repeated to him the words he had uttered in a low voice two Moors
below, and with closed doors between. Hearing in such cases is beyond the normal
power of strained attention, as any one can prove. The most remarkable instance of
the dowser's power of tracing underground water pipes, conveying running water,
occurred with Bleton and will be given in the subsequent historical paper.
2 Numerous cases of extraordinary subliminal perception are given by Mr
F. W. H. Myers in his essays on the subliminal self published in our Proceedings.
The frequent success of the dowser in forecasting the approximate depth of springs
is remarkable (see pp. 02, 76, 100, 119, etc.) ; but it n^eds somewhat more evidence to
eliminate local knowledge and chance coincidence.
8 See Appendix D.
256 Professor W. F. Barrett.
APPENDIX A.
The Words " Dowse " and " Dowser."
The origin and derivation of these words is at present unknown,
according to all our best dictionaries.i I have applied to Dr. Murray,
editor of the new O.rford English Dictionary, for the latest results
of etymological investigation upon the word, and he tells me that
these results are at present absolutely nil. The part of the diction
ary containing the word, though printed, is not yet published, and I
am indebted to Dr. Murray for kindly allowing me to see the proof-
sheet and for liberty to make the following extract here ;—
" Dowse (dauz) also dowze, douse,—Derivation unknown ; appa
rently a dialect term. To use the divining or dowsing rod in search
of subterraneous supplies of water or mineral veins. Hence Dowsing
vbl. sb. ; Dowser, one who uses the divining rod, or water diviner ;
Dowsing rod, the rod or twig used by dowsers. 1691. Locke (Lower.
Interest, p. 40) ' Not of the nature of the deusing rod or virgula
divina, able to discover mines of gold and silver.' 1838. Mrs. Bray
(Tradit. Devonsh. III., p. 260), ' The superstition relative to the
dowsing or divining rod, Ac.' " [A series of later examples of the use
of the word follows down to 1894.]
It will be noticed that the word in a slightly altered spelling goes
back to the end of the 17th century, but that no quotations are given of
its use in the 18th century. Dr. Murray has asked me if I can supply
any, but I cannot.'2 There is a long account of the divining rod and
its manner of use in Hooson's Miner's Dictionary (1747), and in
Pryce's great work on Cornish mines (1778), but in neither work is
any mention made of the word "dowser " or "to dowse." Neither is
i The ws in dowse is pronounced like the same letters in browse. The word
dow3e must not be confounded with the word douse (pronounced to rhyme with
house) which has various meanings in our language, and, according to Dr. Murray,
has no etymological connexion with dowse or dowser.
2 Since this was printed, I have found the word josing mentioned at the close of
the 18th century by Billingsley in his Surrey of the County Somerset, Bath, 17I)7 i he says
the miners in the Mendip Hills use the divining rod, " which they call josing, etc." ;
he goes on to speak of their complete faith in its efficacy,—a faith which is as strong
among the miners in the Mendips to-day as it has been for the last 250 years. Locke's
acquaintance with the word denting rod may be accounted for by the fact that he was
a native of Somerset and born under the shadow of the Mendips. The published
copy of Locke's letter on Lowering of Interest in the British Museum is dated 1692,
and the page on which the word " deusing rod or Virgila {tic) Divina " occurs is 127,
not 40, as given above.
XXXII.] 257
Appendix A.
there in Borlase's Natural History of Cornwall (1758,) where the
divining rod or virgula divinatoria is referred to ; neither is there in
the Gentleman's Magazine of 1751, where there is a lengthy description
of the rod ; nor are the words used in the account of the divining rod
in North Wales, given by Pennant in his Tour in Wales, 1770, nor
in a similar work by Mr. Evans in 1800, nor in Emerson's account of
the rod in New Hampshire (U.S.) given in 1821, nor in the lengthy and
detailed paper on the rod given in the American Journal of Science
for 1826. Moreover in the earliest English accounts of the divining rod
which my investigations have recently brought to light, viz., Childrey's
Britannia Baconia, or Natural Rarities of England, 1660, G. Platte's
Discovery of Subterranean Treasure, 1638, and the extract from
Boyle's works, 1663, to be given later on, there is no mention of the
word deusing, or dowsing rod, or dowser. The use of the word
deusing rod by Locke in 1691, is therefore remarkable and apparently
unique, until we come to 1830, when the word is used freely in the
Quarterly Mining Review of that date, Vol. I.
In the glossary of Pryce's work already mentioned, and also in the
glossary to Borlase's Cornwall (1758) occurs the Cornish word "dizzue,
to discover unto; to dizzue a lode is to discover or expose the good ore."
Looking at Locke's " deusing rod," I thought that possibly a "dowser"
might originally have been a "dizzuer" of a lode. But Dr. Murray
tells me that this word dizzue is entirely irrelevant, and neither in
sound nor sense allied to dowse.i The same remark, Dr. Murray
says, applies to the well-known word " douse," which is common in
Cornwall for dipping or lowering, as "douse the sail." Dr. Murray
also points out that we must not make too much of Locke's spelling,
since the word occurs in a single passage, and may be merely a
misprint for dousing, which in the case of an unknown word might
easily happen. Such instances are not at all uncommon. But it may
also be founded in the Somerset and Devon pronunciation, since in
these dialects ou or ow is often sounded in a way that a " foreigner "
might mistake for en or ew. De Quincey and some other writers of
the present century have spelt the word jowser or jouser, and we
learn from the West Somerset Wordbook, by Mr. Fred. T. Elworthy,
in which there is an interesting article on the word Dowse, that
this is a real dialect pronunciation in some parts of the county.
De Quincey's suggestion that the slang word chouse, to swindle, may
be derived from the " jowser," regarded as a charlatan, is absurd and
baseless (see chouse in Oxford English Dictionary) ; but it may be
i An incidental evidence of the marvellous range of Dr. Murray's Dictionary is
shown by the fact that this word "dizzue" and Pryce's references thereto are all
quoted in this Dictionary, as I see from the proof sheets Dr. Murray sent me when
I ventured to suggest this origin of the word "dowse."
s
258 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
responsible for the fact that (as I am informed) in the Geological
Survey of Great Britain, the dowsing rod is called the chousing-iork,
which has certainly no local support in any dialect.
Two conjectures as to the possible etymology of the term dowsing
rod occurred to me, but I fear they must be dismissed, as the dis
tinguished philologists to whom I ventured to submit these conjectures
regard them as valueless.i It may, however, be useful briefly to refer
to them here, as collateral questions of interest are opened up.
It is well known that the English language was not spoken in
Cornwall till the middle of the 16th century. At the close of that
century, when the virgula divina was introduced by the German
miners into Cornwall, the Celtic Cornish language was still widely
used. The Cornish miners might therefore naturally call the rod by
the nearest Cornish equivalent to the Latin name. In Williams'
Lexicon Cornua-Britannicum, a dictionary of the ancient Celtic
language of Cornwall, as Mr. E. Westlake first pointed out to me, the
Cornish word for " Divinity, Godhead," is " Bowses," and Williams
gives also another form, " Dewsys. " Pryce in his glossary of Cornish
words gives " Deuyse " for goddess. One might conjecture, therefore,
that the " divining rod " or, as some early writers called it, the
" divine rod," might to the Cornish miners become the " dowses-rod "
or " deuyses-rod," which would accord with Locke's " deusing-rod "
in 1691.2
i I have specially to thank Dr. Murray, who, though overwhelmed with his
magnum opus, kindly took immense trouble in explaining to me the reasons for his
opinion, which, of course, I do not venture to question.
2 1 had remarked in writing to Dr. Murray that though " dowses " is " divinity,"
and not " divining," yet the Latin divinitas has the double meaning of "divinity" and
" divining." In his reply Dr. Murray writes fully on this point, and coming from so
high a philological authority, the following extract from Dr. Murray's letter is of
interest:—
Oxford, November 2\st, 1896.
" Certainly, in Latin, divinitas has the twofold meaning ; that is the initial fact
on which we have been going all along, and upon which, as I understood it, your
conjectuie as to dowse started. For it is only because of this Latin fact that there is,
in any language destended from or borrowing from Latin, any connexion of notion
between god, godhead, and soothsaying. And it is precisely because it is a Latin fact,
and so far as I know, a Latin fact only, that I, as a philologist, consider it irrelevant.
"In Latin, divinus meant not only ' of or pertaining to the divus or deity,' but
also ' inspired by the deity, ' hence ' prophetic,' ' soothsaying.' Consequently divinitas
meant not only divineness. divine nature, but also divine inspired-ness, prophetic
character; and divinarc to act the prophet, to 'divine.' Divinare became in
French deviner, and the French word became in English to divine ; hence English
inherits through French, from Latin, an etymologicalconnexion between the notions of
' divine, godlike ' and the verb to ' divine, to guess supernaturally,' with its noun of
action divination. To us, it is only an etymological connexion, for I think no
XXXII.] 259
Appendix A.
Professor Rhys, the Professor of Celtic in Oxford University, to
whom this conjecture was submitted, advised that Dr. Jago (one, I
believe, of the best living authorities on the Celtic Cornish language),
should be consulted, though the term " dowsing rod " is not, Professor
Rhys adds, in Dr. Jago's English Cornish Dictionary.
Accordingly I wrote to Dr. Jago and have received in reply a
series of lengthy and interesting letters, of which I regret that space
only allows me to give a few extracts. In his second letter to me Dr.
Jago writes :—
13, Ham Street, Plymouth, November 26^1, 1896.
I cannot but think that the rod was looked on as a sacred instrument,
hence "virgula divinatoria " for its name, and so would the Cornish in
their tongue apply a term as meaning what is sacred or God-like. . . .
In Cornish we have for God these forms :—Dero, Dew, . . . etc , etc.,
the plurals ending in various ways, as in ow, ou, etc., etc. Williams (Lex.
Corn. Brit.) has for "Divinity (Godhead)" Dnsds, Dewsys, Demys, terms
nearest to Dowser, and Dowsing. . . . My own opinion is that dowsing
is in its origin from the Latin Deits, through the Cornish forms dnses, deusys,
dewsys.
December 5th, 1896.
For Goddess we have in Cornish, Dues (Lex. Com. Brit.) Deuyse (Pryce),
Duwies (Welsh), Douees (Armoric). Borlase gives as Cornish "rhodl, a
branch." All trees and plants are in the feminine gender in Cornish.
In a letter dated December 7th Dr. Jago sends me a long and
carefully compiled list of changes in words and names of places
brought about by the mingling of the ancient Cornish with English.i
Writing again on December 14th, Dr. Jago says :—
December Uth, 1896.
I sent you the list of compound words to show how dewsys and
rhodl, the ancient Cornish for goddess and rod may easily be changed
one feels any connexion of idea between ' divining what a person would be at,
and the 'divine nature,' any more than he feels between seating a letter, and
seal fishery.
"But the fact is only a Latin one; there is nothing analogous in Greek, in
Germanic, or in Celtic ; in none of these languages has the word for ' god ' happened
to give birth to a derivative meaning ' soothsay ' ; they might, perchance, have done
so as wellas Latin, but theydid net. Now ' the illegitimate process 'of your reasoning a
that you take a fact which is true of Latin only, and apply it without proof to a
Celtic language. . . . But this is the very thing to be proved ; and investigation
shows that there is no evidence for it, that all the words connected with divination in
the Celtic language are quite different and have no connexion with the word for od
or divine. Thus to the philologist, the conjecture is one that lies outside the lines of
scientific notice, and is for him no solution. " J A. H Murray "
i See Appendix in Jago's English-Cornish Dictionary, " English changes of
Celtic-Cornish words," containing a long list of curious changes of Cornish into
English, e.g., MSn Eglos, the Chapel Rock, changed to "The Manacles:" rocka
near Falmouth.
s 2
2G0 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
by passing from the Cornish to the English, and for want of a better
term, I call such changes "phonetic." The terms used by the Cornish
miners are mostly of great antiquity, and so far as I know, the dowsing
rod was in use in Cornwall long before the Cornish language became
extinct. This being so, the Cornish miners must naturally have had a
Cornish name for the rod.
It was not till towards the end of the reign of Henry VIII. (1509 to
1547), that English was used in any of the Cornish churches. Before this
time Cornish only was known or spoken. . . . But the Cornish
was so well spoken in the parish of Feok (near Falmouth), in 1640,
" that the Rev. William Jackman, chaplain and vicar of Pendennis
Castle, Falmouth," at the siege thereof by the parliament's army,
was forced for divers years to administer the sacrament in the Cornish
tongue ; but, says Drew, " So late as 1650 the Cornish language was spoken
in the parishes of Paul and St. Just (near Penzance), the fish-women and
market-women in the former and the miners in the latter for the most part
conversing in their old vernacular tongue." . . . Old Dolly Pentreath
who died, aged 102, at Mousehole, near Penzance, in January, 1778, was
the last known person whoso mother tongite was Cornish ; she could not
speak English till she was a grown woman.
I am of opinion that the modern dowsing rod was with the Cornish
miners, before the old Celtic tongue died out, known as the Dewsys Rhodl,
and corrupted by English-speaking people into dowsing (or density)) rod, and
that it is a sacred term in origin. Fred W p Ja00
On the other hand, no evidence is forthcoming in support of this
conjecture, and the highest philological authorities, such as Dr. Murray,
of Oxford, and Professor Skeat, of Cambridge, to both of whom I sub
mitted Dr. Jago's letters, are entirely opposed to the foregoing
conjecture, and state that it is " not even a possible suggestion of the
etymology of the word dowsing rod." i
The other conjecture, suggested by a historical investigation of the
rod, seems more plausible, but to it there are also philological objections.
In the earliest references to the use of the dowsing rod, it is called
(written in Latin or German) "the striking rod," and it is always
spoken of as "striking" when it comes over a hidden vein of ore. Thus
Basil Valentine, in his Novum Teslamentum (date uncertain, assigned
to 1440, probably later), speaks of the dowsing rod as the " Furcilia,
i I sent the proof-sheets of this note to Dr. Jago, who writes, " With the highest
respect for the authorities you have referred to, I am still of opinion that dowzin.rtni
is only a corrupted form of Dcwsyt rhodl, the rod of the goddess ; this is not more
strained than the Cornish pcn-y-lxd. head of the mine, into the corrupted form ' penny
ball ' or men eylos, church rock, into manacles.' "
XXXII.] 261
Appendix A.
oder von der Schlag-ruthen " ; in the English translation (1657) of this
alchemist's work this is given as the " Furcilla, or striking rod," and
we are told " if it strikes," the ore is beneath. The phrase Die
Wiinschel-rulhe schklgt (the divining rod strikes) occurs continually in
works of the 17th century. Beyer, in his work on mining (1749),
discusses why the rod strikes (schlagt) with some persons and not
with others. Formerly the motion of the rod was always downwards ;
it turned until it struck, or nearly struck, the ground ; and it is still
called in parts of Cornwall " the dipping rod." Now, one meaning of
the word dowse, or douse, is to strike, and another, to dip ; thus
Professor Skeat, in his Etymological Dictionary, under " Dowse,"
gives "middle English (13th to loth centuries), duschen, to strike ;
Cf. 0. Dutch, doesen, to strike." It seemed possible, therefore—
to one who is not an etymologist—that the " deusing rod" of Locke,
and the " dowsing rod " of to-day, might simply be the " striking " or
" dipping rod." i On the other hand, Dr. Murray says the two words
are no more related than to " seal " a letter is to " seal " fishery.
Professor Skeat writes, " That dowse means to strike, especially in the
face, is well authenticated, so that the etymology suggested is not
phonetically impossible, and this is something." But in a subsequent
letter Professor Skeat says, " I did not know the dowse you refer to
is pronounced dowz ; it makes a great difference, and to my mind
completely severs it fiom the verb douse, to strike, which rhymes
with house. To douse means to slap, rather than merely to strike."
Here I leave the question still in obscurity ; if, as Professor
Skeat remarks, " people will have etymologies, ' Recte si possint ;
si non, quocunque modo,' " then the perusal of this Appendix may be
instructive.2
i Dr. Jago, though opposed to this derivation, tells me that in Cornwall dome
means to dip or lower suddenly or forcibly ; this is precisely what occurs with the
dowsing rod when it "strikes" the vein or spring. The Rev. W. Jago, of Bodmin,
independently suggests the same etymology as his namesake. It will be interesting
to see what the Oxford English Dictionary has to say on the word " strike," and the
history of its many meanings.
2 It is a curious coincidence that one George Dowtiny, a schoolmaster of St.
Faith's, near Norwich, used " magic " to find treasure in the early part of the reign
of Henry VIII. , (1521). A license had been given to Sir R. Curzon to search for
hidden treasure in Norfolk, and the aid of George Dowsing was sought, he being
considered an expert "hill-digger," as those were called who searched for minerals
and buried treasure, an uncanny occupation in those days. See Dr. Jessopp's Random
Roamings, p. 103. Oddly enough, one of the very earliest uses of the divining rod
was in the search for hidden treasure. This superstition became the subject of one of
Sheppard's Epigrams on the Virynla hivina, published in London in 1651, p. 141 :
"Some sorcerers do boast they have a rod, Gathered with vows and sacrifice,
And (borne about) will strangely nod, To hidden treasure, where it lies.
Mankind is (sure) that rod divine, For to the wealthiest (ever) they incline."
262 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
APPENDIX B.
Geological Opinion upon Underground Water.
The available sources of underground water depend mainly on the
rainfall.i The rain water which sinks into the earth, or the water
which has leaked from the bed of a river or lake, passes through more
or less porous strata, which it gradually saturates, until it meets with a
more impermeable layer ; here it accumulates underground, "until by the
pressure of the descending column, it is forced to find a passage through
joints or fissures upwards to the surface. The points at which it issues
are termed springs. In most districts the rocks underneath are
permeated with water below a certain limit which is termed the [under
ground] water level. This line is not a strictly horizontal one, like that
of the surface of a lake. Moreover, it is likely to rise and fall accord
ing as the seasons are wet or dry. In some places it lies quite near, in
others far below, the surface. A well is an artificial hole dug down
below the water-level, into which the water percolates. Hence, when
the water-level happens to be at a small depth the wells are shallow ;
when at a great depth they require to be deep. Since the rocks
underneath the surface vary greatly in porosity, some contain far more
water than others. It often happens that, percolating along some
porous bed, the subterranean water finds its way downward until it
passes beneath some more impervious rock. Hindered in its progress,
it accumulates in the porous bed. . . . If a bore hole be sunk
through the impervious bed down to the water-charged stratum
below, the water will rise in the hole, or even gush out as a jut
d'eau above ground. Wells of this kind bear the name of Artesian,
from the old province of Artois in France, where they have long
been in use." 2
i Mainly, because from the bed of the ocean, water is continually filtering down
wards. Moreover, Mr. I. Roberts, F.R.S. , has shown in an admirable series of
experiments {Proc Brit Association, 1878, p. 397), that sea water filtering through
the Bunter sandstone is, by a purely mechanical and physical process, deprived of the
salts it contains, and issues as potable water ; this action continues until the sandstone
is saturated with salme particles, which can be washed out by fresh water. As a
matter of fact, this filtration from the salt water of the Mersey is the source of fresh
water in numerous wells in Liverpool, which "yield daily several million gallons of
water, the yield having been continuous for years." Of late, however, the water in
many of these wells had mysteriously become moreand more brackish, and in some was
as salt as its source. Mr. Roberts' experiments have now cleared up this mystery ;
the sandstone is becoming saturated with salt.
> Sir A. Geikie, F.R.S. "Geology," in Encye. Brit., 9th Ed., p. 269.
XXXIl]. 263
Appendix B.
A spring, therefore, depends for its supply upon the extent of the
underground reservoir furnished by the permeable stratum. Owing
to their permeability, " the old red sandstone, the triassic sandstones,
some beds of millstone grit, the jurassic limestones, the lower green-
sand and chalk formations constitute the more important water-bearing
formations of the British Isles." i Rocks absorb varying quantities of
water, from the oolite, which reaches up to an absorbing power of 2-2
gallons per cubic foot, down to the carboniferous limestone ; one gallon
of water absorbed per cubic foot corresponds to over 80 million gallons
per square mile of rock for every yard of its thickness.2
It must not be forgotten, however, that there is a circulation of
underground water, the direction of its flow depending on the dip of
the impermeable strata, or on the direction of the faults and fissures of
the rocks, which act as ducts for the underground water. Thus Dr.
Ansted in his Physical Geography writes :—" It is certain that water
must be constantly circulating through natural fissures in the earth at
all depths." As Sir A. Geikie points out :—" That the water really
circulates underground and passes not merely between the pores of the
rocks, but in crevices and tunnels, which it has, no doubt, to a large
extent opened for itself along numerous natural joints and fissures, is
proved by the occasional rise of twigs, leaves, and even live fish in the
shaft of an artesian well. Such evidences are particularly striking
when found in districts without surface waters, and even, perhaps,
with little or no rain. ... In these and similar cases it is clear
the water may, and sometimes does, travel for many leagues under
ground away from the district where it fell." 3
In certain districts, moreover, actual subterranean rivers exist.
Thus in the limestone district of the West of Ireland, Professor
Hull remarks :—" The limestone itself is often penetrated by under
ground rivers, which create hollows arched over by the rocks, but
when these give way a chasm is created, and the commencement of a
lake may be the result." 4 But prior to this, Mr. G. H. Kinahan,
M.R.I.A., in his excellent Manual of the Geology of Ireland, published
in 1878, devotes a section of his book to subterranean streams and
rivers, and gives the various localities where they are to be found in
Ireland. In most cases Mr. Kinahan believes the origin of these
rivers to be due to "dykes of incoherent fault rock, through which
the water flows as through shingle ; " in other cases they are passages
" dissolved out along the joints in the peculiar limestones of the
i Dr. Hull, F.R.S. Text Book of Physiography, p. 203.
3 Report of British Association Committee 1882, p. 237.
1 Sir A. Geikie. " Geology," Encyc. Britanniea, p. 270.
4 Dr. Hull. Physical Geography of Ireland, p. 234.
264 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
district." Similar phenomena exist in Fermanagh and in the lime
stone districts of Derbyshire and Yorkshire, the underground river
channels being dissolved out by water beneath the surface.
The " diviner " has, therefore, some reason for speaking of under
ground rivers ; but the place in which he locates them is often where
geologists assert they do not exist, and there is no geological evidence
to show that there is anything in nature analogous to his peculiar
notions of the distribution of water underground. Albeit, in justice
to the dowser, the following remarks of a distinguished geologist, the late
Professor Ansted may be quoted (it occurs in his Geological Gossip,
p. 17); speaking of underground water, he remarks:—"It will exist
sometimes in open cavities, and sometimes under great pressure in
crevices to which the day never penetrates, and of whose position no
one can guess who is not endowed with the peculiar second-sight of tjie
dowser." (The italics are mine.)
This brief notice of geological views on underground water would
be incomplete without special reference to De Ranee's comprehensive
work on the Water Supply oj England and Wales, published in 1882.
It embodies the author's experience as one of the staffof the Geological
Survey of Great Britain, and also as secretary of the B.A. Committee
on underground water. The mass of statistics which Mr. De Ranee
has collected are arranged on a geological basis; some 215 catchment
basins are given, and 985 urban sanitary districts are dealt with.i
The neighbourhood of London has obtained most attention from
the hydro-geologist,—the name now applied to experts in this special
branch of applied science. The principal works on this are Prestwich's
Water-bearing Strata around Loudon, 1851, and Lucas' Horizontal
Wells for Supplying London, 1874 ; important papers on "Water
Systems," by the latter author, will be found in the Proceedings of the
Institute of Civil Engineers, and also of the Institute of Surveyors,
from 1877 to 1880. The ordinary reader will find in the second
chapter of Huxley's Physiography an admirable account of the origin
of springs, with especial reference to the London basin.2
i As Mr. De Ranee has pointed out, the sea bottom near coasts can also yield fresh
water,—for the sea bottom, like the land, consists of permeable and impermeable
strata ; the former receive the water from the land, which travels down the line of
dip, and issues as fresh water springs beneath the floor of the sea,—when intercepted
by faults or penetrated by well-borings. An instance of the latter is seen at Spithead
Forts, where a well sunk beneath the sea bed supplies sufficient fresh water for the
large garrison stationed there.
2 Those interested in the subject of underground water should consult Daubree's
Lts Eaux Soutcrrainca, or any standard work on geology or physiography. Much
information will also be found in the series of reports presented to the British
Association by the Committee on Underground Waters from 1875 to 1894. For the
XXXII.] 265
Appendix B.
In connexion with the subject of underground water, I wish in con
clusion to draw special attention to the remarkable treatise by M. l'Abbé
Paramelle, called " L'art de de'couvrir les sources." This bulky volume
was first published in Paris in the year 1827, several editions have been
issued, the last appearing in 1896. Paramelle, so far as I know, was
the first hydro-geologist, and the first, I believe, to use that term. His
book is the result of a careful study of the geological conditions which
determine the presence or absence of water-bearing strata, more
especially of the district in which he lived,— the Department of Lot,
in the south-west of France. So successful was Paramelle in his
prognostications that he was appointed the official " Hydroscopist " to
the Department. Towards the close of his book a series of documents
are quoted from the Prefecture of the Department, these being
the official records of his work in that immediate neighbourhood.
The last document, dated February 1st, 1843, certifies that out
of 338 wells sunk at places indicated by Paramelle, 305 continued to
yield an abundant and excellent supply of water, which in all cases
was found at the depth which the Abbe" had predicted. M. le prefet
du Lot, writing to the prefect of Versailles, remarks :—
Aujourd'hui I'experience a confirmé la reality du pouvoir de M. 1'AbW
Paramelle pour découvrir les sources : les faits sont tellement nombreux,
tellement accumulés que le doute n'est plus permis. On evalue a pres de
six mille le nombre des sources découvertes par ce savant hydroscope dans
plus de trente departements. . . . On ne peut porter a moins de quatre
ou cinq millions [francs] la valeur des sources deja mises au jour d'apres les
avis de M. l'Abb(5 Paramelle.i
Though Paramelle professed to be guided solely by scientific reasoning
in his discovery of underground water, yet his manner in locating the site
for a well was more like intuition than scientific deduction, and strongly
reminds one of the ordinary dowser. It is possible that if the faculty
claimed by the latter really exists, Paramelle may unconsciously have
possessed it. Be that as it may, his book, from the early date at which
it appeared, seems to deserve a wider recognition in England than it
has received.
non-scientific reader I have met with nothing so admirable on this subject as a little
book by Professor Ansted, M.A., F.R.S., called Lectures on the Application of
Gcology to the Art) and Manufactures : the second lecture is devoted to an exposition
of Springs and Water Supply. Prof. Ansted also published a paper on Subterranean
Water Storage in the Journal of the Royal Agricultural Society for 1806. A
chronological list of works referring to underground water (England and Wales) is
given by Mr. W. Whitaker in the Proceedings of the British Association for 1895 and
1897 ; m all, 695 works are cited, ranging from the years 1656 to 1895.
i Quoted in an article on Paramelle, published in the Journal d'Agriculture
pratique, Avril, 1845, p. 459.
266 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
APPENDIX C.
How the Rod is Held.
A writer in the Gentleman's Magazine for 1751, p. 507, gives a
description of the method he had found best for holding the rod, and
says, " after numerous experiments he has good reason to believe the
effects of the divining rod to be more than imagination," remarking that
he believes all persons could use the rod, though " some have the virtue
intermittently."i He uses either a forked hazel twig or two straight
twigs tied together in the shape of an X, and continues :—
"The most convenient and handy method of holding the rod is with the
palms of the hands turned upwards, and the two ends of the rod coming
outwards ; the palms should be held horizontally as nearly as possible, the
part of the rod in the hand ought to be straight, and not bent backwards or
forward. The upper part of the arm should be kept pretty close to the
sides, and the elbows resting on them ; the lower part of the arm making
nearly a right angle with the upper, though rather a little more acute. The
rod ought to be so held, that in its working the sides may move clear of the
little fingers. The position of the rod when properly held is much like the
figure annexed (Fig. 1.) where the distance between the four downward
lines is the part that is supposed to be held in the hands.
Fig. 1.
The best manner of carrying the rod is with the end prolaided (sic) in an
angle of about 80 degrees from the horizon, as by this method of carrying it
i The writer in the Gentleman's Magazine does not give his name ; the Editor calls
him an " ingenious gentleman, who has revived with great success the use of the rod."
There can be little doubt, however, from internal evidenoe, that the writer was
William Cookworthy, of Plymouth, who, in the obituary notice published of him in
1780, is described " as an eminent Minister of the people called Quakers, and one of
the greatest chemists this nation has ever produced." This latter statement is of
course merely local colour ; Cookworthy was, however, a notable, learned and high-
minded man ; to him is due the discovery of the existence of china-clay in Cornwall, a
discovery which has so largely enriched that part of England.
XXXII.] 267
Appendix C.
the repulsion is more plainly perceived than if it was held perpendicularly.
But after all the directions that can be given, the adroit use of it can only be
attained by practice and attention. It is necessary that the grasp should be
steady, for if, when the rod is going, there be the least succussion or
counteraction in the hands, though ever so small, it will greatly impair
and generally totally prevent its activity, which is not to be done by
the mere strength of the grasp, for, provided this be steady, no strength
can stop it.
It is interesting to note that the foregoing description of the way
of holding the rod closely resembles that given by Agricola, in his
famous folio, Be Re Metallica, published in Basle in 1546. Agricola's
work is the earliest detailed account we have of the use of the
Virgula divina, and refers, of course, only to its use in finding mineral
lodes. In like manner the learned Jesuit Dechales, in his great work
Mundus Mathematicus, Lugduni, 1674, Vol. II., p. 190, gives a
similar description of the way the rod is held. The following is a
translation of the passage, which is of great interest, as it is the
earliest reference I can find to the successful use of the rod in finding
underground water (the italics are mine) :—
They hold it [a forked branch of hazel] with both fists, in such a way
that the outer part of the fists turns downwards, i.e., the two little fingers
face each other. Thus each branch being grasped firmly in each fist, they
walk to and fro. . . . When they come perpendicularly over under
ground water, the branch, however strongly it is held, turns upside down ;
that is, the vertex points downwards, so that the forked sides are twisted;
but it does not succeed with all persons. . . . Once on a certain
occasion I purposely hid some money in the earth, which was found by a
certain noble person by the hazel twig in my presence. The same person
used to find springs so surely that he would trace the whole course of
underground water.
One of the earliest English references to the use of the rod for
finding underground water, is contained in the article before quoted from
the Gentleman'8 Magazine oi 1751 : the writer says, "The hazel, willow,
and elm are all attracted by springs of water ; some persons have the
virtue intermittently, (5ic."
A detailed account of the manner of holding the divining rod is also
given by Pryce in his Mineralogia Cornubiensis, p. 118. The date
of this folio is 1778. Pryce, or rather, again, Cookworthy, who, we are
told, wrote this part of the work, says :—
" It is very difficult to describe the manner of holding and using the rod :
it ought to be held in the hands, in the position shown, the smaller
ends lying flat or parallel to the horizon, and the upper part in an elevation
not perpendicular to it, but 70 degrees, as shown (Fig. 2).
268 Professor W. F. Barrett. [part
" Alonzo Barba directs the rod to be fixed across the head of a walking
stick in the form of a T, and the end which is nearest the root will dip or
incline to the mineral ore. i
Fiq. 2.
"The rod should be firmly and steadily grasped ; for if, when it hath
begun to be attracted, there be the least imaginable jerk, or opposition to its
attraction, it will not move any more, till the hands are opened and a fresh
grasp taken. The stronger the grasp the livelier the rod moves, provided
the grasp be steady, and of an equal strength.
" A little practice by a person in earnest about it will soon give him the
necessary adroitness in the use of this instrument : but it must be particularly
observed that, as our animal spirits are necessary to this process, so a man
ought to hold the rod with the same indifference and inattention to, or
reasoning about it or its effects, as he holds a fishing rod or a walking stick ;
for if the mind be occupied by doubts, reasoning, or any other operation that
engages the animal spirits, it will divert their powers from being exerted in
this process, in which their instrumentality is absolutely necessary ; from
hence it is that the rod constantly answers in the hands of peasants,
women, and children, who hold it simply without puzzling their minds with
doubts or reasonings. Whatever may be thought of this observation, it is a
very just one, and of great consequence in the practice of the rod.
The remark in the last paragraph is interesting, and Cookworthy's
observation is confirmed by the quite independent testimony of
others. Thus the German writer, Beyer, makes a similar observation on
the divining rod in Chapter 12 of his folio on Mining, published in
1749. If the dowsing faculty be some intuitive sub-conscious sense
i I can find no mention of this in Alonzo Barba's interesting old Spanish work
on mining called Arte de los Metales, Madrid, 1639. I am greatly indebted to the
ever ready and kind help of my friend and colleague, Professor J. P. O'Reilly,
Foreign Secretary of the Royal Irish Academy, for examining on my behalf this and
other Spanish works to which I have had occasion to refer in the preparation of this
monograph. There is a reference to a T shaped extemporised rod in a book by
Gabriel Plattes, called The Discovery of Subterranean Treasure, viz., of All Manner of
Mines and Minerals, London, 1638. This is the earliest English reference to the use
of the divining rod for finding mineral veins which I have been able to find.—W.F.B.
XXXII.] 269
Appendix G.
perception, possessed by certain individuals, of which the rod is the
outward and visible sign, we should expect to find " doubts or reasonings "
fatal to the successful use of the rod, as they would be in the case of
any other autoscope.
Cookworthy then goes on to describe how the motion of the rod
may be stopped by various objects held in the hand or put under the
arm. In other writings of his, he tells us that " a piece of the same
matter with the attracting body, held in the hand, or applied to any
part of the rod, prevents its attraction. Its attraction to springs of
water is prevented by spitting on the hands or moistening them with
water." Thus, he explains, the diviner can discover whether it be'
metal or water, or what kind of metal is indicated.i This is another of
the numerous illustrations with which the history of the divining rod
abounds, of the effect of suggestion on the motion, or arrest of motion,
of the rod. For in 1663, exactly the opposite effect is assigned by no
less an authority than Robert Boyle, who in his Philosophical Essays
states that he has been informed " the wand will bow more strongly "
when a piece of the similar metal to that underground is held in the
hand.2 See also the letter quoted in the foot-note to p. 247.
I have already referred (p. 18) to the excellent picture by
A. Crowquill, of a dowser at work, given in Mr. Phippen's brochure on
the rod, published in 1853. Here also the arms are held tightly to
the sides of the body, but the prongs of the fork pass between the
index and next finger of each hand.3 Miss Cox in her paper on the
rod, shows Stokes, the dowser, holding the rod pointing downwards
with the prongs grasped by the fists. (See Fig. 3).
i So also the writer of La Verge de Jacob, a little work on th« rod, published at
Lyons in 1693, states that a wet rag will stop the rod when it turns for underground
water, but not when it is turning for metallic ore ; similar assertions are made to-day
by Tompkins and other dowsers, see pp. 165, 212, etc., so this belief is wide-spread
and long lived !
2 Vol. I., p. 172, in the complete edition of Boyle's Philosophical Workt: the
whole passage will be given in the historical part of my paper.
3 I had intended quoting the careful description Mr. Phippen gives of the way
the rod is held, but it is hardly necessary, as it closely resembles that already given.
Fig. 3.
270 Professor W. F. Barrett. [part
The late J. Mullins, however, whose success as a dowser was the
most remarkable in modern times, always held the rod as shown in
Fig. 4.
Fig. 4.
This is much the same way as Tompkins is shown holding the rod
on pp. 147 and 159 ; this might indeed be expected, from the narrative
given on p. 145. On the other hand, W. Stone, who is also a
successful dowser, is seen on p. 134 to be holding the rod in quite
another manner. Again, in the American Journal of Science
(Silliman's Journal) for 1826, p. 201, in the course of a lengthy article
on the rod, a picture is given showing how the rod must be held, and
here the prongs of the fork pass between the thumb and forefinger of
each hand. Messrs. Young and Robertson, in their little book on
the divining rod, mentioned on p. 18, give illustrations showing their
way of holding the rod : they have sent me a little waistcoat-pocket
forked rod made of aluminium, which they recommend to be held in the
way shown in Fig. 5. They also use a straight rod or wand some three or
Fig. 5.
four feet long, which they hold inclined in the right hand, the thinner
end being held in the hand and " the eye resting on the top of the
thick end." This, they assert, dips down over an underground spring.
This "dipping rod " is a return to an old form of divining rod, a picture
of which is given in an Italian work on the rod, published in 1678, and
XXXII.] 271
Appendix C.
will be reproduced in the subsequent historical part of this paper.
The Abbé de Vallemont gives pictures of straight rods in his La
Physique Occulte, published in 1693; and Bleton, as already mentioned
(p. 21), in the last century used a nearly straight rod placed horizontally
on the index fingers of the two hands. This slightly-curved rod
revolved from 30 to 80 times a minute when Bleton came over under
ground water. Here (Fig. 6.) are some other ways of holding the rod
in use in the 17th century.i
Fig. 6.
It will thus be evident that the manner of holding the rod varies
with the individual dowser, and obviously cannot be of much
consequence. Some positions in which the rod is held doubtless
render it a more sensitive indicator to the muscular tremor which
determines its motion. It may be held in a position of tension or
poised equilibrium (as mentioned on p. 11), and it then becomes a very
sensitive autoscope ; in this position it is desirable some experiments on
thought-transference should he made with the holder of the rod.
i 1 am indebted to the editor of Pearson's Magazine for this woodcut. Though not
stated the pictureia a copy of one of the plates in Lebrun's Lcttres . . sur labaguette,
1693. Aymar sometimes used a straight rod held in one hand.
272 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
APPENDIX D.
The Sensations Alleged to Occur in Dowsing.
The assertion is made by numerous dowsers that when they are
over underground water they experience a peculiar sensation,—which
some describe as felt in the limbs, like the tingling produced by a mild
electric shock, others as a shivering or trembling, and others as an
unpleasant sensation in the epigastric region, etc. It is unnecessary to
quote the various statements made by different dowsers, quite
independently of each other ; they will be found on pages 22, 48, 69, 95,
124, 161, 164, 177, 196, 200, 206. But these sensations seem to be
only experienced when they are dowsing ; when off duty, underground
water seems to have no effect. This fact, coupled with the apparent
absence of any feeling produced by the much greater masses of visible
water in lakes, rivers, or the sea, indicate the purely psychological
origin of the asserted sensations. The interesting point is, however,
that this psycho-physiological disturbance in the use of the divining rod
can be traced back at least two centuries, and exists among diviners
in different countries.i
Among the most remarkable symptoms were those exhibited by the
French dowser, Bleton, in the last century. A careful medical examina
tion of Bleton was made by Dr. Thouvenel, who was a distinguished
French physician, and in his Mhnoire Physique el Medicinal, Paris,
1781, page 53, he describes these symptoms as follows:—
La premiere impression que fait éprouver au corps de Bleton la presence
de l'eau aouterraine, se porte sur le diaphragme, en s'étendant vers ses
appendices supeVieurs ou ses attaches avec le sternum, et produisant un
serrement avec de l'oppression, dont le siege parolt borné k la partie
anterieure et superieure de la poitrine. Un saisissement, un tremblement
et un refroidissement genéral s'emparent en meme-tems de lui. Ses jambes
chancellent. Los tendons des poignets se roidissent et entrent en convulsion.
Le pouls se concentre et diminue peu-a-peu. En un mot, cet etat represent*
et caracteVise 1' invasion d' une veritable attaque de spasme convulsif. II
subsiste, avec des nuances cependant et des variations du plus au moins,
tant que cet homme reste sur la source, et disparoit presque subitoment
i That nervous excitement is partly at the root of these sensations seems to be
indicated by the case of Jacques Aymar. In a copy of the Journal des Searana
(Savants) for January 1093, for the possession of which I am indebted to the zeal of
Mr. Holland's excellent book agency in Paris, it is stated by a contemporary witness,
Dr. Chauvin, that when Aymar, who had gained repute as a spring finder, was taken
with his baguette into the cellar where the Lyons murder had been committed, Aymar
" n'y fut pas plutot entn'' qu'il se sentit tout eniu, et que son poux s'eleva comme une
grosse fievre."
XXXII.] 273
Appendix D.
lorsqu' il se place à côté, si ce n'est, à ce qu'il dit, un sentiment intérieur de
froid et de serrement légers, au devant de la poitrine. Ce sentiment ne cesse
totalement qu'à une certaine distance de l'eau ; et cette distance exprime
selon lui la profondeur de cette dernière, comme nous le verrons ci-après."
Dr. Thouvenel states Bleton did not feel any effect from stagnant
water ; a headache and lassitude were, however, produced by a river,
when in a boat, " mais point du tout ce qu'il appelle sa commotion
dans la poitrine, ni le contre-coup de cette commotion dans les
extrémités."
It is said that when Bleton was a child, the discovery of his " gift "
was accidentally made from perceiving that a feverish attack seized him
whenever he happened to be at a certain spot where a subterranean
spring was subsequently discovered. In one of the numerous pièces
justificatives and procès-verbaux attached to Thouvenel's book, the
following evidence is cited. The writer of the certificate, after stating
that numerous persons in Burgundy can testify that Bleton is neither
an impostor nor a charlatan, goes on to say :—
C'est un pauvre paysan qui a été élevé par charité dans une des Chartreuses
de Dauphiné, et voici comment ce talent, si c'en est un, lui a été connu.
A l'âge de sept ans, portant le dîner à des ouvriers, il s'assit sur une
pierre, où la fièvre le prit : les ouvriers l'ayant fait mettre à côté d'eux, la
fièvre cessa ; il retourne à plusieurs reprises sur la pierre, toujours la fièvre.
On raconta cette histoire au Prieur de la dite Chartreuse, qui voulut par lui-
même en voir l'expérience. Convaincu par le fait, il fit creuser sous la
pierre ; il s'y trouva une source qui, à ce que l'on m'a assuré, fait moudre
aujourd'hui un moulin.i
Several witnesses of high standing are cited by Dr. Thouvenel, who
testify to the pathological effect which underground water had upon
Bleton ; the curious point being that Bleton's prognostications were so
rarely wrong, water being found, according to the evidence, even in the
most unpromising places when Bleton was affected in this manner.
M. le Président d' 0 , who made numerous experiments with
Bleton, relates that, a generation before Bleton, in 1735, another
sourcier, or water finder, had said when there was a difficulty in finding
him a proper rod or baguette :—
N'importe, Monsieur, ce n'est pas la baguette qui me dirige, c'est un
sentiment que j'éprouve au dedans de moi-même.
On p. 263, Dr. Thouvenel gives an account of a visit paid by M.
C to a Prior at Autun who possessed the " gift " of water-finding,
which he had gratuitously exercised for the benefit of his commune.
i Mémoire physique et médicinal, etc (Paris, 1781), p. 251.
T
274 - Professor W. F, Barrett. [part
The Prior states that he detected an underground spring by a peculiar
malaise it produced upon him, which was more marked in following
the spring upwards than downwards. He stated a shivering was
produced in his shoulders and muscles of the arm and leg, and if he
continued following an underground spring, extreme and abnormal
fatigue was produced ; the sensation was stronger after fasting than
after meals.
Dr. Thouvenel also refers to Parangue, a young girl, born in 1760,
who from her infancy appeared to have the faculty of detecting
underground water by the terror she displayed when over an under
ground spring. According to the Abbe Sauri, Parangue apparently
saw the water below, "the earth becoming transparent to her vision."
A similar case is related by Dr. Ashburner of a girl who, when
hypnotised, declared she " saw " a spring at a certain depth below a
certain spot ; upon digging, a spring was found at the spot and at the
very depth stated.i But these cases of clairvoyance obviously need
confirmation and critical examination ; the same may be said of the
following. In an article on Modern Magic by M. Shele de Vere,
published in 1873, it is stated that Catherine Beutler, of Thurgovia
in Switzerland, and Anna Maria Briegger, of the same place, were both
so seriously affected by the presence of water that they fell into violent
nervous excitement and became quite exhausted when they happened
to cross places where water was concealed underground.
We have also the evidence of Dr. Mayo, F.R.S., who states in his
essay on the divining rod 2 that when in Russia he met with a youth
who had not handled a divining rod before. Instructing him how to
hold the rod and to walk over some ground where Dr. Mayo believed
i The incident as related by Dr. Ashburner is as follows : A respectable girl, a
lady's maid, was found to pass into a mesmeric sleep on holding for a few seconds a
hazel twig ; when asleep the twig was so tightly held that in spite of using much
force, a bystander could hardly turn it. Her mistress wrote in July, 1845, " We
made a curious experiment with Harriet. We have very bad water here and have
long been unable to find a good spring. Mr. G. has dug and dug in vain. I proposed
the divining rod ; Harriet was willing, so we went to a field . . . put Harriet
to sleep, with the hazel stick. She grasped it so tightly we were obliged to use the
gold chain. She then held it only in one hand and began to walk very carefully for
about 20 yards, then suddenly stopped ; not a word was uttered, we all looked on, and
were not a little surprised to see the rod slowly turn round until her hand was almost
twisted backwards. Suddenly she exclaimed ' There, there, don't you see the stick
turn? The water is here, under my hand. I see it, I see it.' ' How deep is the
water? ' said Mrs. G. ' Oh, about 3 feet.' We marked the place, and after a few
moments awoke her. Mr. G. caused a large hole to be dug and just at the depth of
3 feet the water was found. A brick well has been constructed and we have now
a good supply of excellent water. When awake Harriet knew nothing of the
circumstance."—Note added by Dr. Ashburner to his translation of Jteichenbach's
Researches (London, 1851), pages 100-103.
2 Truths contained in Popular Superstitions, (London, 1S56) p. 18.
XXXII.] 275
Appendix D.
underground water to exist, the forked twig instantly began to ascend.
Dr. Mayo goes on to say that the lad
Laughed with astonishment at the event, which was totally unexpected
by him, and he said that he experienced a tickling or thrilling sensation in
his hands The experiment was repeated by him in my presence
with like success several times during the ensuing month. Then the lad fell
into ill health and I rarely saw him. However, one day I begged him to make
another trial with the divining fork. He did so, but the instrument moved
sluggishly and when it moved .... the lad said he felt an uneasy
sensation, which quickly increased to pain at the pit of the stomach, and he
became alarmed.
This, doubtless, was a purely nervous effect, but the coincidence is
curious, as Dr. Mayo seems to have been wholly ignorant of
Thouvenel's experiments with Bleton, and of course the Russian lad
knew nothing about them.
On the other hand, the profound effect of 8-uqgestion in producing
or arresting pathological disturbance comes out very clearly in
Thouvenel's experiments. Believing that the motion of the divining
rod was due to some unknown electric agency, Thouvenel experimented
upon Bleton with what he calls "electric compositions," and also
" compositions magnetiques recemment Electrifies." When Bleton was
over underground water, if he were touched with one of these com
positions, the usual symptoms and the rotation of the rod were instantly
diminished by three-fourths, and (p. 91)—
Des l'instant meme que le retirois mes preparations, lcs phenomenes de
l'eau sur Bleton réparoissoient dans toute leur force.
Now it is absurd to suppose any physical effect could have been
produced upon Bleton by these compositions, which were probably bits
of sulphur or of iron that had been sparked upon by an electric machine ;
the result was undoubtedly an effect of sub-conscious and possibly
telepathic suggestion. The latter (telepathy) seems indicated also in the
subsequent experiments with Bleton to test the effect of insulation, for
Thouvenel appears to have taken the precaution not to let Bleton know
the fact nor the object of the experiment.
Coming to the present day, an old amateur dowser, Mr. Robert
Young, of Sturminster Newton, Dorset, writes to say that whenever
he comes over an underground spring, so violent a trembling seizes
him that he has to be supported or he would fall. Mr. Young, I
am assured, is entirely ignorant of the literature of this subject, so
that he has not been affected by what others have said. His daughter
writes :—
One day I asked father to point out to mo the spring in Gough's close ;
ho walked to and fro, and when he came to a certain spot ho reeled and
T 2
276 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
staggered and said the spring was below. To teat the reality of his indica
tions, I privately marked the spot where he said the spring was. I then
took him to the far end of the field and blindfolded him carefully, then led
him about the field by a circuitous route. Directly he came on the spot I
had marked, he reeled as before and would have fallen if I had not held him
up. Directly he came off the place he was all right.
As perhaps might be expected, the son of Mr. R. Young, Mr. J. F.
Young of Llanelly, (also an amateur dowser) feels somewhat similar
sensations when he is dowsing. I have already referred to Mr. Young
in the foot-note to p. 19 ; though a hard-working tradesman with little
time at his disposal, Mr. Young has devoted his leisure to an
investigation of the rod, and I may add, the extensive correspondence
Mr. Young has had with me has impressed me with his sincere love
of truth. Mr. Young writes :—
I have noticed, when divining, unpleasant and peculiar symptoms always
occur when I am over an underground spring ; often a convulsive feeling
and staggering comes on. My father, though never otherwise sick, staggers
and vomits when over a spring. These unpleasant symptoms only occur
when we are "set" on divining."
Writing to me again on November 29th, 1896, Mr. J. F. Young
says :—
The sensation I experience when I get over a spring in divining is very
like that experienced at the epigastrium when on the downward stroke of a
swing, together with a peculiar tingling of the fingers. There is no mistaking
this and I have also seen the fingers of Mr. Robertson [a friend of Mr.
Young's, also an amateur dowser] severely contracted when he gets over a
spring.
Mr. Thomas Heighway, the Welsh dowser referred to on p. 206,
also sends me an account of the very similar sensations he experiences,
and so with other dowsers quite independently of each other.
These symptoms may only be the result of nervous excitement,
but as Bleton a century ago trusted to his "sensations" in finding
water and as some dowsers still do so to-day, it would seem as if they
had some psychical root deeper than mere imagination. In connection
with this I will quote the following interesting letter, which has
recently appeared in the columns of Truth (July 22nd, 1897) ; the
writer is personally known to me, he is an F.R.S., and a dis
tinguished London physician :—
Although the great majority of people disbelieve in the power of a man
to detect the presence of water even a few feet under the ground
upon which he is standing, they readily credit the story of a camel scenting
water half a mile off in the middle of a desert. I believe that the almost
incredible acuteness of sight, scent, and hearing, which are found universally
XXXII.] 277
Appendix D.
in certain classes of the lower animals and are not uncommon in savage
races, are occasionally possessed by certain individuals amongst civilised
races. For instance : the presence of water-vapour in the air over certain
spots makes itself evident to every one as a visible fog in early morning.
Now lam acquainted tiritha rheumatic patient who, onpassing over such a spot
during the day, when no vapowr is visMe, feels pains in her joints. Of course,
such a condition of hypersesthesia is very rare indeed. I think, however,
that the diviner detects water by some sensation which affects either his
nostrils, or his body generally, when he is standing in a place where there
is water below the surface. The only use of the divining rod is to magnify
involuntary muscular motions, and thus convert what might otherwise be a
vague sensation into a definite and perceptible action. But the moving of
the rod in a diviner's fingers depends simply upon the bodily condition of the
diviner himself, just as the rigidity of a pointer's tail when scenting game
depends entirely upon the excitement of the dog.
The part I have italicized is interesting in connexion with what
is stated on p. 249.
The comparison of a dowser to a pointer, though inadequate in my
opinion, is quite as far as the present state of scientific knowledge will
be disposed to admit. From this point of view it is a very just
analogy ; the wonderful scent of the dog, in its sensitiveness far
beyond any instrumental means of detection which science could
employ, corresponding to the dowser's " scent " for underground
water ; the nervous excitement of the dog, corresponding to the
dowser's psycho-physiological disturbance ; and the index afforded by
the rigid tail of the dog when pointing, being the analogue of the
involuntary motion given to the indicating rod of the dowser.i
i Dr. Carl du Prel, in a brief essay on Die Wunschclruthc, believes the explanation
of the rod will be found " in the domain bothjof transcendental physics and trans
cendental psychology, the rod being the historic fore-runner of the modern practice
of 'questioning the oracle ' by automatic writing." But this was an ancient use of
the rod, as will be seen in Zeidler's Pantomysterium (Magdeburg, 1700), where the
prescience displayed by the rod is attributed to the spirit of nature, the anima mundi,
"the Soul needing the rod a# an instrument." Of the theories of the rod held in
successive centuries by the learned world, Zeidler's was one not discordant with
certain views of psychical phenomena set forth in our Proceedings.
278 [part
Professor W. F. Barrett.
APPENDIX E.
Note on the Horsham Experiments.
Since this paper was printed, Mr. E. Westlake, F.G.S., who has
devoted attention to hydro-geology, has visited Sir Henry Harben's
estate, Warnham Lodge, and sent me some geological notes on the
Horsham Experiments, detailed on pages 117-121. These notes are
interesting in connection with Mr. T. V. Holmes' remarks on pages
227-9, and also as correcting some slight inaccuracies in the state
ment originally given to me. Mr. Westlake went over the ground with
Mr. Ogilvie, the bailiff, and with Mr. Edwards, the head gardener,
(called the overseer by me on p. 120), who superintended the work of
the well-sinking. It seems the rock mentioned on p. 119 was not a
limestone, as Sir Henry Harben thought, but a " white, fine-grained,
close-jointed, compact sandstone," nor was it so hard as to require
blasting : a sand pit some 300 feet to the west of the well G shows the
same stratum. Some 3 to 4 feet of soil and sand or sandy loam
covered the stone, which rests on an impervious "blue marl" (the
Weald clay), the latter being found some 14 feet below the surface
in the case of well D, which penetrated 5 feet into this marl. Most
of the water comes from little veins in the sandstone and runs into
the wells from the direction of the pond (see map, p. 118) "as Mullins
had said it would." Mr. Westlake says, " The main source of the
water thus appears to lie to the east of the wells, though what should
confine its flow to certain lines in a tolerably pervious bed is not
easy to understand, nor yet the large flow from what seems a small
collecting ground. It is possible the direction of the flow may be
determined by the patchy character of the bed, which is soft in certain
places, as may be seen in the sand pit, and was said to be also in the
wells. The depth of the water in the wells varies from 4 feet in
summer to 9 or 10 feet in winter. The water is soft and good in all
respects ; the analyst who examined it said he had never seen a
better."
An additional fact was ascertained by Mr. Westlake, which is of
considerable importance in connection with Mr. Holmes' remarks. In
order to run the water from the wells to the pumping house, which is
on lower ground, (near well A, see p. 118), a trench was sunk to within
a foot of the bottom of the wells E and F, and carried 85 yards to the
north of well E ; 24 yards from E an offset, 8 yards long, connects the
XXXII.] 279
Appendix E.
2 inch water pipe, which was laid in the trench, to the well D. Mr.
Westlake says : " These trenches, Edwards assured me, were all dry
to the bottom and no springs were intersected, except the one sup
plying D; at that time, October, 1893, the water in the wells E and
F stood more than 6 feet deep, but it was kept down by pumping
when the trench was being brought near to the wells. It was not
a ' tunnel,' but a trench, subsequently arched over, 4 feet wide, that
connected the bottom of the wells E and F, and here also no spring was
met with in the stone between the two wells, as is stated on p. 120."
I regret that no mention is made of the length of time that elapsed
before the trenches were covered in, but whether a few hours or days,
it is obvious the water-bearing character of the surrounding sandstone
was very different in different places, through jointing or otherwise.
Even allowing for possible looseness of observation on the part of
Edwards, the broad facts remain that a copious supply was found in
certain spots indicated by the dowser and not in others closely
adjacent. Sir Henry Harben confirms the fact that, prior to connecting
the wells E and F, one of these wells was pumped " continuously while
the work was proceeding," during which the level of the water in the
other well did not sink perceptibly.
Sir Henry Harben also informed Mr. Westlake that the engineer
whom he consulted, and whose advice failed, was a leading water-
engineer of large experience. He walked over the whole ground and
his attention was specially directed to the pond and to the fact that
water was sometimes seen on the higher ground ; but he decided to
reject that locality, and the high ground geneially, and fixed on the
site where the well B was sunk, with adits, at a useless expenditure
of £1,000. Mullins was told exactly what the engineer was told,
though he did not see the pond; on trying with the "rod," he
utterly scouted the place the engineer had fixed on, and decided on
the higher ground.
It seems that Mullins (who is now dead) came twice ; at first he
" located " the wells D and E, and on the second visit the wells F and
G ; it was then he stated no water would be found between E and F.
Having contracted for the well-sinking, his son, Joseph Mullins, carried
out the work and also, it is said, independently found by the "rod" the
spring at F.
The bed of stone in which the wells are sunk is about 100 feet
above the outcrop of the Horsham Stone at Warnham (Geological
Survey, sheet 8), and is the " No. 2, Sand and Sandstone " of Messrs.
Topley and Drew —viz., the second of seven subordinate permeable beds
that occur in the Weald Clay, of which the Horsham Stone is the first
and lowest. (See Topley's Geology of the Weald, 1875, pp. 102, 104.)
280 [PART
Professor W. F. Barrett.
Mr. Westlake suggests that one of the best tests of the claims
of the dowser would be a series of experiments in connection with
suitable engineering works, such, for example as a projected deep
cutting for a new railway. The dowser should be taken over the
ground before the cutting was begun, and his report as to the existence,
the exact location, and the probable depth of any undeiground water
that might be met with should be carefully noted. The cutting should
then be watched and reported on during construction in respect of any
springs, or lines of flow that might be encountered. The expense of
such a test would not be great, and I think it is most desirable it
should be made ; two dowsers should, however, be employed, indepen
dently of each other, to examine and report beforehand.
My best thanks are due to the Editor, and to Miss A. Johnson, of
Cambridge, for the careful reading of the proof-sheets of this paper,
and for many valuable suggestions.
Book II., on the use of the divining rod in the search for Mineral
Veins and for other purposes, together with the Historical Survey and
a Bibliography compiled by Mr. E. Westlake, F.G.S., will not be
published till next year.
END OF BOOK I.
XXXII.] 281
Table of Content*.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
BOOK I.
PART I.
PAGE
Introductory ... ... ... 2
The Rod an Indicator of Sub-conscious Impressions .. ... ... 7
Nomenclature ... ... ... ... 9
Autoscopes ... ... ... ... ... 10
PART II.
Brief Historical Statement 12
Modern Literature on the Divining Rod 13
PART III.
The Rod as Used in the Search for Underground Water 24
Gkoup I. Amateur Dowsers—Nos. 1-20 ... ... 25
>1 II. Miscellaneous Cases—Nos. 21-41 43
PROFESSIOnAL DOWSERS.
ROUP III. (a) W. S. Lawrence—Nos. 42-50 66
>i ii (/3) W. Mereweather—No. 51 72
n IV. (a) J. Mullins—Nos. 52-75 75
II >i (0) H. W. Mullins—Nos. 76 -St 98
11 V. W. Stone—Nos. 85-98 124
ii VI. B. Tompkins—Nos. 99-111 145
>, VII. J. Stears—Nos. 112-119 164
,, VIII. L. Gataker-Nos. 120-129 177
>i IX. («) H. Bacon—Nos. 130, 131 196
ii II (b) H. Chesterman 200
,, I1 (c) F. Rodwell—No. 132 201
ii X. (.() Thos. Heighway—No. 133 206
ii (l>) R. Rothwell—Nos. 134, 135 209
I 1 (c) R. W. Robertson—Nos. 130, 137 214
Cyrus Fuller—Nos. 138-140 215
u
282 Table of Contents.
dETAILEd BEPOKTS. PAGE
The Waterford Experiments—/. Mnllins (see also pp. 77, 78) ... 106
The Horsham Experiments—/. Mnllins (see also p. 85) ... ... 117
The Kingstown Experiments—J. Stears ... ... ... ... ... 174
The Richmond Experiments—H. W. Mnllins and L. Gataher 188
The Wimbledon Experiments—F. Roduxll 203
Failures : Nos. F.1-F.12 ... C3, 121, 143, 162, 172, 187, 200, 213
PART IV.
Geological Opinions—
Professor Sollas, F.R.S. 220
Mr. T. V. Holmes, F.G.S 221
Mr. J. H. Blake, F.G.S 230
Mr. C. E. De Ranee, F.G.S 233
Success of Dowser lies in Finding Sites for Shallow Wells ... 235
PART V.
Brief Survey of the Evidence 237
Caution as to So-called "Dowsers"; Involuntary Motion of the
Rod no Proof of a "Dowsing Faculty" 238
Evidence Afforded by Frequent Actual Success of Expert Dowsers,
and Extensive Employment of them by Practical Men ... 240
PART VI.
Theoretical Conclusions 243
(i) (ii) Motion and Breaking of the Forked Twig 243, 244
(iii) (iv) Malaise of Dowser ; percentage of Dowsers ... 244-246
(v) Preconceived Ideas ; Electricity ... ... ... ... .. 246
(vi) Signs of Underground Water ; Practical Knowledge of Dowser 248
(vii) Probable Dowsing Faculty or Instinct ; Tests applied ... 251
Working Hypotheses ... 254
APPENDICES.
A. The Words " Dowse " and " Dowser " 256
I?. Geological Views of the Distribution of Underground Water ... 262
C. How the Rod is Held ; Fallacious Ideas of how to Discriminate
between Water and Metals 266
D. Sensations said to be Experienced in Dowsing ... ... ... 272
E. Note on the Horsham Experiments 278
PROCEEDINGS
0C THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH,
PART XXXIII.
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETINGS.
The 87th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall on Friday, May 28th, 1897, at 4 p.m. ; Mr. St.
George Lane Fox in the chair.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers gave an address on "The Moral and
Intellectual Limits of Suggestion."
The 88th General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
November 5th, at 8.30 p.m. ; Dr. A. Wallace in the chair.
Dr. Richard Hodgson gave an address on the " Later Investiga
tions of Trance Phenomena manifested through Mrs. Piper."
The 89th General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
December 10th, at 4 p.m. ; Professor H. Sidgwick in the chair.
Dr. Richard Hodgson gave an address on the " Latest Investiga
tions of Trance Phenomena manifested through Mrs. Piper," the paper
being a continuation of that read at the previous meeting of Novem
ber 5th. Part I. of these papers is printed below ; Part II. will
appear in the following number of Proceedings.
The 90th General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
January 28th, 1898, at 4 p.m. ; the President, Sir William Crookes,
F.R.S., in the chair.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers read two papers by Mr. Andrew Lang on
" Crystal Visions " and on "Oppositions of Science," which it is hoped
will appear in a future Part of the Proceedings,
D
284 [part
Richard Hodgson.
A FURTHER RECORD OF OBSERVATIONS OF CERTAIN
PHENOMENA OF TRANCE.i
By Richard Hodgson, LL.D.
(This Paper is a sequel to those in Proceedings, Vol. VI., pp. 430-650, and
Vol. VIII., pp. 1-167.)
PART I.
§ 1. Introductory.
Two reports on the trance-phenomena of Mrs. Piper have been
published in our Proceedings (see above), and to these I refer the reader
for information concerning the experiments made with her prior to the
year 1892. All that.I need repeat here is that Mrs. Piper passes into
a trance, during which apparently other personalities than the normal
waking Mrs. Piper " control " her body, use her organs of speech, or
write with her hand, and show a knowledge of facts which Mrs. Piper
could not have obtained by ordinary means. These other personalities
purport to be the "spirits" of disembodied human beings, and make
communications which take the form of coming from the still existing
" deceased " friends or relatives of the persons who have " sittings "
with Mrs. Piper. In the early years of Mrs. Piper's trances, her voice
was usually controlled by a personality that went under the name of
"Doctor Phinuit," who acted as intermediary in the communications ;
but of late years the communications have been chiefly independent of
Phinuit, who for the past year has not manifested at all.
Of course the first point that will occur to the reader is how we
know that these manifestations are not due wholly to imposture. This
question has been fully considered in the above-mentioned reports, but
it may be well for me to give a brief summary of our previous conclu
sions. My own knowledge of Mrs. Piper began in May, 1887, about a
fortnight after my arrival in Boston, and my first appointment for a
sitting was made by Professor William James. Professor James had
visited her about a dozen times during the previous year and half, and
had sent a large number of persons to her, making appointments himself
i The responsibility for the views expressed in this paper rests entirely with its
author.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 285
" for most of these people, whose names were in no instance announced
to the medium." As a result of his inquiries he became fully satisfied
that Mrs. Piper had supernormal powers.
I had several sittings myself with Mrs. Piper, at which much
intimate knowledge, some of it very personal, was shown of deceased
friends or relatives of mine ; and I made appointments for sittings for
at least fifty persons whom I believed to be strangers to Mrs. Piper,
taking the utmost precautions to prevent her obtaining any informa
tion beforehand as to who the sitters were to be. The general result
was the same as in my own case. Most of these persons were told facts
through the trance-utterance which they felt sure could not have become
known to Mrs. Piper by ordinary means. For several weeks, moreover,
at the suggestion of one of our members, detectives were employed for
the purpose of ascertaining whether there were any indications that
Mrs. Piper or her husband, or other persons connected with her, tried
to ascertain facts about possible sitters by the help of confederates, or
other ordinary methods of inquiry ; but not the smallest indication
whatever of any such procedure was discovered. My own conclusion
was that—after allowing the widest possible margin for information
obtainable under the circumstances by ordinary means, for chance
coincidence and remarkable guessing, aided by clues given consciously
and unconsciously by the sitters, and helped out by supposed hyperes
thesia on the part of Mrs. Piper,—there remained a large residuum
of knowledge displayed in her trance state, which could not be
accounted for except on the hypothesis that she had some supernormal
power; and this conviction has been strengthened by my later
investigations.
Further, Mrs. Piper came to England, at our request, in November,
1889, and remained till February, 1890, and during that time gave
eighty-three sittings under the supervision of Dr. Walter Leaf,
Professor Lodge, and Mr. Myers. Due precautions were, of course,
taken as regards the introduction of sitters, etc., and suffice it to say
that the above observers became convinced that the claim to super-
normally acquired knowledge in Mrs. Piper's trance was fully justified.
But although this general conclusion was reached, there was no
unanimity of opinion as to the explanation. Thus Dr. Walter Leaf, for
example, adopted the position that Dr. Phinuit was "only a name for
Mrs. Piper's secondary personality, assuming the name and acting the
part with the aptitude and consistency which is shown by secondary
personalities in other known cases " ; and that the supernormal
phenomena shown were explicable on the hypothesis of thought-
transference from the sitters. Professor Lodge, on the other hand,
held that something more of supernormal character was involved in
many of the instances than could be explained by thought-transference
u 2
286 [part
Richard Hodgson.
from the sitters, and he found himself forced to the hypothesis
of " telepathy from distant persons if that is in any way feasible,
telepathy from deceased persons only as a last resort, but telepathy
of some kind, as distinct from any conceivable method of extracting
information from persons present."
In my own previous reports which dealt with sittings up to
October, 1891, I stated that the hypothesis which for a long time
had seemed to me most satisfactory was that of an auto-hypnotic
trance in which a secondary personality of Mrs. Piper either
erroneously believes itself to be, or consciously and falsely pretends
to be, the "spirit" of a deceased human being, and further fictitiously
represents various other personalities according to the latent ideas of
some of the sitters. I added, however, that my confidence in this
explanation had been considerably shaken by further familiarity with
the Phinuit personality and other allied manifestations of Mrs. Piper's
trance state, and that I had no certain conviction that any single
theory which had been put forward was really the correct one. It was
indeed the case that many sitters believed themselves to he, through
Mrs. Piper's trance, in actual communication with deceased friends ;
but various considerations made this view very difficult of acceptance.
The personality known as Phinuit could give no satisfactory account
of himself; he was unable to justify, by any evidence of identity,
his claim that he was a deceased human being, and still less could he
justify his claim that he had been a French doctor. In some cases
the sittings were total failures. And in many others the correct
statements were mixed up with much other matter that was irrelevant
or wrong. There was also at times a great deal of what appeared to
be guessing and " fishing " on the part of Phinuit, and even when
extraordinary specific knowledge was shown of private matters con
cerning sitters and their deceased friends, Phinuit was unable to get
satisfactory replies to other questions, the answers to which were well
known to the alleged communicators when living. In short, while any
unbiassed student of the previous records in our Proceedings would
conclude that the phenomena demanded some hypothesis which went
at least as far as telepathy, there were difficulties in the way of
accepting either the spiritistic hypothesis, or telepathy from the living,
as an adequate explanation.
These difficulties have by no means been altogether removed, but
since the writing of the last Report on the trance-phenomena mani
fested by Mrs. Piper, several circumstances have occurred the result
of which has been that a marked improvement has taken place in the
quality of the evidence, and some new light, I incline to think, has
been thrown upon its significance. One of these circumstances was
the sudden death, early in 1892, of a young man keenly interested in
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 287
intellectual pursuits generally—and aware of the investigations of the
S.P.R.—who purported to make himself known about four weeks later
through Mrs. Piper's trance, —and who since that time has been ready
with assistance for most other " communicators." I shall refer to him
as George Pelham, or G. P. Whether the real G. P. has anything to
do with it at all, whether there are any " communicators " concerned
beyond some part of Mrs. Piper's personality and the personalities of
the sitters and other living persons, remains for consideration later.
This manner of speech is the most convenient for rendering the facts
intelligible to my readers, and is of course merely descriptive of the
fashion which they assume. It would give a totally wrong impression
of the phenomena were I to simply speak of Mrs. Piper as producing
the manifestations which occur through her organism in a state of
trance ; and to attempt to give a full description in each case of what
is " claimed " or " alleged " or " purported " would involve a tedious
and useless, if not a confusing, repetition. Hence, I shall as a rule
refer to the alleged communicators, Phinuit, G. P., and others, as
though they were distinct personalities. Superficially at least they
take this form ; it is this form which gives a very special character to
the sittings ; and provisionally, therefore, I adopt it, for the sake of
clearness and convenience of description.
Another circumstance leading to the improvement of the quality
of the evidence was the development of automatic writing during Mrs.
Piper's trance. That is to say, Mrs. Piper's hand during the trance is
frequently taken possession of by some other "control," while Phinuit
still remains master of the voice. Phinuit " loses the hand," and
apparently is unaware of what it writes. This channel of communica
tion, while not absolutely originated by George Pelham, was developed
chiefly by him, and has thereafter served for a large number of different
"communicators" as a method substitutive of, or auxiliary to, that of
using Phinuit as their intermediary. Further, Phinuit himself claims
and appears to have been benefited by the stimulation of his new co
worker in the task of providing proof of supernormal faculty. Later,
in March, 1893, Mrs. Piper underwent a capital surgical operation in
a Woman's Hospital, for the removal of a traumatic tumour, thereby
getting rid of a continual source of ill health which had troubled her
for many years, and which had interfered much with her sittings. It
was the accumulated result of an injury, caused many years ago by
a collision with an ice-sled. (See Appendix III., p. 479). After Mrs.
Piper's recovery she was able to give sittings with much greater
regularity than before, and appeared to be much less exhausted by
them. But in the course of 1895 the development of a serious hernia,
not an unusual result after such an operation as hers, again interfered
much with her sittings, so that finally another operation became
288 [part
Richard Hodgson.
necessary. This was performed in February, 1896 ; and it was not
till October of that year that she resumed her sittings. Since then
her health has been uniformly better than I have ever known it to
be, and she may now be regarded as a thoroughly healthy woman.
Altogether, since my last Report, I am familiar with the results of
more than 500 sittings, of which, however, only about l.'JO were for
first sitters, and of some of these I received only oral accounts. Of the
written reports of first sittings there are many which I am practically
unable to use as evidence, owing to the reluctance of the sitters to
allow the private matters concerned to be published in any form.
There are others which I could publish only under such restrictions
and with such alterations that they would lose much of their
significance. Others again I am prevented from using by the fact
that,—notwithstanding repeated inquiries on my part, and the express
or implied promise by the sitters beforehand that such results as were
not too private would be at our disposal,—I have failed in getting the
sitters to make detailed comments upon the reports. Owing to these
various causes a large amount of the best evidence derivable from first
sittings is unavailable for publication.
Of the other sittings some fell into series which I am able to use,
to a certain extent, as explained below ; many were for persons who
had frequently sat before with Mrs. Piper, and the communications
at these were chiefly of a personal character ; many were held by
myself or other persons for the purpose of getting some light if possible
from the communicators themselves concerning the rationale of the
phenomena. This last matter, not being of directly evidential value, is
scarcely adapted for publication in detail in our Proceedings, or at least
not in the present stage of our inquiry ; but later in my paper I shall
make brief reference to some of it so far as it seems to be of assistance
in the way of explanation.
Notwithstanding, however, the mass of matter which it is im
possible or undesirable to publish, there are at our disposal more
records than it seems at all profitable to print in extenso. Much of
this available matter contains nothing specially new in character, and
resembles the ordinary sittings of which our members have had
sufficient illustration in the previous reports. I shall therefore omit
many of these entirely and abridge or omit portions of many others,
being careful of course to give due prominence to failures.
I may add that the large majority of the sittings were supervised
by myself, and I was also the chief note-taker, except in cases where
a stenographic reporter was present, or my place was taken by my
assistant, Miss Edmunds.
Now, although for the purpose of establishing that Mrs. Piper
possesses some supernormal faculty, the records of "first sittings,"
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 289
where precautions have been taken to prevent Mrs. Piper's acquiring
knowledge beforehand as to the sitter, are especially valuable, they
cannot lead us very far in the direction of complete explanation.
They may add largely to the proof that Mrs. Piper's trance-personality
shows knowledge of particular facts about the sitter which Mrs. Piper
cannot intelligently be supposed to have acquired by normal means,
that private facts known only to the sitter are frequently communi
cated, and that occasionally a knowledge is manifested of events
entirely unknown to the sitter and afterwards verified. Further,
accompanying this exhibition of supernormal knowledge there may be
a more or less personal element characteristic of some deceased friend
of the sitter, and leading the sitter to the conclusion that he is in
direct and actual communication with this departed friend. It is,
nevertheless, difficult to suppose that however remarkable such first
sittings may be, they could form a satisfactory basis for the "spiritistic"
theory. They might indeed be profoundly suggestive of such a theory,
and in the minds of many might raise a presumption in its favour,
but they would still be apt to remain, for the probing investigator,
inadequate ; they would still be apt to appear as comparatively
isolated groups of facts, bound together, as it were, only by the plastic
and mysterious, but persistent personality known as Phinuit.
We might compare such phenomena to those of an imaginary
haunted house, where there was continually some manifestation of an
intelligent but somewhat unreliable personality, that exhibited strange
information about most of the successive visitors to the house— some of
whom thought that they felt there the conscious presence of deceased
friends and relatives. If we suppose that this haunting phantasm,
while giving such strange true information about others, was far from
able to give information about itself sufficient to identify it with any
once living human being, and that the information actually obtainable
concerning the inception of the haunting strongly tended to show that
the phantasm represented a character in a purely invented sensational
novel, we should be confronted with a problem much like that pre
sented by Mrs. Piper so long as we confine our main attention to the
results of first sittings.
When I wrote my previous Report, there were not wanting several
instances where the witnesses had enjoyed more or less frequent
opportunities of judging as to the knowledge and peculiarities of certain
" controls " purporting to be their personal friends. But the only
important accounts of these which I was able to publish were
contributed by Miss A. M. R. (Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VIII., pp.
111-114) and Miss W. (loc. cii., pp. 29-34), each of whom had many
sittings at which an intimate friend purported to take " control " and
use the voice instead of Phinuit.
290 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Miss R. wrote concerning her friend's " control " :—
" In .1 great many little ways he is quite like what my friend used to be
when living, so much so that I am afraid it would take a great deal of
explanation to make me believe that his identical self had not something to
do with it, wholly apart from the medium's powers or from anything that
" may be in my own mind concerning him."
And Miss W. wrote :—
" The clearly-marked personality of that friend, whom I will call T., is
to me the most convincing proof of Mrs. P.'s supernatural power, but it is a
proof impossible to present to any one else."
Now it so happens that I have before me several series of sittings
recorded in detail where repeated attempts have been made by the
" same deceased person " to communicate. Much the longest and most
remarkable of these series of communications has concerned the identity
of the young man to whom I have referred above as George Pelham or
G. P. Unfortunately, but necessarily, the most important evidence
tending to show that the real G. P. was in some way " communicating "
cannot be published. It concerns the confidential remembrances of
friends, dealing not only with personal matters pertaining to G. P.
himself alone, but with incidents of a private nature relating to other
persons living. I shall endeavour, however, as far as possible, to give a
fairly full description here of the general character of the communi
cations and the kind of evidence offered in justification of the claim
that they emanate from the still persisting individuality of G. P. It
was the first part of this series in particular to which I referred in the
Addendum to my previous Report on Mrs. Piper (Proceedings S.P.R.,
Vol. VIII., p. 58) when I wrote that :—
" Mrs. Piper has given some sittings very recently which materially
strengthen the evidence for the existence of some faculty that goes beyond
thought-transference from the sitters, and which certainlyprima facie appear
to render some form of the 'spiritistic' hypothesis more plausible."
Before entering into the details of this series of sittings, it seems
desirable that I should describe the development of the automatic
writing aforementioned. I may here explain briefly the order which
I propose to adopt in this Part of my Report. After describing the
development of the automatic writing in Mrs. Piper's trance, I shall
first give a somewhat detailed running history of the early G. P.
communications, following this by a summary (p. 328) of the general
character of the evidence pointing to the real G. P. as the com
municator, and offering a preliminary explanation of the failures and
deficiencies that may seem at first sight to conflict with this view. I
shall then give some brief accounts of other communicators, and
proceed to consider specially whether the " spirit " hypothesis or
the hypothesis of telepathy from the living is the more probable
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 291
explanation of the manifestations in question, pointing out that the
results present an appearance precisely in accordance with what we
should expect from returning "spirits" communicating under the con
ditions involved, and that such results do not fall into orderly relation
with one another on the hypothesis of telepathy from the living. I
shall then give a very brief account of recent changes in Mrs. Piper's
trance, and indicate the lines of investigation that seem likely to be
most fruitful in this and similar cases. •
Much of the illustrative material which I quote, apart from the
earlier G. P. communications, will be found in greater detail in the
Appendices which follow the body of the Report; but these Appendices
contain also other records which are more or less representative, and
which I have not attempted to summarise. Appendix I., which
contains extracts from a series of stenographically-reported sittings
specially concerned with G. P., should be read in connection with
section § 3 of the Report, which deals with the G. P. communications.
The sittings recorded in Appendix II. cover the period November, 1891,
to February, 1893 ; and those in Appendix III. cover the period from
October, 1893,—about which time Mrs. Piper resumed regular sittings
after her operation in the preceding March,—to the latter part of
1895. Appendix IV. contains a group of sittings belonging chiefly
to the period of 1892, and concerned with the family and intimate
friends of Dr. A. B. Thaw. I fear that most of my readers will avoid
these somewhat lengthy detailed records, and confine themselves to
the incidents which I quote from them in the body of my Report.
The psychological student, however, may find them far too few, and I
hope in the future to place as complete a record as possible of my
detailed investigations in the rooms of the Society.
§ 2. Development of Automatic Writing in Mrs. Piper's Trance.
The first case of this automatic writing which I witnessed myself
occurred on March 12th, 1892. The sitter, a lady, had taken several
articles as test objects, among them a ring which had belonged to
Annie D .
Phinuit made references to this lady, giving the name Annie, and
just before the close of the sitting Mrs. Piper's right hand moved
slowly up until it was over the top of her head. The arm seemed
to become rigidly fixed in its position, as though spasmodically
contracted, but the hand trembled very rapidly. Phinuit exclaimed
several times: "She's taken my hand away," and added : "she wants
to write." I put a pencil between the fingers, and placed a block-
book on the head under the pencil. No writing came until, obeying
Phinuit's order to "hold the hand," I grasped the hand very firmly at
292 [part
Richard Hodgson.
its junction with the wrist and so stopped its trembling or vibrating.
It then wrote : " I am Annie D [surname correctly given] ... I
am not dead ... I am not dead but living. ... I am not dead
. . . world . . . good bye ... I am Annie D ." The hold
of the pencil then relaxed, and Phinuit began to murmur " Give me
my hand back, give me my hand back." The arm, however, remained
in its contracted position for a short time, but finally, aa though with
much difficulty, and slowly, it moved down to the side, and Phinuit
appeared to regain control over it. Previous to this I had witnessed
a little of Phinuit's writing, but I was not aware that any other
" control " had used the hand while Phinuit was manifesting at the
same time. I have since learned from Miss A. M. B., some of whose
experiences with Mrs. Piper were described in my former Report
(Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VIII., pp. 111-114), that her "friend H.," to
whom she there refers as having written when controlling the body in
the absence of Phinuit, wrote several sheets on May 23rd, 1891, and
Miss R. finds the note appended :—
" Written when Phinuit had control, but H. said that he seized and
controlled the hand and wrote it."
At several other sittings in the course of the next few weeks more
writing was produced very similarly, the block-book being held on the
top of the head, but apparently with much less inconvenience to
Phinuit. On April 29th, 1892, I placed a table so that Mrs. Piper's
right arm could rest comfortably upon it, and suggested that the hand
should write on a block-book on the table instead of on the head. The
arm had already taken up its position with the hand over the head,
Phinuit saying that " George " was going to write, but partly owing to
my request for the new position, and partly by using not a little
force,—the resistance to which was diminished after my repeated
request, "You must try to write on the table,"—I succeeded in
getting the arm down, and thereafter the writing has been habitually
produced with the arm resting, more or less, on a table to the right of
Mrs. Piper.
When the arm is being seized " for the purpose of writing," as also
to a less extent when Phinuit is regaining control, it shows a certain
amount of spasmodic movement, which occasionally is extremely
violent, knocking pencils and block-books helter-skelter off the table,
and requiring considerable force to restrain it. Sometimes, but not
often, the writing will be interrupted by a spasm in the arm, and the
hand will be strongly clenched and bent over at the wrist, but after
an interval that can be measured in seconds rather than minutes, the
hand will be released and proceed with the writing. It is not necessary
for Phinuit to stop talking while the hand is writing. On one occasion
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 293
when I was present Phinuit was listening to the stenographic report
of a previous interview, commenting upon it, making additions to his
statements about some objects, and at the same time the hand was
writing freely and rapidly on other subjects, and holding conversation
with another person, the hand purporting to be " controlled " by a
deceased friend of that person. This lasted for over twenty minutes.
On another occasion, when I was not present, I was informed that
Phinuit for about an hour kept up a specially rapid and vigorous
talk, more voluble even than usual with him, with two or three
young girls who were present at the sitting, and during the whole of
this time the hand was writing on other matters with another person.
The only one that appeared to be distracted was the sitter who was
talking with the " hand," who was remonstrated with by the "hand "
for not paying sufficient attention to it. I have frequently witnessed,
during lesser intervals, the " hand " writing with one person and
Phinuit talking with another, and also the " hand " writing and Phinuit
talking at the same time to myself, and have never failed to get this
double action when desired if Phinuit was present and the hand was
being used by another "control." In all cases when the "hand" is
writing independently of Phinuit, the sense of hearing for the " hand-
control " appears to be in the hand, whereas Phinuit apparently always
hears through the ordinary channel. This apparent hetersesthesia will
be considered in Part II. of my Report.
The writings, of course, as already implied, do not always purport
to come from the same person, nor is writing always produced at
a sitting. If writing occurs at any sitting it usually purports to
come directly from some deceased friend of the sitter. About the
characteristics of the actual handwritings themselves I shall have
something to say later. At present it is enough to say that they vary
superficially a great deal, according to the excitement, so to speak, of
the purported "communicator," to the frequency of his writing in that
way previously, and probably to other causes difficult to estimate except
speculatively. It would seem, moreover, that until instructed in some
way, the quasi-personality that guides the writing is unaware that he is
writing. The process from the point of view of the "communicator"
rather resembles the definite thinking of his thoughts, with the object
of conveying them to the sitter,—and I feel very sure that this is
true whatever theory may be held as to the identity of the " com
municator," whether this is what it purports to be, or merely another
stratum of Mrs. Piper's mind believing itself to be an extraneous
intelligence.
Soon after this writing began, it occurred to me that possibly the
left hand might also write, and that it might be possible to get botli
hands writing and Phinuit speaking all at the same time on different
294 [part
Richard Hodgson.
subjects with different persons, and I remarked to Phinuit that I
hoped some day to get a separate "control" of each finger and toe
of the medium's body, while he could manage the voice. On
February 24th, 1894, what we have called the "E" control wrote
in the course of some remarks about certain " mediums " : " In these
cases there is no reason why various spiritual minds cannot express
their thoughts at the same time through the same organism." I then
referred to my proposed experiment with the two hands, and said
that I would arrange to try it some time, with " E " using one hand
and "George" the other, but that I was not prepared to make the
experiment at that time. At my next sitting, February 26th, 1894,
when I was unprepared and was alone, an attempt, only very partially
successful, was made to write independently with both hands at the
ver,y beginning of the sitting. On March 18th, 1895, another attempt
much more successful was made, when I was accompanied for the
purpose by Miss Edmunds. Her " deceased sister " wrote with one
hand and G. P. with the other, while Phinuit was talking, all
simultaneously on different subjects. Very little, however, was
written with the left hand. The difficulty appeared to lie chiefly in
the deficiencies of the left hand as a writing-machine.
Sometimes, shortly before the hand starts writing, Phinuit gives
notice that some one is "going to talk with you himself." Sometimes
the hand is "seized," and passes through its convulsive vagaries while
Phinuit gives no sign but talks on with the sitter continuously, even
after the writing has started. To give an extreme instance of this,
at a sitting where a lady was engaged in a profoundly personal
conversation with Phinuit concerning her relations, and where I was
present to assist, knowing the lady and her family very intimately,
the hand was seized very quietly and, as it were, surreptitiously, and
wrote a very personal communication to myself, purporting to come
from a deceased friend of mine, and having no relation whatsoever
to the sitter ; precisely as if a caller should enter a room where two
strangers to him were conversing, but a friend of his also present, and
whisper a special message into the ear of the friend without disturbing
the conversation.
In the case of a new communicator, however, Phinuit frequently
requests the sitter to " talk to him," i.e., to the hand-writer, though
Phinuit is not averse from keeping up the oral conversation as well, if
this is desired. Indeed he seems to prefer this, but when the sitter
turns to pay attention to the hand, Phinuit frequently makes some
such enigmatical remark as "I'll help him," or "I'll help to hold him
up." At other times Phinuit will request that an article should be
given to himself, so that he might have something to engage his atten
tion, and I have known him to blurt out something about the article
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 295
in the middle of the sitting, while the writing is still going on. At
any time, apparently, under these circumstances, Phinuit can be evoked
from his silence by talking into the ear, and will at once resume the
communication while the writing continues without a break.
§ 3. History of the G. P. Communications.
Now to proceed with the history of the G. P. communications.
Some preliminary statements are required to enable the reader to
form a fair judgment on the facts to be presented.
G. P. met his death accidentally, and probably instantaneously,
by a fall in New York in February, 1892, at the age of thirty-two
years. He was a lawyer by training, but had devoted himself chiefly
to literature and philosophy, and had published two books which
received the highest praise from competent authorities. He had
resided for many years in Boston or its vicinity, but for three years
preceding his death had been living in New York in bachelor apart
ments. He was an Associate of our Society, his interest in which
was explicable rather by an intellectual openness and fearlessness
characteristic of him than by any tendency to believe in supernormal
phenomena. He was in a sense well known to me personally, but
chiefly on this intellectual side ; the bond between us was not that
of an old, intimate, and if I may so speak, emotional friendship. We
had several long talks together on philosophic subjects, and one very
long discussion, probably at least two years before his death, on the
possibility of a "future life." In this he maintained that in accord
ance with a fundamental philosophic theory which we both accepted,
a " future life " was not only incredible, but inconceivable ; and I
maintained that it was at least conceivable. At the conclusion of the
discussion he admitted that a future life was conceivable, but he did
not accept its credibility, and vowed that if he should die before I did,
and found himself "still existing," he would "make things lively" in
the effort to reveal the fact of his continued existence.
On March 7th, 1888, he had a sitting with Mrs. Piper, one of a
series arranged by the Committee on Mediumistic Phenomena
connected with the American S.P.R. (See Proceedings S.P.R., Vol.
VIII., p. 2). The names of the sitters in this series were very carefully
guarded by the Committee, and I may add my own opinion that Mrs.
Piper never knew until recently that she had ever seen G. P. At the
sitting which G. P. attended, the Rev. Minot J. Savage acted as the
supervising member of the Committee, and G. P. was a stranger to
him. (See p. 326).
G. P.'s conclusion was, briefly, that the results of this sitting did
not establish any more than hypersesthesia on the part of the medium.
296 [part
Richard Hodgson.
I knew of G. P.'s death within a day or two of its occurrence, and
was present at several sittings with Mrs. Piper in the course of the
following few weeks, but no allusion was made to G. P. On March
22nd, 1892, between four and five weeks after G. P.'s death, I
accompanied Mr. John Hart [not the real name], who had been an old
intimate friend of his, to a sitting.i I understood from Mr. Hart that
he had some articles with him to be used as tests, but he gave me no
further information than this, though I surmised that the articles might
have belonged to G. P. The appointment for the sitting was made by
myself, and of course Mr. Hart's real name was not mentioned to Mrs.
Piper. I abridge from the notes of the sitting made by myself at the
time, and substitute, in part, other names for those actually used.2
The sitting began by some remarks of Phinuit concerning the sitter,
followed by an incorrect statement about a cousin said to have died
some years before with heart trouble. Mr. Hart presented a pencil.3
Phinuit : Cousin. Heart, through here [clutches throat and about breast
and lower] something like pneumonia. Do you know that's a brother 1
i I must mention here that towards the end of 1887, at a time when Mrs. Piper's
sittings were given in a very much more haphazard way than at present, I had taken
Mr. Hart to Mrs. Piper on the chance of getting a sitting. Mrs. Piper was just
about to give a sitting to a lady, so that our visit was futile. In my own opinion this
circumstance is irrelevant, but as Mrs. Piper saw Mr. Hart at that time for a few
minutes, although his name was not mentioned, it might be regarded by some
persons as important. Further, Mrs. Piper was staying in New York with one of our
members, Dr. Anna Lukens (who knew nothing of G. P.), at the time when G. P.
met his death. She went to New York February 8th, 1892, and returned to Boston
Fobruary 20th, ls92, as I learned from Dr. Lukens, staying with Dr. Lukens all the
time, and giving a series of sittings. Mrs. Piper independently gave me a concordant
account.
3 Owing to the personal character of many of the incidents referred to in the
G. P. communications, I have in nearly all cases substituted other names for the real
ones. It has been suggested that the important witnesses in connection with the
G. P. evidence may have been in collusion with Mrs. Piper. The absurdity of this
suggestion would be at once apparent if their real names were given, but since the
only real full names given of actual sitters with G. P. are those of Professors C.
Eliot Norton and .Tames M. Peiree, of Harvard University, who are referred to
chiefly as cases of being recognised by the communicating G. P. as personally known
to him, I state concerning the others that I know personally all but two of the G. P.
sitters, and most of them intimately, that they belong to the most cultivated and
responsible class in the United States, and that it would be as absurd to suppose any
collusion between them and Mrs. Piper as to suppose that the members of the Council
of the S.P. R. were in collusion with her. Many of them aro also known person
ally to Mr. Myers, who adds the following statement.—R. H.
I am well acquainted with fourteen of the principal persons cited in the sittings
above recorded, in connection with "George Pelham." Several of these, indeed, are
among my most valued friends. Not only would the idea of their deliberate collusion
with Mrs. Piper be absurd, but I also regard then: as very unlikely, from their previous
opinions and their character, to supply the unconscious collusion—if I may so term
it—of prepossessed credulity.—Frederic \V. H. Myers.
3 In the accounts of sittings, the sitter's remarks are throughout given in round
brackets, and explanatory notes in square brackets.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 297
(Sometimes he used to call me brother.) He's very close to you. (He isn't
my brother, though we used to say it of each other. ) [The pencil had been
worn by an uncle of mine who died of inflammation of the bladder.—J. H.]
[Phinuit here calls out a name that suggests an attempt at Howards. See
later.—R. H.] (I don't know anyone of that name.)
[Sitter gives locket, saying, " He also wore this."]
Phinuit [fingering locket hard] : It has hair in it. It is the hair of his
father . . . George . . . and of another, his mother, too. (Yes,
that's right.) The influences are confusing. (I have something else here)
[giving watch]. Yes. George. Ha . . . Har . . . Hart. [All
correct. The name of my uncle George is in the back of the watch. When
he died, my uncle Albert wore it. I did not remember that the name was
engraved on the inner case of the watch.—J. H.]
Lai. . . lal . . . Albert ... is that the way you
pronounce it ? He is very fond of you. He says he is not d e d . . .
dead. He will see you again. He is glad to see you. He is very
fond of you. [Lal was a pet name my father sometimes called my uncle
Albert.—J. H.]
Who is James . . . Jim? (Yes, I know, but he is not dead. ) There
is another George who wants to speak to you. How many Georges are there
about you any way ?
The rest of the sitting, until almost the close, was occupied by
statements from G. P., Phinuit acting as intermediary. George
Pelham's real name was given in full, also the names, both Christian
and surname, of several of his most intimate friends, including the
name of the sitter.
Moreover, incidents were referred to which were unknown to the
sitter or myself.
One of the pair of studs which J. H. was wearing was given to
Phinuit. . . . "(Who gave them to me?) That's mine. I gave
you that part of it. I sent that to you. (When ?) Before I came here.
That's mine. Mother gave you that. (No.) Well, father then, father
and mother together. You got those after I passed out. Mother took
them. Gave them to father, and father gave them to you. I want you
to keep them. I will them to you." Mr. Hart notes : " The studs
were sent to me by Mr. Pelham as a remembrance of his son. I knew
at the time that they had been taken from G.'s body, and afterwards
ascertained that his stepmother had taken them from the body and
suggested that they would do to send to me, I having previously
written to ask that some little memento be sent to me."
James and Mary [Mr. and Mrs.] Howard were mentioned with
strongly personal specific references, and in connection with Mrs.
Howard came the name Katharine. "Tell her, she'll know. I will
solve the problems, Katharine." Mr. Hart notes : " This had no special
significance for me at the time, though I was aware that Katharine,
the daughter of Jim Howard, was known to George, who used to live
298 [part
Richard Hodgson.
with the Howards. On the day following the sitting I gave Mr.
Howard a detailed account of the sitting. These words, ' I will solve
the problems, Katharine,' impressed him more than anything else, and
at the close of my account he related that George, when he had last
stayed with them, had talked frequently with Katharine (a girl of
fifteen years of age) upon such subjects as Time, Space, God, Eternity,
and pointed out to her how unsatisfactory the commonly accepted
solutions were. He added that some time he would solve the pro
blems, and let her know, using almost the very words of the
communication made at the sitting." Mr. Hart added that he was
entirely unaware of these circumstances. I was myself unaware of
them, and was not at that time acquainted with the Howards, and
in fact nearly every statement made at the sitting, during which
I was the note-taker, concerned matters of which I was absolutely
ignorant.
Meredith, an intimate friend of Mr. Hart and G. P., was mentioned.
" Lent a book to Meredith. Tell him to keep it for me. Go to my
room where my desk is." In reply to inquiries (April, 1892), Meredith
stated that the last time he saw Pelham was in Pelham s own room
several months before the latter's death. They had spent the greater
part of the day together, and Pelham had pressed Meredith to take
away some of his manuscripts and books. Thus far the reference to
Meredith seems to have been correct. But Meredith was unable to
remember definitely that he took any manuscript or book away.
The only references coming from G. P. that were apparently con
fused or without special significance were the remarks towards the end
of the sitting : " Give me a powder ; my tongue is wet "—which had
no meaning for the sitter (but which the Howards thought might
have reference to a time when G. P. was ill in their house)—and the
statements below about the handkerchief and perhaps the " Uncle
Will." He did leave his papers, letters, etc., " mixed up."
.John, if that is you, speak to me. Tell .Jim I want to see him. He will
hardly believe me, believe that I am here. I want him to know where I
am ... O good fellow. All got dark, then it grew light. Where is
Uncle Will ? I met Uncle Willie, William. (I don't know what you
mean.) Ask Mother. She'll know. [i!. P. had no Uncle William deceased.
He had a deceased great-uncle William, on his mother's side, who was
thus the uncle of his mother deceased and his stepmother living, who are
sisters.]
Go up to my room. (Which room ?) Up to my room, where I write.
I'll come. Speak to me, John. (What room ?) Study. (You said some
thing about a desk just now.) I left things all mixed up. I wish you'ld go
up and straighten them out for me. Lot of names. Lot of letters. I left
things mixed up. You answer them for me. Wish I could remember more,
but I'm confused. CLUB. Went to the Club. Two things at the
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 299
Club to make right. (What Club ?) His hand-er—(handkerchief). Hand
kerchief. (What does he want with his handkerchief ?) I left it at the Club.
(What Club?) O U R ... did you find it? (Yes, no, you haven't
told me at what Club.) I saw you there. It isn't like you, John. [The
last time I saw G. was at the Players' Club in New York.—J. H.]
Who's Rogets? [Phinuit tries to spell the real name.] (Spell that
again.) [At the first attempt afterwards Phinuit leaves out a letter, then
spells it correctly.] Rogers. (What do you want Rogers to get ?) I want
you to tell Rogers to get my handkerchief. I left it. He found it. Rogers
has got a book of mine. (What is he going to do with it ?)
[Both Hart and G. P. knew Rogers, who at that time had a certain
MS. book of G. P. in his possession. The book was found after G. P. 's
death and given to Rogers to be edited. G. P. had promised during his
lifetime that a particular disposition should be made of this book after his
death. This action which G. P. living had contemplated with regard to the
book was here, and in subsequent utterances which from their private nature
I cannot quote, enjoined emphatically and repeatedly, and had it been at once
carried out, as desired by G. P., much subsequent unhappiness and confusion
might have been avoided. Neither Hart nor Rogers knows anything of the
handkerchief incident.]
During the latter part of the sitting, and without any relevance to
the remarks immediately before and after, which were quite clear as
expressions from G. P. came the words, " Who's James ? Will-
William." [It must be remembered that Phinuit was talking
throughout.] This was apparently explained by Phinuit's further
remarks at the close of the sitting.
Phinuit : Who's Alice ? (What do you want me to say to her 1) [To
R. H.] Alice in spirit. Alice in spirit says it's all over now, and tell Alice
in the body all is well. Tell Will I'll explain things later on. He [George]
calls Alice, too, in the body. I want her to know me, too, Alice and
Katharine. . . . Speak to him. He won't go till you say good-bye.
[The hand then wrote : George Pelham. Good day (?) John.]
[Phinuit's reference seemed to be quite clear at the time to Professor
William James, and the three Alices were discriminated. It seemed as
though Phinuit's mention of the other Alices had reminded G. P. of the one
well-known to him . Alice James, the sister of Professor William James, had
recently died in England. The first name of Mrs. James is also Alice.
Alice, the sister of Katharine, is the youngest daughter of Mr. Howard and
was very fond of G. P.]
As I have already said, the most personal references made at the
sitting cannot be quoted ; they were regarded by J. H. as profoundly
characteristic of Pelham, and in minor matters, where my notes were
specially inadequate, such as in the words of greeting and occasional
remarks to the sitter, the manner of reference to his mother with him
" spiritually," and to his father and [step] mother living etc., the sitter
was strongly impressed with the vraisemblance of the personality of
Pelham.
x
300 [part
Richard Hodgson.
It so happened that appointments had been made for other sitters,
and it was nearly three weeks before a special opportunity was given
for further communication from G. P., at a sitting when Mr. and Mrs.
James Howard were present alone. In the interim I accompanied
several different persons to their sittings, and at each of these Phinuit
represented G. P. as anxious to see his friends, using some such remark
as " George says, when are you going to bring Jim?" or "George says
he wants to tell you about the philosophy of this life." One only of
these sitters, Mr. Vance, had been known to G. P., and at the
beginning of his sitting, which was on March 30th, 1892, G. P. first
wrote a few words to myself expressing a wish to see his father
(Mr. P.) about some private matters ; then Phinuit spoke for him,
saying, " I want to tell you where I am and what I am doing and
what this life consists of." Then references were made to two other
friends of G. P., who had also been mentioned at John Harts
sitting, and then for the first time the sitter was noticed. " How is
your son? I want to see him some time." "Where did he know
my son?" "In studies, in college." This was correct: Mr. Vance
had a son who was class-mate of G. P. Mr. Vance then asked :
" Where did George stay with us?" and received a correct answer, a
description of his country house being given. (See pp. 457-8.)
At the Howards' first sitting, on April 11th, 1892, for which I
made the appointment, of course without giving names, Phinuit said
very little. After a few words at the beginning he gave way for what
purported to be G. P. using the voice, and during nearly the whole of
the time of trance apparently G. P. controlled the voice directly. The
statements made were intimately personal and characteristic. Common
friends were referred to by name, inquiries were made about private
matters, and the Howards, who were not predisposed to take any
interest in psychical research, but who had been induced by the
account of Mr. Hart to have a sitting with Mrs. Piper, were profoundly
impressed with the feeling that they were in truth holding a conver
sation with the personality of the friend whom they had known so
many years. The following passages are from Mr. Howard's notes
taken during the sitting, and may serve to suggest to some extent
the freedom with which the conversation was carried on. All the
references to persons and individuals are correct.
G. P.: Jim, is that you? Speak to me quick. I am not dead. Don't
think me dead. I'm awfully glad to see you. Can't you see me ? Don't
you hear me? Give my love to my father and tell him I want to see him.
I am happy here, and more so since I find I can communicate with you. I
pity those people who can't speak ... I want you to know I think of
you still. I spoke to John about some letters. I left things terribly mixed,
my books and my papers ; you will forgive me for this, won't you ? . . .
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 301
(What do you do, George, where you are ?)
I am scarcely able to do anything yet ; I am just awakened to the
reality of life after death. It was like darkness, I could not distinguish
anything at first. Darkest hours just before dawn, you know that, Jim. I
was puzzled, confused. Shall have an occupation soon. Now I can see you,
my friends. I can hear you speak. Your voice, Jim, I can distinguish with
your accent and articulation, but it sounds like a big bass drum. Mine
would sound to you like the faintest whisper.
(Our conversation then is something like telephoning ?)
Yes.
(By long distance telephone. )
[G. P. laughs.]
(Were you not surprised to find yourself living ?)
Perfectly so. Greatly surprised. I did not believe in a future life. It
was beyond my reasoning powers. Now it is as clear to me as daylight.
We have an astral fac-simile of the material body. . . . Jim, what are
you writing now ?
[G. P. when living would probably have jeered at the associations of the
word "astral."—R. H.]
(Nothing of any importance.)
Why don't you write about this t
(I should like to, but the expression of my opinions would be nothing.
I must have facts.)
These I will give to you and to Hodgson if he is still interested in these
things.
( Will people know about this possibility of communication ?)
They are sure to in the end. It is only a question of time when people
in the material body will know all about it, and every one will be able to
communicate. ... I want all the fellows to know about me. . . .
What is Rogers writing 1
(A novel. )
No, not that. Is he not writing something about me ?
(Yes, he is preparing a memorial of you.)
That is nice ; it is pleasant to be remembered. It is very kind of him.
He was always kind to me when I was alive. Martha Rogers [deceased
daughter] is here. I have talked with her several times. She reflects too
much on her last illness, on being fed with a tube. We tell her she ought
to forget it, and she has done so in good measure, but she was ill a long
time. She is a dear little creature when you know her, but she is hard
to know. She is a beautiful little soul. She sends her love to her
father.
Berwick, how is he ? Give him my love. He is a good fellow ; he is
what I always thought him in life, trustworthy and honourable. How is
l Irenberg ? He has some of my letters. Give him my warmest love. He
was always very fond of me, though he understood me least of all my friends.
We fellows who are eccentric are always misunderstood in life. I used to
have fits of depression. I have none now. I am happy now. I want my
father to know about this. We used to talk about spiritual things, but he
will be hard to convince. My mother will be easier. . . .
x 2
302 [part
Richard Hodgson.
[As stated above, all the references to persons, incidents, characters, etc.,
so far as they are known to living persons, are correct.]
Among the private matters referred to was the disposition of the
book, concerning which G. P. expressed orally the same desire as
before. (See p. 299.) The only writing produced at this sitting
moreover was confined to this matter, and was a message to his father
repeating his wish.
He referred to a tin box of German manufacture which he said
was either in New York or Z [giving the name, a very peculiar
one, of the locality of his father's country residence]. He said that
it contained letters from three persons whom he specified. He washed
the Howards to have this box. They replied that the letters were all
burned.
G. P. : I think not. I want you to have them. I want you to tell my
father about this.
(Can't you give us something that will convince him ? something we
don't know and he does ?)
I understand, a test. You can tell him about this tin box that I left in
my room. I know they have taken the chest, but this tin box they have
not. [The box was found at Z , but there were no letters in it. See
below.—R. H.]
[Mr. Vance, the sitter of March 30th, 1892, had sent me two questions
for G. P., which I requested the Howards to put at their sitting. The
questions were " 1. What was the purpose of the association you formed
two years ago with Miss Helen Vance and two other ladies ? 2. Give the
names of the two other ladies." My impression is that I gave Mr. Howard
my recollection of these questions without having the original letter of Mr.
Vance at hand, and probably Mr. Howard put the questions as I gave them
to him. His account is as follows : ]
Then we put two test questions, by request of Mr. Hodgson : 1st. What
was the nature of the Society formed by you and some other young people ?
He was obviously confused, and in trying to answer said "development."
We told him not to bother about it now, but to tell us at next sitting, a
proposal which Phinuit recommended, but he himself in his gruff voice
suggested " Theosophic. " I told him no. He made a try at question 2nd.
Names of members of Society, "Helen Dering —Derrich, or Herrick."
[The questions were apparently not asked until towards the end of the
sitting, and Phinuit had evidently taken control of the voice and was acting
as intermediary. The answer must be called wrong, although Helen was
the first name of one of the members. See account of next sitting.—It. H.]
April 13th, two days later, was the date of the next sitting, when
the Howards were present again, and the characteristic personality of
G. P. was, if possible, made still more manifest than at the previous
sitting.
The " little tin box " (see account of previous sitting) was referred to
again by G. P., and although the sitters repeated "All your letters were
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 303
destroyed," he reiterated "No, I think riot, not those in box." The
Pelhams first wrote that there was only a large tin box, which was in New
York, not Z , but finally the "little tin box" was found at Z , but
was empty when found. [Mrs. Howard knew that G. P. had once possessed
such a tin box.] This was explained to G. P. at a sitting on May 14th,
1892, by Mrs. Pelham. Phinuit : " That's the one I had reference to. He
says he put some letters in before going across the water, but he doesn't
remember taking them out."]
At this sitting (April 13th) G. P. had direct control of the voice
for about twenty minutes only. Then Phinuit acted as intermediary,
and there was also a little writing, a few lines by G. P., in the form
of an affectionate letter to Mr. and Mrs. Howard. Apparently
G. P. was more confident of giving his own exact words by the direct
writing process than by the method of getting Phinuit to repeat them.
Mr. Howard was absent during part of the sitting, and during his
absence G. P. inter alia referred to Mr Vance's questions. (See
previous sitting.) The following is from Mr. Howard's notes on his
return to the sitting :—
I answered part of that question [the part he answered was correct], but
did not give the names of the other two people because it would be no test,
because I told her [Mrs. Howard] the names of the other two in life, and
as she knows them, if I was to give the names in her presence, they would
say it was thought-transference. No, I shall reserve the two names to tell
Hodgson some time when he is alone with me, because he does not know
them. [All true.]
Many will regard this as perhaps an excuse for ignorance, as names
subsequently given were not correct.
I wish you could convince my father and ma!:., him come here. (Can't
you tell us something he or your mother has dune ?) I saw her brush my
clothes and put them away. I was by her sido ;,s she did it. I saw her take
my sleeve buttons from a small box and give 1 hem to my father. I saw him
send them to John Hart. I saw her putting papers, etc., into a tin box.
The incident of the " studs " was mentioned at the sitting of Hart
(p. 297). G. P.'s clothes were brushed and put away, as Mrs. Pelham
wrote, not by herself, but by " the man who had valeted George."
The statement made at the same sitting to Mrs. Howard, who had put
some violets on the body of G. P. before the coffin was closed : " I saw
you put those violets on my body," can of course be accounted for by
simple thought-transference from the sitter, and may be regarded as of
little evidential value. But other cases mentioned in the reports of
somewhat similar incidents just after death are correctly described.
(Compare, for example, Phinuit's description, p. 539, of Mrs. Thaw's
little child, Margaret, as having some flowers in her hand; it was in her
hand, after death, that Mrs. Thaw had placed three little flowers. In
the case of Mrs. Sutton's child it was a book that Mrs. Sutton placed
304 [part
Richard Hodgson.
ia the hands, p. 493, and lilies of the valley in the casket, p. 486. See
also the reference by John Hart to the question of the disposition of
his body after death, and this was unknown tome, p. 354.)
An arrangement was made with G. P. that he should watch his
father and see him do something that the Howards could not know
about and tell them at their next meeting, which was fixed for the
following day. Mrs. Piper was ill in bed next day, and it was not till
April 22nd that the next sitting was held.
Mrs. Howard and myself were present, but I was out of the room
most of the time and the record of the sitting was made chiefly from
Mrs. Howard's notes written immediately afterwards.
Most of the sitting was private, and of the rest I quote only the
passage for which I have contemporary documents.i G. P. wrote: "T
saw father and he took my photograph and took it to the artist's to
have it copied for me. ... I went to Washington ; my father will
be hard to convince ; my mother not so hard." Mrs. Howard wrote
to Mrs. Pelham concerning this and other matters referred to at the
sitting. Mr. Pelham wrote to Mrs. Howard on April 24th, 1892 :—
. . The letters which you have written to my wife giving such
extraordinary evidence of the intelligence exercised by George in some
incomprehensible maimer over the actions of his friends on earth have given
food for constant reflection and wonder. Preconceived notions about the
future state have received a severe shock. . . . My wife is writing. . . .
Mrs. Pelham wrote :—
. . . Some of the things you state are very inexplicable on any other
theory than that George himself was the speaker. His father did, without
my knowledge, take a photograph of him (the same as the one sent you) to a
photographer here to copy—not enlarge. The negative had been broken.
Mrs. L was going to have it copied in N. Y., and Mr. Pelham thought
he would see what they could do here. . .
The Howards had arranged for another sitting on April 28th, and
in the interim two or three other persons had sittings. On one of
these intermediate days I requested G. P. through Phinuit to obtain
information, if possible, concerning certain incidents, and com
municate the results to the Howards at the next sitting. But the
Howards in the meantime, as I learned later, had transferred their
i In connection with some of these early sittings, the contemporary notes are
deficient. I entrusted my office copy of the whole first batch of G. P. sittings, with
appended notes, to Hart, who was about to make a visit to Europe, to show to some
friends there, and to be returned to me immediately afterwards. Hart did not return
them, was ill for a long time in Europe, where he died in 18(15, and I have not been
able to recover my original documents. The Howards also later went to Europe for
three years, leaving such notes as they possessed stored away in Boston, and it was
not till the end of 1897 that I was able to obtain the contemporary documents given
above.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 305
sitting to a friend of theirs, Mr. Peirce. It then occurred to me that
I would request G. P. at the beginning of the sitting on April 28th to
visit the Howards, and bring me word before the end of the sitting
concerning the doings of the Howards during the time of the sitting,
and I sent a special letter to the Howards, asking them to do various
fantastic things and make a memorandum. The sitting was practically
a complete failure as regards Mr. Peirce, much that was said being
wrong, and what was right appearing to the sitter to be probably
derived from indications given by himself (see p. 461). But the
sitting had one peculiarity which is noteworthy. I carried out my
intention of sending G. P. away at the beginning of the sitting to
watch the Howards, and towards the close Phinuit was interrupted
by statements about what G. P. claimed to have seen Mrs. Howard
doing. In the middle of these statements, the sitter, who was known
to G. P., seemed to be recognised.
[Phinuit speaking.]
She's writing, and taken some violets and put them in a book. And it
looks as if she's writing that to my mother. . . . Who's Tyson . . .
Davis (R. H : I know. That's all right.) [I apparently supposed that
these names had nothing to do with G. P.'s communication. Mrs. Tyson
was well known to me, and Davis (or Davies) was the name of her father
(deceased) whom I had also met.—R.H., 1807.] ... I saw her [Mrs.
Howard] sitting in the chair. By George ! I've seen that fellow [the sitter]
somewhere [touching face] (Why, George, you know me) sitting before a
little desk or table. Took little book, opened it, wrote letter he thinks to
his mother. Saw her take a little bag and put some things in it belonging
to him, placed the photograph beside her on the desk. That's hers. Sent
a letter to T A S O N (Tyson ?) T Y S 0 N. Mrs. [R. H. asks for
George to tell about sitter's name, etc.] You know [to sitter] that George
is a comical sort of fellow. He is laughing very hard. There is some joke
about his telling your name, I don't know what. He will not tell. [Phinuit
says that George recognises the sitter, but doesn't want to tell because we
will say he got it out of the sitter's head.] [See p. 303, where a similar
reason was offered for refusal of information which was not afterwards, in
its most important part, obtained. In this case, however, the desired
information was given before the close of the sitting. See below.—R.H.]
She hunted a little while for her picture, sketching. He's certain that the
letter is to his mother. She took one of George's books and turned it over
and said : " George, are you here ? Do you see that ? " These were the very
words. Then she turned and went up a short flight of stairs. Took some
things from a drawer, came back again, sat down to the desk, and then
finished the letter. [Phinuit kept feeling sitter's head and face. R. H. was
urging him to get George to tell about the sitter, etc. Phinuit said at last
that George had gone again. R. H. urged Phinuit to find out sitter's name,
etc., from George. Finally Phinuit said he had to go, and Mrs. Piper began
to come out of trance. Convulsive movements worse than usual, and then
whispered voice muttering some words indistinguishable. . . . Further
30G [part
Richard Hodgson.
unintelligible sounds, among which the name Peirce was alone distinct.
This name was spoken twice, and was not in either Phinuit's or Mrs. Piper's
ordinary voice. Shortly after this Mrs. Piper came to herself.]
Mrs. Piper had seen Mr. Peirce a few days previously (when he
tried for a sitting, but Mrs. Piper was unable to go into trance), and
as he is well-known in Boston, may have been aware of his name.
This is Mr. Peirce's own explanation of the whispering of the name.
I do not myself believe that Mrs. Piper did, in her normal state,
know his name. I should supplement this by adding that when
Phinuit declined to give the name of the sitter on the alleged ground
that it would be explained by thought-transference from the sitter,
I charged him with ignorance of the name, and implied that his
alleged excuse for not giving it was false. This made Phinuit
apparently very annoyed, and he upbraided me for my disbelief in
him and his " spirit " existence after all that he had done for me.
I endeavoured to pacify Phinuit and thought I had succeeded, and he
said that he would get the name from George when the latter came
back. It was almost immediately after this that Phinuit "had to go."
Since this sitting I have frequently heard Mrs. Piper speak during
the interval between trance and waking, on the borderline of waking.
On rarer occasions I have heard her speak just as she is losing con
sciousness before the trance. At both these times her voice, though
slightly different from the ordinary voice in conversation, is not
different to the extent that the remark in my contemporary note above
seems to suggest. Sometimes it is a whisper, more commonly not : but
it always sounds dreamy or automatic, i.e., it sounds just as I should
imagine Mrs. Piper's voice would sound if she were talking in her
sleep, either aloud or in a whisper.
Now the statements made as to what Mrs. Howard was doing at
the time of the sitting were not one of them correct as regards that
particular time, though they seemed to indicate a knowledge of Mrs.
Howard's actions during the previous day and a half, as appears from
the following statement :—
Dear Mb. Hodgson,—I did none of those things to-day but all of them
yesterday afternoon and the evening before !
Yesterday afternoon I wrote a note to Mrs. Tyson declining an invitation
to lunch ; this I did at a little table. Later I wrote to his mother at a desk,
and seeing George's violets by me in their envelope, gave them to my
daughter to put in my drawer, not "into a book." This is the only
inaccuracy of detail. The day before I also wrote to his mother, putting his
photograph before me on the table while I was writing—two of his photos
in fact, one from another photo and one from a portrait I had painted of
him ; these I afterwards put into his mother's letter. Did " hunt for my
picture," my painting of him. Also wondered in my mind what they had done
with the photo of me painting, and received letter from Mrs. Pclham saying
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 307
they had burned it. What he says about the book is also true, though I
can't tell at precisely what time I did it as I was alone at the time. In all
other matters my memory is corroborated by my daughter who took the
note to Mrs. T.'s, and saw me put photo before me on the desk. She now
says that I only put one before me on the desk and went and got the other
just before putting it in envelope. It was only a minute on table.
While writing to his mother I did "go and take things from a drawer,
came back again, sat down to the desk, and then finished the letter." This
was the letter written at the desk, not the one written at a table.
I ain much disappointed that he did not see what I did this morning. I
am afraid he was right in saying they had no notion of time. Perhaps it
took him too long to come to me, or he did not understand Phinuit's
question.
I hope to have a chance to hear what you think of this soon.—Yours,
[Mks. Howard.]
P. S. —I don't know whether I made it quite clear that I sat thinking,
wondering where the photo of me while painting could be, and I think that
in the first of the two letters I wrote to his mother, I told her he had asked
for it. I know I thought of doing so.
I seldom write to Mrs. Tyson and this note is almost the only one I have
written her this winter,—have not written to her for weeks, perhaps months,
before this. It is certainly strange that he should seem to know so much of
my doings. I feel as if he must have seen them.
[G. P.'s reference to a bag is apparently incorrect, as Mrs. Howard makes
no allusion to it. My impression is that Mrs. Howard told me later that in
her letter to Mrs. Tyson she referred to the "G. P." subject, but I can find
no memorandum on this point. I was struck at the time by the consideration
that all the incidents mentioned were directly connected with the thought of
G.P.—R. H., 1897.]
This suggested that G. P. had a very obscure perception generally
of our physical world, and that he had mistaken for contemporary
physical events a series of recent scenes in Mrs. Howard's subliminal
consciousness. A similar conclusion, to which I called attention in
my previous report, was indicated by the experiments which I made
with Phinuit in relation to the doings of Mrs. Holmes in New York,
which I said "strongly suggested that Phinuit in some way was
getting glimpses into the mind of Mrs. Holmes, was reading off some of
her past experiences." (Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VIII., pp. "24-25.)
Another conclusion to which I have come is that usually for
experiments of this type to be successful, the agent should be thinking
strongly, and " emotionally," of the real person who claims to act as
percipient, and should also be concerned with matters directly relating
to him. The failures as well as the successes of G. P. in such
experiments point to the existence of a real G. P. as distinguished
from a fragment of Mrs. Piper's personality. (See p. 335).
308 [part
Richard Hodgson.
On April 29th, the day following the sitting with Mr. Peirce, Mrs.
Howard and myself had a sitting, and nearly all the time was occupied
by G. P. writing. I held the forearm firmly in the neighbourhood of
the wrist, in accordance with Phinuit's request to " help by holding."
The result of this was to keep the arm steadier, so that the fingers
could move independently, but such holding at later sittings soon
ceased to be necessary, except upon rare occasions.
I must explain some things which you would like to know. I
was glad to see Peirce. ,1 could not speak to Dr. Scliville [i.e, Phinuit, who
has always given his last name as Scliville. See previous Reports. —R.H.],
to make him understand what I wanted him to say, so I tried to tell the
medium just as she was coming into her body again, and I hope she told you
the test you asked for. Ple;ise answer me, did she tell you ? (Yes, she gave
us the name.) That is all you asked me for. I will now explain. I had so
many things in my mind about . . . and other things which you had
asked me to do for you. The fact is I really had no time or strength to tell
you anything about anybody else. However, I will tell you anything I can
from time to time.
. . . The better way for you ... to get things from me is to ask
me to look up things for you and then let me tell them to you quite clearly,
and then if you want me to recall my friends when they are hero simply ask
me. Then my mind is not full of other things. ... I knew Peirce at
once, but could not make Dr. Scliville understand the propriety or good of
your wanting me to give his name to him for your benefit. . . . Tell
Mr. Peirce I did not want to slight him or shuffle about, but was so busy
with other things, and besides talking to Dr. when in the medium's body
. . read it . . . it is more or less confusing, and I cannot give it
so clear. Do you see how it all is, Hodgson? (Yes, I understand exactly.)
Words can never express what I feel towards you . . . for trying to get
me to do things te explain to you where I am and how I live, and all for you
all. Now please give me some tests for me to give to you the next time 1
come to you.
Mrs. Howard had received some questions from Mrs. Pelham, and
one of these was given to G. P. at the latter part of the sitting. "Did
you ask your mother to do anything for you in Washington, a short
time before your death, something which you cared a great deal about
having done, and do you remember what it was ? " The answers first
given showed that he understood the question as referring to a time
after his death, and concerned with communications at previous
sittings. After it was explained that his mother wished to know
what it was that he had asked her to do in ^Vashington " before he
passed out," the following was written :—
I don't think I told you anything, only in regard to getting me some
pictures and the papers for my writing. I will give it to you again clearly.
There is no use trying to act against what is not given us—strength. We
can have so much and no more. I have found that out. Do tell Peirce
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 309
how I tried to toll the medium, but I don't know you got, whether you got
it or no. (Yes, we got it.) Good. You see I saw her spirit just as she
was going in, and as I could not tell Dr. I took that chance. (We got it
all right.) Oh, I am so glad. Well, Hodgson, there is no death. What do
you think now ? (Do you remember our conversation, when I told you
about my hypothesis about a physical basis of a future life ?) I sneered at
it (Well, it wasn't quite so much as that, but you didn't accept it.) No, I
did sneer. (Is it the kind of body I suggested, etherial ?) It is atheria, and
. . . Etherial, and you were right. [See p. 364.] . . . Now give me
some more to do . . that I may prove it to you. Hurry, please,
for I am weak. Good bye, friends . .
[Phinuit then made a few remarks about the difficulty of seeing things
clearly, etc.—" It is like looking through a key-hole into a room and trying
to find out about the people passing backwards and forwards."]
It was ascertained later from Mrs. Pelham that a lady well-known
to G. P., whose home was in New York, had been taken ill in
Washington during a visit there, and that G. P. had requested his
mother to call upon her. The answer would have been, "To call upon
Mattie Johnson." [This is not the real name.] Following the words,
" Good bye, friends," in the above writing came three or four other
words.
The last five letters written at the sitting were not all deciphez-ed at
the time ; apparently they formed no word, and I had evidently tried
to link the letters into some significance with what immediately
preceded by conjecturing a reading which altered one of the letters
and made two words out of them, and putting my conjecture in square
brackets with a note of interrogation. On recently examining the
original writing I found that these five letters were quite clear, and
represented the first five letters of the first name (one or other way of
spelling it) of the lady whom G. P. had wished his mother to see in
Washington, and whose name would have been the substantial part of
the answer to the question. In case I might be misreading the
writing, I submitted it independently to Miss Edmunds and Dr. W-
R. Newbold, both of whom have seen much of Mrs. Piper's automatic
writing. I gave them no indication whatever as to any possible
interpretation. Miss Edmunds interpreted the letters as Matil, and
Dr. Newbold interpreted them as Matie—"short, of course, for Matilda."
Both these interpretations had occurred to myself. Although I have
substituted other names, the analogy is very close. The case would
appear more remarkable if I could mention the actual circumstances.
I do not know of any other word in the English language that the
letters concerned could stand for except the first name of the lady in
question.
This may appear to be a very trivial circumstance, but it is by
paying special attention to the mistakes and the obscurities and the
310 [part
Richard Hodgson.
oddities of these curious trance-phenomena that the most advance, as
I believe, has been made. There are instances in later sittings which
indicated that when some question in the nature of a test had been
put to G. P., the answer to which had been known to the once living
G. P., some desperate attempt was made to give the answer in one
way or another, by a last movement of the hand in writing, a last
utterance through Phinuit, or automatic speech by what I may call
Mrs. Piper's ordinary subliminal, as in the case recorded above, where
the name " Peirce" was given by Mrs. Piper as she was coming out of
trance, in reply to the request for the name of the sitter.i There are
instances also suggesting that the same kind of supreme effort, as it
were, has been made by G. P. on behalf of other persons. Take, for
example, the two following cases. At a sitting shortly after this in
New York, G. P. was acting as amanuensis for a deceased lady whom
he had known when living. The first name of this lady, a very
unusual one, had been given, also the place where we had both l>een
guests together for a week or two one summer was designated, and
G. P. went on to write some more general statements at her dictation,
which were not meant specially for my benefit. While these were
being written I asked for the surname of the lady, and G. P. rebuked
me decidedly for my interruption, and proceeded with the statements
without answering my question. "This," thought I, " is an evasion ;
it would have been much easier to have written the name, if it were
known, than to spend so many words in telling me not to interrupt,"
and my suspicion seemed to receive confirmation later, when the
writing ended without (as I thought at the time) any sign of a
reply to my question. Phinuit followed with a few words about
other matters, but stopped suddenly and called out the letters
M A N N O R S (pseudonym), in fact almost shouted them, and then
repeated the letters, spelling them as before. He said that George
was " yelling at " him to fay that. The letters which Phinuit gave
were indeed the answer to my question. Phinuit spelt the surname
of the lady, but did not pronounce it (p. 471).
Another striking case occurred at the end of M. Paul Bourget's
sitting on December 11th, 1893. He put four test questions to the
chief communicator at his sitting, and after the writing apparently
was finished and the hand dropped, it was seized again suddenly and
violently, and wrote a name beginning with A, but the other letters
were indecipherable. This was followed by the name Venice, and then
another unavailing attempt at the name A ... I understood
i This particular desire to answer " test questions " if possible at the sitting where
they were asked seems to have originated after my discussion with Phinuit at the
sitting of April 28th, where I urged my dissatisfaction with the reason offered for not
giving the sitter's name at once (p. 300).
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance 311
from M. Bourget at the time that a name beginning with A was the
correct answer to one of his questions, but he has not replied to my
inquiries on this and other points. He himself noted that " Venice "
was correct (apparently as the answer to one of his questions) ;
another question had been answered previously (see p. 375).
It is, of course, by no means usually the case that the last scrawls
are apt to be evidentially the most valuable. On the contrary, the
latter part of a sitting, ceteris paribus, is apt to be inferior, owing to
the growing exhaustion of the medium, or what the communicator
would be more likely to describe as the dimming of the light, and pari
passu with this dimming there is a tendency for the intelligence at
work to become dreamy and confused. But when it appears that the
intelligence at work has temporarily ceased from the act of com
municating, and afterwards almost immediately returns to give another
word or two, the circumstances do justify the expectation that the final
fragments may be specially worth study. The explanation offered is
that the communicator's mind, when the act of communicating is
broken, regains the balance which it lost while communicating, realises
more fully the questions that were put, and recalls more clearly the
answers. The swift resumption of communication while the answers
are " on the mind," and before other thoughts can intervene, is likely
to result favourably.
I think it probable myself, then, that there was some such attempt
in the last writing of the sitting of April 29th. The answer to Mrs.
Pelham's question was- unknown to the sitters at the time, and we
apparently endeavoured to connect the last letters with what preceded.
It never occurred to us to look for an answer to Mrs. Pelham's ques
tion just there, whereas after my later experience it is precisely the
place where I should expect to find the answer, especially after
ijr. P.'s statement earlier in the sitting, " I will give it to you again
clearly."
I may add a few words in explanation of the general tenour of the
sitting of April 29th. It was important in helping to bring about an
appreciation of the difficulties in " communicating," and of the methods
to be followed for avoiding confusion. G. P. evidently tried to explain
some of the limitations to which he was subject, and which I think
hold good whether we suppose the G. P. communicating to be the
complete veritable once embodied G. P., or only a small portion of that
G. P., or a fragment of Mrs. Piper's subliminal consciousness. He urged
that when he came full of information for which I had asked, he should
be allowed to give it before being despatched, so to speak, on another
errand, and that when he had certain things to say to me he should
not be interupted by other requests. It was some time, however, before
I understood fully the advice which now seems so clear to me, and I
312 [part
Richard Hodgson.
would, for the benefit of other investigators, specially emphasize the
fact that this advice appears to me to be good, even if we distinctly
adopt the view that we are here concerned, not with any extraneous
intelligences, but with some subliminal personality of the medium's.
At the next " G. P." sitting, on May 14th, in New York, when
Mrs. Pelham was present (see below) she "asks about a letter written
by a friend after he passed out, and places a letter on Mrs. Piper's
head."
The friend was Mattie Johnson, p. 309.
[Written.] Oh yes, I know her, but cannot recall her name. Mother, I
truly cannot think of her name. (Don't you remember you asked me to go
and see her ?)
[Phinuit speaks.] "The test you were after ? "
[Written.] I wanted you to go and see her, but I have forgotten her
name. (It begins with an M. ) I think it was Matilda.
No further reference was made to this until during a sitting on
December 5th, 1892, when in the midst of another entirely
unrelated enquiry which I was making (see p. 423) G. P. suddenly
referred to Mattie Johnson, asked if she was better, and also wrote
"Washington." I paid no special attention to this, but went on with
my previous inquiry.
The sitting of May 14th, from the record of which I have quoted
above, was held at the house of Dr. A. B. Thaw, at whose invitation
Mrs. Piper had gone to New York, and whose guest she was during
her stay. I arranged for the sitting with Mr. and Mrs. Pelham, who
were unknown to Dr. Thaw, and introduced them under other names.
Phinuit began by saying that somebody was going to write, and the
writing started: "Hallo, father and mother, I am George." There
were three different batches of writing, with intervals of speech by
Phinuit on behalf of G. P. Several articles which had been taken
by Mrs. Pelham were seized with much excitement, and appropriate
remarks made about them, or actions performed. My report,
however, is too fragmentary to be of much service as regards the
ensuing conversation. There was a very strong personal element, and
an intimate knowledge was shown of private family matters, especially
in connection with a living brother. But there was also a certain
amount of confusion, probably owing chiefly, as I now think, to the
continual change of subject. G. P. had various questions to ask,
and so had the sitters, and they were continually interrupting each
other. There were three questions, besides the one concerning
Mattie Johnson, which were apparently not answered, or answered
incorrectly.
(Mrs. Pelham : What did you give Rogers to publish in the Cosmo
politan 1 ) ... He says that's about his life. [See p. 301.] [Mrs.
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 313
Pelham explains that she means something which George gave to Rogers
to publish in his magazine before George's death.] He'll write it. [Hand
moves as though wishing to take pencil, but then apparently relinquishes
the idea.]
No further reference was made to this. G. P. turned the conver
sation, through Phinuit, to family matters. Later on Mr. Pelham
asked a question about a lady, giving her name. Thereupon Phinuit
repeated three other Christian names of ladies which had no relevance,
and again the subject was changed. Towards the end of the sitting,
while writing was going on, Mrs. Pelham asked about a MS. book
of poems, and the reply came, "That has been laid in one of my
drawers."
[Mrs. Pelham says that this isn't so.] Ask Harry Meredith. [Mrs.
Pelham remarks that she thought Harry Meredith was dead. R. H. says
that he supposed that Harry Meredith was living, but was not sure.] Harry
will tell. [See p. 298. Harry Meredith was then and I believe still is living.
—R. H.] It is not right for me to stay longer.
There was evidently some misunderstanding about this question,
as the book referred to was the one about which G. P. had shown a
full knowledge at previous sittings, but the confusion may have been
due to the failing energy, as the trance was just about to end. All
other questions apparently were exactly appreciated, references to his
brother, to his father's two different homes, to the circumstances of
the accident that caused his death, to his own mother and sister
deceased, his unfinished MSS., books and letters that he had received
and that he wished to be returned, and the mutual relations between
his father and mother and certain friends. Great anxiety was shown
by G. P. to make some arrangement for giving tests by describing at
a later sitting what his father and mother were doing at some specified
time, and it was decided that he should follow them that afternoon,
during which they should do something special having relation to him,
which he should recount at the next sitting. The day was Saturday,
and the next sitting was held on the following Monday, Mrs. Howard
(who was visiting New York) and myself only being present. Mr.
and Mrs. Pelham, who were staying at a hotel in New York, left Dr.
Thaw's house immediately after their sitting on Saturday morning,
and did not enter it again. After Phinuit had said a few words at
the sitting on Monday, May 16th, I was sent out of the room, and
then G. P. took direct control of the voice and talked for some time
with Mrs. Howard. Almost immediately after my return G. P.
stopped speaking and began to write. He first (in the writing)
expressed his desire to see Berwick soon, a friend of his whom he
mentioned to the Howards at their first sitting (see p. 301), and I
then asked him what his father did on Saturday afternoon.
314 [part
Richard Hodgson.
I saw him take some notepaper and write an explanatory letter to Frank
about what I had said to him when I saw him in or on that day. [Phinuit
says: " Do you understand ? "] (Yes.) [Then followed some indecipherable
words, some of which resemble " tt tout cas."]
The flowers which I saw mother put before my photo, she and father will
understand . . .
[The next sentence not written, but spelt out by Phinuit.] 1 saw them
do [patting] I saw mother put them under my picture on the afternoon of
which he spoke to me to watch him.
[Written.] In connection with this I saw them open my book and place
therein a picture of X. Y. That is all of importance that I saw them do.
I saw you [Mrs. Howard] and saw father give you the roses.
[Spoken by Phinuit.] He saw you take a picture—that is after he had a
talk with his father. Then you went to some place to get a picture. (Of
whom 1)
[Phinuit stumbled over a word sounding something like " himself."]
[Written.] Himself my myself. [Mrs. Howard asks which picture,
showing portraits, at one of which Phinuit says, "That's it."] I mean the
one you got from the photographer. I saw you take it and hold it in your
hands before you and talk to me. (What did I say to you 1 Did I speak
to you ?) Yes, it but what you said was wholly mental. . . .
[Phinuit speaks on behalf of G. P.] Ask Hodgson whether this is
important to him or not. I am determined to [writing again] transfer to
you my thoughts, although it will have, to be done in this uncanny way.
(Nevermind. That's all right. We understand, etc.) Good. I will move
heaven and earth to explain these matters to you, Hodgson. [Phinuit
speaks.] You see I am not asleep. [Written.] I am wide awake, and I
assure you I am ever ready to help you and give you things of importance
in this work. [Phinuit speaks.] It was like Greek to him before he came
here. I could not believe this existence. [Written.] I am delighted to
have this opportunity of coming here to this life, so as to be able to prove
my experiences and existence here. Dear old Hodgson, I wish I could have
known you better in your life, but I understand you now, and the philosophy
of my being taken out and (Didn't you go too soon ?) Not too soon, but it
is my vocation to be able to explain these things to you and the rest of my
friends. (Does it do you harm ?) And it is all nonsense about its doing me
harm, for it surely does no harm, and will help to enlighten the world.
What think you, Hodgson ? (I agree entirely. I think it's the most
important work in the world.) Oh, I am so glad your exalted brains are
not too pretentious to accept the real truth and philosophy of my coming
and explaining to you these important things. (Now, George, we mustn't
keep the medium in trance too long.) Do not worry about her, she is
having a good time, and I will do no harm. You know that too well.
[Phinuit speaks.] He says he's not an idiot. (Oh, I know he's not an
idiot, etc. )
[Written.] I understand. You see I hear you. Now I will proceed
with my important conversation. Your material universe is very exacting,
and it requires great practice and perseverance to do all I want to say to
you. . . .
xxxni.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 315
Mrs. Howard informed me that all the statements about the
circumstances connected with herself were correct, and she left at
once to ascertain whether the statements concerning the doings of
Mr. and Mrs. Pelham on the Saturday afternoon were also correct. My
impression i is that Mrs. Howard was aware, from some knowledge
which she obtained directly or by inference during a call upon the
Pelhams on the Saturday, that they had done something with flowers
and photograph. The other matters mentioned were entirely unknown
to her, though she might indeed have surmised, consciously or
unconsciously, that Mr. Pelham would contemplate writing to Frank
such an explanatory letter as was indicated. It appeared\hat two of
the acts attributed to Mr. and Mrs. Pelham had been done as
described, nor were there any other test incidents, but the third, viz.,
the writing of a certain explanatory letter to Frank (brother of G. P.)
had not been actually carried out. Mr. Pelham had intended writing
such a letter on the Saturday afternoon, and had consulted his wife
about the proposed contents, but had not found time to write. This
experiment again suggests that the supernormal knowledge [shown of
our physical world by the communicators through Mrs. Piper is
obtained indirectly and telepathically through the minds of living
persons, rather than by a direct visual perception such as we enjoy.
There was no further opportunity for investigating G.P. at that
time, as Mrs. Piper was giving a series of sittings under the arrange
ment of Dr. A. B. Thaw, at that time living in New York, by whose
special kindness I was enabled to make the appointments for the
sittings of May 14th and 16th. However, G. P. rendered assistance
at least by acting as amanuensis for other communicators at more than
one of the sittings which followed in May and June in New York, and
on May 29th talked at our request into a phonograph, to which
unfortunately we trusted for a record of the conversation, but were
disappointed. (See Appendix IV., p. 563).
Within a few days after this Mrs. Piper gave one or two sittings
to personal friends of her own who lived in the neighbourhood of
Boston, and was then away in the country resting during the summer,
not resuming her sittings till the autumn. Special arrangements were
then made, owing to the generosity of one of our members, for having
a series of stenographically reported sittings which should be devoted
to further inquiries concerning the G. P. personality. Mrs. Piper
suffered much from ill-health during the winter of 1892-3, the cause
being some tumours, for the removal of which an operation was finally
necessary (see p. 479). This interfered to some extent with the
sittings, of which, however, we were enabled to hold fourteen reported
i See footnote p 304.
y
316 [part
Richard Hodgson.
stenographically. Many other matters were referred to in these
sittings besides those connected with G. P. I shall here refer only to
some of the more important incidents having relation to G.P.'s identity.
Those which I give in brief will be found more in detail in Appendix
I., together with some additional extracts and abridgments and
explanatory comments.
The sittings were held in the library of Mr. Howard's house, in
Boston, in the evening. It was necessary, of course, to offer some
explanation to Mrs. Piper for our making such an arrangement, and I
informed her that we wished a special series of sittings for the purpose
of getting statements from a communicator whom we had agreed to
call George. This, as a matter of fact, was his real first name, but'I
thought it highly probable that it would be used by some of the sitters
in Mrs. Piper's presence during her normal waking state. My own
belief is that Mrs. Piper was unaware till long afterwards that George
was any more than a pseudonym ; but, of course, for purposes of
evidence it must be assumed that she knew the full real name and was
thoroughly acquainted with the object of our inquiry.
The first sitting of the series was held on November 22nd, 1892.
G. P., in his first writing, referred to his knowledge of the place, and
asked Mr. Howard if he remembered how he, Mr. Howard, always
knew just where to find certain books. G. P., living, and Mr. Howard
had frequently talked together there and had occasion to turn up
references to one book or another, and G. P. had remarked several
times on Mr. Howard's accurate knowledge of the location of books on
his shelves. G. P., later, using the voice, asked about the letter- that
Orenberg wrote to Mr. Howard in regard to his "passing out," and made
a remark which seemed to show a specific knowledge of its contents. It
was Orenberg who informed Mr. Howard of G. P.'s death, by telegram,
followed by letter. G. P. then wrongly stated that his father was at
that minute writing a letter. He then said, "Get me my hair." Since
the last sitting in the previous spring, Mrs. Pelham had sent Mrs.
Howard some of G. P.'s baby hair. Mrs. Howard was not consciously
thinking of this and had forgotten to bring it into the room. After
receiving it, G. P. said : " Mother gave it to you. She had it a
long time."
At the next sitting, November 28th, Mrs. Howard's eldest daughter,
Katharine, was present part of the time. She was greeted, naturally,
by G. P., who used the voice, and later asked her about her violin, and
said it was horrible to hear her playing it. G. P., living, was annoyed
by her practising it when she was a little child. He asked after a
special picture which he had owned, and was told that it had been torn
up after his death. Mrs. Howard presented a picture for recognition, and
G. P. placed it on top of the head, and said it was their summer house,
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 317
but that he had forgotten the name of the town.i Such a temporary
forgetfulness, it may be observed, would not be unnatural in anyone of
us. It was some years since the Howards had lived there in the
summer, and they had since spent their summers in another country
place, X -ville, to which G. P., later, spontaneously referred, not at
the moment remembering the first part of the name, " Then you
bought a place at some ville." When Mrs. Howard mentioned the
name of the first country place, D , G. P. at once correctly referred
to the little brick house and the grape-vine, and asked specially where
the little out-house was. This is noteworthy, as the "little brick hen
house," Mrs. Howard notes, "just did not come into the picture." On
the other hand, it may be said that a country house is sure to have an
out-house. Further, Mrs. Howard handed another picture to G. P., but
he at once said that he had no recollection of it, and, as a matter of
fact, G. P., living, had never seen it. Less evidential were the
following : That his father had had a book printed (his father had
printed G. P.'s poems in a small volume, which appeared just before
the first sitting of this series) ; that a basket presented was his (it had
been given by him as a Christmas present) ; that a paper presented by
Mrs. Howard was written to him by her that morning (it was a poem
on death, written that morning with G. P. in mind, but no reference to
G. P. in it) ; that a letter presented was written by hims"elf a long time
ago (correct) ; that a newspaper presented by Mr. Howard had been sent
to him by Orenberg (it was a foreign newspaper, still in its wrapper,
that Mr. Howard had received from Orenberg that morning, and that
he had at once hidden away without telling any one of it ; but G. P.
first mentioned the name of John Hart in connection with it, both
John Hart and Orenberg being in Europe). More personal was the
i I may say here that on different occasions in past years I examine:! Mrs. Piper's
eyeballs during the trance, and always found them rolled up, and my conviction is
that the trance-personalities do not obtain any information by tho ordinary process of
vision. It may be assumed, however, that Mrs Piper rolled her eyeballs up
temporarily when she supposed that an examination was about to be made, and even
that she possesses, during the trance state, some hyperesthesia of ordinary vision.
When the hand and voice are being used by the same " control," and an article is given
to the hand, it must be assumed, in the abseDce of indications to the contrary in the
record, that the article may have come within the field of her vision. When the hand
is being used independently of the voice, the head is invaribly turned away from the
hand, and under ordinary circumstances (unless the head is lifted and turned and
sustained by the sitter) the hand on the table and any articles presented to it there are
outside the field of vision. With the development of the automatic writing Phinuit
seemed to lost? the ability to support the upper part of the body, which tends to sag
forward and downward with the head turned to the left. In tho early stages of the
development of the automatic writing it was usually supported to a certain extent in
that position by one of the persons present. Later on cushions were arranged on a
table in front and somewhat to the left of Mrs. Piper, and the head has usually
been allowed to rest more or less buried in these cushions, but still turned to the left.
Y 2
318 [part
Richard Hodgson.
remark to Mr. Howard in connection with James Peirce : " When you
dine with him, think of me." G. P., living, occasionally dined at the
house of Mr. Peirce in company with Mr. Howard. The suggestion to
Mr. Howard, " Get the long pipe and smoke," may be regarded by
some persons as a guess. It was, however, well known to G. P., living,
that Mr. Howard was in the habit of smoking a long pipe in the
evening.
At the third sitting there was little that can be quoted as of
evidential nature, most of the time being occupied by questions
concerning G. P.'s new state of existence. Reference was made to
Plato's views in connection with a discussion which I had with G.P.
living, in a way which indicated a knowledge of the specific issues
involved in that discussion. (See p. 363.) Another daughter of the
Howards, Evelyn, was present during part of the sitting. G. P. living
used to tease her a good deal, and one of the first things said was " I
won't tantalise you now," and afterwards again, " I used to torment
Evelyn ; but she will forgive me, I know." Duiing the last part of
G. P.'s conversation with Evelyn the other sitters were sent away.
G. P. wished, as it appeared, to give her some ethical advice. Evelyn
gave a brief account of the conversation immediately after the sitting,
from which it appeared that G. P. asked if she remembered the little
book which he'had given her and had written her name in. This was
correct. Evelyn had been looking at it a few days before. G. P. wrote
some words and told her to compare them with his writing in the little
book. There was no special likeness between the two writings. (For
remarks on the handwriting see Part II. of this Report.)
Part of the fourth sitting was occupied by G. P. in explaining, in
reply to questions by R.H., some of the obscurities in his conversation
of the previous sitting concerning his new existence.
During this, G. P. made some side remarks, as it were, to Mrs.
Howard, asking her about Mrs. Warner (who was known to G. P.
living, and had visited Mrs. Howard that morning and talked with
her on the G. P. matter) and referring to " another friend I used to
know, a Mrs. Easton," Mrs. Howard for a moment not thinking who
was meant, and then remembering that Mrs. Easton was the sister of
James Peirce (see p. 305). In the latter part of the sitting Mr.
Marte, an old friend of G. P., came into the room with Mr. Howard.
G. P. had been using the voice, but apparently was unable to continue
doing so, and wrote a little. There was some confusion, apparently, in
what followed. (See the detailed account, p. 420.) Mr. Marte was
recognised, and the subject in which he was specially interested was
referred to by G. P.; the excitement in the hand and the remarks made
by G. P. were quite in keeping with the relations which had existed
between Mr. Marte and G. P. living. But Mr. Marte is so well known
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 319
both as an author and a lecturer that any mere knowledge of his name
and work cannot be regarded as having any evidential value.
The fifth sitting was largely occupied with other inquiries and
communications. Mr. Howard was not present and Phinuit at the
beginning of the sitting said that G. P. had gone to find him. Later
on G. P. wrote that Mr. Howard had gone to see his friend Fenton.
This was correct. Fenton lived in a town [in the country. In reply
to a question as to what Howard and Fenton were talking about,
G. P.'s statement " about this very subject and about me," although
correct, cannot of course count for anything evidentially, as it was so
probable, but the statement made earlier in the sitting, at 9.10 p.m.,
that Mr. Howard was reading, or was a few minutes previously, and
which was afterwards ascertained to be correct, perhaps counts for a
little in the direction of telsesthesia. G. P. also said that he had
something to tell Orenberg that would surprise him, and told us to ask
Orenberg " what he wanted to destroy my papers and letters which I
gave him," the fact being that Orenberg had helped Mr. Pelham to
destroy G. P.'s letters after his death. This, however, was known to
the Howards.
In connection with this I may refer to an incident that occurred
much later, at a sitting with Mr. A. B., on April 17th, 1894, who
inquired whether G. P. knew what he, Mr. A. B., had done on G. P.'s
behalf after the latter's death. G. P. stated correctly that A. B. had
destroyed some " cigar checks " which he had left about. These had
apparently been returned to G. P. living, after his payment of Club
bills, and after G. P.'s death Mr. A. B. had found them and destroyed
them.
During the sixth sitting, December 7th, G. P. asked for his
mother's letter. A letter from his mother had been received by
Mr. Howard, and this was put into the hand. As I have explained
elsewhere (p. 317 footnote) when the hand is " controlled " apparently
independently of the head, the head sags down and to the left in
such a position that the hand is outside of the field of vision,
and there is no possibility of Mrs. Piper's reading by any normal
process a letter given to the hand under those circumstances. After
handling the letter G. P. stated correctly^that his father was not well,
that his mother said in the letter that she was going somewhere, that
the house and property in N. Y. were to be disposed of. These
matters were mentioned in the letter and also known to Mrs. Howard
who had read it. When asked to mention the name of the place he
wrote Potomac. This was not correct. The name of the place had
been mentioned correctly by G.P. at a previous sitting (p. 302).
I think it improbable that there was here any clairvoyant reading
of the letter, but that the information was obtained possibly from the
320 [part
Richard Hodgson.
mind of Mrs. Pelham by some process akin to tehesthesia, or perhaps
from the mind of Mrs. Howard by direct thought-transference. In the
ninth sitting of this series, December 1 9th, when G. P. was using the
voice, a letter written by Mr. Pelham was given to him by Mrs.
Howard. The Howards supposed that it was a letter in which
Mr. Pelham referred to G. P.'s manifestation at the sittings and his
own interest in hearing of them. It was not, however, this letter, but
another one from Mr. Pelham entirely on business matters, which
Mrs. Howard had given. Yet G. P. referred to the character of the
contents of the letter which directly concerned himself, saying that his
father " believes that I exist. He was pained, but he is no longer pained,
because he feels that I exist." This was right, but obviously was not
obtained by any reading of the words of the letter which had been
given. It may be said that G. P. merely made a not unlikely guess,
especially since he had been told that there was something in the
letter that would please him ; but if any supernormal knowledge was
shown it must apparently be ascribable either to some direct apprecia
tion of his father's state of mind or to thought-transference from the
Howards.
To return to the sitting of December 7th.
Mr. Howard asked what it was G. P. referred to at the previous
sitting in connection with Orenberg, and the reply was that Orenberg
had written to Mr. Howard and wanted to know what G. P. had to say.
This, though true, would have been more interesting, as Mrs. Howard
suggested at the time, if told before the letter had been received.
At the next sitting, December 9th, where Mr. Marte was again
present, and asked some questions on philosophical subjects, there was
much confusion. Both Phinuit and G. P. complained at the begin
ning of the sitting that the " light " was weak, apparently owing to
Mrs. Piper's increasing ill-health (which eventually led to an operation
in March, 1893). Nearly all the following sittings wore much shorter,
and contain less characteristic matter. Mr. Marte inquired inter alia
concerning a book on the One or Many, but G. P. showed no know
ledge of it. This apparently was the name proposed by G. P. living in
conversation with Mr. Marte, for a book written by G. P. It existed
only in M.S. form. It is at least doubtful whether G. P. living thought
of it under the title proposed by him to Mr. Marte.
Later on in my Report I shall mention some other incidents in
connection with the series of sittings to which I am now referring,
but 1 give here portions of the account of the eleventh sitting of the
series, December 22nd, 1892 (see p. 438).
At the sitting a personal incident was correctly mentioned by G. P., in
connection with a particular occasion of one of his meetings with the Howards.
In reply to inquiries he specified correctly that it was in N. Y., but was
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 321
unable to give the precise circumstances ; gave names of two common New
York friends incorrectly in reply to the query where the dinner was when
they met. . . . Arthur C was referred to as a friend, and the town
Portsmouth was also mentioned, near which Mr. C lives in the summer.
[Correct.]
It was during this sitting that perhaps the most dramatic incident
of the whole series occurred. Mrs. Howard was supporting Mrs. Piper's
head, I was following the writing, and Mr. Howard was sitting some
distance away smoking a long pipe, when the following conversation
ensued.
G. P. : " Now, what will I do for you ? "
R. H. : Well, George, is there anything that you would like to give us,
any special message that you thought it would be desirable for us to have, or
anything about philosophy, we should be glad to have that !
Mr. Howard : Well, George, before you go to philosophy—you know my
opinion of philosophy—
G. P. : "It is rather crude, to be sure."
Mr. Howard : Tell me something, you must be able to recall certain
things that you and I know ; now, it makes no difference what the thing is ;
tell me something that you and I alone know. I ask you because several
things I have asked you, you have failed to get hold of.
G. P. : " Why did you not ask me this before 1 "
Mr. Howard : Because I did not have occasion to.
G. P. : " What do you mean, Jim ? "
Mr. Howard : I mean, tell me something that you and I alone know,
something in our past that you and I alone know.
G. P. : " Do you doubt me, dear old fellow ? "
Mr. Howard : I simply want something —you have failed to answer
certain questions that I have asked—now I want you to give me the
equivalent of the answers to those questions in your own terms.
G. P. : " What were they 1 "
Mr. Howard : The questions wore about where we dined, and that you
did not remember [see above, pp. 320-1] ; now tell mo something you do
remember.
G. P. : " Oh, you mean now."
Mr. Howard : Tell me something now that you remember that happened
before.
G. P. : "Well, I will. About Arthur [see above] ought to be a test.
How absurd . . . what does Jim mean ? Do you mean our conversation
on different things, or do you mean something else 1 "
Mr. Howard : I moan anything. Now, George, listen for a moment,
listen, listen.
G. P. : "I know"
Mr. Howard : I mean that we spent a great many summers and winters
together, and talked on a great many things and had a great many views in
common, went through a great many experiences together. Now [G. P.
commencing to write] hold on a minute.
G. P. : " You used to talk to me about , . ."
322 [part
Richard Hodgson.
The transcription here of the words written by G. P. conveys, of
course, no proper impression of the actual circumstances ; the inert
mass of the upper part of Mrs. Piper's body turned away from the
right arm, and sagging down, as it were, limp and lifeless over Mrs.
Howard's shoulder, but the right arm, and especially hand, mobile,
intelligent, deprecatory, then impatient and fierce in the persistence
of the writing which followed, which contains too much of the
personal element in G. P.'s life to be reproduced here. Several state
ments were read by me, and assented to by Mr. Howard, and then was
written " private " and the hand gently pushed me away. I retired to
the other side of the room, and Mr. Howard took my place close to
the hand where he could read the writing. He did not, of course,
read it aloud, and it was too private for my perusal. The hand, as it
reached the end of each sheet, tore it off from the block book, and
thrust it wildly at Mr. Howard, and then continued writing. The
circumstances narrated, Mr. Howard informed me, contained precisely
the kind of test for which he had asked, and he said that he was
" perfectly satisfied, perfectly." After this incident there was some
further conversation with references to the past that seemed specially
natural as coming from G. P.
"About my work, yes, my writing, I used to help you in my work, and
you ditto. . . . Jim, I am dull in this sphere about some things, but
you will forgive me, won't you ? . . . but like as when in the body
sometimes we can't always recall everything in a moment, can we, Jim, dear
old fellow ? . . . God bless you, Jim, and many thanks. You often
gave me courage when I used to get depressed. You know how you especi
ally used to firo at me sometimes, but I understood it all, did I not, old
fellow 1 . and I used to get tremendously down at the heel some
times, but I am all right now, and, Jim, you can never know how much I
love you and how much I delight in coming back and telling you all this . . .
When I found I actually lived again I jumped for joy, and my first thought
was to find you and Mary. And, thank the Infinite, here I am, old fellow,
living and well . . ."
Characteristic also of the living G. P. was the remark made to me
later, apparently with reference to the circumstances of the private
statements :
" Thanks, Hodgson, for your kind help and reserved manners, also
patience in this difficult matter."
As I have already said, Mrs. Piper suffered much from ill-health at
this time, and the last sitting given before her operation was held on
March 12th, 1893. This sitting was held primarily that the doctors
who were to operate might have some experience of Mrs. Piper's trance
in case any unusual feature might develop while she was undergoing
the operation under ether: G. P. wrote only a few words of advice,
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 323
saying that he came " just one minute to speak to you. I understand
everything now. I will wait for you and be with you all I can in the
meantime."
Phinuit gave a description of Mrs. Piper's trouble in substantial
agreement with the surgeon's diagnosis, and verified at the operation,
which was performed successfully, and without the occurrence of any
abnormal circumstances (see p. 479), on March 14th, 1893. The first
sittings which Mrs. Piper gave afterwards were two in September, to
Mr. M., a previous sitter. G. P. appeared at the first of these and
sent some brief messages to friends, and rendered assistance almost
constantly at later sittings, until the assumption of the control of
Mrs. Piper's trance by persons who claimed to have been the chief
communicators through the late Rev. W. Stainton Moses (see p. 408).
References to G.P.'s presence at sittings will be found in various
accounts given in the Appendices to both Parts of this Report. Very
frequently he professed to act as amanuensis for deceased friends or
relatives of sitters who were strangers to him, and at other times he is
represented as offering advice and explanations to those trying to
communicate directly themselves by writing with Mrs. Piper's hand.
He stated about the latter part of 1893 that he was going " farther
away " and would not be so available for tests, but that he would
continue to assist as far as possible, and help any "stragglers" to
communicate. The Howards had several more sittings, chiefly of a
personal sort, before they left for Europe in the spring of 1894, and
they also arranged sittings for several persons known to G. P. living,
all of whom were recognised with complete appropriateness by the
G. P. communicating.
This recognition of friends appears to me to be of great importance
evidentially, not only because it indicates some supernormal know
ledge, but because, when all the circumstances are taken into
consideration, they seem to point, in G. P.'s case, to an independent
intelligence drawing upon its own recollections. I have more or less
complete records of nearly all the sittings given by Mrs. Piper since the
first appearance of G. P. Of most of the remaining few I received
accounts shortly after the sitting. At the outset of the communications
from G. P., he was particularly anxious—I describe it as it seemed
primd facie to be —to see the Howards and his father and mother for
the purpose of clearing up some private matters. After the sitting of
Mr. Hart, when G. P. expected soon to see the Howards, he manifested
his presence at the following sittings which I attended until he saw the
Howards. During this interval Mr. Vance had a sitting, and although
he made an appropriate inquiry of Mr. Vance and answered correctly a
test question, the incident was, as it were, casual ; he did not stay ; he-
was not there to see Mr. Vance, and Mr. Vance was not there to see
324 [part
Richard Hodgson.
him (see p. 457). Before the sitting of Mr. Peirce (see p. 305), Mrs.
Warner, known to G. P., had a sitting on April 25th, 1892, at which
G. P.'s presence was not announced at all, as far as appears from my
record of the sitting, which is, however, not complete, as I was out of
the room part of the time. Mrs. Warner did not go to see G. P. She
had taken a chain that had been worn by Madame Blavatsky and a cap
that had been worn by Walt Whitman, about which she desired to
inquire.i
On April 28th occurred the incident which I have described on
p. 305, when G. P. said that he knew the sitter, and I asked for the
sitter's name, which was given correctly by Mrs. Piper in the " sub
liminal" stage of her recovery from trance. On April 29th came the
explanation from G. P. about the difficulties involved in the act of com
municating, and I believe that I emphasised the importance of his always
recognising an}r friend of his who happened to attend a sitting, no
matter what other communications he might wish to make. Prom that
time onwards he has never failed to announce himself to, and to recog
nise, with the appropriate emotionaland intellectual relations, the sitters
who were known to G. P., living, and to give their names in one form
or another, with one exception. This exception, however, seems to me
to be as noteworthy as if the recognition had been complete. It is the
case of Miss Warner, who had her first sitting on January 6th, 1897.
G. P. wrote a little near the beginning of the sitting, but seemed to
have only some vague remembrance of the sitter, who, nevertheless,
was given a good deal of correct information by Phinuit and others
concerning the members of her family and friends. At the end of the
sitting G. P. wrote a few words to ask how Rogers was getting on, and
sending regards to him. At Miss Warner's second sitting, held the
next day, Januaiy 7th, G. P. wrote part of the time, and asked the
sitter if she knew Orenberg. She did not. The sitter mentioned at
the previous sitting that she remembered G. P., but that he knew her
mother better, and at this second sitting G. P. asked who she was. I
said her mother was a special friend of Mrs. Howard.
I do not think I ever knew you very well. (Very little. You used to
come and see my mother.) I heard of you, I suppose. (I saw you several
times. You used to come with Mr. Rogers.) Yes, I remembered about Mr.
Rogers when I saw you before. (Yes, you spoke of him.) Yes, but I cannot
seem to place you. I long to place all of my friends, and could do so before
I had been gone so long. You see I am farther away. . . . I do not
recall your face. You must have changed. . . (R. H. : Do you
remember Mrs. Warner ?) [Excitement in hand] Of course, oh, very well.
For pity sake are you her little daughter ? (Yes.) By Jove, how you have
grown. • . . . I thought so much of your mother, a charming woman.
Mrs Warner waa later on mentioned by (!. P. See p. 318.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 325
(She always enjoyed seeing you, I know.) Our tastes were similar (about
writing ? ) Yes. Do you know Marte at all ? (I've met him once or twice.)
Your mother knows. Ask her if she remembers the book I gave her to read.
(I will.) And ask her if she still remembers me and the long talks wo used
to have at the home evenings. (I know she does.) I wish I could have
known you better, it would have been so nice to have recalled the past. (I
was a little girl.)
Now it should be remembered that these sittings were held five
years after the death of G. P., and that G. P. had not seen Miss Warner
for at least three or four years before his death, that she was only a
little girl when he had last seen her, that she had not been, so to say,
a, special friend of his, and that she had, indeed, changed very much in
the intervening eight or nine years.
This non-recognition, then, by G. P. is a perfectly natural circum
stance, and when we compare the details given by Phinuit of Miss
Warner's family, and the incidents mentioned by Hart, through
G. P. writing, in connection with her brother (see p. 356),—incidents,
moreover, which were unknown to the sitters,—and when we
remember also that both Miss Warner and myself were fully aware of
her name and of the fact that she had known G. P., the very non-
recognition seems to me to afford an argument in favour of the
independent existence of G. P., as contrasted with the conception of
some secondary personality depending for its knowledge upon the minds
of living persons.
Several other incidents point in the same direction. Thus, at the
sitting of December 22nd, 1892 (p. 321), G. P. referred to his friend,
Arthur C , and gave the name of the town near which Mr. C
lives in the summer. In the following year Mr. C.'s brother, also known
to G. P., died, and at the first sitting given by Mrs. Piper afterwards,
G. P. sent a message from this brother to Mr. C. On November 18th,
1893, Mr. C. had his first sitting with Mrs. Piper. G.P. was, apparently,
not present at first, but afterwards wrote a little, said that he knew
the sitter well, and a name beginning with C was written, but the rest
was not clearly legible. He said there was much confusion, and he
would try to clear it up. The confusion was apparently caused, in part
at least, by the attempt of two previous communicators to send
messages to their friends, and I had encouraged both of them ; one of
them because he had given the name of Harry, which was also the
name of Mr. C.'s brother, and the other because the first three letters
of his surname were also those of Mr. C.'s. G. P. wrote that the
" light " was not so good as it was sometimes, and he apparently
mistook me at first for Howard. But at the close of the sitting,
there was some strong writing purporting to come from the sitter's
brother, giving in full his three names and also the sitter's first name,
326 [part
Richard Hodgson.
addressing him as his brother, etc. Further details are given in
Appendix III. (See p. 483). "What I suppose happened was that
G. P. saw what was needed, and sent tlte brother.
Again, there was a curious recognition of the Rev. Minot J. Savage,
on March 21st, 1894. After G. P. began to write, I asked :—
"(Do you know this gentleman, M. J. Savage ?) [Mr. Savage had had
sittings years previously and was known to Mrs. Piper.] Yes. I do. How
are you, sir 1 Speak to me. This is too delightful. I am so pleased to see
your face again. (You remember meeting him in the body ?) Oh yes, well,
I do well."
I supposed at the time that Mr. Savage had never met G. P., and
that was Mr. Savage's opinion also, and we both expected the answer
" No " to my first question, and I at least was further surprised at the
amount of feeling indicated both by the words written and the excite
ment of the hand. Very soon, however, during the sitting, I recalled
what I had temporarily forgotten, viz., that when G. P. had his sitting
with Mrs. Piper on March 7th, 1888 (see p. 295), the Rev. M. J.
Savage was the Committee Officer, who was present officially at the
sitting. But G. P. was not introduced under his real name to Mr
Savage, and it was specially recorded in the report of the sitting that
he was unknown to Mr. Savage. It is probable and, I think, almost
certain that later Mr. Savage may have heard or read in MS. (the
reports were never published) what the name of the sitter was, but he
had no recollection of having done so. I should probably myself have
forgotten, beyond any normal recollection, the circumstances of their
having met, had I not had occasion to consult all my documents
concerning Mrs. Piper in connection with my previous Report and so
refresh my memory of the 1888 sitting. The excitement on March 21st,
1894, seems thus to be quite natural, if we regard it as connected in
G. P.'s mind with the remembrance of his only other (so far as known)
meeting with Mr. Savage, when he, G. P., was in the position of the
sitter, whereas now he was in the position of communicator.
Parenthetically the incident is instructive about mistakes which
may easily be, and doubtless frequently are, made, and we must admit
an indefinite margin for error on the part both of living witnesses and
of alleged communicators. Thus the communicating G. P. might have
failed to recognise Mr. Savage. Both Mr. Savage and I would,
probably, have regarded this as correct, and later on, either myself or
someone else might have discovered that G. P., when living, had met
Mr. Savage, and the incident would have been considered as going to
establish that the failure at recognition was due to the ignorance of
Mr. Savage and myself, and that the knowledge of the " automatic
writing " was bounded by the conscious knowledge of the sitters. Or,
G. P. might have forgotten Mr. Savage, but Mr. Savage may have
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 327
remembered G. P.'s name as that of the sitter whom he accompanied.
Or again, G. P. might have actually met Mr. Savage under other
circumstances which were unverifiable, and his statement that he knew
Mr. Savage might well have been regarded as an error.i
This incident leads to another curious one that occurred at the
sitting of Januaiy 30th, 1893. In this case G. P. stated that he
remembered the sitter not " by name, but only by face," and he
apparently associated his memory chiefly with Marte and with a club.
This partial recognition was entirely contrary to the expectation of the
sitter or myself. But the sitter and G. P. were both members of the
University Club in New York, and the sitter attended a reception to
Marte in New York during the time of G. P.'s residence there, and it
cannot be regarded as improbable that G. P. was also present,
considering his friendship and admiration for Marte. (See Appendix I,
p. 440).
Finally, on November 21st, 1896, G. P. wrote, near the beginning
of the sitting, after starting to make a statement to me concerning
another matter : —
[Hand gestures towards Mrs. M.] By Jove, H. W^io is this ? I have
met her before. (Have you ?) Yes. I wish to speak to her. Why, why,
why, Mrs. M . I am George Pelham, and I have seen you in the body.
Yes, I met you at Mrs. [pause] S . (Mrs. M. : I don't think I was ever
at Mrs. S ). Mrs. Somebody's. Wait a moment until I just think.
Yes. I heard you read once at a friend's house, and yet at this moment I
cannot recall just where it was.
Mrs. M. did not regard it as improbable that G. P. had met her,
and here again it is much more likely that he should remember her
than that she should remember him. I do not, therefore, regard this
as a mistake of G. P.'s. Taken in connection with the case mentioned
i There is yet another incident at this same sitting of March 21st, 1894, which
illustrates apparently the recollection by another person, and as it concerns Mr.
Savage also I quote the account of it hero. The " E " control (see Proceedings, Vol.
VIII , p. 44) was anxious to write a few words concerning tho course of an experiment
I was trying and I introduced the sitter :—
"(This is Minot J. Savage) delighted to see you—I used to read about—Light—
you I think . . . do . . . (Vou mean in the magazine Light ? Yes, very
probably.)"
Here then was no claim at recognition of Mr. Savage, but a remembrance
apparently of having read about him in the spiritualistic periodical Light. Now it
is highly probable that the living " E ," an Englishman, deeply interested in psychical
research, had seen references to Mr. Savage in Lujht, and I incline to think highly
improbable that he had seen references to Mr. Savage anywhere else. The very
opposite of this would be true of G. P., who not improbably never saw a copy of
Light, and to whom the name of Mr. Savage was doubtless known with various
associations, so that he was much more likely to remember Mr. Savage than Mr.
Savage to remember him, and the evidential value of the incident consists in the
emphatic claim that 6. P. made that he had met Mr. Savage, accompanied by the
excitement shown.
328 [part
Richard Hodgson.
immediately above, and with the case of Mr. Savage, it seems to me
on the whole to strengthen the presumption that we are here dealing
with an intelligence whose memory is independent of the conceptions
of the sitters. In no other case has G. P. claimed any personal
acquaintance with a sitter to whom G. P. living was unknown ; and in
all other cases where he was known the recognition was clear and full,
and accompanied by an appreciation of the relations which subsisted
between G. P. living and the sitters. Omitting the case of Mrs.
Warner, when G. P. did not profess to be present, and which occurred
before he started, so to speak, upon his work of assistance, and was
specially requested to identify his friends,—and the cases of Miss
Warner and Mrs. M., both of which, in my opinion, strengthen the
presumption of an independent communicating intelligence,—there
are thirty cases of true recognition out of at least one hundred and
fifty persons who have had sittings with Mrs. Piper since the first
appearance of G. P., and no case of false recognition.i
Other friends of G. P., moreover, have been referred to, living and
dead, besides those who have had sittings, and always with an
appreciation prope^ to G. P. living. As I have suggested above, there
have been indications that G. P. was almost invariably present at
sittings during the five years following his first appearance in March,
1892, frequently acting as amanuensis for other communicators, or
sending brief messages to his friends, or offering some explanations to
myself. Most of these communications are of a personal nature and
cannot be regarded as evidential from the ordinary point of view ; but
the continual manifestation of this personality,—so different from
Phinuit or other communicators,—with its own reservoir of memories,
with its swift appreciation of any reference to friends of G. P., with its
" give and take " in little incidental conversations with myself, has
helped largely in producing a conviction of the actual presence of the
G. P. personality, which it would be quite impossible to impart by any
mere enumeration of verifiable statements. It will hardly, however,
be regarded as surprising that the most impressive manifestations are
at the same time the most subtle and the least communicable.
I may now give a brief summary of the kinds of evidence which I
have illustrated in some detail in the foregoing pages.
On the first appearance of the communicating G. P. to Mr. Hart in
March, 1892, he gave not only his own name and that of the sitter, but
i The above estimate includes the Howard family (five) and myself. Twenty-one
persons were residents of Boston (or vicinity), five were New York residents who had
sittings in New York amon«j various other persons unknown to G. P., two were New
York residents who had sittings in Boston (or vicinity), and two (Mr. and Mrs.
Pelham, the only relatives of G. P. who had sittings) were residents of Washington
who had a sitting in New Yolk.
xxxiii.] Obseivations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 329
also the names of several of their most intimate common friends, and
referred specifically to the most important private matters connected
with them. At the same sitting reference was made to other incidents
unknown to the sitters, such as the account of Mrs. Pelham's taking
the studs from the body of G. P. and giving them to Mr. Pelham to be
sent to Mr. Hart, and the reproduction of a notable remembrance of n
conversation which G. P. living had with Katharine, the daughter of
his most intimate friends, the Howards. These were primary examples
of two kinds of knowledge concerning matters unknown to the sitters,
of which various other instances were afterwards given ; knowledge of
events connected with G. P. which had occurred since his death, and
knowledge of special memories pertaining to the G. P. personality
before death. A week later, at the sitting of Mr. Vance, he made an
appropriate inquiry after the sitter's son, and in reply to inquiries
rightly specified that the sitter's son had been at college with him, and
further correctly gave a correct description of the sitter's summer
home as the place of a special visit. This, again, was paralleled
by many later instances where appropriate inquiries were made and
remembrances recalled concerning other personal friends of G. P.
Nearly two weeks later came his most intimate friends the Howards,
and to these, using the voice directly, he showed such a fulness
of private remembrance and specific knowledge and characteristic
intellectual and emotional quality pertaining to G. P. that, though they
had previously taken no interest in any branch of psychical research,
they were unable to resist the conviction that they were actually
conversing with their old friend G. P. And this conviction was
strengthened by their later experiences. Not least important, at that
time, was his anxiety about the disposal of a certain book and about
certain specified letters which concern matters too private for publica
tion. He was particularly desirous of convincing his father, who
lived in "Washington, that it was indeed G. P. who was communicating,
and he soon afterwards stated that his father had taken his photo
graph to be copied, as was the case, though Mr. Pelham had not
informed even his wife of this fact. Later on he reproduced a series
of incidents, unknown to the sitters, in which Mrs. Howard had been
engaged in her own home. Later still, at a sitting with his father and
mother in New York, a further intimate knowledge was shown of
private family circumstances, and at the following sitting, at which
his father and mother were not present, he gave the details of
certain private actions which they had done in the interim. At
their sitting, and at various sittings of the Howards, appropriate
comments were made concerning different articles presented which had
belonged to G. P. living, or had been familiar to him ; he inquired
"after other personal articles which were not presented at the sittings,
330 [part
Richard Hodgson.
and showed intimate and detailed recollections of incidents in
connection with them. In points connected with the recognition of
articles with their related associations of a personal sort, the G. P.
communicating, so far as I know, has never failed. Nor has he failed
in the recognition of personal friends. I may say generally that out
of a large number of sitters who went as strangers to Mrs. Piper, the
communicating G. P. has picked out the friends of G. P. living,
precisely as the G. P. living might have been expected to do, and has
exhibited memories in connection with these and other friends which
are such as would naturally be associated as part of the G. P. person
ality, which certainly do not suggest in themselves that they originate
otherwise, and which are accompanied by the emotional relations
which were connected with such friends in the mind of G. P. living.
At one of his early communications G. P. expressly undertook the
task of rendering all the assistance in his power towards establishing
the continued existence of himself and other communicators, in
pursuance of a promise of which he himself reminded me, made some
two years or more before his death, that if he died before me and
found himself " still existing," he would devote himself to prove the
fact, and in the persistence of his endeavour to overcome the difficulties
in communicating as far as possible, in his constant readiness
to act as amanuensis at the sittings, in the effect which he has
produced by his counsels, to myself as investigator, and to numerous
other sitters and communicators, he has, in so far as I can form
a judgment in a problem so complex and still presenting so much
obscurity, displayed all the keenness and pertinacity which were
eminently characteristic of G. P. living.
Finally, the manifestations of this G. P. communicating have not
been of a fitful and spasmodic nature, they have exhibited the marks
of a continuous living and persistent personality, manifesting itself
through a course of years, and showing the same characteristics of an
independent intelligence whether friends of G. P. were present at the
sittings or not. I learned of various cases where in my absence active
assistance was rendered by G. P. to sitters who had never previously
heard of him, and from time to time he would make brief pertinent
reference to matters with which G. P. living was acquainted, though I
was not, and sometimes in ways which indicated that he could to some
extent see what was happening in our world to persons in whose welfare
G. P. living would have been specially interested.
Thus the occasional references to his father and mother, and
brother and sister, and a few of his most intimate friends living, were
of the kind that might be expected to come from the G. P. personality,
and sometimes were of direct evidential value otherwise, though it is
only in their indirectly evidential nature that I refer to them here.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 331
In all such personal references the G. P. communicating has shown
the remembrances and the continued interest that we should expect to
find in the independent intelligence of the real persisting G. P.—
so far at least as I have been able to ascertain—and in ways
too complicated and private for any but two or three of his nearest and
dearest friends to know or appreciate. Up to the last series of
sittings which I had with Mrs. Piper, (1896-7) in a sitting which
Evelyn Howard had in November, 1896, and in a sitting which Mrs.
Howard (just then returned to America after between three and
four years' absence in Europe) had since my departure from Boston in
September, 1897, the same persistent personality has manifested itself,
and what change has been discernible is a change not of any process
of disintegration, but rather of integration and evolution.
On the other hand there are certain failures and mistakes and
certain real or supposed deficiencies to be considered, which we can
scarcely suppose would have emanated from G. P. living, and these
require some explanation if we are nevertheless to regard them as
manifestations of the real G. P. personality. I shall deal with them
briefly now, and oft'er a more general explanation later.
Pritnd facie there appear to have been four chief methods of
expressing their thoughts used by the communicators through Mrs.
Piper's trance : (1) Where Mrs. Piper's voice was used directly by the
communicator himself. The chief instance of this was Phinuit, but
there have been, and still arc, various other persons who are able to
use the voice directly, independently of Phinuit. (2) Where Phinuit,
or some other "controller" of the voice, served as intermediary.
Nearly all the communications in the earlier years of Mrs. Piper's
trance were given in this way. (3) Where the communicator used
Mrs. Piper's hand to write. Since the development of the automatic
writing, most communicators have made some attempt to express their
thoughts directly through this channel. (4) Where G. P., or some
other "controller" of the hand, served as intermediary by acting as
amanuensis.
Most of the G.P. communications have been by (3), but some of
the most important earlier communications were by (1). Each method
apparently has advantages and difficulties of its own.i
i I feel absolutely certain that no progress will be made in this branch of our
investigation until questions like those which I am considering are understood. It
would make this report far too voluminous were I to attempt to give the details of
incidents upon which 1 found my conclusions, and I must content myself at present
with stating those conclusions in the text as among the results of a long practical
experience. And I re]>eat that I have no doubt that these conclusions in the main
hold good even on the hypothesis that the "communicators ' are merely fragments of
Mrs. Piper's personality awl have no direct relation with the "deceased" persons they
purport to be.
Z
332 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Thus very few communicators are able to use the voice at all.
Many have tried and failed. Some can use it for a short time only.
G. P. was able to use it more fully and freely soon after death than in
the later stages of his communications. The main advantage in using
the voice is that the conversation can proceed more naturally as it did
in ordinary life, and that the communicator is not so much hampered
by interruptions and changes of subject on the part of the sitters. The
main disadvantage is that the resulting language shows a tendency to
depart more or less from the language that would have been used by
the communicator when living ; it is, apparently,—and this we might
a priori expect —much harder for the communicator to adjust the
language to the thought when operating through what we may
suppose to be the speech-centres of the medium, than it is to adjust
the language to the thought when using the writing mechanism
of the medium. Little as I understood myself the conditions for
obtaining the clearest results at the time of the early communications
from G. P., other sitters understood them much less, and in fact there
are few persons now who have begun to realize the difficulties that
must necessarily be in the way of holding a clear conversation with the
writing communicators through Mrs. Piper's trance. Compare, for
example, the natural flow of the conversation in the record of the
sitting on November 28th, 1892 (Appendix I., p. 414) with the con
fusion produced at the sitting with Marte, December 2nd, 1892.
(Appendix I., p. 420).
Let the reader start to hold a conversation with two or three
friends, but let him be forced to spell out his words instead of
speaking them in the ordinary way, and be absolutely confined to
this msthod of expressing himself, no matter what his friends may
do or say. Let him be interrupted at every two or three words by
his interlocutors, who tell him that they " didn't catch the last
word," and ask for it to be repeated, and occasionally several times
repeated. Let them, further, frequently interrupt him by asking fresh
questions before his answer to a previous question is completed.
Further, let him suppose that it is very difficult for him to hear
precisely what their questions are, so that he hears only portions of
what they say. Having made this experiment, let him then suppose
further that instead of using his own voice to spell his words with, he
is placed in one side of a machine so constructed that the thoughts
running in his mind have a tendency to be registered in writing on the
other side of the machine, not as fast as he thinks them, but at the rate
of writing, and that it is only by reading this writing that his interlo
cutors know what he has to tell them. Let him suppose, further,
that one or more other persons are standing near him on his side
of the machine and talking to him or to one another within his
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 333
hearing, so that the words which they say tend to be registered in
the writing ; and let him further suppose that he is unfamiliar with
the machine, and that the writing produced has a tendency to vary
somewhat from the words actually thought of by him, owing to
imperfections in the machine. Let him further suppose that the
part of the machine in which he is placed is filled with a more
or less suffocating gas which produces a partial loss of consciousness,
that sometimes this gas is much more poisonous than usual (weakness
or ill-health of medium) and that its effects are usually cumulative
while he remains in the machine.
The important failures of G. P. were due primarily, I believe, to
the ignorance of the sitters that he was communicating under some
such conditions as these. And I cannot too strongly emphasise my
conviction that, unless the presence of such conditions is constantly
recognised by the investigator, his further research in this field will be
futile. Having recognised the limitations, he may be able to modify
them and minimise the effect of them ; and in my opinion, it is to the
fuller and more exact appreciation of what these limitations are, and
to what extent they can be removed, that the main path of progress
in psychical investigation trends. Once more I repeat that I hold this
to be true, even if the " communicators " are but fragments of Mrs.
Piper's personality.
Applying this conception then to the failures of G. P., we find
that they are readily explicable. That the written communications
should present a certain amount of confusion and incoherence after
frequent interruptions by the sitters and repeated inabilities to de
cipher the writing, will occasion no surprise. That the writing should
frequently —especially towards the end of the sitting, as the commu
nicator becomes exhausted and stupefied, and loses the power of
inhibition—become extremely automatic and dreamy is to be expected ;
and questions put to the communicator in this state will be answered
by the first vague associations that rise to the surface of the failing
consciousness. Not only is this the case, but such irrelevant (as they
may be) associations occasionally tend to recur at later periods, when
the communicator lapses into the same stage of dreaminess, precisely
as they might be expected to do in ourselves. For example, in the
latter part of Professor Norton's sitting on May 26th, 1894, (see
p. 525) when Professor Norton put a question which G. P. living in
full consciousness would have answered by a reference to an essay he
wrote at Harvard on Jane Austen, G. P. replied by references to what
he had written about Robert Noyes (pseudonym), the life of whom he
had published not long before his death, and to articles in the Sun, a
New York paper with which he was connected at the time of his death.
Professor Norton then mentioned Jane Austen. On two or three later
z 2
334 [part
Richard Hodgson.
occasions at the end of a sitting when the writing became particularly
dreamy, the name of Professor Norton appeared in connection with
that of Jane Austen.i Another special failure occurred at the sitting
of Mr. A. B. on April 17th, 1894 (see also p. 319), who was well-
known to G. P., and with whom G. P. held a " natural " conversation,
asking after some common friends, etc. But he referred to his MS. on
"The One and the Many" (see Appendix I., p. 428), and Mr. A. B.
asked him a series of questions concerning the number of pages, the
paper on which it was written, its division into chapters, its external
title page, and its first sentence and its dedication, to all of which the
answers were wrong, as I learned afterwards. There was plainly some
confusion, and G. P. wrote " do not talk too fast because I am in a
daze, so to speak."
Again at the end of December, 1896, he was asked whether he
could give the name of the person to whom he had once entrusted
some family documents, but he replied that he could not remember,
and that he had been " gone too long."
I believe that these are the only notable failures of this type which
I have in my records besides those mentioned already, or given in the
records of Appendix I. Incidents illustrating temporary forgetful-
ness occur, I need hardly say, very frequently to all of us, so that we
momentarily fail to recall even the name of a well-known friend, and
it is therefore not surprising, for example, that in the latter part of the
sitting on May 14th, 1892, when G. P. was becoming more comatose,
he should have experienced some difficulty, after the variety of subjects
that had been introduced by the sitters, in immediately recalling the
circumstances to which his mother referred relating to another matter
altogether (see p. 312).
But there were also failures of other types, which do not, however,
seem to me to afford an argument against the " identity " of G. P. I
refer to prophecies and to descriptions of events occurring in our
world after his death, and to attempts to find objects that were lost.
Thus a bangle with which G. P. was familiar during life and which
had been used at sittings, was lost, and G. P. located it wrongly.
Similarly a bell with which he was familiar was supposed to be lost
and he located it wrongly, adopting a suggestion of mine that it was
left in a certain hotel. Also a book, with which he had nothing to
do, but about which he was asked, he located wrongly. Incidents of
this class help us in ascertaining the limits of knowledge of communi
cators, and correct answers to such inquiries would strengthen the
evidence for the possession of supernormal faculty going beyond
telepathy from the sitters, but they do not directly affect the question.
1 Sec, for a somewhat similar case, the report of Mrs. M., p. 347.
xxxnl.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 335
of identity. The same general statement applies to G.P.'s prophecies,
which were not many and were chiefly personal, though here I think his
success would outweigh his failure. Nor, so far as I know, is there
any indication in these groups of incidents that the wrong statements
made depended telepathically upon the expectations of living persons.
There is another type of incident yet where G. P. made at least two
notable failures and two notable successes. He failed completely to
describe my own doings at a time agreed upon under circumstances
which appeared especially favourable for a correct description if he
could see into our world as we do (p. 439), and in New York, a few
days after sittings with Miss M. and her brother, whom G. P. living
knew well (and recognised appropriately at their sittings), he made an
attempt to describe Miss M.'s doings during a sitting which I held for
the purpose. The result was a complete failure. On the other hand he
succeeded on at least two occasions in describing certain actions of his
father, and on another occasion described correctly a series of actions
performed by Mrs. Howard. In the case of his father the time (after
noon following the sitting) was correct in one set of incidents, but the
time did not enter into the photograph incident (see pp. 304, 314). In
the case of Mrs. Howard, the one to which I specially refer, the time
was wrong (p. 306). As I have already said, these incidents point to a
failure of supernormal power to see what is going on in our world as we
see it, and suggest rather some form of perception of scenes in the sub
liminal consciousness, perhaps of telepathic nature. There was also some
slight success in connection with Mr. Howard, where the time element
was correct (p. 319). On the whole this group of incidents appears to
me to strengthen the evidence pointing to G. P.'s " identity," since
although G. P. living knew Miss M. and myself well in certain ways,
there was not by any means the same feeling that he had for his
father and the Howards. That G. P. could get into some closer
relation with his father and the Howards than with Miss M. or myself
is intelligible ; but it is not so obvious why Mrs. Piper's secondary
personality should. But the experiments in this direction that are
mentioned in the records are too few for any conclusion.
§ 4. Brief Accounts of Other Communicators.
I pass on now to consider briefly the results obtained from some
other communicators, and begin with the case of the lady whom I have
called Madame Elisa Mannors. Other names are substituted for the
real ones. She was known to G. P., and her first appearance was to
her sister, Madame Frederica, on May 17th, 1892 (Appendix II.,
p. 471). She had died the previous summer. The cause of her death
336 [part
Richard Hodgson.
was designated by Phinuit, who also described correctly, purporting
to repeat what she was telling him, some incidents which had occurred
at her death-bed. The sitter inquired about a watch which had
belonged to Madame Elisa, but the statements made at this sitting,
and to myself at subsequent sittings, did not lead to its recovery.
Some Italian was written by request, the lady being as familiar with
Italian as with English, but only two or three common words were
decipherable. The first names of sitter and communicator were given,
and the last name was both written and afterwards given by G. P. to
Phinuit. Some of the writing was of a personal character, and some
about the watch, and G. P. stated correctly, inter alia, that the
sitter's mother was present (in "spirit") with the communicator, and
that he himself did not know her. The real names are very uncommon.
The Italian for " It is well. Patience " was whispered at the end of
the sitting as though by direct control of the voice by Madame Elisa.
Both the sitter and her sister were well-known to me, and also to
the Howards, and Madame Elisa made several personal communica
tions in the course of the sittings recorded in Appendix I. (see
pp. 417-19, 423), where further attempts, only partially successful,
were made to write Italian clearly, and also to speak it, but not much
was said.
She communicated by writing later to three or four other friends or
relatives, always in a strongly personal way, and very clearly. In her
statements to one very personal friend, at sittings when I was present,
she showed on several occasions an intimate private knowledge of her
sister and her sister's family, in connection with events that were
occurring, and also of other relatives to whom she was deeply attached.
She also had several " written talks " with myself alone, referred to
incidents with which we were both familiar when guests at the same
house in another part of the country, and appreciated properly other
references which I made myself. It always seemed like the woman I
knew.
As I have mentioned elsewhere (pp. 293, 332), the intelligence com
municating by writing is not conscious of the act of writing. The
chief difficulty apparently in getting another language written by the
hand is that strange words tend to be written phonetically unless they
aie thought out slowly letter by letter. The writing is usually much
more legible now than it was during the period of the records from
which I am quoting, when there was frequently much difficulty in
deciphering even the simplest English words. It was therefore not
surprising that so little of the " Italian " written by Madame Elisa
was decipherable.
In another case there was an attempt to write Hawaiian (p. 481).
This was at a sitting arranged for by Mrs. Howard in October, 1893.
xxxnt.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 337
Mrs. Howard made some notes at the time from which the report
was prepared, and I obtained some additional information later from
the sitter, Mr. L. Vernon Briggs. The original writing was apparently
lost, and Mr. Briggs never had the opportunity of studying it after
the sitting. The communication purported to come from a Honolulu
boy named Kalua, who became much attached to Mr. Briggs during a
six months' stay of Mr. Briggs in Honolulu in 1881, and who followed
Mr. Briggs to Boston under somewhat romantic circumstances in 1883.
He was soon sent back to his native island, but again returned to Boston,
where he was shot in 1886, in a sailor's Bethel, whether intentionally
or not was unknown. There was some suspicion against a Swede, who
was imprisoned, but there was no evidence against him, and he was
finally discharged. The Swede said that Kalua had accidentally shot
himself with a revolver, and eventually confessed that after the accident
he had himself hidden the revolver behind a flue, where, after taking
part of the chimney down, it was found. Mr. Briggs had taken a hand
kerchief belonging to Kalua to the sitting. Kalua had been shot
through the heart, and there was some confusion apparently about the
locality of the suffering, " stomach " and " side " being mentioned, under
what appeared to be the direct control of the voice by " Kalua," and
Mr. Briggs asked if it was Kalua. Phinuit then spoke for " Kalua,"
who said that he did not kill himself, that he had been gambling with
the other man who disputed with him and shot him, but did not mean
to, and who threw the revolver "into the hot box where the pepples
are" (meaning "the furnace" and the "coals"), and hid his purse under
the steps where he was killed. "Kalua" also said there was shrubbery
near it. The cellar of the house was examined, but no purse was found,
and there was no shruhbery in the cellar. "Kalua" tried to write
Hawaiian, but the only "ordinary" words deciphered were "lei" (mean
ing wreaths, which he made daily for Mr. Briggs) which was written
clearly and frequently, and an attempt at " aloha "—greeting. Phinuit
tried to get the answer to the question where Kalua's father was, but
could only succeed in getting " Hiram." But the writing gave the
answer " Hawaiin Islands." In reply to the question which one, the
answer in writing was Kawai, but Phinuit said Tawai. The word is
spelt Kawai, but is pronounced Tawai by the natives of the island
itself and in the island where Kalua was born. The natives of the
other islands call it Kawai.
Another instance of a clear " communicator " is that of an artist,
Louis R., who died from cancer of the liver, on February 24th, 1892,
and appeared first at a sitting to Mr. W. L. P., on March 10th. The
locality of the trouble that caused his death was pointed out. With a
cheque book of his held above the head where no direct vision of it was
possible, the leaves were turned over by Phinuit, and the fingers finally
338 [part
Richard Hodgson.
stopped over a pencilled statement on the back of one of the pages of
the cheque book, " It's there. He says it's there." It appeared that
the day before his operation at the hospital, in January, Louis R.
" drew his last cheque, and when alone occupied himself in figuring
with pencil on the back of the next page the balance and the possible
amounts due him from various sources." When Phinuit said " It's
there," the finger was " passed exactly over the balance in the bank."
Pertinent statements were made, through Phinuit, showing knowledge
of the business relations that subsisted between himself and Mr. P.,
with expressions characteristic of Louis R.—and calling Mr. P. Will,
as Louis R. used to call him, though he is commonly called Billie. The
name Louis was given. "Tell Will it's Louis." At a sitting which
Mrs. W. L. P. had, two days later (and to which, of course, she
went as a stranger), she was at once asked " How's Will 1 " The
names Augusta (wife) and a close approximation to Bowditch (intimate
friend) were given, and " Louis " recognised a knife presented as one
that he used to scrape the blobs of paint from his pictures, and
seemed to be aware that Mrs. P. had the custody of his pictures. The
most curious incident was that in reply to Mrs. P.'s request for " a sort
of nickname, German," by which he "used to call Will" ; the name
she had in mind was not given, and Phinuit refused to accept the
suggestion of the sitter that the name she wanted began with Auf.
The name that Phinuit gave, after stumbling over durstan and Appeu-
dust, was Uppendu.sl. The words were not spelt, and I took them
down as they sounded, knowing nothing myself of the name. Up and
Dust was another nickname which Louis R. occasionally applied in
joke to Mr. W. L. P., as the latter himself explained to me, arising
out of an odd pronunciation which he had once given in saying Ich
hob' ein' Durst. Mr. P. had another sitting on March 25th, where
other friends and relatives occupied most of the time communicating,
and a reply to an inquiry which he put about a book in a sealed
package elicited no result of any significance from Louis R. Other
incidents of interest connected with other communicators occurred at
these sittings (see especially p. 291), though there was some confusion.
Louis R. was known to me, as he stated at Mrs. P.'s sitting, and asked
if I was "still fishing for facts." I replied that I was, and should be
glad if he would help. At the first sitting held at the house of Mr.
Howard, November 22nd, 1892 (p. 413) G. P. wrote that Louis was
there and wanted to see Billie. " Go out and tell him to come." The
Howards saw no relevance in this, and they did not think of Louis R. ;
but Mr. W. L. P. lived very close to the Howards, and Louis R.
himself was an intimate friend of the Howards, and had often been in
Mr. Howard's library, where the sitting was held. (An interesting
commentary on the freaks of memory exhibited by communicators !)
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 339
This was followed by the writing of a name unknown to me, Foxcroft,
and apparently no one recognised this either, so I told Phinuit to send
those persons away; that we wished to talk to G. P. I learned after
wards that Foxcroft C , deceased, was a fellow artist and friend of
Louis R. and was also known to the Howards, and in the following
sitting the names of his wife Mary and daughter Addie were given by
Phinuit. At the twelfth sitting held at the house of Mr. Howard,
January 24th, 1893 (p. 439), Louis R. appeared again, and sent some
messages through Phinuit, referring to the room as the place where he
had been many a time, mentioning Mr. and Mrs. W. L. P., and
recognising some brushes brought by Mrs. Howard as ones which he
had given her, and saying he had been to Philadelphia to see his
friends—the living Louis R. had friends there—and asking after
Theodore, the first name of another artist living, a friend of Louis R.
and also of the Howards. On two or three later occasions Louis R.
" dropped in," as it were, to send a little personal message by writing,
on one occasion seizing the left hand when Madame Elisa (see p. 335)
was using the right. Madame Elisa drew my attention to the fact
that some one else was speaking, and then mentioned his name, not
Louis, but " Mr. R——," writing the surname correctly. Numerous
incidents of this kind have, as I think, thrown much light on the
cause of many of the irrelevancies manifest when Phinuit was practi
cally the only intermediary. Thus at Mr. MacDonough's only sitting
(p. 473), on February 9th, 1893, Louis R. was mentioned by Phinuit.
The sitter would count this as a mistake, and as diminishing the
evidential value of the sitting. But G. P. seemed to be able to
distinguish much better than Phinuit which communicators were
friends of a sitter, and which were, for the time being, outsiders, and
he would, as it appeared, sometimes tell such outsiders to go away and
not interrupt, and at other times make it clear that they were not
connected with the sitter, and would give their messages in an
" aside," as it were, to me.
A good instance of the confusion arising from what appears to be
the " return " of a recent communicator to send further messages to
friends, is given in Appendix III. (see pp. 499-501). On March 2nd,
1894, Mrs. M. E. P. and Mrs. Alice Dale (pseudonym) had a sitting,
and on March 3rd, when Mr. Heywood was present, the first writing
that came was a message to Alice Dale, purporting to be from her
sister Polly, who said she was with Elsie at all times. But the writing
further on contained the statement "I often see Alice Wilkinson."
Polly, whose real name was Alice Wilkinson, was the adopted sister of
Mrs Dale, and Mrs. Dale's last baby had been named Alice after her,
but was called Elsie to avoid confusion, as Mrs. Dale's name was also
Alice. Of these circumstances the only one known to me was that
340 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Mrs. Dale's name was Alice. I asked at later sittings for an explana
tion of this error, and concluded that " Daisy " ( " deceased " wife of
Mr. Heywood), from whom the immediately following communications
purported to come, was m contact with the writing mechanism (see p.
399), which reproduced what " Daisy " heard " Alice Wilkinson " say,
and also what was passing through her own mind (or possibly what she
heard another " intelligence " say). I did not appreciate until long
afterwards that apparently G. P. saw what was happening, and
perceived that something was wrong with the writing mechanism or
that "Daisy" could not manage it. He therefore took her place, saying
" I saw her and in consequence right it for you." Mr. Heywood and
myself, who were not aware that there was anything to right, assumed
that write was intended, and we laughed and remarked upon it. To
which G. P. wrote emphatically, " Am I not right I " and then
continued : "Well, do speak and I will help you. This was a mistake,
if you please. Trust me—trust it to me, sir," i.e., to act as amanuensis.
G.P.'s discernment in such cases has apparently been of great assist
ance, and my own more complete supervision of Mrs. Piper's sittings
and knowledge of the records has enabled me to keep out much
confusion by either taking the message in any particular case and
promising to deliver it, or by sending the " intruder " away. The
results have proved to be in precise accordance with the theory that
the communicators are what they purport to be, which thus conforms
to one important canon of scientific requirements.
At Mr. MacDonough's sitting (p. 473) there were some messages
from the sitter's brother, John MacDonough, including specific
directions for the discovery of a leak in Mr. MacDonough's house at
Long Branch, N.Y. The leak was said to be under a certain window-
sill, and there indeed the leak was afterwards found and repaired.
John MacDonough also seemed to know the state of his son's business
interests, and that he had trouble with his throat and head, none of
these circumstances being known to the sitters at the time, but
verified afterwards. On five later occasions messages came from John
MacDonough which on the whole suggest that he was better than
most communicators as regards his knowledge of contemporary mun
dane affairs. On two of these occasions G. P. acted as amanuensis,
and the first time apparently wanted to make sure that MacDonough
was not an " interloper " before he would give the message (p. 477).
One of the five messages was personal and non-evidential, and one
was confused, and seemed to convey the information that the com
municator's son John had died. His son John was apparently well
at the time, but died in the following year. At least two of the
remaining three messages contained specific information not referred
to previously and unknown to me, but correctly given.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 341
The question may arise whether all such incidents demand a
hypothesis which goes at least as far as telepathy from distant persons.
If they were known to the sitter at the time of his sitting, then,
although not mentioned by the communicators at that time, it might
be supposed that the knowledge was acquired then for reproduction
afterwards. Many however cannot be explained in this way, even if
we allowed a very wide margin for the presence at sittings of persons
who might be supposed to know of the facts incidentally. Thus it will
hardly be considered probable that one of the above messages, which
referred to Mrs. MacDonough's apprehensions concerning her then
illness, could be thus explained. I think that few if any of my readers
will be likely to press this hypothesis into much service, but I may
point out that theoretically it might be assumed that the supraliminal
and subliminal consciousness of all persons, on this earth at least, if
not elsewhere also, are open to Mrs. Piper's inspection.
I know of several instances where other communicators have had
the opportunity of frequent communication through Mrs. Piper's trance
during a course of several years, and at many of these sittings I have been
present. They have strengthened my conviction that primarily depended
upon the communications from G. P., but the sitters regard them as too
personal for publication. The best things can obviously never or very
seldom be reproduced ; if they could be, they would prove themselves,
by that very fact, to fall short of being the most convincing. And
hence all one can offer is a few dry bones instead of a living and
breathing personality, to use the words of the lady who prepared the
following account. I shall call her Mrs. M. She is an exceptionally
good witness, and I confirm the statements which she makes as
regards my share in her sittings. Other names have been substituted
for the real names.
April, 1890.
I met Mrs. Piper for the first time on the 23rd of April, 1894, in New
York, at 1068, Lexington Avenue, where she was then giving "sittings."
I had made the appointment from a town in Georgia by letter, through
Mr. Hodgson, and arrived alone at the house at ten o'clock a.m. 1 inquired
for Mr. Hodgson, who, I was told, had not come yet, but was expected soon.
I waited a few moments, when Mr. Hodgson arrived, addressed me as
"Mrs. Smith," and called Mrs. Piper—who was upstairs, and whom 1 had
not beforo seen, —introduced me to her as " Mrs. Smith," and arranged the
room for the "sitting." There was a little indifferent conversation, but
nothing which could in any way give a clue to my identity.
Mr. Hodgson I had never seen until that morning, and had had only a
slight correspondence with him referring to my appointment with Mrs. Piper
and my associate membership in the S.P.R. , and as far as I am aware he
knew absolutely nothing about me, except that I was anxious to have some
sittings with Mrs. Piper. At that time I had never seen or heard of the
reports of Mrs. Piper in Parts XVII. and XXI. of the Proceedings of the
342 [part
Richard Hodgson.
S. P.R. , but I had road the account of her written by Miss X. in Borderland
for January, 1891, so was somewhat prepare! for the peculiarities of.Mrs.
Pipar's trance and for " Phinuit" when ha made his appearance. About the
first remark " Phinuit " made to me was, "There is a gentleman in your
surroundings who won't stay in the body long—a relative of yours." The
description which " Phinuit " gave me did not apply to any near relative of
my own. Ha then said, " Who is Richard 1 He's here with me, wants
to spaak to you. He hasn't been out of the body a great while." I asked
what relation Richard wa? to me. Phinuit said, "He will try to write it."
Writin'j. " I see my sister and I am her brother, but I am a little less
light than I wish to be." I then said, "Is this B ?" using a pet name
of my brother's ; there seemed to ba great excitement in the hand, which
grasped mine and shook it frantically. This question was then written,
" Where is Jamas ? " [Richard is the name of a younger brother of mine
who died early in 1891, and James is the name of my elder brother, and
he was with me when I was taking care of Richard during his last illness.]
The rest of the sitting was very much confused, and reminded me painfully
of the last hours of my brother's illness, which had been passed in delirium,
but, as at that time, a clear thought would be expressed now and then. He
said he wished to send a message to his mother (who is living), but seemed
too confused to be able to do so. There were many little things very
characteristic of the boy, but the effect of most of the " sitting " was
like the half-intalligible muttering of delirium. The hand felt my jacket
and seemed to try to reach something inside. I gave it a small locket and
chain which I wore around my neck under my dress. The hand—all the
time holding the locket—then wrote, but very confusedly, and with many
pauses, "I remember *. . . he is here and will come in again .
tjll my sister all about it . . . yes . . . he loves her and understands
all ... I do not quite get it ; Tom. I do not hear quite distinctly—
Paidiae is on my mind."
The locket contained soma hair and a small picture of my husband,
who died in 1892. Tom is the name of a person who was well known to my
husband and who, for reasons known only to myself, was very much in my
t'l oughts at that time. Pauline is the name of my eldest sister. After the
writing had ceased "Phinuit" took the locket and chain and remarked,
"There are two dilferent people here ; a gentleman connected with this lady
who passed out with something the matter with his heart, and an old lady
called Mama (?), she's been passed out some years. The other's a gentleman's
influence."
No one had owned the locket and chain but myself. I bought it a few
weeks after my husband's death, put the hair and picture in it, and it had
never afterwards been out of my possession, so the reference to the "old
lady " had no moaning for me.
My second "sitting " occurred the next morning. I had no conversation
with either Mrs. Piper or Mr. Hodgson in the meantime, except to tell
Mr. II. that I had a brother Richard and that I had not found the person I
had hoped to hear from, and to beg for another sitting. Mr. Hodgson
suggested that I bring some article belonging to the person I was trying to
find, and I therefore brought with me a letter of my huiband's when I came
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 343
the next morning (April 24th). Mrs. Piper went into trance as usual, and
at once " Phinuit " remarked to me, "After I went out I found your brother
and another gentleman with him. . . . The gentleman is everything to
you. He will come ... is getting light. Has something important
to say. ... I get the name of Brown. B-r-o-w-n. I get it from your
gentleman. He says you will knoiv. Richard says Susy. "
In my first "sitting" the name Sits;/ had occurred a number of times,
but it had no special meaning for me in connection with my brother, and I
was constantly thinking of Ruth, the name of a young girl to whom my
brother had been.ongaged to be married, but on my way home it flashed over
me that Susy was the name of a sister two years older than my brother
Richard. She died before ho was born, so when "Phinuit " said " Richard
says Susy " I asked, "Did he mean Susy when I suggested Ruth to him
yesterday ?" " Yes, it is Susy. He told you forty times the last time, but
you wouldn't understand ; he said, ' If that's my sister she must know who
Susy is.' She's here with him ; she was his sister, she passed out many
years ago ; it was very sad for her mother, the most sad of any trouble she
ever had. She was very bright. She would have been very musical ; it was
very sad for her mother."
The baby Susy died at seven months old, was "very bright" — and my
mother has often told mo how fond of music she was, and that the
sound of the piano would quiet her when she was in pain. Her death was a
great sorrow to my mother.
When "the writing" b^gvn it was confused and trembling, "Do you
know who I am?" Then the names Brown and Parker were written—the
names of the doctor and nurse who had cared for my husband during his last
illness—and then a sort of cry seemed to come with the words, " Oh, don't
you know me? Don't you know me ? I am Roland and I love you always.
Speak to me." [Roland was correct, and was the name by which Mrs. M.
usually called her husband. As I have stated above, in introducing Mrs.
M.'s account, this is not the real name. Roland and Rullo—see below—are
chosen as substitutes for the real names.—R. H.] What followed was
perfectly intelligible and much of it characteristic, but seemed like the weak
and trembling words of a very sick man trying to keep his thoughts clear
and make himself understood. After a short time this was written : "I told
Richard to tell you about Tom for me ; too bad he was all mixed up. " Then
Tom was spoken of as only my husband would have been likely to speak of
him, and affairs connected with him and unknown to any person but myself
were mentioned.
An intimate friend of my husband's was spoken of by name, and I was
begged to caution him not to overwork. He referred directly to the last
time we were in the park together at T , and answered a question which
I had asked him when he was dying, but which he had been too weak to
answer at that time —it was a curious incident. Mr. Hodgson was in the
room with me most of the time, as I was too unused to Mrs. Piper's automatic
writing to read it without help, and I said, " If this is my husband, will you
answer the question I asked you when you were dying ? " The hand grasped
mine, but no reference was made to my question for a few moments,
then very cautiously a name was written, and my question fully answered,
344 [part
Richard Hodgson.
but in such a w»y that Mr. Hodgson—or any stranger—would not under
stand to what he referred, but which was perfectly plain to me. It was, to
me, the most wonderful part of my " sitting."
On April 25th Mr. Hodgson wrote me :—
"At 101i8, Lexington Avenue, this morning, one of our members,
Mrs. R., was trying experiments in crystal gazing ami automatic writing.
Mrs. Pipar had her hand resting occasionally on Mrs. R.'s. Mrs. P. felt
some pushing, etc., in her hand. I put pencil in and we went on talking.
Turning to talk to another lady present, a Mrs. G , my attention was
attracted suddenly by Mrs. P.'s breathing. She was on the point of being
entranced, and while I was managing to keep her out of trance successfully,
her right hand with pencil was dashing off the enclosed, viz. :—'Add lo
instead of and.' Sitting late this afternoon began without speech. Writing :
'Add lo in place of and. Rollo.' Then writing changed. Phinuit. turned up
at end of sitting for brief period—little strength, but I gathered from ' him '
that this message is for you. Apparently Phinuit said, ' It was Rollo,
called Roland.' "
At my " sitting," April 24th, I had twice asked my husband to write his
name, and each time he wrote Roland. I was not thinking of "Rollo," but
hoped that the full name would be written, because I knew neither
Mrs. Piper nor Mr. Hodgson knew it. I am quite sure I did not use the
name " Rollo."
In my next sitting, May 1st, the incident is not mentioned, perhaps
because there was so much to say, but on May 31st, at a sitting Mr. H. was
having, this was written : "Do you recognise me, sir ? Add lo instead of
and. " My husband's family usually called him ' ' Rollo," and I often did also.
At the sitting April 24th he had begged me to call him by the name
I used to, and I did call him a foolish little pet name I often used, and which
seemed to satisfy him at the time, but once again in the sitting Mr. H.
was having for me (June 15th) he wrote : " Ask her if she remembers what
Rollo means," and in the letter I wrote my husband, and which Mr. Hodgson
read at the sitting on June 26th, I spoke to him as " Rollo," and at once was
•written, "Rollo ! ah, ah—now you know what I meant."
My third "sitting" was on May 1st. It was much bettor than the
others, though the oft'ect of some of it was still like a sick and very weak
person trying to talk.
The night before this sitting [when alone] I had asked my husband if he
could not tell me on the following morning, through Mrs. Piper, of something
I had done or said in the last few days, simply as a proof that he could hear
and see me, as he had told me at my last " sitting " that he could. A young
brother who was a great favourite with my husband was spoken of by name,
and I was told that my husband had seen us walking together lately in what
seemed to him to be a garden and water near it ; also that he had heard us
talking of his mother's building another house. Between my sitting on
April 24th and that on May 1st I had taken a walk with my young brother-
in law, and we paused several minutes to look at the fresh grass and trees in
the garden of St. Luke's Hospital, 56th Street and 5th Avenue, and then
passed the Park at 59th Street, and during the afternoon we had talked a
long time about a new house my mother-in-law was thinking of building.
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 345
There were no mistakes in names during the "sitting," and nothing
which my husband might not have written.
In answer to a question of mine referring to "the gentleman in my
surroundings to pass out soon," who had been spoken of in my first sitting,
Phinuit said, "There are three different friends of yours going to pass out
,within six months." He then gave me a quite different description of
"tho gentleman" from the first, and which strongly reminded me of a near
relative, yet it was by no means a perfect description, and Phinuit did not
say who the man was, or in what relation he stood to me, only that " He
comes very near to you." He said the others were "A little lady with
something the matter with her stomach ; I think the other is a relative."
I have lost no near friend or relative since that time. An aunt of my
husband's died within a few weeks, and afterwards Phinuit told me she was
one of the people he meant, but he was very confused and uncertain about
what he said.
After my last sitting Mr. Hodgson called at my hotel one evening to
help me decipher the automatic writing, and during the evening suggested
that I try to send him a message by my husband through Mrs. Piper. I
agreed to it, and when Mr. Hodgson returned to Boston he had a series of
"sittings" for other purposes, during which a good deal of the writing
purported to come from my husband.
On May 2ist, 1894, Mr. H., who had at previous sittings requested
Phinuit to get "Roland" to give the message which his wife was going to
send, wrote me that he had given one of my letters to Mrs. Piper to hold
during her trance, and that this writing came : "She gave me this message,
sir." Then followed what purported to bo the message I was to send
Mr. Hodgson, but which was no approach to it. Several references were
made to people who had been mentioned in my "sittings" in New York—
nothing irrelevant was written, but no new matter was introduced.
Again, on May 31st another message came, different from the first but no
nearer the few words I was trying so hard to convey to my husband. How
ever, this occurred : " She told me to tell you, sir, that she put some flowers
on the tomb, and asked me if I saw her do it. If so, come and tell you."
A few days before I had planted some wood violets on my husband's grave.
I had sent the gardener away for water and was quite alone. It seemed to
me my husband was very near. I looked up from my work and said, as if I
was speaking to some one standing by me, " Roland, if you can see me I
wish you would go and tell Mr. Hodgson so, " but I had no thought of the
message really being taken, for there had already been a failure to take the
specific message I was trying to send. Of course I had no corroborative
testimony to this incident, as I never spoke of it to anyone, and might have
forgotten it had it not been for the writing coming so soon afterwards.
' On June 5th, 6th, 9th, 11th, and 1oth, Mr. Hodgson had "sittings," at
which my husband wrote, always giving some "message,' but never any
nearer the right one, though always something I might have said which
would have seemed natural enough. There was often much confusion, as
if many people were trying to talk at once, and it reminded me of a " crossed
telephone wire." There was also much complaint of the difficulty in keeping
the thoughts clear in so much confusion, and remarks like this, " It is not
346 [part
Richard Hodgson.
so easy to express one's thoughts to a marriage ring as it is to one's wife."
I had sent Mr. Hodgson a ring of my husband's and a lock of hair of my
own to be used at the "sittings," both of which were correctly recognised,
and the remark made that the ring had been made for Mr. M., and taken
from his body after his death, which was true ; but the ring had rather a
peculiar history, known to my husband, which was not referred to in any
way, though I wrote Mr. Hodgson to say at the next sitting that there was
something more about the ring I would bo glad to hear.
On June 4th an aunt of my husband's died, and I hoped that some
reference to the fact would appear in the "sittings," and tried to gut that
message to my husband. I wrote Mr. Hodgson that some special event had
taken place at home, and asked him to ask my husband if he knew what
it was. No knowledge of it was shown until June 16th, when this occurred :
•' Ask her if this was the message, viz., 'Take my thanks to Mr. H ,
and tell him there is another spirit friend of mine with you—yes - and ask
her to go with you and give her name to H .' Thanks. Will you ask
her ? If you will, I'll bring the lady to you. First I wish to know if this
is not exactly what she asked me, sir. Ask her, and if she wishes the lady's
name you will have it." Unfortunately Mr. Hodgson was to have but one
more " sitting " at which my affairs could be given any attention, and I had
written a letter to my husband for Mr. Hodgson to read at the sitting, and
in it had mentioned the name of the aunt who had just died, so that it
was of no use to "ask for the lady's name." Nearly all of the comments
which were made during the reading of the letter were quite out of the way,
and a number of names were mentioned of supposed friends on " that side,"
none of which were correct as applied to any of my own or my husband's
connections.
On June 9th, in answer to a question I had asked Mr. Hodgson to ask for
me, Phinuit said he did not think it best for me to know who the friends
were who were to "pass out," but that ho would give their names to
Mr. Hodgson, who might keep them till after the events had taken place.
Tho next fall, at my request, Mr. Hodgson gave me the paper (after Phinuit
had given him permission to do so). The name of a near relative— of whom
Phinuit's secuntl description had made me think—was given, and the remark
made that a cousin would pass out in a specific manner. Neither event has
taken place.
My next "sitting" with Mrs. Piper was in Arlington Heights, Mass.,
October 19th. I had ten sittings at that time -from October 19th to
December 7th—and again in the spring of 1895 I had two sittings, May 11th
and 13th. One on August 23rd, two September 16th and 17th, and four
from November 12th to December 6th, making 21 in all.
On February loth and March 7th, 1895, Miss Edmunds had two sittings
for me, using articles I had sent her for the purpose, and of the ownership
of which she was entirely ignorant. All of the articles were correctly
recognised, and several prophecies which had been made to me about their
owners repeated with some detail. I asked Miss Edmunds to ask my husband
to write his full name, which was not on my visiting card and which she
could not possibly be aware of. The name was at once correctly written, but
for some reason Miss Edmunds did not think it was right, and asked if the
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 347
writer was quito sure of it. The name was then differently written, though
commencing with the same letter R (which was on my visiting card), and at
a sitting which Miss Edmunds had for me on January 25th of the present
year the name was written again in the same way, though Miss Edmunds
then knew it was wrong, and knew what the real name was.
During the ten sittings, from October 19th to December 7th, 1894, many
prophecies were made as to the death of near relatives and friends, and
events to take place in my own and my friends' lives. No definite time was
given, more than to say "it will come soon," or "before a great while."
With a very few minor exceptions, none of the things told me at that time
have happened.
At my two sittings in May, 1895, I was told I would be in three different
places that summer—one, Boston, where I then was ; another, a place my
husband had never been and did not know the name of, so he said, but
Phinuit described it as "near the water," which is his usual way of
speaking of the sea-shore ; the third place was " where Dr. P. lives in the
summer" [Dr. P. had a sitting with Mrs. Piper several years previously.—
R.H.], and I was told I would stay in "a weather-stained sort of house, near
a red house, some water in front of it." I had never seen D , Dr. P. 's
summer home, and had heard no description of it, beyond the fact that it was
a beautiful country place, with mountain scenery, and from some remark of
Dr. P.'s, I had supposed there was no water there. When I told him what
Phinuit had said, he remarked that the "Evergreen Cottages," where I would
probably stay if I came to D , could not be better described than as
"weather-stained and red," for one was a shingled and stained house, the
other painted red, and there was a beautiful little lake very near them. At
that time I was hoping to come to D , but so uncertain about it that I
would not allow Dr. P to engage my rooms at the "Evergreen Cottages,"
although I knew there was little chance of securing them later in the season,
and I had no thought of going to the sea-shore, it seemed the last thing
likely for me to do. However, I did go to the sea-shore for ten days in
August, and later spent a month in D , staying in the weather-stained
house described by Phinuit. During the same sittings I was told that the
near relative of whoso death so much had been said would not " pass out "
for a year yet.
In my sittings in August and September I was told that certain properties
I hold would be sold at a given figure " within three months." It would have
been impossible to sell any of them for half the value given, at any time
since the sittings, but other minor details of a financial nature have, rather
to my surprise, come about as stated at that time.
During the sittings, particularly the series of ten—October 19th to
December 7th, 1894—there were many mistakes in Christian names. For
instance, I asked to have the names of my husband's three sisters written.
The names of two were at once written ; the second name, the real name of
my sister-in-law, but not the name by which we usually call her. Her name
is also that of my eldest sister, so that when it was written I said, "That is
my sister ; I want the names of your sisters." At once came the remark,
"But mine, too. Have you forgotten?" The name of the third sister I
could not get written, and there seemed the strangest hesitancy about
2 A
Richard Hodgson. [part
attempting it, and evasion and "trickiness" most distressing, and very
uncharacteristic of the living personality of the writer. At last a name was
written, but not the correct one, though a near approach to the pet name by
which she was called. I have never been able to get the pet name correctly
written, though the real name has since been written, or any reasonable
explanation of why it could not be written. Nothing more than " Names
are one of the most difficult things to recall here."
The aunt of my husband's who died in June, 1894, has often sent me,
through Phinuit or my husband, some appropriate sounding message, and
twice purported to write herself, but never seemed able to give her own
name correctly ; it is an unusual name, probably unique in this country,,
and I tried to get it written a number of times, but with no success.
The matter of the four sittings from November 12th to December 6th,
1895, is of too private a nature to quote here, and owing to the fact that
much of it referred to other people and their affairs, I have been unable to
verify many of the statements made. When I had the sitting on November
12th, I expected to leave Boston in a very few days, and spoke of the
fact, and that I feared I should have no opportunity for another sitting. I
was told I would stay in Boston much longer than I expected, and in a day
or two I received a letter which changed my plans, and I did remain in
Boston until December 9th.
It is very difficult for me to explain —as Mr. Hodgson has requested me
to—just what general effect the " sittings " have made on my mind. If I
had never had a " sitting " with Mrs. Piper, and this report had been written
by some one else, I am sure I should say : "There's not enough evidence
here to prove that the living personality of the man called Roland ever
reached his wife through Mrs. Piper's ' mediumship ' ; there is little beside
coincidence, suggestions unconsciously made by the sitter to Mrs. Piper
during the highly susceptible condition of her trance state, incidents that can
be fully explained by thought-transference from living persons," etc., etc. I
am quite sure I should never be convinced by any such report as this of the
reality of "spirit return." Yet I am convinced of it, but it is because there
is much in my " sittings" which might help to convince a stranger, which is
of too personal a nature to quote, and perhaps the most convincing thing is
the accumulation of little touches of personality which make the "sittings "
so real to me, but which it would bo almost impossible to reproduce in print.
Peculiarities of expression in the writing and of manner in that wonderfully
dramatic hand of Mrs. Piper's. Anyone who has had a good sitting with
Mrs. Piper will know exactly what I mean. One feels the hand is alive with
a distinct personality very different from "Phinuit " (who has " controlled "
the voice in all my sittings). The behaviour of the hand when it is controlled
by my husband or my brother is as distinct and as characteristic of the two
men as anything of the kind could possibly be.
There is a great difference in the qiurtity of the sittings ; at some of
them no irrelevant matter would be written, and at others much which
sounded, as I have before said, like the odd scraps of conversation one might
hear over a telephone wire. I have generally found that the poor sittings
were on days when either Mrs. Piper or I was not up to our normal physical
condition.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 349
At my first four sittings Mr. Hodgson was present and took notes for me;
after that I have always taken notes, -during the "sitting," of "Phinuit's"
remarks, and immediately afterwards, generally on my way to Boston from
Arlington Heights—where most of my sittings took place—written out as full
a statement as I could of all that had occurred, looked over the automatic
writing, and filled in my own remarks and questions as accurately as possible.
It is from these notes and MSS. I have made this Report.
I have other records of series of sittings which I have been
requested not to publish except under such restrictions as would make
them practically useless, but which I hope at some future day to obtain
permission to give in detail, as they have been of much help in enabling
me to understand the causes of obscurity in communicating. I make
the following brief statement about three of them, in illustration.
The first was the case of a gentleman intimately known to me,
whom I shall call A. I devoted about six sittings, more than a year
after his death, in the attempt to obtain clear communications from
him. Various names and incidents were referred to in which he had
been specially interested when living, including two or three specific
references to matters unknown to me. There was much incoherence,
but of a character which distinctly suggested the mind of A. and not
the mind of anyone else, as regards the more or less disassociated
fragments of knowledge exhibited. He had been troubled much for
years before his death by headaches and occasional mental exhaustion,
though not amounting to positive mental disturbance. I finally
gave up the attempt, on the advice of G. P., who affirmed that
he would not be clear for some time to come. There was no opportu
nity afterwards for any detailed communication from him. He
manifested to four other persons at sittings incidentally, claiming
correctly that he knew them, and he did not claim any recognition of
persons who were strangers to him. But I do not know whether other
sitters may have been known to him to whom he did not appear.
The second case was that of a gentleman whom I shall call B., and
with whom I had a short correspondence two or three years before his
death, but he was unknown to me personally. He took his own life in
a moment of temporary aberration. Communications purporting to
come from him were obtained originally by means of articles which
had been used by him and which were presented to Phinuit. Here
the incoherence at first was even greater than in the case of A., and
there seemed to be as much difficulty in getting facts known to me as
in getting those which were not. Thus in reply to inquiries, he named,
as the cause of his death, a trouble from which he had suffered for a
year before his death, and which led to his temporary aberration. This
was unknown to me ; but the circumstance that he had taken his own
life, which was known to me, was not mentioned till long afterwards.
2 a 2
350 [part
Richard Hodgson.
At some of the sittings later on, two friends of his were present, and
were fully and appropriately recognised, but it was several years
before he could communicate with any continuous clearness. In the
meantime, amidst much confusion, and various wrong statements,
there was much specific information correctly given which, as in
the case of A., indicated the mind of B. rather than the mind
of anyone else. Some of this information was unknown not only to
myself, but to his friends who had sittings. Gradually, however,
owing, as I think myself, to the lapse of time and greater familiarity
with the act of communicating on the part of B.,—or, as some may
think, owing to the development of a pseudo B -personality in Mrs.
Piper,—these confusions cleared away. I quote the following from a
statement made by one of the two friends of B. who had sittings.
We at first thought mind-reading might play an important part in the
sittings, but the more we experimented the less weight we gave to it. On
several occasions no information could be obtained of facts known perfectly
to both sitters, and on which both our minds were fixed. Several of the
sittings were excellent throughout, notably one [the last] at which [the other
friend] and I were alone present. It seemed as if B. stood before us in
person ; the answers came immediately, without the slightest hesitation, and
showed an intimate knowledge of our past relations to each other. Many
facts were related and circumstances referred to which were known only to
B. and ourselves, but which are of too personal a nature for publication.
These were given not in the nature of a test, but in the course of conversa
tion as one friend would talk with another. Small touches of character,
peculiarities of expression, and modes of thought, we instantly recognised as
a part of his individuality.
In the third case, C, another friend of mine who also took his
own life, there was much confusion even a year after his death, when
he first came into communication, and there was a lamentable failure
in answering questions concerning matters well-known to C. living.
Later on, however, he became clearer and gave specific information,
unknown to the sitters, of a private and personal kind, well suited
as a proof of identity, and showed in written communications
afterwards much that was suggestive of C,—in tendencies of thought
and particular remembrances,— operating under peculiar difficulties
through an inferior mechanism. More than seven years after
death he wrote, " My head was not clear, and is not yet, when I speak
to you."
As I suggested at the beginning of this paper, it is to series of
sittings with the same communicator that we must look for special
light upon the question how far the continued personalities of the
" dead " are actually concerned in these phenomena, but there are
various incidents in the detailed records given in the Appendices
published herewith, where only one or two opportunities have been
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 351
afforded to the same communicator, which I think add to the evidence
derived from the longer series. Thus, at the sitting of Miss Macleod
(p. 447), where her sister Etta seemed to be the chief communicator,
through Phinuit, though several mistakes were made and several names
mentioned that had no relevance, she was told that her uncle David
would die soon. So far as the sitter knew, his health was then perfectly
good, but he died in a year. Etta while living supposed that her
illness —the cause of her death —had to do with "the stomach," and
this was stated at the sitting, but it was known to the sitter and her
family that the cause of death was heart trouble. Again "Etta" said
that the last thing she saw was her mother's face until she became
conscious in a room and saw her body lying under something white.
This was confirmed by the mother, who said that Etta was looking
right into her face " when the light went out of her eyes." But the
sitter had always thought that Etta's eyes were closed at this time.
The records of M. Bourget's sittings (p. 494) and Mr. Heywood's
(p. 501) and Mr. Mitchell's (p. 517) all appear to me to be interesting
examples of the complicated form which the communications have
frequently taken during Mrs. Piper's trance. At Mr. Heywood's
sittings, besides much that was personal and characteristic of his late
wife, including knowledge that he believed to be known to no other
person living but himself, several facts were mentioned of which he was
entirely ignorant. But the records should be read throughout to be
appreciated. (See especially pp. 504-510).
Dr. F. H. K. (p. 527) also received information unknown to him, at
his sittings, and afterwards verified, besides much that was personal to
him, producing as he says " a very strong conviction that the control
was what it purported to be, that of my late wife." At his second
sitting, on his way home after a year's trip abroad, he received some
communications from his " uncle G., recently deceased." Among other
statements was : " Give my love to L., and tell her I see the trouble
with her eyes." L. was the initial of his uncle G.'s widow, but Dr. K.
did not understand the message till he reached his home in Illinois
and found that his aunt L. had been "for some little time under treat
ment for some trouble with her eyes."
Various instances of the giving of information unknown to the
sitters occurred in the series of sittings, the records of which are given
as a group in Appendix IV., as all being closely concerned with the
friends and relatives of Dr. and Mrs. A. B. Thaw. At their first
sitting a very intimate friend of theirs, who had been dead about a
year and a half, and whom they have called Dr. H. in the records,
gave (through Phinuit) a nickname by which he had been called. This
name was not known to the sitters. On inquiry his widow said it was
the name commonly used by his mother and sisters, all dead, but not
352 Richard Hodgson.
used by anyone living. At a later sitting a test question, which was
sent for the purpose by the widow of Dr. H., and the answer to which
was unknown to the sitters, was correctly answered at the same
sitting. These incidents were in addition to various personal references
to his wife and children and other interests,—such as the church and a
volume of his poems unpublished before his death, but published
afterwards,—and some utterances repeated by Phinuit that were so
characteristic of Dr. H., that Dr. Thaw supposed that he had taken
direct control of the voice, and asked him for information about
Phinuit (p. 567).
At the sitting which Mr. G. Perkins had on March 18th, 1892, he
presented a chain which he knew had been worn by his mother,
deceased. Phinuit said that both his mother and sister recognised
the chain, and that both had worn it. This was true, although Mr.
Perkins did not know that his sister had also worn it. She died when
he was a small child (p. 555). Again, the nurse of Mrs. Thaw's children
presented a parcel which she supposed contained her mother's hair.
Phinuit speaking of the sitter's mother said, thrusting his finger
down the neck of the sitter, " Put it in there and wear it, just as she
told you to." The sitter insisted that Phinuit was wrong, but he tore
open the paper and showed that it contained an Agnus Dei, which as
a matter of fact the sitter's mother had told her to wear (p. 573). There
are other minor instances of the giving of information unknown to
the sitters in the records printed in Appendix IV., with an enormous
mass of correct detail concerning friends and relatives of the sitters,
and with very little error. Several minor prophecies proved correct ;
one important prophecy concerning the success of certain machines
was wrong as to time, as well as other circumstances connected with
them ; but another concerning the death of a brother, who was never
present at a sitting, was right. This brother was a chronic invalid
with asthma. At the sitting of May 10th, 1892, Phinuit said that
his kidneys were out of order, and it was discovered for the first time
that he had kidney disease on a careful medical examination made two
weeks later. At the same sitting Phinuit said that he would die
" within six months or a year,'' and, in reply to the question how, said,
" He's going to sleep, and when he wakes he'll be in the spirit. Heart
will stop." On May 22nd, the time was given as "six months or a
little less." He died in sleep, of heart failure, on the 3rd of the follow
ing September. At the first sitting which the Thaws had afterwards,
four months later, he communicated (p. 580).
There are many interesting details regarding what I might speak
of as related groups of communicators, including persons who knew
something about Mrs. Piper's trances, directly or indirectly, before
death ; and of these I shall give some instances in Part II. of my
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 353
Report (to be published in the next number of Proceeding^), where I
shall also give some account of a few other special communicators who
belong chiefly to the period of 1 896-7. I close this section of my
Report by a brief account of the case of the friend whom I have called
Mr. Hart, to whom in the first instance G. P. manifested (p. 296)
and who himself died in Naples on May 2nd, 1895. As in G. P.'s
case, I substitute other names for the real ones. I had not been
having regular series of sittings at this time, and heard incidentally on
May 3rd that a cablegram had been received by a relative announcing
the death of Hart. My assistant Miss Edmunds went out to Mrs.
Piper at my request to arrange a sitting for me for the next day, May
•tth, and to say that it was extremely important that I must have the
sitting. I did not tell Miss Edmunds the reason, and she made a
totally erroneous conjecture concerning it. The announcement of the
death however, with the place, and cause of death (inflammation of
the heart), appeared in a Boston evening paper on May 3rd. At the
sitting on May 4th, after a few words from Phinuit, G.P. wrote and
gave several messages from friends, and then asked what he could do
for me. I replied that I had something for him to do, but could not
tell him what it was. He made a brief reference to his father and
mother, and then to a friend of my own, and then came the following :—
Hold, H. See all of these people bringing a gentleman. [R. H. thinks
this is unintentionally written, and doesn't repeat the words aloud.]
Read ... do you see them, H. ? (No.) He is coming here. I
think I knew him. [R. H. can't decipher after think.] That I knew him.
Come here and listen, H. He has been here before and I have seen him
since I passed out. (Who is it?) John. "Do you see me, H. ?" He says
this. (No.) "What about my health, Oh George, I am here, do not go
away from me," . . . not to you, H., tome. (Yes, I understand.) "I
thought I should see you once more before I came here." (What is the full
name ?) John H. (Give me the second name in full.) Did you speak?
(Write the second name in full.) Hart. (That's right, Hart, old fellow.)
" Will you listen to me, Hodg. . . . [Much excitement in hand, and
letters jumbled over. G. P. writing throughout, but at times apparently
much perturbation introduced.] George knew I was here and met me but I
was to weak to come here and talk H." . . . Yes, H., but the dear old
fellow is short breathed. . . . "I expected to see you before I came
here, H. (Yes, I hoped to have met you in the body again) but you see I
was failing. How are you ? "
What [apparently from G. P. to Hart.]
" I brought Ge here first." (Yes, you did.)
Yes, I do [from G. P. to Hart.] [More probably from Hart to G.P., in
answer to some such question as "do you mean me ?" from G. P. to Hart.
1898.]
Oh what about me, H. ?
(He means your first messages came to him.)
354, [part
Richard Hodgson.
Oh I see ! but I was . . . but (you were out of the body) yes.
. . . "I am a little dull, H., in my head." (Isn't the light good to
day ? ) Yes, but it is I, H., my (you mean you are not in good trim, George ! )
No no I Hart no, H. I Hart (I see, Hart is dull, Hart oan't do so well.)
[H. is the initial of Hart's real name. 1898.] [Thump with fist. Much
thumping with fist during sitting indicative of assent at different times.]
The above is transcribed from the type-written copy of the record
of the sitting, and the quotation marks were doubtless inserted by
myself to make the record clearer. There was much confusion in the
rest of the sitting. The cause of death he stated to be inflammation
of the stomach, which was not correct, though he had suffered much
from this for a year before his death. I may have known of this but
was not consciously aware of it. I knew that he had been ill in Europe,
but when I last heard from him several months previously I under
stood that he had recovered. There were confused references to the
Howards. He referred to two other friends in Europe (whose names
had been given in previous sittings by G. P.), mentioned several names
unknown to me, and referred to incidents in connection with them, as
well as other matters, none of which, for family reasons, I have yet
been able to verify. I think it probable that they will be partially,
but only partially correct. There seemed to be glimpses here and
there of a clear consciousness. He wanted to know if it was Paris
(where he had stayed some time while in Europe). I said it was
Arlington Heights.
"Arlington, I remember Arlington—did you not take me here ? (Yes,
this is the very room where George came to you). Oh, yes, I had his
[article of G. P. specifically mentioned] and my watch. . . Will they
send my body on to New York ? (I don't know.) I hope they will. They
are now talking about it." [I learned later that the desirability of taking
the body to America was discussed.]
When I asked, "Why didn't George toll me to begin with?" he
replied, " because I told him to let me come and tell myself." This
was like Hart, and so was the statement quoted above that it was he
who brought G. P. first.
At this sitting, and several also in the following week, during which
the confusion continued, a knowledge was shown of various matters
known to me which were specially suggestive of Hart, references to
friends and relatives, presents which he had given me, jokes about
cigars, magazines which he had entrusted to me just before he went
to Europe three years previously, etc., but of course I was anxious to
obtain information concerning events in Europe of which I was
entirely ignorant, especially any that occurred just before his death ;
and I have such on record but have not yet succeeded in discovering
how much correct statement they include. Between the first and
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 355
second sitting it occurred to me that the announcement of his being
there to communicate was " led up to " by G. P., and at the second
sitting, when Hart wrote part of the time himself, I said, " I suppose
last time you thought I took your coming very coolly." The hand
wrote excitedly : " You seemed very inconsiderate to what you used
to do." I explained that I had heard of his death by a cablegram
which had been received by his "brother-in-law." He then wrote the
name of the brother of his sister's husband. I said no, " your wife's
brother."
Another incident at the same sitting showed a curious remem
brance.
. . . Ask for my cigar case . . . am I dreaming ... I think
I know that one I sat in this corner [hand points to other side of the room,
to place where Mrs. Piper sat at time when Hart attended his sitting on
March 22nd, 1892.] (You mean you sat there !) Yes I did (yes, I remember)
I know where I am now.
As I recall this incident, I did not understand what was meant at
first when the hand pointed, as it was more than three years since
Mrs. Piper had sat there. That position in the room was not
associated specially in my mind with Hart, as various other persons
whom I had accompanied to sittings had sat in the same position, both
before and after Hart's sitting, and it was only after April 29th, 1892
(see p. 292), when I succeeded in getting the hand to write with the
block-book on the table instead of on the top of Mrs. Piper's head,
that I requested Mrs. Piper to change her position, so that there might
be plenty of room for the table and for a sitter on the other side of it.
But the occasion was a very memorable one to Hart, and if he was
communicating and waking to a consciousness of his surroundings, it
was a natural observation for him to make.
In June and July a friend of mine was having a series of sittings,
and Hart sent a message to me through him ; he was becoming clearer,
and wished to communicate. There were no opportunities for any
further series of sittings however, and Mrs. Piper stopped sitting for
her summer rest, and I visited England later. Few sittings were
given in the winter of 1895-6 owing to Mrs. Piper's ill-health. Hart
gave brief messages on several occasions ; said that he wanted to follow
in "G. P.'s tracks," and seemed somewhat aggrieved, so to speak,
because he did not have the same opportunity as had been afforded to
G. P. Thus, on January 22nd, 1896 :—
. What in the world is the reason you never call for me 1 I am
not sleeping. I wish to help you in identifying myself, ... I am a
good deal better now. (You were confused at first.) Very, but I did not
really understand how confused I was. It is more so, I am more so when I
try to speak to you. I understand now why George spelled his words to
356 [part
Richard Hodgson.
me. [Several sentences, even of ordinary words, were spelt out by Phinuit
from G. P. at his first appearance, to Hart.]
He became clearer later on, and purported to take part in an
inquiry I was making concerning a person's whereabouts in Mexico
(an account of which will be given in Part II. of this Report). It was
during this time that Miss Warner (p. 324) had her two sittings,
January 6th and 7th, 1897. She remarked to me during the sitting of
January 7th, 1897, that Hart knew one of her brothers, Charlie, and
that they went to the Azotes together. I asked Phinuit if he or G. P.
could get Hart. Shortly afterwards G. P. wrote, and after a short
conversation with the sitter came the following : —
Did you have a brother Jack, Hart asks. (Yes.)
[For Hart.] I am here. George tell her I see her and I long to ask her
brother if he recalls the storm we experienced.
(I know he does. I've heard him speak of it.)
Good, and ask him if he still has the stick like mine. Take the pipe, old
chap, I do not wish it. Hear you ? (R. H. : Yes, it may be the one he
gave me) and I have it in my mind. A memento. He ought to have it.
[Hart gave me a pipe. It is not clear whether the reference is to this, or
to one connected with sitter's brother.—R. H.]
We went to a queer little Hotel, at a little Hotel together. Charlie had
a headache from hunger. We were almost starved when we got there, the
food was bad, the food was so bad, poor. I am content here, quite. Do you
ever see me as I really am? (No. I don't see you at all.) Not at all. I do.
H. Hear Hart say have a smoke, anything for relief. Ask him [Charlie]
about this for me. Hungry. (R. H. : He's still talking about Charlie and
their experiences together ?) Yes, II. He is.
(Tell some more.) We went up to the Hotel and ask him if he recalls
the laugh we had after we got to our room. Give him my love.
(What did you laugh about?) because of the dirt etc. . . . very
amusing. He has not been well but he is going to be [Disturbance in
hand] Hold on, old man, I cannot hear if you grab me in this way.
Did you ever have a fever ?
(R. H. : Who says that ?) I, J. H.
(Do you mean me ?) Yes. (Yes. I had a fever. Pneumonia, and
typhoid fever.) Never have another. Going to be well now. I said it.
(Do you mean me ?) Yes, Charles too. Give him my love and do not forget
about the stick.
Miss Warner wrote :
I had known that Charley and Hart took a trip in a sailing vessel to the
Azores but absolutely no details, except that the boat was driven on the
rocks and they watched her break up.
This was all she could recollect in connection with the statements
made by Hart about her brother. I remembered also about the ship
wreck at the Azores, but had no recollections of any sort connecting
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 3o7
Hart with Charley Warner, or about any of the other incidents
referred to. I think, however, that as Hart himself told me of the
shipwreck at the Azores, he probably mentioned Warner in connection
with it. He may possibly also have spoken of some of the other
incidents. But I am unable to recall the vaguest memory of any
sort about them. Charley Warner was then in California, and in
reply to inquiries he wrote on February 2nd, 1897 :—
J. H. and myself once were hove to on the North Atlantic for about three
days during a severe storm. At another time we were at Horta, Fayal
Island, and watched our vessel drag ashore and break up on account of a
very bad storm, or hurricane. J. H. had a very serviceable stick. As I
remember it a stout little blade dropped out of the ferrule. I never had one
like it that I can remember. He thought highly of it and advised me to get
one like it. I don't remember anything about a pipe. What he says about
the queer little hotel is all true ; I don't remember that I had a headache,
but we were hungry. J. H. was extremely amused about something at
that hotel and we had a hearty laugh. It was connected with dirt.
This was the last appearance of Hart. Soon afterwards the
"controls" of Rev. W. S. Moses took supervision of Mrs. Piper's
trance. (See p. 408).
S; 5. The " Spirit " Hypothesis and the Hypothesis of Telepathy
from the Living.
We may now turn to the more definite consideration of the
significance of such manifestations as I have illustrated.
In my previous report on Mrs. Piper's trance (Proceedings, Vol.
VIII.), in discussing the claims of Phiuuit to be a "spirit" and to
be in communication with the " deceased " friends of sitters, I urged
that there were almost insuperable objections to the supposition that
such " deceased " persons were in direct communication with Phinuit,
at least in anything like thefulness of their personality ; but it seemed
to me a hypothesis that should be continually borne in mind that
there might be some actual communication, even if it was only partial
and fragmentary (loc. ext., p. 57). I am now fully convinced that
there has been such actual communication through Mrs. Piper's trance,
but that the communication has been subject to certain unavoidable
limitations, the general nature of which I shall shortly indicate ; and
in the remaining portion of this Part I. of my paper I shall consider
the main classes of facts which appear to point in this direction,
reserving Part II. (to be published in the next number of Proceedings)
for the consideration of objections which may be brought against this
view, for the account of some additional and more recent evidential
communications, and for the explanation of certain points in connection
358 [part
Richard Hodgson.
with the actual modus operandi of the trance-manifestations, and of
various unusual obscure incidents.
And first I may again say that I think it needless to devote any
more special attention to the view that the manifestations in question
can be accounted for by the supposition of imposture on the part of
Mrs. Piper. I refer the reader, on this point, to what I have said at
the beginning of this paper, and to the previously published reports
there mentioned, in which the possibility of accounting for Mrs. Piper's
phenomena by fraud has been fully considered and rejected. Further
evidence, were it needed, rendering the " fraud " hypothesis yet more
untenable, is offered in the records of sittings included in this report.
Regarding these phenomena, then, as supernormal, I may first
emphasise the fact that they are much more difficult of explanation
now on the assumption that the supernormal knowledge exhibited has
its source in the minds of living persons than in the earlier years of
Mrs. Piper's trances, when practically the only intermediary was the
Phinuit personality. With the advent of the G. P. intelligence, the
development of the automatic writing, and the use of the hand by
scores of other alleged communicators, the problem has assumed a very
different aspect. The dramatic form has become an integral part of
the phenomenon. With the hand writing and the voice speaking at
the same time on different subjects and with different persons, with the
hand writing on behalf of different communicators at the same sitting,
with different successive communicators using the hand at the same
sitting, as well as at different sittings, it is difficult to resist the
impression that there are here actually concerned various different
and distinct and individually coherent streams of consciousness. To
the person unfamiliar with a series of these later sittings, it may seem
a plausible hypothesis that perhaps one secondary personality might
do the whole work, might use the voice and write contemporaneously
with the hand, and pretend in turn to be the friends of the various
sitters ; might in short be a finished actor with telepathic powers,
producing the impression not only that he is the character he plays,
but that others are with him also, though invisible, playing their
respective parts. I do not, however, think it at all likely that he
would continue to think it plausible after witnessing and studying the
numerous coherent groups of memories connected with different
persons, the characteristic emotional tendencies distinguishing such
different persons, the excessive complication of the acting required, and
the absence of any apparent bond of union for the associated thoughts
and feelings indicative of each individuality, save some persistent basis
of that individuality itself. This general impression, I venture to
think, cannot altogether be disregarded ; I am of course conscious in
my own case that as regards these trance phenomena I have had a
xxxtil] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 359
practical experience, very much of which is incommunicable to others,
but which has had nevertheless some influence in determining my mind
to incline to this hypothesis rather than to that. By practical
experience here I mean to indicate just what the words ordinarily
imply, and not the very large mass of information as to specific details
about private matters.
An operator may talk through a telephone himself, and may talk
frequently on behalf of other people, and we may suppose him to be
cognisant of conversations between numerous other persons who are
talking together. He will thus get a practical experience of different
personalities which can be separated from his ascertainment of specific
private matters talked about, and which suggests that the speakers at
the other end were those whom the callers wished to summon.
Now, it seems to me that no explanation of Mrs. Piper's pheno
mena "begins to be" plausible which does not take account of these
various apparently separate and individually coherent streams of con
sciousness,—which, of course, purport to be the "spirits" of deceased
human beings. But I think it is easy to frame a hypothesis which
fulfils the needed requirement, and which does not go beyond the
consciousness (subliminal as well as supraliminal) of living persons.
(I do not, be it observed, regard this hypothesis as the true explana
tion.) It might be expressed somewhat as follows. The brain
symbolically represents that which holds together various states of
consciousness associated into some kind of personality. In the separate
streams of consciousness, where manifested in connection with a single
organism, we find evidence of disassociation. The apparently individual
star is not single, but double, or triple, or multiple ; or it is a solar
system ; or it may be broken up into a group of asteroids. And we
find, in the fragments of Mrs. Piper's broken individuality, the
various quasi deceased friends of the sitters. It may not be necessary
to assume a different fragment for every communicator. We may
assume that there are a few fragments such as Phinuit, G. P., and a
dozen or so others, which have become specially separated ; they are
dominant groupings of some of the conscious elements of Mrs. Piper,
which by conversation with the living friends of the persons whom
they represent, and by knowledge drawn telepathically from those
friends and other distant persons, have obtained coherent forms which
serve as. very good simulations of the deceased persons who they
purport to be. They acquire the form much as a viscous mass may-
take the impress of a mould, and have got considerably hardened.
But other forms may be continually more or less changing, taking the
impress of new moulds according to the conceptions which new sitters
have of their friends, and occasionally some of these may become more
coherent and get hardened.
3G0 [part
Richard Jlodgson.
Thus, if we suppose that A to Z represent the at present available
fragments of Mrs. Piper's personality, A to N may represent the most
definite and experienced communicators, which have acquired a very
stable form, and O to Z may represent other plastic combinations
which take on a temporary form only during a sitting.
To some such hypothesis I think we are driven if we refuse to
accept the independent conscious existence of the alleged communi
cators. But such a hypothesis, besides its complication, is not without
difficulties of its own.
I do not find any evidence tending to show that the bond of
continuity in the case of the most successful communicators depends
for its existence upon the minds of living persons. And the hypothesis
is far from accounting for the efforts of the more confused communi
cators. The mixtures of truth and error bear no discernible relation
to the consciousness of the sitters, but suggest the action of another
intelligence groping confusedly among its own remembrances. And as
further light appears in this confused groping, the bonds of associa
tion appear more and more to be traceable to no other assignable
personality than that of the deceased. It is not this or that isolated
piece of private knowledge merely, not merely this or that supernormal
perception of an event occurring elsewhere, not merely this or that
subtle emotional appreciation for a distant living friend,— but the
union of all these in a coherent personal pian with responsive intellect
and character that suggests the specific identity once known to us in a
body incarnate.
To this it may be replied, however, that the basis of this personality
may be, not the conception of this person or that person or the other
persons who have been brought into relations direct or indirect with
Mrs. Piper's trances, but a composite conception formed from all of
these.
And this, I take it, cannot yet be rejected as an impossible
hypothesis. And when we remember the various forms of hypnotic
trance, and the efficacy of subtle suggestion, and reflect upon our
ignorance of our own " subliminals " and their possible inter-relations,
telepathic or otherwise, we must allow a very wide margin for the
building up of fictitious personalities. But while I think this hypo
thesis a legitimate one, I think it highly improbable that it is the true
one ; and I believe that further investigation will show that the very
reasons given for its adoption by those who may incline to hold it, will
prove to be the very reasons that will render it more and more
improbable. I shall now attempt to justify this somewhat paradoxical
statement.
Those who maintain the hypothesis of telepathy from the living as
the most probable, are largely influenced by other considerations than
xxxm.] Observatioyts of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 361
those drawn from the case of G. P. They will admit that the evidence
for personal identity in his case is strong, but they will urge that
it is outweighed by the failures of so many others. If all the
communicators through Mrs. Piper's trance had succeeded as well
as G. P., the hypothesis of telepathy from the living would seem to
them much less acceptable.
"Why," they will say, "if discarnate persons are really communi
cating, do they not give us much more evidence 1 We ourselves, if put
in the witness-box here and cross examined, could do vastly better
even than G. P., and why have so few others been able to show even
an approximation to such clearness as he exhibited ? Why all the
incoherence and confusion and irrelevancy ? Why the mistakes and
why the failures, even in cases where other striking incidents appear
to suggest the actual presence of the communicator ? Why in some
cases is there so much that seems distinctly unlike the alleged
communicator ? And why do some sitters get almost nothing that is
correct? Granted that Mrs. Piper is in a genuine trance, and that she
exhibits a mass of information not obtained by normal means, there
is so much of lapse and error and complete failure that we cannot
suppose that these manifestations emanate from the persons alleged.
We cannot isolate one or two fragments. Take the communications as
a whole, and we find them coming very far short indeed of what we
should expect from the real friends who once lived with us."
As I have suggested in the previous section, there are various
instances, other than that of G. P., where the " deceased " persons
concerned have had many opportunities of communicating frequently,
and have made coherent statements from the beginning, besides many
other cases where it is strongly suggested by the few opportunities
which alone have been afforded, that the communicator could have
supplied much detailed evidence pointing towards his identity if his
friends could have had a continuous series of sittings. But even if
such cases were multiplied many times, and even if the results were
actually comparable with those obtained from G. P., they still would
not, I think, furnish an adequate reply to the above statement that
the communications, as a whole, fall far short of what we should
expect.
What then, are we justified in expecting if discarnate "spirits"
do indeed return to communicate through Mrs. Piper's trance in the
ways described? And how far do the results actually obtained accord
with such expectations ?
The answers to these questions I shall content myself at present
with briefly indicating, and what I have to say constitutes the general
reply to which I referred in considering the specific failures of G. P.
(p. 331).
362 [part
Richard Hodgson.
If, indeed, each one of us is a " spirit " that survives the death of
the fleshly organism, there are certain suppositions that I think we
may not unreasonably make concerning the ability of the discarnate
"spirit" to communicate with those yet incarnate. Even under the
best of conditions for communication—which I am supposing for the
nonce to be possible—it may well be that the aptitude for communicat
ing clearly may be as rare as the gifts that make a great artist, or a
great mathematician, or a great philosopher. It may be a completely
erroneous assumption that all persons, young or old, good or evil,
vigorous or sickly, and whatever their lives or deaths may have
been, are at all comparable with one another in their capacity to
convey clear statements from " the other world " to this. Again,
it may well be that, owing to the change connected with death itself,
the " spirit " may at first be much confused, and such confusion
may last for a long time ; and even after the " spirit " has become
accustomed to its new environment, it is not an unreasonable supposi
tion that if it came into some such relation to another living human
organism as it once maintained with its own former organism it
would find itself confused by that relation. The state might be
like that of awakening from a prolonged period of unconsciousness
into strange surroundings. If my own ordinary body could be pre
served in its present state, and I could absent myself from it for days
or months or years, and continue my existence under another set of
conditions altogether, and if I could then return to my own body,
it might well be that I should be very confused and incoherent at
first in my manifestations by means of it. How much more would
this be the case were I to return to another human body. I might
be troubled with various forms of aphasia and agraphia, might be
particularly liable to failures of inhibition, might find the conditions
oppressive and exhausting, and my state of mind would probably be
of an automatic and dreamlike character. Now the' communicators
through Mrs. Piper's trance exhibit precisely the kind of confusion
and incoherence which it seems to me we have some reason a priori to
expect if they are actually what they claim to be. And G. P. himself
appeared to be well aware of this. Thus he wrote on February 15th,
1894 : —
. . . Remember we share and always shall have our friends in the
dream-life, i.e. your life so to speak, which will attract us for ever and ever,
and so long as we have any friends sleeping in the material world ;—you
to us are more like as we understand sleep, you look shut up as one in prison,
and in order for us to get into communication with you, we have to enter
into your sphere, as one like yourself asleep. This is just why we make
mistakes as you call them, or get confused and muddled, so to put it, H.
[R. H. repeats in his own language.] Your thoughts do grasp mine. Well
now you have just what I have been wanting to come and make clear to you,
xxxtii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 363
H., old fellow. (It is quite clear.) Yes, you see I am more awake than
asleep, yet I cannot come just as I am in reality, independently of the
medium's light. (You come much better than the others.) Yes, because I
am a little nearer and not less intelligent than some others here.
And again on February 16th, 1894 :—
[After a reference to Mr. Marte.] That he with his keen brain and
marvellous perception will be interested I know, He was a very dear friend
of ... I was exceedingly fond of him. Cosmical weather interests
both he and I—me—him—I know it all. Don't you see I correct these.
Well, I am not less intelligent now. But there are many difficulties. I am
far clearer on all points than I was shut up in the prisoned body. (Prisoned 1
prisoning or imprisoning you ought to say.) No, I don't mean to get it that
way you spoke—perhaps I have spelled it wrong. Prisoned body. Prison
ing. See here, H. "Don't view me with a critic's eye, but pass my
imperfections by." Of course I know all that as well as anybody on your
sphere. (Of course.) Well I think so. I tell you, old fellow, it don't do to
pick all these little errors too much when they amount to nothing in one
way. You have light enough and brain enough I know to understand my
explanations of being shut up in this body dreaming as it were and trying to
help on Science.
With these statements we may compare a description given long
ago by the Platonic Socrates, of the bewilderment of a " returning
soul.'' Before quoting this, I make a digression for the purpose of
explaining an incident which happened to lead my thoughts to this
description. The incident concerns G. P., and a few preliminary
explanations are needed.
G. P. held the "Mind-Stuff" theory in somewhat the crude form
expressed by Clifford. According to this general theory, the world
consists of something which is intrinsically identical with what we
know as our own consciousness, and which in its more elementary
forms may be called mind-stuff. Each one of us consists of a special
coherent aggregation of mind-stuff, and this, acting upon another
similar aggregation, produces in it the perception of a human
organism. Also G. P. and myself had several times spoken together
of the analogy used by Plato in the 7th Book of the Republic, where
a description1 is given of a cave in which are prisoners, fettered from
earliest childhood, so that they cannot move, and can look only straight
before them. Behind and above them is a fire, blazing at a distance,
and between the fire and the prisoners are men passing along with
various kinds of vessels, statues, figures of animals, etc., and casting
their shadows on the wall of the cave. The prisoners have no know
ledge save of the shadows, which to them are the reality. In our
application of this, the objects which we perceive in the physical
i I abridge and quote from Jowett's translation.
2 li
364 [part
Richard Hodgson.
universe may be like those shadows, and the things to which they
correspond are in reality composed of mind.
Now in the special discussion which I had with G. P., some two-
years before his death, concerning a future life, he maintained that in
accordance with the " mind-stuff " theory, a future life was incon
ceivable, since although the material body with its brain was only the
shadow of the mind, yet since that shadow went through a process of
disintegration, we must conclude that the mental thing corresponding
to it also went through a process of disintegration. To this I said
that we might frame a hypothesis which should be in accord with the
general mind-stuff theory, and to which such an objection as his could
not be urged,—that the gross material body might be the shadow of a
coarser and cruder form of mind-stuff, that it might be tenanted by a
more subtle organic body composed of the luminiferous ether, that
such etherial body might be the correlate of the human personality,
and that although the gross material body might disintegrate at
death, the etherial body might not. After a long discussion G. P.
agreed that such a hypothesis might be made in legitimate accord with
the mind-stuff theory, and that it rendered a future life conceivable,
though this still seemed to him incredible ; and it was then that he
pledged himself to do all that he could to establish it if he died before
me, and found that there was a future life after all.
Now at one of the early sittings in the G. P. series (see Appendix
I., p. 418), in reply to some questions by Mrs. Howard, as to the
possibility of his having access to books which had ceased to exist for
us, such as the Alexandrian library, he replied :—
" It does not make any difference how much the material is
destroyed. Plato was a philosopher and a good one. You know,
Hodgson, that was our argument, our discussion." I said : " That
came in certainly, we used the old Platonic analogy."
This was a very direct reference to the central point of our
discussion, and is the kind of incidentally evidential remark of which
there are many instances in connection with personal matters relating
to G. P. and his intimate friends. G. P. at this time was using the
voice. He followed with the remark : " Socrates was a medium." It
was not, I believe, till 1896, when abridging the series of G. P. sittings,
that my attention was drawn specially to this last remark, and I
re-read the account given by Plato. So far as my memory serves, G. P.
and myself had always referred to Plato (and not Socrates) in connec
tion with the shadow analogy, and had never thought of considering
it in connection with any " mediumistic " experience. The Platonic
Socrates, who is giving the description of the cave and the shadows,
supposes one of the prisoners in the cave to he released and to be
compelled to move up into the light. He describes his distress at the
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 365
glare, and his inability to see clearly ; the objects in the upper world
of light will at first appear less real, and he will need to grow
accustomed to the sight of them. But afterwards he imagines such a
one to be suddenly " replaced in his old situation ; would he not be
certain to have his eyes full of darkness ? . . . And if there were
a contest, and he had to compete in measuring the shadows with the
prisoners who had never moved out of the den, while his sight was
still weak, and before his eyes had become steady (and the time which
would be needed to acquire this new habit of sight might be very
considerable) would he not be ridiculous ? Men would say of him that
up he went and down he came without his eyes ; and that it was
better not even to think of ascending," and so on. " And you will not
misapprehend me if you interpret the journey upward to be the ascent
of the soul into the intellectual world according to my poor belief,
which, at your desire, I have expressed, whether rightly or wrongly,
God knows."
Plato then proceeds to apply this to the relation between the world
of ideas, illuminated by the Idea of Good, and the world of sense
which ordinary men regard as the sole object of knowledge. But it
is permissible to suppose that Socrates,—to whom we cannot attribute
Plato's metaphysical system—may have actually used this analogy to
represent the possible relation between this life and another one,
especially if we compare it with some passages in the Phsedo, where
Plato makes him refer to men in this life as being in a sort of prison,
and speak of the soul as being made giddy and intoxicated, as it were,
by the body. (Compare the expressions in the passages quoted from
G. P. above, p. 362). In any case, however, whatever either the
Platonic or the actual Socrates may have said or meant, the analogy
suggests a very good description of what I have frequently witnessed
in connection with Mrs. Piper's trance.
" Anyone," says Socrates, " who has common sense will remember
that the bewilderments of the eyes are of two kinds, and
arise from two causes, either from coming out of the light, or from
going into the light, and he will not be too ready to laugh at a
person whose vision is perplexed and weak, or if he have a mind to
laugh at the soul which comes from below into the light, there will
be more reason in this than in the laugh which greets him who
returns from above out of the light into the den."
The reader may apply this analogy if he pleases to some of the
circumstances recorded in the accounts of sittings. Thus he may
notice that the observer in the light who is looking at the real things
may perceive objects which have not yet cast their shadows on the
wall of the cave, but which probably will do so ; and he may similarly
perceive objects which have already cast their shadows but have passed
2 b 2
366 [part
Richard Hodgson.
beyond the shadow line. It may be easier for him to see such objects
than to see such as are actually at the moment casting their shadows.
And it is not improbable, as Socrates points out, that he should make
the most grotesque failures in estimating the shadows themselves.
But we must not forget that this is only an analogy.
Returning to the actual circumstances, I say that if the "spirits"
of our " deceased " friends do communicate as alleged through the
organisms of still incarnate persons, we are not justified in expecting
them to manifest themselves with the same fulness of clear conscious
ness that they exhibited during life. We should on the contrary
expect even the best communicators to fall short of this for the two
main reasons : (1) loss of familiarity with the conditions of using a
gross material organism at all—we should expect them to be like
fishes out of water or birds immersed in it ; (2) inability to govern
precisely and completely the particular gross materia] organism which
they are compelled to use. They learned when living to play on one
very complicated speaking and writing machine, and suddenly find
themselves set down to play on another of a different make.
And we should reach a similar conclusion if we suppose that it is
not merely the nervous mechanism of the " medium " that is acted upon
by our supposed "spirits " (in some such way, whatever that may be,
that each one of us acts upon his own material organism),—but the
consciousness of the medium that is acted upon by the communicators.
In this case we must suppose that the process of communication is
telepathic. But from our knowledge of telepathic communications
between embodied persons, even if we include the large number of
spontaneous experiences of phantasms of the dying, we should certainly
infer that no percipient while yet embodied could receive the full and
complete impression of another personality. Such telepathic impressions
indeed as we are warranted by direct experiment in holding to occur
between one living person and another are of extremely partial and
fragmentary character, not in any way comparable with even the
ordinary results of Mrs. Piper's trance, and if we suppose the agent
to be removed to a " world " whence he can affect the percipient more
clearly, we must still suppose that the manifestations through the
percipient will partake of the percipient's limitations. And here also,
of course, the modus operandi, whatever it may be, must be a new
and untried way. Whichever point of view we take,—whether the
consciousness of the medium is impressed by the supposed spirit, or
whether the consciousness of the medium is entirely absent and her
nervous mechanism is used as a machine,— we should expect obscurities
and deficiencies. If we had, say, an exceptionally good telepathic
percipient receiving impressions from "spirite," we should not expect
to find him receiving telepathic impressions from all agents equally ;
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 367
we should expect that some agents would be much more successful
than others, and should be quite prepared to find that some were not
successful at all, even after repeated experiments. We should not be
surprised at finding, even amidst highly successful results, other
completely wrong guesses, as well as, in partial successes, distortions
presumably due to the mind of the percipient. We might also expect
to find occasionally that the percipient received impressions that were
not intentionally conveyed. So also in the working of the complex
nervous mechanism, we should expect to find great differences in
expertness of operating. Some persons would begin to understand the
new machine at once, whereas others would continue automatically in
the habits they had formed with their old machines, and need to
practise very many times before they could produce coherent results.
And if their productions through the old machines had themselves
been incoherent, still more incoherent might we expect their working
of the new machine to be.
It will be obvious, I think, upon such considerations as these, and
similar ones, that the confusion and failure which we find in Mrs.
Piper's trance communications, are so far from being what we should
not expect, that they are exactly what we should expect, if the alleged
spirits are communicating.
But to all this it may be replied : " Granted that the results
obtained are in accordance with what we should expect if they come
from ' spirits.' It still remains an open question whether they do come
from 'spirits.' All that you say applies equally well to the hypothesis
that living persons only are concerned. The same partial and frag
mentary character that you allege must be exhibited if the supernormal
information in question comes from spirits, must also be exhibited if
it comes from the minds of living persons, and since we do not doubt
the existence of the minds of living persons, but do doubt the existence
of ' spirits,' we adopt the hypothesis of telepathy from the living."
To this I answer that the character of the results would not be
the same. The results would be fragmentary in both cases, but not
fragmentary in the same way.
And herein we find, as I think, what will eventually prove to be
the differentiating characteristics that point to the "spirit" hypothesis
as the true explanation. I say eventually, because I think that there
is at present not by any means enough material on hand to justify a
positive conclusion. This point is so important that I devote a separate
section to it. But first let me give a brief summary up to the stage
we have reached.
Mrs. Piper has been giving sittings for a period extending over
thirteen years. Very early in her trance history she came under the
attention of Professor James, who sent many persons to her as
368 [part
Richard Hodgson.
strangers, in most cases making the appointments himself, and in no
case giving their names. She came to some extent under my own
supervision in 1887, and I also sent many persons to her, in many
cases accompanying them and recording the statements made at their
sittings, and taking all the care that I could to prevent Mrs. Piper's
obtaining any knowledge beforehand of who the sitters were to be.
In 1889-90 Mrs. Piper gave a series of sittings in England under the
supervision of Dr. Walter Leaf and Mr. Myers and Professor Lodge,
where also the most careful precautions possible were taken to ensure
that the sitters went as strangers to Mrs. Piper. Further sittings
were supervised by myself in 1890-91 after Mrs. Piper's return to
America. Many persons who had sittings in the course of these
earlier investigations were convinced that they were actually receiving
communications from their " deceased " friends through Mrs. Piper's
trance, but although the special investigators were satisfied, from their
study of the trance-phenomena themselves and a careful analysis of
the detailed records of the sittings, that some supernormal power was
involved, there was no definite agreement as to their precise signifi
cance. And to myself it seemed that any hypothesis that was offered
presented formidable difficulties in the way of its acceptance. In the
course of these earlier investigations, the communications were given
almost entirely through the speech-utterance of the trance-personality
known as Phinuit, and even the best of them were apt to include much
matter that was irrelevant and unlike the alleged communicators,
while there were many indications that Phinuit himself was far from
being the kind of person in whom we should be disposed to place
implicit credence.
During the years 1892-1896 inclusive, I exercised a yet closer
supervision of Mrs. Piper's trances than I had done in previous years,
continuing to take all the precautions that I could as regards the
introduction of persons as strangers. This period was marked by a
notable evolution in the quality of the trance results, beginning early
in 1892. The character of the manifestations changed with the
development of automatic writing in the trance, and with what was
alleged to be the continual rendering of active assistance by the
communicator whom I have called G. P. As a result of this it
appeared that communicators were able to express their thoughts
directly through the writing by Mrs. Piper's hand, instead of conveying
them more dimly and partially through Phinuit as intermediary ; and
the advice and guidance which they, apparently, received from G. P.,
enabled them to avoid much of the confusion and irrelevancy so
characteristic of the earlier manifestations. I may remind the reader
of the striking evidence of different kinds furnished by the communi
cating G. P. (p. 328), and of the brief indications which I have given
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 369
in the previous section of this report that other communicators have
presented strong characteristics of personal identity. Among these are
more than half-a-dozen intimate friends of my own, who have produced
upon me the impression, through different written communications, that
they are the personalities I knew, with characteristic intelligence and
emotion, questioning me and answering me under difficulties, but with
their peculiar individual and responsive minds in some sense actually
there. Now, to give Phinuit his due, notwithstanding all his short
comings and delinquenciesi, I was inclined to think, even before the
publication of my previous report, that Phinuit believed himself
to be a "spirit." (Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 57.) But there was
so much that was inferior about him that one could not attribute
any force, on the ground of either his intelligence or his sincerity, to
his persistent affirmations that he was a " spirit " and giving communi
cations from "spirits." But we must, I think, allow some weight to
such statements when they are made persistently by a continually
increasing number of coherent personalities manifesting directly
through Mrs. Piper's trance, and characterised by a high moral tone, a
pervading sincerity, and a deep earnestness of purpose, who indi
vidually insist that they are the persons we knew in bodies incarnate •
when they all make their statements from the point of view that
would naturally belong to such persons under the conditions in which
they claim to be ; and when they stoutly resist any suggestions to the
contrary. Those who adopt the hypothesis of telepathy from the
living must clearly recognise the fulness and completeness of many of
the personalities which they suppose to be fictitiously formed in
connection with Mrs. Piper's trance, and the inversion, as it were, of
the conceptions of living persons ; so that there is produced this
marvellous simulation of the "deceased," accompanied not only by
their specific memories, but by the presentation of each character in
its unity, showing a clear self-consciousness, a working intelligence of
its own, and a morality in no case less than that of the persons
,concerned when living, but showing rather a more definite upward
movement, a stronger determination towards the " things that are
higher." And yet with all this apparently complete independence and
i Phinuit has of course been frequently commented upon by other communicators,
and sometimes apparently resented somewhat the statements made about him. See
the sitting of December 16th, 1892, (Appendix I., p. 429). G. P. there began to
make some remarks about Phinuit, which were apparently followed by a struggle in
Mrs. Piper's organism, after which there was quiet, and G. P. who was writing,
wrote (and emphatically underlined it) This is a tabula rasa. Later on he used the
voice. On January 14th, 1894, G. P. wrote: "I don't think it wise for you to ask
Dr. Phinuit much now he is inclined to try too much at times, H, and thinks he
hears things when they are not close enough to him. He is a mighty good fellow,
but exaggerates a little occasionally when he is dull. Better not tell him I say this."
(Compare Proceedings Vol. VI., pp. 517, 552-3.)
370 [part
Richard Hodgson.
power of reasoning and lofty ethical aspirations, they must be regarded
as either lying or mistaken about the fact of their existence itself,
and must be assumed to be, one and all, merely fragments of Mrs.
Piper.
But the reply to this consists in the statement, firstly, that these
communicators themselves are unable to do things which they could
have done when living, they make mistakes which, living, they would
not have made, and they show deficiencies in other ways ; and,
secondly, that there are numerous other communicators who present
very little evidence of being what they claim to be, and many who may
be said to be entirely without any verisimilitude whatever ; that the
manifestations must be taken as a general group together, and, as such,
are very different from anything we should expect if the communicators
were really " spirits."
In answer to this I have adduced various considerations which
make it clear that the partial and fragmentary character which we find
in these manifestations as a whole is, on the contrary, precisely what
we should expect if the communicators are the persons they claim to
be, manifesting in our world by difficult and unfamiliar modes, and
hampered by restricting conditions, of which there may be many
unknown to us, but of which some are very obvious.
This being agreed upon, it is then urged in reply that the results
obtained at the sittings are also such as might be supposed on the
hypothesis of telepathy from the living, which, therefore, still remains
in the field as a legitimate hypothesis.
To this I answer that the results in question might in truth be
expected to be partial and fragmentary on either hypothesis, but that
the deficiencies would be of different character in the two cases. In
one case we have a relation between the "medium" and a group of
" deceased " persons ; in the other case, a relation between the
"medium" (or percipient) and groups of living persons. Since the
groups are different from each other, the results must also be different,
and we have now to inquire whether any indications exist which seem
to point to the one group of agents rather than the other.
§6. Indication's that the "Spirit" Hypothesis is true.
If we suppose an extension of telepathy between one living person
and another far beyond what we have been able to produce experi
mentally—a telepathy which shall involve not only specific impressions
from many distant persons who have never been near the percipient,
but also realistic conceptions of numerous persisting personalities with
their own individual streams of consciousness and abiding reservoirs of
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 371
memories, personalities moreover which, so far as we can ascertain,
continue to (frow,—then indeed, on this arbitrary supposition, we might
theoretically explain the success connected with any single communi
cator. If all communicators were equally successful, or if they were
successful with the same living persons as sitters, but not with others,
the indications would not point so strongly as they actually do to the
" Spirit " hypothesis. It is the very failures which, when contrasted
with the successes, point away from the living to the " dead." The
complex mass of manifestations falls into systematic order if we relate
them to the supposed still existing personalities of the dead, and they
fall into no systematic order in relation to the consciousnesses of the
living. There are perturbations in the results which vary according to
the invisible personalities who claim to be there, and not according to
visible living persons.
And here I must clear the ground by a few preliminary con
siderations, referring to classes of cases that may be regarded as
neutral, in the sense of not favouring one view more than the other.
There are certain persons who appear to be almost entirely unsuccessful
as regards communications from their " deceased " friends, and indeed
at " sittings " altogether, and from causes which apparently inhere in
themselves. This might be expected on either hypothesis. The agent
in ordinary thought-transference experiments could scarcely look for
success if he amused himself with other matters instead of trying to
impress the percipient ; and the sitter should not expect his remem
brances of the dead to be reproduced by Mrs. Piper's percipient
trance-personality unless his mind is actively concerned with them.
And so the sitter who hopes for a communication from a "deceased "
friend can scarcely expect to get it unless his thoughts and emotions
are directed towards that friend with longing sympathy. It may well
be supposed that such a friend though living in " another world " may
be conscious of such an appeal, but it would be unreasonable to suppose
that the " dead " are perpetually waiting upon the living, whether the
latter are longing for their presence or not. And it may even be that
the state of mind of some persons is actually repellent to the efforts
which their " deceased " friends make to communicate, as I have
witnessed, I believe, on more than one occasion ; and in many cases
is not very helpful.
Parenthetically I may say that there are of course many cases
where communicators appear who were not in the conscious minds
of the sitters, and these taken together point as a group to the
existence of independent intelligences. Such has been especially the
case with communicators who have previously met friends at sittings,
and who thus " know the way," and return either to recognise new
sitters, or to send messages to other living friends. The cases of
372 [part
Richard llodyson.
Louis R. (p. 337) and MacDoaough (p. 340) are instances of what
I mean. There are numerous other examples in my records. Be it
observed that I am not now arguing that because certain incidents
were not in the conscious minds of the sitters, they indicate an intelli
gence independent of sitters and medium. It is plain throughout the
reports that the communications do not directly depend upon the
supraliminal consciousness of the sitters, and that the facts, if they
are to be accounted for by telepathy from the living, demand at least
the supposition that the subliminal consciousness of the sitters may be
drawn upon for information and also the minds of distant living
persons. I am now considering a particular class of those facts, and
asking whether they point to the action of extraneous intelligences or
to thought-transference from living persons to Mrs. Piper's personality.
I give another instance to make my meaning quite clear. Miss
Edmunds was holding a sitting on behalf of a lady entirely uncon
nected with G. P. and his group of friends. O. P. wrote a little. Ab
Mrs. Piper was coming out of the trance, the voice shouted excitedly,
"Tell Aleck Bousser [pseudonym, the A. B. mentioned pp. 319, 334].
tell Aleck Bousser not to leave them alone." Miss Edmunds knew
nothing of Aleck Bousser, but he was well-known to me. He was an
intimate friend of G. P. and was also the husband of Madame
Frederica, the living sister of Madame Elisa (p. 335), for whom
G. P. had acted as amanuensis on more than one occasion. I sent
the message immediately to A. B., and received the following
reply :—
There certainly do happen to be some people I just was happening to
have been debating about in my own mind in a way that makes your short
message perfectly significant and natural. I am sorry thus to be obliged to
feed your credulity, for I hate your spirits.
I understood, as it was described later, that Madame Elisa arrived
with this message too late to give it herself, and G. P. gave it to
the "returning consciousness " of Mrs. Piper in the same way that he
gave the name Peirce (pp. 305-6). That Madame Elisa should select
some significant circumstance in connection with living friends or
relatives is intelligible ; but to suppose that a fragment of Mrs. Piper's
personality selects it is not intelligible,—it is not explanatory, and
suggests no order.
Returning to the first class of cases which I mentioned, then, it
seems clear that either the failure or the success, in getting the
person desired as the alleged communicator, is explicable on either
hypothesis.
Similarly, in many cases, the correct answers to special questions,
when known to the inquirer at the sitting, may also be regarded as
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 373
explicable on either hypothesis. For example, when Mrs. Howard
asked G. P. if he could tell the name of a certain book which she
placed on Mrs. Piper's head without bringing it into Mrs. Piper's field
of vision at all, and the correct answer at once came that it was
his " French Lyrics," it might be regarded as a case of direct thought-
transference from Mrs. Howard, or as a case of knowledge shown by
the* independent G. P.
The cases which seem in themselves to suggest merely thought-
transference from the sitters are exceedingly rare, and even these are
nearly all explicable otherwise. For example, the letter from Mr.
Pelham given to G. P., which the Howards supposed to be about G. P.
himself (p. 320), but which was a letter about business matters, did
not lead to any statement about business matters from G. P., but to
statements referring to the contents of the contemporary letter which
Mrs. Howard thought she had presented. But the letter may have
served, as G. P. at the time said it did, to bring him " nearer to his
father," and to get at his father's state of mind. Still we may well
suppose that some cases are, as a matter of fact, due to direct thought-
transference from sitters. I have no doubt that the emotional state of
sitters is usually readily discerned by the communicating intelligence,
and think it probable that in rare cases, analogous to occasional
instances of thought-transference between living friends, the person
ality purporting to communicate is affected by specific information
possessed by the sitter.
There is further another type of case which is explicable equally
well on either hypothesis, where a test is given that the sitter thinks
might be given,—though not specially asked for, except in general
terms. For example, a club friend of my own named Otis made
several brief communications at sittings. I asked him for a test, and
he replied by reminding me of the " sword-dance." He had on a
previous occasion referred spontaneously and naturally to the fellows
at the club and the Christmas festivities, but did not then refer to the
sword-dance, though that was in my mind. He was my vis-a-vis in a
sword-dance given by ourselves and six other members of the club in
connection with some Christmas festivities. Now if Otis had asked
me how he could know that I was Hodgson, I should have replied
" sword-dance," as that was the only special matter between us in
which we were both particularly concerned. But where the communi
cators have other personal and striking remembrances in common with
the sitter,- we find that such a coincidence rarely happens, or I should
say that there is no indication that it happens more frequently than
we should expect on the hypothesis that the communicator is drawing
upon his own remembrances. Very frequently, indeed, the answer
given by the communicator to a particular question strongly suggests
374 [part
Richard Hodgson.
in itself an independent mind. For example, when Mrs. W. L. P.
asked Louis R. for the German nickname by which he used to call her
husband, he referred, not to the one of which she was thinking,
but to another, Up and Dust (p. 338). Again, when Miss Vance
(p. 437) asked G. P. for the name of a decease I college friend of her
brother Ken, G. P. answered Harry Guild. This was the name of
another college friend who died in 1883. The one of whom Miss
Vance was thinking died in 1887, and his first name, Charles, was
given by G. P. after he was told that Harry Guild was not the name
intended, although a correct answer. Similarly, in the case mentioned
by Professor Nichols (p 535). He and his mother one Christmas-
exchanged rings, and each had engraved in his gift the first word of
the giver's favourite proverb. Professor Nichols lost, many years
before the sitting, the ring which he had received from his mother.
When his mother died, a year before the sitting, the ring which he had
given her was at her request taken from her finger and returned to
him. This ring he held in his hand at the sitting—having, as he
says, " in mind only that, ring,"—and asked what was written in his
mother's ring. His mother at the moment purported to be using the
hand, which immediately " slapped down on the paper," not the word
in the ring which he was holding, but ,' the word in t/ie other riny "
which his mother had originally given him and which " had been
lost years ago while travelling. As the word was a peculiar one,
doubtfully ever written in any ring before, and as she wrote it in
such a flash, it was surely curious." It might be said that wherever
the correct statements made by the communicator were known to
the communicator when living, and are not, or have not just been,
in the conscious mind of the sitter, although once known to the sitter,
they make for the hypothesis of an independent intelligence. I think
myself that they do, at least to some extent, but I am assuming for
the present that the subliminal consciousness of the sitter may be
drawn upon by the " medium."
Putting aside then, as not pointing definitely to either of the views
we are considering, any cases of complete failure, and cases of partial
or complete success of the ordinary kind where information is given
about facts once known to the sitter, we come to a type of failure that
appears to me to point distinctly to the agency of the "dead." Take
such cases as I have described on pp. 319-50. The sittings which I held
for the purpose of obtaining communications from A., were held under
circumstances which seemed favourable, so far as I could judge, in
other respects. Other communicators manifested clearly at some of the
sittings. My own mind, as well as the minds of distant living relatives
and friends of his, according to the hypothesis of telepathy from the
living, might have been drawn upon. If the information given to me
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 375
at some of these sittings, and at other times from other persons, about
private incidents in my own life, many of which I believe to have been
known to no other person living but myself, and about an enormous
number of other matters concerning myself and deceased friends
which, if not exclusively known to myself alone, are of so intimate
a character that I have no doubt that they must be assigned to some
supernormal origin,—if, I say, all this information came from my own
mind,—then it is unintelligible that definite information could not be
" given back " to me concerning A. To suppose that the mass of
facts associated in my mind, supraliminal and subliminal, with A., and
bound by strong sympathy, should result in incoherencies of expression
from "A." when contemporary communications from other persons
were clear, is not explanatory. The circumstances suggest a confusion
in the actual communicator A., and when we remember that his head
frequently troubled him for some years before his death, and when
we find a similar confusion manifesting itself in connection with other
communicators who suffered for a long time under confusing bodily
conditions, the facts begin to fall into order. In some respects, of
course, each example stands by itself, and, as I have stated, I do
not think that we have enough material yet to apply any calculus
of probabilities, but I hope that such material as I have on hand
may be largely increased by further investigations and by other
investigators. The causes of confusion in communicators are still very
obscure ; but prolonged bodily disturbance, especially if associated
with mental disturbance, in the communicator while living, seems
invariably to be followed by confusion in his early attempts at
communication.
Take a case like that of the communicator at M. Bourget's sitting
(p. 495). The communicator, a lady, apparently tried to write herself,
but was unable to produce anything more than two or three French
words, among them what seemed to be mon dieu. Very little that
was coherent could be obtained from her. G. P. nevertheless correctly
stated that she was a beautiful lady who was an artist by profession,
that she had very expressive eyes and short hair, combed and parted
curiously on the side, that she had a severe trouble with her head,
followed by confusion, and that in a fit of insanity she jumped out of
a gondola or boat. Only the first syllable of Bourget could be obtained,
and another communicator, who apparently offered to render assistance
as being a good French scholar — as G. P. was not—succeeded only in
getting the lady's first name, for which M. Bourget asked. He was
thinking of Matilda. The name given was Tillie. " Venice " was the
answer to another question put by M. Bourget, and " Venice " was
written spasmodically at the end of the sitting, probably by G. P.
(see p. 310).
376 [pabt
Richard Hodgson.
Various cases of communications from suicides have come under my
attention, at least six, in three of which repeated opportunities have
been given for communication, and in which the details of nearly all
the sittings are known to me. I have, besides, five cases of prolonged
bodily disturbance where many opportunities have also been given for
communication, and where I am also familiar with all the results. In
four of the eight cases where many opportunities to communicate were
given, the alleged communicators were intimate friends of my own, and
another I knew very well ; and my own mind was full of clear and
vivid memories concerning them. In two cases I had never met the
persons concerned when living, but I knew intimately living friends of
theirs whose minds might have been drawn upon for clear statements
according to the hypothesis of telepathy from the living In one of these
cases the friends themselves had repeated sittings. In the remaining
case I knew the person when living, though not intimately, and I knew
a good deal about him. In all these cases the confusion persisted
through varying conditions of Mrs. Piper's trance, and while clear
communications were received from other persons ; and yet, so far as
the sitters' minds were concerned, there seemed no assignable reason
why the communications were not clear originally, or did not soon
become clear, if dependent upon living persons. Similarly in other
cases, where the mental disturbance was less pronounced, or where we
can scarcely suggest, owing to our ignorance of the circumstances,
what the precise cause of the inadequacy of the communicator might
be. Probably in many cases,—and this applies particularly to the
group of clearer communicators, between whom we find individual
differences—the skill in " controlling " the nervous mechanism of the
medium is as little traceable to any external differences discernible in
the persons known to us when living, as would be, say, the ability to
play the violin well. And thus we get all varieties of communication ;
some of them, purporting to come from persons who when living
were much mentally disturbed, suggesting the incoherency of delirium ;
others of them, purporting to come from persons who have been dead
very many years, suggesting a fainter dreaminess ; others, purporting
to come from persons recently deceased whose minds have been clear,
showing a corresponding clearness in communication. Even these last
indeed require some practice in handling the writing mechanism, and
at first the assistance of G. P. or some other experienced amanueosis
has usually been required.
But I am anxious to avoid any misunderstanding as to the causes
of failure in communicators. I have referred to certain extreme types
of persisting confusion as indicating most markedly the actual presence
of the communicators, inasmuch as in these cases there have been
repeated opportunities for communication, in some cases with different
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 377
sitters, and under numerous varying conditions. Thus, to take one
case, at the time of my earliest sittings for C. (p. 350), I believe that
I was unaware that he had taken his own life. And in other cases the
confusion in the communicator was not consciously expected in any
way by the sitters, including myself, who were on the contrary entirely
unable to understand the strange incoherencies and irrelevancies that
purported to come from their " deceased " friends, rather than the
clear utterance, and the sweeping recollections of which we ourselves
were so vividly conscious, and of which we looked to see some striking
manifestation from that "superior world" to which our friends had
gone. My own conclusion as to what might be anticipated in such
cases, where the communicators when living suffered from prolonged
bodily weakness or extreme mental disturbance, is a late induction
of my own, forced upon me by experience, and strengthened by various
statements of the communicators themselves concerning the causes of
confusion.
In most other cases, not of this extreme type, where only one or two
opportunities have been given for communication, and where there has
not been any prolonged mental disturbance, or any mental disturbance
at all, the incipient confusion is fully accounted for by the necessary
conditions of communicating, if the persons alleged are actually there,
trying to express themselves for the tirst time through an unfamiliar
organism. And when opportunity is given for further communication,
part of this confusion seems to clear away, and what remains is what
we should expect under the circumstances. I now refer to various
instances of this in illustration. In some cases the confusion is.
comparatively slight, in others it is very marked. Thus, there was a
certain amount of confusion in G. P.'s first communications to Mr.
Hart, and one of the statements suggested to the Howards a time
when G. P. had been ill at their house. Similarly at the first sitting
of Mrs. M. (p. 341), her brother wrote although she was hoping for
some communication from her husband, and the confusion, as she says,
reminded her painfully of the last hours of her brother's illness which
had been passed in delirium. This was obviously contrary to any con
scious expectation of Mrs. M., and if it be urged that it was drawn
telepathically from her subliminal consciousness, we ask why was that
particular group selected by the medium.
Again, that persons just " deceased " should be extremely confused
and unable to communicate directly, or even at all, seems perfectly
natural after the shock and wrench of death. Thus in the case of
Hart (p. 353), he was unable to write the second day after death. In
another case (p. 440) a friend of mine, whom I may call D., wrote,
with what appeared to be much difficulty, his name and the words,
" I am all right now. Adieu," within two or three days of his death.
378 [part
Richard Hodgson.
In another case, F., a near relative of Madame Elisa (p. 335), was
unable to write on the morning after his death.i On the second day
after, when a stranger was present with me for a sitting, he wrote two
or three sentences, saying, " I am too weak to articulate clearly," and
not many days later he wrote fairly well and clearly, and dictated also
to Madame Elisa, as amanuensis, an account of his feelings at finding
himself in his new surroundings. Both D. and F. became very clear
in a short time. D. communicated later on frequently, both by writing
and speech, chiefly the latter, and showed always an impressively
marked and characteristic personality. Hart, on the other hand, did
not become so clear till many months later. I learned long afterwards
that his illness had been much longer and more fundamental than I
had supposed. The continued confusion in his case seemed explicable
if taken in relation with the circumstances of his prolonged illness,
including fever, but there was no assignable relation between his con
fusion and the state of my own mind.
The more or less incoherent writings of different communicators
appear to me to be invaluable as regards the light that they throw
upon the workings of consciousness in the communicators and upon the
process of communication itself, but the readers of these Proceedings
may probably find it tedious to read even the examples I have given in
the Appendices, where a little of the detailed direct writing of first
communicators is reproduced. Take the sittings of Mr. Mitchell (pp.
517-23). At his first sitting, held in the afternoon, Phinuit was unable
to use the voice, owing to the lack of "light." Mrs. Piper had become
partially entranced in the morning unintentionally, and Mr. Mitchell
and myself waited for more than two hours before the trance began.
The communicator purported to be the wife of the sitter, recognised her
husband, giving his name James, gave her own name as Margaret, and
as M. M.—all correct—made attempts to write the name Edith (that of
a living daughter), writing E.M. and ddie and ed, and "our ddie," and
i The notice of his death was in a Boston morning paper, and I happened to see
it on my way to the sitting. The first writing of the sitting came from Madame
Elisa, without my expecting it. She wrote clearly and strongly, explaining that F.
was there with her, but unable to speak directly, that she wished to give me an
account of how she had helped F. to reach her. She said that she had been present
at his death-bed, and had spoken to him, and she repeated what she had said, an
unusual form of expression, and indicated that he had heard and recognised her.
This was confirmed in detail in the only way possible at that time, by a very intimate
friend of Madame Elisa and myself, and also of the nearest surviving relative of F.
I showed my friend the account of the sitting, and to this friend, a daj' or two later,
the relative, who was present at the death-bed, stated spontaneously that F. wlun
dying said that he saw Madame Elisa who was speaking to him, and he repeated
what she was saying. The expression so repeated, which the relative quoted to my
friend, was that which I had received from Madame Elisa through Mrs. Piper's
trance, when the death-bed incident was of course entirely unknown to me.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 379
"she was very ill, but will get well." She had been very ill, and was
" about recovered." The communicator apparently tried to write her
name at the beginning, but wrote " Mit, Mitel. I am she." Mrs.
Mitchell died of cancer, and in the writing came " no more cancel's
—you know, dear." Several other names were also mentioned that were
unknown to the sitter. The special confusion was in my view owing
to two circumstances : (1) the lack of " light" ; (2) the inexperience of
the communicator. At Mr. Mitchell's second sitting, five days later,
the results were much clearer. Phinuit gave the name Margaret
Mitchell quite distinctly, and in reply to the sitter's demand for a test,
his "wife," writing, correctly referred to the little house where they
first lived and the little stoop where she used to sit, and in reply to the
demand for a pet name he called her, she wrote that he called her
Maggie first, as was true, and then wrote Dellie, the pet name to which
the sitter referred being Dollie. She also referred to " the baby," as
with her ; a little grandchild who had died a year previously was
always thus spoken of in the family. There was some writing also
from the sitter's son George, whose name was correctly given and who
referred to his brother James correctly as being "with us." The sitter
had taken a gold watch to the sitting which "George" rightly claimed
and then referred to a silver watch which he had owned, also true, though
of little evidential value. The middle initial of his name was given
first as A and then as I, before being given correctly as S. A name
Davidson, which was unknown, was mentioned in connection with the
watch, and later on the name Rich, a gentleman well known in the
sitter's family, with Robert, which apparently had no special signifi
cance. In the writing came : " My lungs are well," and " Do you think
consumption a bad thing?" George had died of consumption. In
reply to questions as to where he went for his health and whom he met
there, he stated correctly that it was South, and gave the name Wilson
(correct), after several attempts at words beginning with a "W." This
was followed by a little obscurer writing at the end of the sitting from
"James," the other son of the sitter, who placed a notebook on the
hand and asked what it was. " My accounts and description of a trip
to " . . . The next words were undecipherable. The book was one of
several containing a journal of a voyage to China via Australia. The
important matter about sittings like these and many similar ones
appears to me to be not so much the mere facts that are offered, false
or true, but the matrix in which they are imbedded ; and this cannot
be appreciated without a careful study of the detailed reports them
selves. Thus, in the second sitting, G. P. is represented as rendering
assistance. "All right, I remember, but it is hard to put it as Pelham
asks me—WILSON." The communicator has difficulty in repro
ducing the name Wilson clearly through the writing mechanism, and
2 c
380 [part
Richard Hodgson.
GS. P., as on many occasions at other sittings, tells him to make capital
letters. Compare this with the early part of Mr. C.'s sitting (p. 514)
where the communicator, after greeting the sitter naturally, tries to
write his own name.
Don't you remember me Duane ? I will, D W A I N E, D-W- I am
bothered. This is jt, it alone, DUANE.
I reproduce this with explanatory comments.
Don't you remember me Duane ? [Sitters not sure of word Duanc.
G.P. tells communicator to put it in capitals. Communicator says to G.P.:]
I will [and tries. Writing mechanism spells out] DWAINE [sjtters spell
out the letters. Communicator tries again.] D W [Sitters spell out the
letters. Communicator says to himself or to G. P.] I am bothered. [Per
haps to himself] This is it, it alone. [Final successful effort] DUANE
[correct name].
I shall say more about the writings themselves in Part II. of un
report, but this instance will suffice here to illustrate the fact that
there is often a confusion in result which is not the confusion of the
communicator's mind. There are, indeed, three kinds of confusion that
need to be distinguished by the investigator : (1) the confusion in the
" spirit," whether he is communicating or not, due primarily to his
mental and bodily conditions when living ; (2) the confusion in the
"spirit" produced by the conditions into which he comes when in the
act of communicating ; (3) the confusion in the result due to the failure of
complete control over the writing (or other) mechanism of the meaium.
(2) and (3) are increased very much by the failures of sitters to
understand the process. Thus when " Mrs. Mitchell " was requested
to repeat words which we had difficulty in deciphering, she wrote:—
No, I can't, it is too much work and too weakening, and I cannot repeat—
you must help me and I will prove myself to you. I cannot collect my
thoughts to repeat sentences to you. My darling husband, I am not away
from you, but right by your side. Welcome me as you would if I were with
you in the flesh and blood body. [Sitter asks for test]. * * * I cannot
tell myself just how you hear me, and it bothers me a little . . . how
do you hear me speak, dear, when we speak by thought only ? But your
thoughts do not reach me at all when I am speaking to you, but I hear a
strange sound and have to half guess.i .
Of such confusions as I have indicated above I cannot find any
satisfactory explanation in " telepathy from the living," but they fall
into a rational order when related to the personalities of the " dead."
Most communicators, when they attempt to produce the writing
themselves, find themselves in a state of complete bewilderment at
first, and frequently an extreme mental automatism is shown, but so
i Note how this corresponds with the difficulties which I have suggested on
p. 332 as being in the way of the communicator.
xxxni.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 381
far as I have been able to extend my analysis, such automatism in
each case seems to suggest the mind of the alleged communicator.
And in these extreme types there may be given not merely information
peculiar and private to the communicator that was known to him
when living and that may or may not be known to the sitter, but
information of contemporary events elsewhere, unknown to the sitter.
Thus one of our members in Boston, Mrs. J., had much difficulty in
getting her husband to write his own name in full, and afterwards had
the same difficnlty in getting her own first name written ; at her
second sitting when she asked for it, it was not written at all, though
other matters connected with her family were correctly mentioned.
At the third sitting she asked about her son living :—
" . . . the silver handle troubles him . . . my shop .
where is my shop ... or my work . . . the new handle troubles
me or him." Later this was repeated.
Mrs. J. called at her son's office the same day and wrote to me on
the following day that "the bother about a silver handle was correct."
Her son was engaged in jewellers' designing work, as her husband had
been, and she "found him,'' as she wrote in more detail two days later,
"quite upset by the 'bother' he had had to make the handle in perfect
keeping with a very fine creamer he had designed and made." Mrs. J.
was unaware of the trouble, and no such incident had occurred before.
This, of course, belongs to a type of case to which I have previously
referred, as occurring frequently among clearer communicators (p. 372);
where it is difficult to suppose that Mrs. Piper's secondary personality
selects such an occurrence for reproduction, but where it becomes
intelligible on the view that Mr. J. was interested in his son's doings,
and that the mention of his son brought up the consciousness which he
had just acquired of his son's worry. Yet this was consistent with the
utmost difficulty in keeping his thoughts together sufficiently to follow
and answer our questions about his own name or the name of his wife.
I give another case connected with Mr. Vance, whose first sitting
was on March 30th, 1892 (p. 457). Besides G. P.'s inquiry after the
sitter's son and his correct statement that the son and himself were in
college together, and his correct description of the sitter's country
house in reply to the question where he had stayed with the Vances,
another striking piece of information was given by Phinuit. The
sitter presented a paper, and Phinuit said it looked more like a little
verse than anything else. "Do you know there's two Marys connected
with this. Two Marys were in the body. One Mary suggested it
and the other Mary wrote it. One is mother, and mother suggested
it." This was true. It was a short verse from the Bible, and
" was written by my sister at my mother's request shortly before
her death ; it was given to me with a special motive, and has
2 c 2
3S2 [part
Richard Hodgson.
been kept under lock and key until it was taken to Mrs. Piper."
The information purported to come, through Phinuit, from Mary,
the " deceased " writer of the verse. Mr. Vance, then, if this com--
munication and the answers from G. P. were instances of thought-
transference from his mind, was not altogether a "bad agent." Three
years later Mr. Vance had another sitting for the purpose of getting
communications from a recently deceased friend. G. P. appeared, gave
the name of the sitter, asked after his son, and tried to get some clear
communications from the friend, who purported to be there. The
sitter asked the friend various questions, but all the answers or
remarks were irrelevant, and names asked for were given wrong. He
asked specially for the name of a book written by the friend, to which
no answer was given at the time, and an answer given at a later
sitting was wrong. Yet the name of this book was well-known to
me as well as to Mr. Vance, who also I believe at the time knew the
answers to the other questions which he asked. G. P. himself however
appeared to be quite clear, and when I finally suggested that he
should stop writing as the results were all confused, wrote: "Adieu,
Vance. Sorry to be put out in this way, but suppose I shall have
to swallow it. G. P. Adieu. Sorry you did not wish to see me."
The friend apparently complained of his head at the beginning of the
sitting, and later on said, "I feel very sleepy." In life, as a matter of
fact, he suffered from mental trouble for which he was compelled to
take hospital treatment, and from other details known to me, I should
say that this is precisely the type of case from which I should now
expect to get no clear communications until long after death and after
much familiarity with the process of communication.
It was out of the automatic dreameries of persons in some such
conditions as those which I have illustrated above, that Phinuit in my
present view so often had to fish his facts, and I think that assent to
correct statements and other clues from the sitters, besides helping the
" communicator," were probably of great service to Phinuit, enabling
him to " cast his line " for those mental automatisms that specially
concerned the sitter. Much light seems to me to have been thrown
upon Phinuit's mistakes and obscurities and general method of trying
to get at facts, in what were on the whole bad sittings, by comparison of
the results obtained from the various communicators writing directly or
using G.P. as amanuensis; and I feel pretty sure that much of Phinuit's
"fishing" was due to the confusions of the more or less comatose
communicators whose minds had let loose, so to speak, a crowd of
earthly memories. And in cases where we should a priori be led to
expect that the communicators would certainly not be confused, or, if
they were confused, the confusion would not make much difference,
Phinuit was particularly successful. These cases, in which there was
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 383
also a little direct communication with the voice, seem to me to afford
a special argument in themselves in favour of the " spirit " hypothesis.
They may be contrasted with the type of extreme failures which I have
connected with chronic morbid habits or disruptive dominant ideas.
The cases I refer to are those of little children recently deceased.
Before describing these I refer to the cases of two children who had
been dead many years. Mrs. J. (to whom I have referred on p. 381)
received at her first sitting a little writing, only a few sentences, pur
porting to come from her son, who died twenty-four years before at the
age of two years and three months, from suppressed scarlet fever
causing congestion of the lungs. He gave his name Arthur, wrote,
" Here I am, Mamma, after all these years," and said that his father,
recently deceased, was with him ; mentioned three names that had no
relevance for the sitter, and said that his head and stomach were all
right. Mrs. J. knew well that there was no trouble with the head or
the stomach, and she had other vivid remembrances of her child which
were not mentioned. This is not an unnatural result if regarded as
coming from the professed communicator, in whom we should perhaps
hardly expect to find much recollection of events that occurred in the
life on earth when he was such a little child twenty-four years before.
The other case is that of the son of Mrs. R. (p. 511) who was killed
in an accident some thirteen years previously when about thirteen
years old. Through G. P. writing, he gave his name Roland, and
referred to his having been killed. I knew somewhat of the circum
stances and made some remark about the " little boy." G. P. wrote :—
" Roland is a gentleman, not a boy." He referred to a picture as being
dear to his mother (she was in the habit of carrying a portrait of him
about with her), referred to the years that had passed, and quoted a
passage : " Don't worry about me, Mamma, I am all right, and as
happy as possible," words which Mrs. R. states were in a letter received
by her from "a strange medium " soon after her son's death, and which
purported to be a message from her son She refused to accept it at
the time as such. This communication was apparently referred to at
the sitting.i So far as this communication went, concerning the
matters pertaining to Roland himself, it seemed very clear, but there
i There are several other cases in the reports where reference is made to communi
cations through some other mediums. See Mr. Mitchell's sitting, p. 518, and Dr. K.'s,
p. 527. In Dr. K.'s case the circumstance might be of some evidential value if we
had more details. The case of Mr. T. B. ft, p. 472, is interesting, but might of
course be accounted for by direct thought-transference. I have two or three other
private cases in my records, but at best they merely add a few incidents which
strengthen the view that telepathy from the sitter is not an adequate explanation.
See p. 351. Of course if the real persons are actually communicating under the novel
conditions to which I have referred, it is probable that they themselves would have an
unusually vivid recollection that they had done so.
384 [part
Richard Hodgson.
was no reproduction of boyish incidents which must have been stored
in Mrs. R.'s mind, and of some of which, as I know, she had thought
much and constantly. Yet it is not unnatural that after thirteen
years in another world, if we suppose a change from childhood to
maturity, such boyish incidents should not be dominant in the mind of
the actual communicator.
If we had numerous cases like these two, and numerous cases like
those which follow, they would, when contrasted, furnish an additional
argument in favour of the view that the alleged communicators are
actually the persons that they claim to be.
There are various references in the records given in Appendix IV.
to the twin children of Dr. and Mrs. A. B. Thaw. One of these,
Margaret, died a year before their first sitting at the age of six
months, and the other, Ruthie, died three months before their first
sitting at the age of lifteen months. The communications concerning
these children were given almost entirely by Phinuit, who had, how
ever, some difficulty with the names. At the first sitting several
attempts were made before the name Margaret was given clearly.
Trouble with teeth was mentioned in connection with the children,
apparently as the first impression on the appearance of Margaret, but
not actually specified as Margaret's. Margaret was teething when she
died. Phinuit also said that one of the children wanted baby's beads.
Margaret used to play with a necklace of beads belonging to her older
sister living. And referiing to Margaret, Phinuit said that she had
some flowers in her hand, that "she liked them and took them
with her." Mrs. Thaw had placed three little flowers in Margaret's
hand after her death. Phinuit got much more in connection with
Ruthie, whose first appearance seemed to be accompanied by a
recurrence of associations connected with the trouble that caused her
death, dysentery and sore throat. Phinuit indicated the locality and
the distress, and Ruthie's dislike of " the powder." Bismuth was
given through the entire illness of two weeks and was always
given with trouble. Phinuit spoke of Ruthie as having light golden
hair, afterwards adding curly;—correct—but called her a boy. The
living Ruthie was very generally mistaken for a boy, but not, of
course, by the Thaws. Yet Phinuit had much difficulty in getting the
name, and failed to get nearer than Ethie, and the sitters told him it
began with R. Phinuit said that she had not learned to talk, but
later on he got the name Ruth ie correctly. He remarked that she
only said papa and mamma. Other words that the living Ruthie said
were given in later sittings. Phinuit described her as wanting to see
the stars. For two or three months before her death Ruthie was fond
of pointing at the stars through the window. At the beginning of
the sitting Phinuit said she put her hand on Dr. Thaw's head, and
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 385
afterwards described her as wanting to pat his face, actions which
were characteristic of the living Ruthie towards Dr. Thaw. Similarly
she wanted to hear the tick tick (watch) in connection with her uncle
Aleck, and it was he who chiefly used to hold the watch for her to
hear it. And another characteristic action was reproduced in con
nection with Mr. Melvin W. ; Phinuit said she wanted him to wave
the hand in a certain way to Mr. W., and the living Ruthie waved
her hand in that way to Mr. W., and to him only. Reference was also
made to her picture, and Mrs. Thaw was painting a picture of Ruthie
when she was taken ill. In later sittings Phinuit described her as
saying other words, baby, pretty, Bettie, and pussie, with the accent used
by Ruthie when living. Tiiese were the only words besides the papa
and mamma mentioned before, used by Ruthie when living. The first
time Mrs. Thaw wore fur at a sitting, the hand stroked it, and Phinuit
whispered " pussie " as Ruthie living used to do. But Ruthie had
whispered " pussie " at a previous sitting. Two or three times there
seemed to be a direct control of the voice by Ruthie who took the place
of Phinuit (pp. 561, 576, 578). The first time she whispered pttee and
pssee (pretty and pussie) and the second time pttee only, the words being
many times repeated. This second occasion was connected with rather
a striking incident. Mrs. Piper was visiting the Thaws in New York,
and they took her up the river Hudson to their country house and had
a sitting on the afternoon of the day of their arrival. I was taking
notes, sitting slightly to one side and partly behind Mrs. 'Piper, while
Dr. and Mrs. Thaw were sitting in front of her, with their heads some
what bowed. Phinuit apparently "left," and his place was taken by
Ruthie, who began whispering pttee pttee. The hand rose and turned
somewhat diagonally and extended the forefinger and pointed towards
a picture on the far side of the room. The Thaws did not see this action
until I drew their attention to it, when they looked up, and followed the
direction of the pointing. The hand then trembled and sank. Dr.
Thaw noted : " During the last month of Ruthie's life it was a regular
morning custom to bring her to the room in which this sitting was
held—our bedroom—and she would always point, as hand did in
sitting, with one finger (unusual with a baby) and say ' pt-tee, pt tee,'
just as in sitting. This little incident had not been in either sitter's
conscious mind since baby's death, six months before. Mrs. Piper had
never been in that room until the actual time of sitting. Many other
pictures in the room, two of which Mrs. Piper's hand could have
pointed at more easily than the particular one always noticed by the
baby." i
i Dr. Thaw was a careful investigator, and I have no doubt myself that Mrs.
Piper herself in her normal state knew nothing of the room or the incident of the
picture, but of course I do not offer an incident like this by itself as any proof of
supernormal power. Mrs. Piper was a guest of the Thaws at the time, and those
386 [part
Richard Hodgson.
In the two sittings which Mrs. Sutton had in December, 1893,
(p. 484) she had articles which had been used by her recently deceased
little girl Katherine. One incident that was characteristic in the case
of Ruthie, the patting of her father's face, was repeated in the
case of Katherine, when it had no special significance. There were
only three points that might be described as in part common to the
two children Ruthie and Katherine. Katherine had "lovely curls,''
mentioned by Phinuit, and also called for "the tick-tick," but Phinuit
added correctly that she called it " the clock," and the word babee was
given correctly, as Ruthie also used to pronounce it. Apparently the
only incorrect statement purporting to come from the child was that
she called a lady (Mrs. C, a friend of Mrs. Sutton, who purported to
be present in " spirit," bringing the child, and whose Christian name
and surname were given correctly by Phinuit) Auntie. The lady was
not her aunt. The statements made came through Phinuit. Concern
ing a silver medal it was said that she wanted to bite it, and
concerning a string of buttons that she wanted to put them in A\ev
mouth, both correct. Phinuit said that she had no sore throat any
more, and that she kept showing him her tongue. Katherine living
had sore throat anil her tongue was paralysed. She gave correctly the
name by which she called herself, Kakie, the name Dodo by which she
called her brother George, the name Bagie by which she called a living
sister, Margaret, and the name, Eleanor, of another living sister for
whom she called much in her last illness. She also asked for Dinah,
this being the name of an old rag-doll. She said truly that Dodo
used to march with her, "he put me way up." She wanted to go
to " wide horsey "—as the living Katherine had pleaded all through
her illness, and to be taken " to see the mooley-cow," the name by
which the living Katherine called the cow, which she was taken
almost daily to see. She said she had " the pretty white flowers you
put on me," and Phinuit described lilies of the valley, which were the
flowers that had been placed in the casket, (see p. 303). She said she
was happy with grandma,—Mrs. Sutton's mother had been dead many
years,—and later on wanted to send her love to her grandma and also
apparently to her great grandma who was referred to as Marmie. She
had a grandmother and also a great grandmother then living, and
persons who are disposed to explain these phenomena by the hypothesis of fraud can
readily suppose that Mrs. Piper may have acquired the information needed to go
through the scene described above. Believing that there is abundant proof, in this
and the previous records published, that Mrs. Piper in her trance-state possesses
supernormal power of a kind which goes at least as far as telepathy from distant
living persons, and being satisfied myself otherwise that Mrs. Piper dot's not hunt up
information about sitters, I have, in considering what hypothesis seems best to fit the
phenomena as a whole, put aside the question of fraud. I refer to the subject
occasionally in this way for the purpose of avoiding misunderstandings.
XXXIII.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 387
Marrnie was the name by which Mr. and Mrs. Sutton spoke of the
great giandmother, but Katherine always called her Grammie.i She
also referred to two songs she used to sing : " Bye bye, O baby bye,"
and " Row Row, my song." This " Row Row " song was sung
frequently by Katherine during her illness, and was the last sung by
her when living, and she asked Mr. and Mrs. Sutton to sing it at the
sitting. They sang the first four lines, and the voice —presumably still
"controlled" by Phinuit in imitation of Katherine—sang with them.
Phinuit then hushed the sitters, and the voice sang the remaining
four lines above. It is, of course, a familiar child's song (p. 486).
At the second sitting a fortnight later, the voice sang all eight
lines alone, then asked Mrs. Sutton to sing it with her, as she did,
and then at Mrs. Sutton's request also sang with her the other song
" Bye bye," precisely, according to Mrs Sutton, as the living Katherine
sang it. Mr. Sutton, who was present at the first sitting, did not
attend the second sitting, and he was asked for immediately after this
singing, which came at the beginning of the sitting. " Kakie wants
papa." This was a very characteristic expression. There were indi
cations suggesting a knowledge of what was going on in Mrs. Sutton's
family. At the first sitting Katherine said she went " to see horsey "
every day. The sitters had been staying in the country with Mr.
Sutton's parents and had been driving frequently. Margaret, a living
sister, was still there, and driving daily. Mrs. Sutton, who has had
many psychical experiences herself in seeing the " apparitions " of
" deceased " persons (see p. 484) had " seen Kakie " during that visit to
Mr. Sutton's parents. At the second sitting Katherine said that she
saw Bagie with grandma, and that she played with Eleanor every day
and liked the little bed. A lady had recently lent Eleanor a doll's
bed, but Mrs. Sutton had not associated this with Kakie. There were
incidents at both sittings which showed associations that seemed to
be in the mind of the child, which did not awaken the corresponding
associations in the minds of the sitters even when the contemporary
notes to the sittings were made. Thus in the first sitting she asked
for "horsey." Mrs. Sutton gave a little toy horse with which the
child had played during her illness. But the child said " big horsey,
not this little one," and Mrs. Sutton surmised that she referred to
another toy cart-horse that she used to like. At the second sitting
came " Kakie wants the horse," and the little horse was again given.
No, that is not the one. The big horse—so big [Phinuit shows how
large.] Eleanor's horse. Eleanor used to put it in Kakie's lap. She loved
that horsey.
i It scarcely needs mentioning that this is explicable on either of the hypotheses
under view.
388 [part
Richard Ilodijson.
These additional particulars, which were true, then reminded Mrs.
Sutton of the horse referred to, which was packed away in another
city, and which had not occurred to the mind of Mrs. Sutton in
connection with Kakie. Similarly at the first sitting she asked two
or three times for " the little book." The sitter noted that she liked a
linen picture-book. But the remarks made at her second sitting
suggest that the little book in the child's mind was not this one.
"Kakie wants the little bit of a book mamma read by her bedside,
with the pretty bright things hanging from it—mamma put it in her
hands—the last thing she remembers." Mrs. Sutton states that this
was a little prayer-book with a cross and other symbols in silver
attached to ribbons for marking the places, and that it was sent to
her by a friend after Kakie had ceased to know anyone except
perhaps for a passing moment. Mrs. Sutton read it when Kakie
seemed unconscious, and after Kakie's deathi placed it in her hands to
prevent the blood settling in the nails. She adds later that Mrs.
Piper's hands when the book was asked for at the sitting, were put
into the same position as Kakie's.
Another book was mentioned at the second sitting which apparently
was the one Mrs. Sutloii thought of at the first sitting. "Kakie wants
the book with red letters and pictures of animals." Correct description.
At this second sitting also Katherine again apparently referred to
Mrs. C, —who was not a relative,—as Auntie, and to her great
grandmother as Afarmie. At this sitting Mrs. Sutton twice saw the
" apparition " of Kakie (and she also saw the figure of Dr. Clarke,
another communicator, just as Phinuit said : " Here is an old
gentleman who wants to speak to you, Dr. Clarke," see p. 484). On
one of these occasions Mrs. Sutton " saw her for a moment, standing
at the table, trying to reach a spool " of silk, and at the same moment
Phinuit reached for it saying : " She wants that, she and Eleanor used
to play with. She calls it Eleanor's." This was all true, but the sitter
" had not connected it with Eleanor in her thoughts." Another incident
I quote here just as it is given in the detailed report of the sitting.
[Kakie asks for her ball. I gave it to Phinuit, who tries to find what
she wants to do with it.]
Bite it ? Toss it ! Roll it ? Throw it ?
[No, she wants a string. Mrs. H. gave him a string. He tries to tie it
around the ball.] [A little red wooden ball with a hole through it. The
ball had a string through it when she used to play with it.]
No, that is not right, through it.
There, there, be a good little girl. Don't cry. Don't be impatient, you
want your mamma to see how you do it, so she will know it is you, don't
you, dear ? Old man will do it for her.
i If the human personality survives death, it may bo a difficult question to decide in
individual cases precisely w hen the consciousness is finally withdrawn from the body.
xxxin.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 389
[He put the string through, held it up, and hit it with the finger, making
it swing.]
That is it, is it not, darling. ? Nice little girl as ever was.
[While she was sick, it was her great delight to have me hold the string,
and lot her hit the little red ball with her finger or spoon. She made the
motions as if doing it, after she became unconscious.]
Mrs. Sutton had some brief communications also from other friends
and relatives. One from a deceased friend Hattie she thought not in
the least like Hattie. And there was much apparently painful effort
and confusion and agitation in writing at both sittings from another
communicator through whom an attempt was made unsuccessfully to
get a certain address ; yet Phinuit correctly specified where the person
was born and where he died, though at the time Mrs. Sutton believed
both to be wrong.
What seems to me to be suggested by the references to these
children in the records is that, on their first coming to communicate,
the recollection of the troubles from which they suffered when living
came to the front in their consciousness, but their definite remem
brances were few in number. The half-a-dozen words that Ruthie
was represented as saying were all that the living Ruthie had
been able to say, and similarly there were only a few characteristic
actions, and these were naturally associated with the persons with
whom the living Ruthie had associated them. Since there were only
a few persons with whom Ruthie had any definite associations at all,
and since these definite associations themselves were few in number, it
would make no practical difference how much confused she might be.
These associations were easily recognised as hers. In such cases also
the wrench of death may be less violent than in more mature persons,
and the change from one set of conditions to the other may be less
disturbing. Similarly in the case of Mrs. Sutton's child. But here the
definite associations were much more numerous, and, as I have pointed
out, Mrs. Sutton apparently did not understand two of the allusions
made at the first sitting. But add another thirty or forty years of
life, with the myriads of associations involved, and with the mind
inured to the habits of a particular fleshly organism, and then after a
change to another completely new set of conditions, draw the
personality back once more into the bonds of another and different
body, where it has little or no control over the mass of its mental
associations, and the result might be expected to be very different from
that of the " simple child that lightly draws its breath."
On the other hand it may be urged that such cases are equally
explicable on the hypothesis of thought-transference from the sitters.
We can of course suppose that parents whose little children have recently
died are good telepathic agents for the group of associations connected
390 [part
Richard Hodgson.
with those children. But we can see no reason why thoy should be
better telepathic agents, that is, to Mrs. Piper's personality, than, say,
a wife who has just lost her husband. I have known cases of this type
where strong grief and vivid remembrance have served apparently
to bring the desired " communicator," but not to make him clear.
Let us finally contrast another kind of failure with what seems to be
a very simple kind of success. I refer to the naming of sitters. G. P.
had the opportunity, by his frequent " return," of becoming expert in
communicating, and was unusually clear, to begin with, in his manage
ment of the writing mechanism. The ordinary communicator has
much difficulty in giving names apparently ; he is like a man half
asleep, who only half knows what you want, and through whose con
sciousness may drift a mass of irrelevant names which tend to be
written, but which, if he were in full waking consciousness living,
would be inhibited. In very good sittings of the old type, the sitter's
surname was rarely given. What is it, then, that in the G. P.
communications happened to give the surnamesi of the particular
group of persons known to G. P. 1 What is it that selected the thirty
persons recognised as G. P.'s friends and knew their appropriate
relations with G. P. living 1 Why should the supposed Mrs. Piper's
telepathic power succeed so strangely with these G. P. recognitions,
and be so failing and uncertain in the case of so many persons who
happened to be unknown to G. P. living 1 What was it that picked
out the odd associations of Marte and the club with Mr. Smith
(p. 327), and yet, with all this supposed telepathic capacity failed to
recognise Miss Warner, who had changed so much that G. P. living
would probably not have recognised her, but who knew well herself, as
I did also, that she had met G. P. in years gone by ? I think that
there is here a strong indication pointing to the actual G. P. It
suggests the existence of something which has the perceptions and
memories of G. P., but not a general telepathic capacity outside this.
Otherwise we must make some such extraordinary supposition as
that all G. P.'s friends were good telepathic agents with Mrs Piper as
percipient, and,—when we take the detailed records into consideration,
—that they showed this united telepathic capacity only as regards
their relations with G. P.
Now, as I stated in § 5 of this Report (p. 367), I do not think that
we have by any means enough material on hand to form a positive
i G. P. gave the surnames in all cases where I have not specified otherwise, or
where it was obviously not required, as in the case of his father and mother, and the
children of the Howards, whom he called by their first names only. (See pp. 323-328.)
In nearly all the other cases he gave the first names also, in all where the first names
were familiar to G. P. living. In addition to this, various other Christian names and
surnames were given of intimate friends and relatives of G. P. living.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 391
judgment, though I regard such cases as those which I have men
tioned in illustration as very strongly suggestive of variations in the
individual communicators themselves. I am not attempting to prove
this here, but only to show that there are facts which apparently point
in that direction, and to indicate lines of inquiry for future work and
for new investigators, who may eventually obtain enough material to
make a positive conclusion possible. And I must warn the reader yet
further that by positive conclusion I do not mean absolute demonstra
tion to the exclusion of any other hypothesis. There will still be a
question of presumption and probability which will appeal to different
minds differently, as do for example the general conclusions—with
which I myself agree—put forward in the Eeport of the "Census of
Hallucinations" (Proceedings, Vol. X.), concerning the existence of a
causal relation between certain hallucinations and dying persons. To
give the full force of the probability as it has affected my own mind
would make the present Report much too long, even were all the
available material at my disposal, as it is not. In a future Report,
with the accumulation of fresh material, I hope to undertake this task.
It will involve a detailed consideration of the general psychology
of memory and a detailed consideration of the mental automatisms
manifested in dream and reverie and delirium and insanity and
hypnotic trance, and more or less allied states, where the manifesta
tions of the personality concerned are different in various ways and in
various degrees from those of his normal waking consciousness. After
acquiring a familiarity with the tendencies exhibited in such manifesta
tions, we should then have to consider in detail the specific mental
automatisms displayed by groups of alleged communicators through
the trance, obtaining, for our comparison with these, as complete a
knowledge as possible of the alleged communicators when living.
One man's madness is not the same as another's. And a similar
detailed consideration needs to be given to the other classes of cases
to which I have referred. Should any other persons like Mrs. Piper
come before us for our investigation, it seems to me desirable, if
possible, that the experimenting should be confined to a few investi
gators, who should endeavour to make an absolutely complete record
from the Iieginning. As regards the evidence in such cases, I am
convinced that it has been dealt with altogether too much " in the
rough." It is the detail that counts, since it is from the detail that
we get the most important light concerning the actual processes
involved.
With this caveat, then, I indicate the results to which my own
observations seem to tend.
The persistent failures of many communicators under varying con
ditions ; the first failures of other communicators who soon develop
392 [part
Richard Hodgson.
into clearness in communicating, and whose first attempts apparently
can be made much clearer by the assistance of persons professing to be
experienced communicators; the special bewilderment, soon to dis
appear, of communicators shortly after death and apparently in
consequence of it ; the character of the specific mental automatisms
manifest in the communications ; the clearness of remembrance in
little children recently deceased as contrasted with the forgetfulness of
childish things shown by communicators who died when children many
years before,—all present a definite relation to the personalities
alleged to be communicating, and are exactly what we should expect if
they are actually communicating under the conditions of Mrs. Piper's
trance manifestations. The results fit the claim.
On the other hand these are not the results which we should expect
on the hypothesis of telepathy from the living. That persons who
must be assumed on this hypothesis to be good agents otherwise, should
fail continuously and repeatedly with certain persons as " com
municators " ; that first communicators of a clearer type should show,
especially when themselves professedly directly communicating, the
peculiar strangeness which they do even to experienced agents who are
familiar with the modus operandi of the communication ; that there
should be a special temporary bewilderment shown in cases immediately
after death and that this should be followed in a few days by a
comparatively complete clearness in various cases where there is no
assignable change in the agent (unless it were a diminution of his
telepathic power) ; that there should be specific mental automatisms
which suggest, not the mind of the supposed agent, or the mind of the
supposed percipient, but the mind of the " deceased " person ; that
memories of little children recently deceased should have a special
telepathic agency,—such results we have no reason to expect from
what we know or have reason to surmise concerning telepathic action
between one incarnate living person and another.
Further there are certain kinds of successes with particular com
municators connected with their knowledge and recognition of friends,
shown most notably in the case of G. P., but exhibited to some extent
by others also (e.g., Madame Elisa and Louis R.) which suggest the
recollections and continued interest in personal friends living which
we should naturally expect from the alleged communicators themselves,
but for which there seems to be no adequate cause in Mrs. Piper's
percipient personality.
In general, then, we may say that there are on the one hand
various limitations in the information shown through Mrs. Piper's
trance, which are prinul facie explicable on the assumption that it
comes from the alleged communicators, and for which we can find no
corresponding limitations in the minds of living persons ; and on the
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 393
other hand, that there are various selections of information given in
connection with particular communicators, which are intelligible if
regarded as made by the alleged communicators themselves, but for
which discrimination there is no satisfactory explanation to be found
by referring them to Mrs. Piper's personality. With one class of
deceased persons Mrs. Piper's supposed telepathic percipience fails ;
with another class it succeeds ; and it fails and succeeds apparently in
accordance with what we should expect from the minds of the
deceased, and not in accordance with what we should expect from the
minds of living persons acting upon Mrs. Piper's percipient personality.
The question is whether this particular distribution of successes and
failures is due to mere chance coincidence in Mrs. Piper's percipient
personality, or can be traced to any adequate causes there, or whether
it points to the agency of the invisible personalities whom we once
knew incarnate. My own conclusion is that it points to the latter,
but I do not think that there is evidence enough producible to make
this pointing a certainty. But, so far as it goes, it suggests that the
" natural grouping " of the facts affiliates them to the personalities of
the dead.
Notwithstanding all this it may still be urged that the hypothesis
of telepathy from the living may be extended so as to cover even the
various types of cases illustrated above. It may be so extended by
making further additional arbitrary suppositions, and what this exten
sion leads us to we shall see presently. I first recur briefly to some
other series of facts bearing on the question.
Let us go back to what we know of experimental thought-
transference. I have supposed, for the sake of allowing as much
latitude as possible to the hypothesis of telepathy from the living, that
the subliminal consciousness of the sitters and also of distant living
persons might be drawn upon by the medium. But this itself is a
purely arbitrary supposition, and as Professor Lodge emphasised in
his report on Mrs. Piper (Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 453), " it ought
to be constantly borne in mind that this kind of thought-transference
without consciously active agency has never been experimentally
proved." Now, so far as I can judge from my own experience as
a sitter, and from the experience of other sitters, without any
statistical record,i I should say that if we exclude the bringing of
the communicator, the results, as regards the giving of specific
information, would prove conclusively that the information was not
i 1 mean by this a record in which the successes and failures are classified in
relation to what the sitter was consciously thinking of at the time. It will, however,
I think, be plain to any reader of the reports that neither the successes nor the
failures in regard to the general information given at sittings show any direct relation
to the conscious minds of the sitters.
394. [part
Richard Hodysov.
obtained by a process like that involved in experimental thought-
transference, and that for the kind of telepathy, if telepathy it be,
involved in these manifestations there is no experimental basis
whatever. At the same time, if the information given at the sittings,
both in matter and form, was limited by the knowledge possessed by
the sitters, we should have no hesitation in supposing that it was
derived from their minds, telepathically or otherwise ; but enough
examples are cited in this report alone to show that the information
given is not so limited. We must then make the arbitrary supposi
tions that Mrs. Piper's percipient personality gets into relation with
the minds of distant living persons, (1) who are intimate friends of
the sitters at the time of the sitting (e.g., p. 297, Hart's sitting and
references to the studs and the Howards, etc.), and (2) who are
scarcely known, or not at all known, to the sitter (e.g., MacDonough
messages p. 340, and Aleck Bousser message, p. 372). And many of
these distant living persons had, so far as they knew, never been near
Mrs. Piper. These cases then compel us to assume a selective capacity
in Mrs. Piper's percipient personality, and not only selective as to the
occurrences themselves, but discriminative as to the related persons ;
that is to say, attaching the various pieces of knowledge respectively
to the fictitious personalities whom, if real and living, the events in
question would have concerned. If now we widen this supposed
percipient personality of Mrs. Piper, and differentiate its parts so a*
to cover all the various successes of the communicators described in
this report, with the verisimilitudes of the different personalities of
the "deceased," and so as to cover also all the types of confusion and
failure, and so as to allow for the yet increasing number of new
communicators, we reach a conception which goes as far as the
" spirit " hypothesis itself.
And I may add here that these arbitrary suppositions may be>
increased yet further to cover other forms of evidence that may be
obtained hereafter, such as the giving of information supposed to be
possessed by the dead alone, or the manifestation of knowledge not
yet acquired by the human race, so far as we are aware, such as the
existence of heavenly bodies previously unknown or the customs of
the inhabitants of other planets, —-verified, let us assume, in future
years. All that we need suppose in such cases would be that the facts,
known consciously to the dead alone were communicated by them
when living telepathically to the subliminal consciousnesses of other
persons, that the giver of knowledge concerning the heavenly bodies,
obtained it clairvoyantly, and so on.
But I have supposed that the personality of Mrs. Piper exhibits,
numerous individually coherent but different fragments of conscious
ness, and in my own practical experience T have reached conclusions
xxxin] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 395
. as to the g'wast-independence of the apparent communicators which I
cannot expect all my readers to share. I accommodate my supposition,
therefore, to conform with the conclusion to which I believe that all
persons would come concerning the manifestations through Mrs.
Piper's trance, if they could witness a series of sittings and observe the
two contemporaneous " controls " of the hand and the voice. I put
aside the cases where both hands have written independently at the
same time that the voice was independently speaking, these cases being
too few to rely upon as evidence (see p. 294). But there has been an
independence between the streams of consciousness using respectively
the hand and voice which compels us to suppose that there are at least
two distinctly different and individually coherent intelligent conscious
nesses of some kind manifesting themselves contemporaneously through
Mrs. Piper's organism. I believe, also, that the observer of Mrs.
Piper's phenomena in detail would have, further, no doubt but that
neither of these consciousnesses is identical with that of the normal
waking Mrs. Piper. This at least dual consciousness, acting indepen
dently of the normal Mrs. Piper, must be taken into full consideration,
though we may suppose here that the two streams of it represent only
divided parts of Mrs. Piper's personality. These two intelligent
fragments, we may suppose, do all the acting ; they get impressions
telepathically from the minds of the sitters and of distant living
persons, they form conceptions of the alleged communicators, they
dramatise the results and present them with the completeness that
is shown at the sittings. We may even go further in our sup
position and contemplate the manifestations as the result of a
single consciousness playing all the parts as described. To realise
what such a consciousness implies, we must bring before our thought
the fulness of knowledge shown continuously through Mrs. Piper's
trance by so many alleged communicators, the varying ways in which
that consciousness has manifested itself in accordance with the minds
of such communicators, the completeness of the personalities repre
sented in many cases, and the confusions and failures of others, all
conforming to what we should expect from such communicators, if
actually existing as they describe themselves to be, showing a dis
criminative diversity of telepathic power which exactly suits the
respective communicators, manifesting emotional remembrances and
desires and intelligence characteristic of the alleged communicators,
and urging further towards higher aspiration and noble deed, and
constantly affirming their independent existence.
What kind of a consciousness is this that we must suppose, and to
whose domain must it be attributed t According to our outlook upon
the universe, one hypothesis will appear more plausible than another.
In my own case my conclusions have been largely determined, no
2 d
396 [part
Richard Hodgson.
doubt, by intimate actual experience of the manifestations and a
knowledge in detail of nearly all the personal and private matters
that cannot appear in the evidential record. There may be many
persons who are willing to take the evidence here presented and
give it due weight, and who nevertheless will adopt some such view
as that a form of Consciousness manifests itself through Mrs. Piper's
entranced organism, in which Consciousness the " pseudo-personalities "
of our " deceased " friends appear, and grow, and behave in all
discernible ways as their actual personalities might be expected to
behave if existing independently and coufined, in their communications
to us, to the manifestations possible through such a limited organism.
Such a form of Consciousness, with all the capacities that must be
attributed to it, is very much an " unknown quantity." For myself, I
do not object to calling this unknown quantity a larye Consciousness,
but it seems to me simpler to call it another icorld than to call it the
secondary personality of Mrs. Piper.
But this is not all. And here I must again state my conclusion as a
result of practical experience, which will however, I have no doubt, be
confirmed by all those who have had much to do with Mrs. Piper's
trance or similar manifestations. If the hypothesis of telepathy from
the living is acted upon in anything like the ordinary experimental
way, the supernormal results will be lessened. If the investigator
persistently refuses to regard the communications as coming from the
sources claimed, he will not get the best results. If, on the other hand,
he acts on the hypothesis that the communicators are "spirits," acting
under adverse conditions, and if he treats them as he would a living
person in a similar state, he will find an improvement in the
communications. I have several times got better results alone from
communicators who were strangers to me, than the intimate friends or
relatives were able to get, and including information unknown to me.
To describe it as it appears, the "spirit " in the attempt to communi
cate seemed like a living friend wandering in his mind owing to an
accident. To clear such a person's mind we should soothe him, not
bother him with questions, but let him unburden his mind of whatever
his dominant ideas were, remind him of strong associations that
were dear to him, express sympathy, etc., etc. ; but to ask him one
question after another, to put him through a cross-examination and
expect him to have all the answers ready at once, would obviously
not be conducive to anything but a worse confusion. And having
tried the hypothesis of telepathy from the living for several years,
and the "spirit" hypothesis also for several years, I have no
hesitation in affirming with the most absolute assurance that the
"spirit" hypothesis is justified by its fruits, and the other hypothesis
is not.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 397
Here I may explain more specifically than I have hitherto done
what seems actually to occur during Mrs. Piper's trance. First, I
must ask the reader to revert to what I have said on pp. 332-3 con
cerning the position of the communicator, and on pp. 358-60 concerning
the supposititious fragments of Mrs. Piper's personality. And I repeat
that I believe that this brief general account of the manifestations of
Mrs. Piper's organism holds true in the main, even if we regard the
different alleged communicators as parts not of a unique larger con
sciousness, but of a consciousness limited in most ways like our own,
a merely human, though peculiar, secondary personality of Mrs. Piper.
I shall use terms as far as possible which are familiar to the readers
of our Proceedings, even although they may not be strictly accurate in
their application ; they will probably convey my meaning better than
if I adopt a new terminology.
When Mrs. Piper begins to pass into trance, her normal or supra
liminal consciousness begins to disappear, and her subliminal conscious
ness begins to manifest itself. It is as though her supraliminal
consciousness was sinking, and her subliminal consciousness was rising.
There is one stage where the subliminal consciousness seems to
come into view before the supraliminal consciousness has completely
disappeared. In this stage she is apparently dreamily conscious of the
sitter, and dreamily conscious of " spirits." She seems to be partly
conscious, as it were, of two worlds. This stage, as she passes into
trance, is usually very brief and changing. She sees figures and hears
voices before she has completely lost her consciousness of her ordinarj
physical surroundings ; as is indicated by her appearance and her
occasional remarks to the sitters, or to the " persons " that she
apparently sees or hears. In the next stage the supraliminal con
sciousness has entirely disappeared, and the subliminal consciousness
only is manifest. It is as though her own personality held much
the same relation to her organism as Phinuit or other " spirit "
controller of the voice. This stage also is very brief as she passes xnto
trance, but occasionally it lasts somewhat longer than usual, and she
repeats a remark addressed to her by some "spirit," or makes a remark
herself to a "spirit." She seems then to possess, not the dreamy
consciousness of the previous stage, partly aware of two worlds, and
in a dream-like relation to both, but a fuller and clearer consciousness
—we may call it her subliminal consciousness—which is in direct
relation, however, not so much with our ordinary physical world, as
with " another world." In the next stage this consciousness also-
disappears ; it seems to be withdrawn from any direct governance of
her body, the upper part of which becomes inert and apparently
lifeless. What I believe happens is that Mrs. Piper's normal or supra
liminal consciousness becomes in some way dormant, and that her
2 d 2
398 [part
Richard Hodgson.
subliminal consciousness withdraws completely from the control of her
body and takes her supraliminal consciousness with it. Whether this
is the true explanation or not, the body seems to be no longer under
the control of any consciousness. The upper part of her body tends to
fall forward, and I support the head upon cushions on a table. About
this time, or shortly afterwards, there arises a very slight disturbance
in the upper part of the body, which becomes less inert and which
appears to have come to some extent under the " control " of some
consciousness, and at the same time, or frequently earlier, some
times before Mrs. Piper's consciousness has completely disappeared,
sometimes before even her supraliminal consciousness has disappeared,
the right hand and arm manifest a control by what seems to
be another consciousness and begin to make movements suggesting
writing.i
The upper part of the body including the left arm is then usually
controlled by one personality and the right arm by another. For the
several years during which the personality calling itself Phinuit
continued to control the voice in the trance, after the development of
the "automatic writing," the personalities controlling respectively the
hand and the voice showed apparently a complete independence.
Whether " spirits," as they assert, or not, Phinuit and the conscious
ness controlling the hand appeared to be entirely distinct from each
other, and frequently carried on separate and simultaneous independent
conversations with different sitters (see pp. 292-3). Since Phinuit's
"departure" (see p. 409) the voice has been used on a few rare
occasions only, and almost exclusively by communicators who pur
ported to be relatives of the sitters, and who had used the voice before
Phinuit's " departure."
To continue with my description, the consciousness controlling the
hand holds a conversation with the sitter by writing, but, so far as I
have been able to ascertain, it is not directly conscious of the act of
writing. The writing seems to be an automatic registering which is
produced by the nervous mechanism of Mrs. Piper's organism, and of
which the consciousness communicating is as little aware as the
ordinary person talking into a phonographic mouth-piece is aware of
the registration on the revolving cylinder. The sense of hearing for
this consciousness appears to be in the hand, and the sitter must talk
to the hand to be understood. I do not profess to be able to give
any satisfactory explanation of some of the processes which I am
describing. What the precise relation is between this consciousness
i 1 describe what occurs now, and not what occurred in the earlier trances when
Phinuit " controlled " ; but so far as the hand is concerned, the process is the same
as when Phinuit used to manifest.
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 399
and the movements of the hand I do not know. I do not know
whether or not the motor centres of the brain ordinarily concerned in
the movements of hand and arm are in operation or not. I incline to
think not, certainly not in the ordinary way. The writmg produced
is very different from Mrs. Piper's ordinary writing ; it shows individual
differences, but belonging to the same generic type on the whole, with
different alleged communicators, and does not resemble the writing of
those persons when living any more than it does Mrs. Piper's.i The
thoughts that pass through the consciousness controlling the hand tend
to be written, and one of the difficulties apparently is to prevent the
writing out of thoughts which are not intended for the sitter. Other
" indirect communicators " frequently purport to be present, and the
" consciousness of the hand " listens to them with the hand as though
they were close by, as it listens to the sitters, presenting the palm of
the hand, held in slightly different positions for the purpose by
different "direct communicators," so as to bring usually the region of
the junction between the little finger and the palm towards the mouth
of the sitter. The writing at its best is liable to include occasionally
remarks not intended to be written, words apparently addressed by an
" indirect communicator " to the consciousness of the hand, or by the
consciousness of the hand to an "indirect communicator," or by
"indirect communicators" to one another; or, in worse cases, where
the power of inhibition seems to have been almost entirely wanting,
the wandering thoughts of the " direct communicator " were appar
ently produced in writing in incoherent fragments, mixed up with his
attempts at replies to questions of the sitter, and bits of conversation,
as it were, between him and other " indirect communicators." But
there never seemed to be any confusion between the personality using
the hand, whether this was " clear " or not, and the personality using
the voice.
The behaviour of the hand during a sitting, not merely in relation
to the sitters, but in relation to the one or more " indirect communi
cators," for whom some " direct communicator " professes to act as
amanuensis, is not easily described in words. It behaves at times
as though the "direct communicator" was holding a conversation
with the " indirect communicators " (when sometimes the writing
mechanism goes on producing writing movements while the hand is
held in the air), listening to them as described above ; at other times
as though one consciousness withdrew from the hand to make room for
i Miss R. (p. 202), whose friend was apparently the first to write at all, using the
hand while " controlling " the body generally, and also using the hand while Phinuit
was controlling the voice, has shown me some of this early writing and some writing
of her friend when living. Some peculiarities were common to both, but not enough
to found an argument upon as' to the identity of the communicator.
400 [part
Richard Hodgson.
another ; at other times as though the sudden arrival of another
"indirect communicator" nearly ousted the "direct communicator"
from the hand ; and it shows various other intelligent relations. The
communicators themselves do not profess to know precisely what
occurs between the thinking of their thoughts and the production of
the writing, or to know even what movements of the hand are being
produced.
The statements of the " communicators " as to what occurs on the
physical side may be put in brief general terms as follows. We all
have bodies composed of " luminiferous ether" enclosed in our flesh
and blood bodies. The relation of Mrs. Piper's etherial body to the
etherial world, in which the " communicators " claim to dwell, is such
that a special store of peculiar energy is accumulated in connection with
her organism, and this appears to them as "a light." Mrs Piper's
etherial body is removed by them, and her ordinary body appears as
a shell filled with this " light." Several " communicators " may be in
contact with this light at the same time. There are two chief
" masses " of it in her case, one in connection with the head, the other
in connection with the right arm and hand. Latterly, that in connec
tion with the hand has been "brighter" than that in connection with
the head. If the " communicator " gets into contact with the " light "
and thinks his thoughts, they tend to be reproduced by movements in
Mrs. Piper's organism. Very few can produce vocal effects, even
when in contact with the "light" of the head, but practically all can
produce writing movements when in contact with the " light " of the
hand. Upon the amount and brightness of this " light," cateris
paribus, the communications depend. When Mrs. Piper is in ill-
health, the " light " is feebler, and the communications tend to be less
coherent. It also gets used up during a sitting, and when it gets dim
there is a tendency to incoherence even in otherwise clear communi
cators. In all cases, coming into contact with this " light " tends to
produce bewilderment, and if the contact is continued too long, or the
" light " becomes very dim, the consciousness of the communicator
tends to lapse completely.
Returning to my own description of what occurs, independently of
such statements, there are usually marked indications, towards the end
of a sitting, of increasing weakness on the part of the controlling
consciousness, and it ceases to manifest, withdrawing apparently from
any governance of Mrs. Piper's organism and leaving it in what
appears to be much the same state as immediately after what seemed
to be the complete disappearance of Mrs. Piper's consciousness when
she was passing into trance. Once more the body appears inert and
lifeless for a short time, and then Mrs. Piper's consciousness appears in
the reverse order of its disappearance. But in passing out of trance,
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 401
the stages are usually of longer duration than when she enters it.
She frequently repeats statements apparently made to her by the
"communicators" while she is in the purely "subliminal" stage,
as though she was a " spirit " controlling her body but not in full
possession of it, and, after her supraliminal consciousness has begun
to surge up into view, she frequently has visions apparently of the
distant or departing " communicators."
There are many questions that will occur to the reader of this
short outline of what seems to take place, questions for most of which,
probably, I have at present no answer. But it is important that he
should remember constantly, in considering the value of the resulting
manifestations, what the difficulties are under which the communi
cators labor, if they are what they claim to be. Where the " direct
communicator " is one who acts as intermediary owing to his greater
experience with the machine of Mrs. Piper's organism, some of the
sources of confusion can be avoided,—or rather lessened in degree,
since we still have to allow for the sources of confusion in the inter
mediary himself,—but we must add the difficulty that the " indirect
communicator " has in conveying the thoughts that he wishes to
convey to the intermediary ; and this is superposed upon the bewilder
ment produced in the " indirect communicator " by his relation
to the " light." Then floods of excited emotion at the presence of
incarnate friends, dominant ideas that disturbed him when he was
incarnate himself, the desire to render advice and assistance to
other living friends and relatives, etc., etc., all crowd upon his
mind ; the sitter begins to ask questions about matters having no
relation to what he is thinking about, he gets more and more
bewildered, more and more comatose, loses his "grasp" of the "light,"
and drifts away, perhaps to return several times and go through a
similar experience.
I remind the reader again that I am here giving the conclusions
to which I have myself been led, and I wish to emphasise strongly
certain points as to the condition of the " communicators," if they
are, as I believe, the persons they claim to be. I shall endeavour to
illustrate their position from a somewhat different point of view, and
as briefly as possible.
The physical world that I know is presented to me within my
consciousness. I suppose that if I could have regarded that world
during past ages I should have seen, displayed therein, a gradually
increasing complexity of manifestations of such a kind that I should
eventually have been forced to the conclusion that consciousnesses like
my own, as regards their manifestations on this planet, have gradually
been developed during a very long period, in connection with the
development of specific fleshly organisms. Analogous evolutions, but
402 [part
Richard Hodgson.
vastly shortened in time, occur now in connection with the growth
of individual human organisms. In these two main ways human
consciousness has come to manifest itself in my physical world in
connection with human organisms. I do not know directly the
consciousnesses connected with these human organisms ; I know them
indirectly through the manifestations of the organisms, and it is
through such manifestations alone, directly or indirectly, that I know
them. Putting aside for the present any consideration of whether such
human consciousness as I believe thus to manifest itself can manifest
itself directly in connection with movements of inorganic matter,—
as alleged in relation to certain " so-called physical phenomena of
spiritualism,"—I may say that human consciousness, if it manifests
itself in my physical world, does so primarily and with an almost, if
not quite, exclusive universality, by changes in a human organism.
And with changes of a particular organism I come to associate in
my own mind changes which I think of symbolically, as being in a
particular consciousness not my own. I observe also that these other
consciousnesses, as I suppose, vary and cease and renew their manifesta
tions in special ways, as I infer from the behaviour of the organisms.
There are cases of accident, fever, insanity, epilepsy, double personality,
sleep, trance, amesthetisation, etc. The manifestations of consciousness
under such varying circumstances present at times very great variations
from the normal. I believe that, for all these organisms eventually,
there comes a time when consciousness ceases entirely to manifest itself
by changes therein. When this occurs I usually call the change in
the organism death.i If the consciousnesses that manifested through
such organisms are still persisting, I should suppose that the easiest
way for them to manifest again in my physical world would be by
some such way as they had previously manifested, by means of a
human organism. The difficulty would be to obtain an organism. I
cannot produce changes in other organisms directly as I can in my
own ; neither can I, under ordinary circumstances, produce, directly,
changes in the consciousnesses which I suppose to be connected with
those organisms. Occasionally however such effect seems to be pro
duced, as shown in the evidence for telepathy, where one human
consciousness affects another without using any assignable manifesta
tions of organisms. I may suppose then that if the consciousnesses
which have ceased to manifest in what I may call " their own "
i 1 purposely leave open such questions as : whether such consciousnesses existed
in any individualised form or not prior to their manifestations to me through
organisms ; or whether the consciousnesses which have temporarily ceased to manifest,
but later again manifest, through their own organisms, are or are not, during the
cessation of such manifestations, in a state similar to that of those whose organisms
have died.
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 403
organisms, are still existing, they may be able to affect, in some cases
at least, and to some extent, those which still continue to manifest
themselves through organisms. I should also suppose that, owing to
the fact that the same general fundamental structure, the result of a
long process of evolution, is common to human organisms, if any such
consciousness could be brought into a similar relation with an organism
not its own that it once had with its own, it would be able to manifest
itself to some extent. But its manifestations would be affected accord
ing to differences between that organism and its own, and could in no
case be precisely identical with those which it showed with its own.
If I suppose such an event to occur, I must seek for analogies, when
considering what results to expect, in what occurs when the conscious
ness of a person I call living fails to manifest in the ordinary way
owing to some incompleteness of control over its organism. Such
incompleteness is shown in relation to states like those which I have
indicated above. There may be an inability to control different parts
of the organism, the organism itself may be injured, or its working
may be temporarily disordered in a variety of ways. I find further
that there may be states of some particular organism, when not only
are the manifestations to me of the consciousness connected therewith
limited and disordered in an extraordinary manner, but my manifesta
tions to that other consciousness are also limited in an extraordinary
manner, and owing to certain deficiencies which have some direct
relation to the state of the organism which I perceive. For example,
that other consciousness may neither "see" my organism as it usually
does, nor " hear " its voice ; it may both "see" and "hear" and yet not
recognise ; it may see and hear and recognise, but yet be temporarily
unable to recall its memories; it may even be unable to tell its name; it
may be entirely incapable of following and understanding the simplest
questions. If I observe the returning manifestations of consciousness
in an organism which has ceased for some time to manifest any
consciousness, as after etherisation or profound sleep, and which is
otherwise not disordered in its brain, I observe many differences with
different organisms. In some cases the consciousness very soon
manifests itself in its ordinary fulness. In other cases the process of
complete manifestation is very slow ; and in spite of all my efforts to
obtain some recognition of myself or some replies to my questions, the
manifestations continue for some time to be incoherent. I may
succeed in obtaining a partial recognition, in stimulating the pro
duction of maniestations which indicate glimpses of clear conscious
ness, but there is often a tendency to relapse into incoherence and
irrelevancy of manifestation which indicate an almost complete
want of control on the part of what I call that other conscious
ness. I find that this incoherency tends to persist until what I
404 [part
Richard Hodgson.
call the waking stage begins. This in ordinary cases is apt to be
first accompanied by the manifestation of memories vivid in that
consciousness just before it ceased to manifest through its organism,
often mingled apparently with other ideas which it seems to have
had just before renewing its manifestations. Slowly it seems to gain
control over its recollections, to be able to disentangle this from
that, to realise the surroundings of its organism, to understand the
questions to which it has been responding by various kinds of irrele
vant manifestations, and to become finally " normal " and " awake."
The relation of the consciousness to its organism in the preceding
stage has been such that there has been apparently a confusion of
comprehension of me, and not merely a confusion of manifestation to
me. I need not extend these considerations into greater detail. In a
consciousness beginning to manifest through its own organism after
a period of cessation from manifestation I should expect certain
deficiencies. If for a long time prior to the cessation of its manifesta
tions it had shown continual symptoms of disorder, I should expect
similar symptoms to appear on the first recurrence of its manifestations.
In all cases I should expect at first a confusion in understanding me,
as well as a confusion in manifesting to me. If the cessation from
manifestation has been very complete and has lasted a very long time,
I should expect a greater bewilderment, for a short time at least, when
it began again to manifest. These deficiencies and bewilderments I
should expect to be much more marked if such a consciousness, instead
of trying to manifest itself once more through its own organism with
which it had practised for years, were restricted for its manifestations
to another organism. In such an event I should expect the manifesta
tions to partake in the first instance of the same lack of inhibitory
control, the same inability to appreciate my injunctions and questions,
the same dreamy irrelevancy that characterises all the manifestations,
in my physical world, of a consciousness that has temporarily ceased
to manifest therein and begins once more to reveal itself in what I call
the waking state, —varying in individual cases as I find they do in
ordinary life, —-whether it be after ordinary sleep, or prolonged coma,
or amesthetisation, etc.—but with a tendency for the incoherency
of the manifestations to be much more pronounced inasmuch as the
consciousness is trying to regain its wakefulness towards me by an
unwonted way. Whether such a consciousness could ever regain its
complete former fulness in my world through another organism
seems highly improbable. What I should expect to find is that
th ough another organism it could only partially wake. Hence I
must suppose that even the best of direct " communicators " through
Mrs. Piper's trance is partly asleep. This is the first point I wish
to emphasise.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 405
The second point is one that I have already mentioned more than
once, but it needs iterating and reiterating to bring it home to the
reader. I have not had enough experience with different " communi
cators " using the voice under circumstances permitting of adequate
investigation, to come to any such positive conclusion as to the
closeness of relation between the thoughts passing through the
"communicator's" mind and the words uttered,—as I have been able
to reach in the case of the " communicators* " producing writing. After
having endeavoured as best I could to follow the writing of thousands
of pages, with scores of different writers, after having put many
inquiries to the communicators themselves, and after having analysed
numerous spontaneously occurring incidents of all kinds, I have no sort
of doubt whatever but that the consciousness producing the writing—
whatever that consciousness be, whether Mrs. Piper's secondary
personality or the real communicator as alleged,—is not conscious of
tvriting, and that the thoughts that pass through " his " mind
tend to be reproduced in writing by some part of the writing
mechanism of Mrs. Piper's organism. This writing mechanism is
far from perfect, and it frequently produces words that cannot be
read. This entails a repetition of the word and checks the thought
of the communicator, already reduced to the necessity of thinking
his words at the slow rate of writing, and of excluding other
thoughts that he does not wish written, in a state when he has
already been steeped into a state of partial sleep by coming into
relation with an organism not his own, for the purpose of manifesting
in my physical world.
But I must draw this part of my Report to a close. I am far from
thinking that there are no difficulties yet remaining to be solved,
though many of what were once difficulties to myself in the way of
believing that these phenomena were the result of the agency of
"deceased" persons have been removed by the fuller evidence pre
sented by G. P. and other communicators acting directly, taken in
connection with the failures of yet other classes of communicators, and
all together regarded in the light of the considerations which I have
tried to make clear to the reader concerning the restricting but
necessary conditions of communication. What my future beliefs may
be, I do not know. Rontgen suggested that certain special effects
produced in his famous experiments were due to rays whose vibrations
were longitudinal to the path of propagation, but later experiments
have tended to show that they are due to vibrations of the same
general character as those with which we were familiar, but of a
higher order of frequency. And it may be that further experiment
in the lines of investigation before us may lead me to change my
view ; but at the present time I cannot profess to have any doubt
406 [part
Richard Hodgson.
but that the chief " communicators," to whom I have referred in
the foregoing pages, are veritably the personalities that they claim
to be, that they have survived the change we call death, and that
they have directly communicated with us whom we call living, through
Mrs. Piper's entranced organism. There are doubtless many inci
dents that may seem inexplicable in accordance with the hypothesis
which my experience has compelled me to adopt. I also hold the
general doctrine of Evolution, but unless my memory deceives me,
there are many biological incidents which have not yet been
fully explained on that theory. What I have said, so far, taken in
connection with the further detailed evidence given in the Appendices,
represents the substantial part of my Report. In Part II. I shall
deal with various objections that may be raised to the views which I
have here expressed, and shall refer also to some statements—giving
illustrations—made by the "communicators" concerning the writings
and their production. I shall also add some accounts of other incidents
which occurred chiefly during the period 1896-7, and which go to
strengthen the general evidence which I have offered in this Part of
my Report, and if there are any notable inadequacies or failures which
have come under my own attention, and which are not adduced by
those who differ with my conclusions, I shall endeavour also to give
due consideration to these. By the superficial observer, especially if
he has not revised his conceptions of what he should expect from the
" returning dead," and does not keep constantly before his mind the
conditions involved in their returning through Mrs. Piper's entranced
organism,—the fragmentary and obscure utterances of which he will
find so many examples in the records, might not unnaturally be
regarded, in the incipient stages of a " spirit's " effort to communicate,
as the incoherent output of a disordered and disrupting intelligence ;
but a closer analysis reveals that in many of these the want of
coherence lies not primarily in the source of the information, but
in the new untried methods of its distribution. Behind them is
manifest, and grows more and more manifest, the suggestion of
some larger knowledge, the presence of some persistent personality
that knew and knows us well. And my main hope, as I offer
this Report to our members, is that it may be serviceable to other
investigators,—whether they a^ree with my views or not,—as regards
the understanding of the conditions under which these alleged com
munications come.
I shall now, before concluding, give a brief account of the recent
changes in Mrs. Piper's trance, and offer some practical considerations
which seem to me to be directly suggested by the position which I
have taken in this section of my Report.
xxxnl.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 407
§ 7. Recent Changes in Mrs. Piper's Trance.
If the conclusions to which I have been led concerning the real
existence of the personalities professing to manifest through Mrs.
Piper's trance are justified, certain very obvious inferences may be
drawn, some of which I shall now indicate. If " communicators "
vary in their ability to use Mrs. Piper's nervous mechanism as a means
of communication, it seems desirable that only those who can use it
best should be allowed to use it at all. Again, those communicators
who were disordered in their minds when living, should be debarred
from the use of the mechanism until, at least, their disorder has dis
appeared. If my consciousness were temporarily withdrawn from my
organism, and my organism could be used in the meantime by another
consciousness, I should object to its being used by any consciousness
less moral and intelligent than my own. Also, if my conclusions
hold that greater familiarity on the part of the manifesting intelli
gence with the use of the mechanism conduces to clearer communica
tions, we are likely to obtain the most satisfactory explanations
of the rationale of the phenomena so far as they appear to such
communicating intelligence, by encouraging the continued use of the
mechanism by the same operator until he can express himself as fully
and freely as the development of the mechanism appears to allow.
If, further, the personalities concerned are actually " spirits," it is
desirable to obtain as operators such individuals as know most about
the use of such " mediumistic mechanisms," and about the relations
between the " other world " and ours. The same considerations, of
course, apply to any other case similar to Mrs. Piper's, and especially
in the early stages of its development. If we have a delicate proto
plasmic machine that may conceivably be used as a means of com
munication from " another world " to this, that is only beginning to be
used as a machine, that is probably much more complex and much
more delicate than any material machine of man's invention, that may
not improbably be a machine in the incipient stages only of its evolu
tion, and the evolution of which may be marred in all kinds of ways
by injudicious handling—then I say that we should make the most
strenuous efforts possible to put that machine into the most experienced
hands—not for the purpose of forcing it into the production of
immediate results, but for the purpose of developing it in the first
place into the most perfect form of which it is susceptible. Certain
lenses are ground for years before they are used in telescopes. The
musician practises for a goodly portion of a lifetime before he is a
skilled performer. " Do you think that I am easier to be played on
than a pipe ? "
408 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Such considerations as these have been forced upon me especially
by the advent of the communicating personalities professing to be those
whom W. Stainton Moses when living alleged to be the communicators
through his organism. In the summer of 1895, when a friend of mine
was having a series of sittings with Mrs. Piper, and asking questions
of G. P., certain statements were made by G. P. denying the so-called
"obsession by evil spirits." My friend referred to the alleged "Spirit
Teachings " published by W. S. Moses, and the result of the conversa
tion was that later on W. S. Moses purported to communicate at my
friend's request through Mrs. Piper's trancei. He was confused and
incoherent,—and G. P. offered a warning to that effect. He gave
entirely wrong names in reply to questions concerning the real identity
of the Imperator, Doctor and Rector mentioned in his " Spirit
Teachings," and failed later in attempting to answer test-questions
propounded by some of his friends. Later still, however, he did
furnish some private information unknown to the sitters, and after
wards verified in England, and well adapted so far as it went as an
indication of identity.
I shall not enter into detail concerning the professed appearances
of W. S. Moses at later sittings. Mrs. Piper gave few sittings in
the winter of 1895-6, and early in 1896 underwent a second opera
tion, as I have already mentioned, resuming her sittings in October
of that year. I pointed out to G. P. the importance of making
W. S. Moses " clear," and getting the answers to my test questions.
The final result was that W. S. Moses professed to get the assis
tance of his former "controls," who after communicating on
various occasions directly in November and December, 1896, and
January, 1897, demanded that the control of Mrs. Piper's "light"
should be placed in their hands. In other words, " Imperator "
claimed that the indiscriminate experimenting with Mrs. Piper's
organism should stop, that it was a " battered and worn " machine,
and needed much repairing ; that " he " with his " assistants,"
"Doctor," "Rector," &c., would repair it as far as possible, and that
in the meantime other persons must be kept away. I then for the
first time explained to the normal Mrs. Piper about W. S. Moses
and his alleged relation to "Imperator," and she was willing to follow
my advice and try this new experiment,—to which, I may say, I was
repeatedly and emphatically urged by the communicating G. P. I
explained at the following sitting to "Imperator" that the medium
and myself agreed to the change. Much of what followed later was
personal and non-evidential. It was stated that there were many
i A more detailed account of this incident given by my friend himself, will be
published in Part II. of my Report.
xxxin.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 409
difficulties in the way of clear communication, due chiefly to the fact
that so many inferior and perturbed communicators had bsen using the
machine. Phinuit's last appearance was on January 26th, 1897. Later
on, other alleged " communicators " were specified as persons who
would not injure the "light," in addition to what I might call W. S.
Moses's group, and various persons who have had sittings in previous
years with Mrs. Piper had opportunities of being present, and some
new sitters also. Those who had sittings in previous years and who
have been present since the change which I have described, were all
struck by the improvement in the clearness and coherence of the
communications from their " deceased " friends. Most remarkable has
been the change in Mrs. Piper herself, in her general feeling of well-
being, and in her manner of passing into trance. Instead of the some
what violent contortions which she was apt to show in earlier years
when Phinuit "controlled," she passes into trance calmly, easily,
gently, and whereas there used to be frequently indications of
dislike and shrinking when she was losing consciousness, the
reverse is now the case ; she seems rather to rejoice at her
" departure," and to be in the first instance depressed and disappointed
when, after the trance is over, she " comes to herself " once more in
this "dark world" of ours, and realises her physical surroundings.
Various attempts by these new "controls" to describe contemporaneous
incidents occurring elsewhere in this world have been notable failures.
On the other hand there have been a few cases under this regime
where opportunity has been given for tests purporting to come from
recently "deceased" persons. And in these cases, so far as I can
judge, and so far as the incidents go, the results as a whole have been
much clearer and more coherent than they were in similar cases
formerly. "Imperator" occasionally purported to produce the writing,
not, however, as amanuensis for any other person, and seemed to be
free, in a way that no other communicator was free, from " writing "
the disturbing thoughts of other communicators. The chief amanuensis
now purports to be " Rector." G. P. would occasionally write a
little, making some personal inquiries, etc. It has been stated
repeatedly that the " channel is not yet clear," that the machine
is still in process of repair ; and it has been prophesied that I
shall myself return eventually to America and spend several years
further in the investigation of Mrs. Piper's trance, and that more
remarkable evidence of identity will be given than any heretofore
obtained. I hope that this prophecy may be realised and that
I may be able to present such additional evidence in some future
Report.
In my own view, whether this particular experiment succeeds or
not, it is obviously the right kind of experiment.
410 [part
Richard Hodgsan.
We do not regard it as useless employment to seek for the best
conditions possible in, say, ordinary thought-transference experiments.
If the percipient fails when sitting in an uncomfortable position, or in
a foul atmosphere, or when disturbed by frequent noises, or by the
constant interruption of his thoughts by the remarks of persons
present, or by continual change of the class of object selected for
experiment, or after much exhaustion, we should scarcely think it wise
to insist on one or other of these conditions, nor should we infer that
the failing percipient was a person telepathically insensitive. By
removing these interfering conditions as far as possible, we may
succeed in getting remarkable results. The case is sufficiently analogous
to that of the supposed communicator through Mrs. Piper's trance.
As a conclusion from prolonged and varied experience I have, as I
believe, ascertained that the confusions and incoherencies of the sup
posed communicator, while partly due to its own peculiar state or
make-up, are partly due to various other causes which are, more or
less, removable,—and where not altogether removable, the incoherent
results of them, when the causes are understood, become more in
telligible. This is rather fact than theory, and is true whatever theory
we adopt about the communicator,—whether we regard it as a mani
festation of Mrs. Piper's personality, or of some other intelligence.
Among these other causes of confusion is the physical weakness of Mrs.
Piper's organism during the trance, whether this prevails throughout
the sitting owing to Mrs. Piper's ill health, or whether it becomes
manifest only in the latter part of the tranoe, owing to the growing
exhaustion consequent upon her loss of energy during the trance. I
speak of "weakness" and "loss of energy." What it is that gets
used up during the trance I do not definitely know, but that there is
something that does get used up, that represents directly or indirectly
some peculiar form of energy, that when this is abundant the commu
nications are clearer, and that when, cteteris paribus, it approaches
exhaustion, the communications become obscure and even absolutely
incoherent,i I have no doubt.
Another cause of perturbation in the directly communicating
intelligence is the presence of other intelligences—other than those of
which the sitters are directly and consciously aware as users of the
hand or voice. (These other intelligences, of course, purport to be
" spirits," but I believe, and once more repeat, to avoid misunderstand
ings, that my conclusions as to conditions hold good whatever these
intelligences are.) They frequently—whether in a way unknown to us,
and which may be telepathic, or by processes in the medium's mentation
i In other words, the consciousness manifesting itself is, from the point of view
of its manifestations to me, lapsing into complete sleep.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 411
like those of the association of ideas —inject their more or less irrelevant
thoughts or words into the writing or speech of the directly com
municating intelligence. This in actual practice, whatever the real
explanation may be, can be largely prevented by a strong appeal to
those other intelligences to keep away and to keep others away, and
to allow the then and there communicator to express what he has to
say without interruption. Phinuit, for example, claims to have done
much work, while the hand has been used for writing, in keeping back,
so to speak, various other would-be communicators. Interruptions,
nevertheless, were frequent enough until the advent of the group
connected with " W. Stainton Moses," and the establishment of their
supervision. Whatever else has been done, it seems to me that one
result of this change has been to make the way clearer, and free from
interruptions and from the admixture of apparently foreign elements
that prevailed so largely in earlier sittings. The new "controls"
claim to have both the desire and the power to exclude " inferior "
intelligences, whom they speak of as "earth-bound spirits," from the
use of the "light," and as a matter of fact, the perturbations referred
to have practically disappeared. That the exclusion of influences that
are continually changing,—and that may be otherwise not conducive
to the clearest results—is a desirable thing, is also perhaps indicated
by the methods which we have found most successful in forms of
ordinary telepathic experiment.
We there take into consideration the attitude of mind of agent
and percipient ; we give the percipient a chance to receive impressions
of one object before we hurry him along to another; we have regard to
what may be the extremely sensitive state of his " telepathic faculty,"
whatever that may be, and whether it resides in his subliminal
consciousness or not.
Similarly, if we find a particularly good agent and a particularly
good percipient, we should think it wise to give them the best
opportunity possible, in long series of experiments, to get better
results, and, by varying the conditions, to ascertain if possible what
are the limits of, and what the causes most conducive to, clear tele
pathic communication.
And so I think that in Mrs. Piper's and similar cases, the
introduction of persons more or less indiscriminately may not be
a condition for general success, but a condition for perpetual
blundering. We can all use telephones now ; but when Iteis and
Bell and Blake and others were making experiments on lines that
eventually led to satisfactory instruments, they would hardly have
thought it worth while to let the general public spend their time
in listening to more or less inarticulate noises through their incipient
receiving apparatus.
2 E
412 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Now, if Mrs. Piper's organism represents one end of a line the
other end of which is in the so-called " spirit world," or if there is a
recognisable possibility of this, it seems to me eminently desirable
that we should try to find out what will improve the line and the
transmitting and receiving apparatus, and if possible obtain knowledge
concerning the methods to be used in making and improving other
similar machines.
xxxni.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 413
APPENDIX I.
Extracts and Abridgments from Stenographic Reports oj Thirteen
Sittings, November 22nd, 1892-January 30th, 1893.
These sittings were held at the house of Mr. Howard, for the
purpose chiefly of obtaining further information concerning George
Pelham. (See pp. 315-322.)
First. November 22nd, 1892.
Present : Mr. and Mrs. Howard, R. H. and Reporter.
After a short conversation with Phinuit, G. P. wrote :
" Haloo, Hodgson, you know me. Haloo, Jim, old fellow, I am not dead
yet. I still live to see you. Do you rememher how we used to ask each
other for books of certain kinds, about certain books, where they were, and
you always knew just where to find them." [This was characteristic. The
sitting was held in my library, where George and myself had frequently
talked together and had frequent occasion to turn up references in one book
or another. George, living, had remarked several times on my accurate
knowledge of location of the books in my shelves.—J.i] "Halloa, I know
now where I am. .Jim, you dear old soul, how are you ? Who is this, Louis.
He wants you to tell you for him ... he wants to see Billie."
Phinuit : Ha ! he wants to know something.
R. H. : Who is Louis ?
Phinuit : He is . . . who is that gentleman, that German fellow
talking to you. George, can't you tell them 1
R. H. : He wants to see Billie, does he 1
Phinuit : Who is he talking about ? I am all jumbled up . . .
G. P. [written] " Hodgson, it is I. Go out and tell him to come."
This incident is an illustration of numerous more or less similar
cases that have occurred, and that throw some light, as I think, upon
many instances that have been regarded as guesses or fishings on the
part of Phinuit. Neither Mr. nor Mrs. Howard, when the name Louis
was written, thought of Louis R , who was German on his father's
side, was an intimate friend of theirs, and had often sat in Mr.
Howard's library, and indeed in the very chair occupied by Mrs. Piper.
The remarks, "He wants to see Billie"—"Go out and tell him to come,"
evidently referred to William L. Parker, at whose sittings on March
10th and 25th, 1892, Louis R purported to be communicating.
Mr. Parker's house is but a stone's throw distant from Mr. Howard's.
G. P. stopped writing, and soon afterwards Phinuit insisted upon
writing, and wrote " Foxcroft " in mirror writing. This was not
i J. Mr. Howard. K. Mrs. Howard.
2 E 2
414 [part
Richard Hodgson.
deciphered at the time, and Phinuit then wrote it in capitals, and also
in ordinary writing. I knew nothing of this name, and explained to
Phinuit at some length that we wished to talk to him and George, and
that unless something extremely important was involved in the way of
a test, he must keep all other persons away. I learned afterwards,
that Foxcroft C , deceased, was a fellow artist and friend of Louis
R , that he was known somewhat to the Howards, had also, when
living, sat in Mr. Howard's library, and in the chair occupied by
Mrs. Piper.
. . . Later, G. P. took direct control of the voice . . . -"What can I
do for you to prove it all ? I am anxious, I am impatient. ... I want
to ask Jim about the letter that Orenberg wrote him in regard to my passing
out. It was all right, Jim, don't you fear." [It was Orenberg who first
informed me of G. 's death, by telegram, followed by letter. The remark made
with reference to the letter seemed to show a specific knowledge of its con
tents. —J.] "Father is writing this minute." Q. " What is he writing ? "
"Simply a letter." [Since ascertained from Mr. P. that, as far as he can
remember, he was not writing any letter at or near the time in question.]
G. P : Get me my hair. [Package brought from another room.]
Mother gave it to you. She had it a long time. [Mrs. Howard had for
gotten to bring this into the room, was not thinking of it, and had received
it from Mrs. Pelham since the last sitting in the previous spring. Mrs.
Pelham had possessed the hair for a long time, as it was some of George's
baby hair.—R. H.].
Second. November 28</t, 1892.
Present : Mr. and Mrs. Howard, and (part of the time) their eldest
daughter Katharine, R. H. and Reporter.
Phinuit : He [G. P.] has been to see his father, and he has seen, he has
taken a book and carried it to have it printed. [His father had collected his
poems and had them printed in a small volume, which appeared just before
the first sitting of this series].
During the early part of the sitting, Katharine entered the room and sat
down in a remote corner. Almost immediately Phinuit said "he wants to
see who is Katrine 1 " Katharine comes over, and G. P. takes control of
the voice, and personal greetings follow. . . . Recognition of dress, also
of shawl, which was asked for, and which was placed over Mrs. Piper's
shoulders.
" What is it takes me to Paris ? " The shawl had been worn in Paris
frequently during a year, but there is no reason to suppose that G. P.
living was aware of this.
G. P. inquired what had been done with a special picture which he had
owned.
Mrs. H. : That got torn up after you passed out, but here is a picture that
I don't know whether you will recognise, but you used to know the place.
[G. P. puts picture on top of the head].
G. P. : What is this 1 This is your summer house.
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 415
Mrs. H. : Yes, you have got it right.
G. P. : But I have forgotten the name of the town.
G. P. : 0, the little brick house and the little vine, grape-vine, some call
them. Yes, I remember it all ; it comes back as distinctly as the daylight.
. . . Where is the little out-house t [All correct. The little brick hen
house that, like the house itself, was solidly built of brick just did not come
into the picture, but came to the very edge of it, so it was natural for George
to ask where it was. The grape-vine that covered the whole house up to the
roof was a striking feature of it.—K.]. . . .
Mrs. H. There is the painting [handing another picture].
G. P. : No, I have no recollection of that.
Mrs. H. : No, I painted it when you were not there. You never
saw that.
G. P. : It is not fresh to me at all ; but this [fingering the photo of the
house] is very clear. Katharine.
Mrs. H. : She remembers that too.
G. P. : She was a little thing. Then you bought a place at some ville
[Katharine's age when we left D was six, nearly seven. Wc first bought
the place at X ville in 1886]. Further references to personal incidents
at D . " Katharine, how is the violin 1 " [She plays the violin]. . . .
To hear you playing it is horrible, horrible. . . .
Mrs. H. : But don't you see she likes her music because it is the best
she has.
G. P. : No, but that is what I used to say, that it is horrible. [George
was always more or less annoyed by hearing Katharine practise when she
was beginning the violin as a little child.—K.]
G. P. : [A basket put into G. P.'s hands which he had given as a
Christmas present.] That is mine. Where is my lamp arrangement ? I
was very fond of that, you know. [He had also expressly got a small light
shade that could be moved round the shade of an ordinary lamp to cut off
the light from the eye, and he had used this much when living. He had
made other references to this in previous sittings.] .
Mrs. H. : I want you to see that [handing a paper.i]
G. P. : You wrote that to me this morning. [It was a poem on death
written that morning with G. P. in mind, but no reference to G. P.
in it.] . . .
[Another paper handed.i] That is a letter. That is mine. That is my
own, but that was written a long time ago. [Correct. A letter of his
written many years before.] . . .
Give my regards to James Peirce. Tell him I could not speak to him,
but I will again, and when you dine with him, think of me.
[George occasionally dined at the house of James Peirce in company
with Mr. Howard.]
Mr. H. : George, do you know who this is from 1 [handing an unopened
newspaperi enclosed in a wrapper as if just received in the mail.]
i It must be assumed that these papers may have come within the field of vision
of Mrs. Piper, but my conviction is that the trance personalities do not obtain any
information by the ordinary process of vision. See p. 317, footnote.
416 [part
Richard Hodgson.
G. P. : Where is John Hart ? I am too weak to tell you. Is that
Orenberg? Mr. H. : Yes. G. P. : Yes, that is he. You tike that away
and I will tell you better [referring to the wrapper which Mr. H. takes off.]
That is Orenberg, dear old fellow. I would like to see him. His own
hand folded it. [It was a foreign newspaper that Mr. H. had received from
Orenberg that morning, and had at once hidden away without telling anyone
of it.] . . . [To Mr. H.] Got the long pipe and smoke. [Mr. Howard was in
the habit of smoking a long pipe in the evening, as was well known to G. P.]
. . . [Mrs. Piper was entranced at 8. 30 p. m. G. P. leaves, and at 9.16
she comes out of trance, but as usual is somewhat dazed at first.]
Mrs. Piper : "There is the man with the beard."
Mrs. Piper then described what she thought was a dream. " I saw a
bright light and a face in it, a gentleman with a beard on his face, and he
had a very high forehead and he was writing."
R. H. : Would you know it again if you saw it 'I
Mrs. Piper : Oh, yes. I would know it, I think.
R. H. : Well, try and recall it. [See note at end of sitting.]
[Medium says she feels queer and as if she could turn right round and go
into the trance again. Does not know what is the matter with her. After
saying this she becomes entranced again very quickly at 9.22, and Phinuit
appears, shouting.]
Ph. : You know you don't play that on me. George Pelham is a very-
clever fellow, but I am going to tell you he passed by me, and do you know
what he did, he let her go without signalling to me at all ; he did it by
mistake ; he told me afterwards, and so I came back to tell you. . . .
[To Katharine] Vous etes bonne fille. C'est la petite de madame : bonne
fille, bonne fille, grande belle fille. [I was struck by Phinuit's speaking
French all at once to Katharine, as she always speaks French with her
sisters, having lived so long in France. There was more French than was
here reported, as the stenographer does not know French well, and had to
get what wo could remember from us afterwards. Mr. Howard and I were
much struck by the thoroughly French use of the word belle. Katharine is
in no sense of the word a beautiful girl as English people generally under
stand the word belle, but she is conspicuously a tell, well-developed, well-
made girl, of the sort to which belle in the French sonse would be
applied.— K]
. . . Phinuit : Who is Farnan ?
Mr. H. : Vernon ?
Phinuit : I don't know how you pronounce that. It is F-a-r-n-s-w-o-r-t-h.
R. H. : What about it >
Phinuit : He wants to see you.
R. H. : Wants to see me 1
Phinuit : Not you, but this lady.
Mrs. H. : Well, what does he want to say to me? Is it a woman or a
man '>.
Phinuit : It is a gentleman, and do you remember your Aunt Ellen f
Mrs. H. : Yes, which Aunt Ellen ?
Phinuit : She has got this gentleman. [I have seen and asked my
"Aunt fillen" about "Farnworth," without telling her why 1 wished to
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 417
know. Phinuit was right—that is, there was a man named Farnworth, since
deceased, who was gardener in my uncle J 's family, and afterwards
worked for my grandfather J , probably in 1847 ; but my grandfather
died before I was born, so I never saw or heard of this man before.—K.]
Mrs. Howard : Tell Mr. Foxcroft his daughter is very happy. Did
you have a message from Mr. Foxcroft ? Foxcroft is his first name ; we
know his other name now ; you wrote it. [See sitting, November 22nd,
p. 413.]
Phinuit : Oh, he told me to write it. Oh I know, but that gentleman
wanted to send his love to her, and to be remembered to you ... so
that you may know he is here and it is a test. These little things sometimes
interrupt me greatly, and when I go to explain it to you you can't understand
it ; but sometimes when I am talking to you I am suddenly interrupted by
somebody who don't realise what they are doing, and then I give you what
they say as near as I can, you understand that, and it is very difficult some
times for me to discern it and place it in the right place. . . . Who
is Marie, Marie [Mary] that is with him 1
Mrs. Howard : His wife.
Phinuit : And that is Allie, Ellie, in the body, Addie.
Mrs. Howard : Addie. You have got it.
Phinuit : She is the one he wants to send his love to. [Foxcroft C 's
daughter is named Addie. I know her somewhat, and she has been to see
me in that library shortly after her father's death.—K.]
At the previous sitting a suggestion was made that G. P. might talk or
write Italian on behalf of a deceased Italian lady, Madame Elisa, and an
attempt was made here apparently to write some Italian words. They
were, however, not very legible.
Mrs. Piper is apparently about to come out of trance when another
control takes possession for a few minutes, who is thought by Mrs.
Howard to bo Elisa, and who whispers something in Italian to Mrs.
Howard. Again Mrs. Piper is apparently about to come out of trance when
Phinuit returns for a moment to say an revoir. [What follows is in substance
the conversation between Elisa and Mrs. Howard.]
E. : Pazienza, pazienza, pazienza.
Mrs. H. : Si cara Elisa.
E. : [Tries to give a message in Italian to her sister, but Mrs. H. could
only catch a few words.]
Mrs. H. : Non comprendo bene.
E. : Taceo, pazienza, pazienza. Dire tutto a Frederica [name of sister]
a rivederla. Elisa a rivederla.
[Signs of suffering indicating the trouble that caused the death of
Madame Elisa.]
Mrs. H. says in Italian "Don't suffer, Elisa."
E. : Pazienza a rivederla.
After Mrs. Piper comes out of trance she is shown a collection of thirty-
two photographs, nine of them being of men, from which she selects a
picture of the person whom she saw when coming out of trance the first time.
The photograph that she first picked out was an excellent likeness of G. P.
She afterwards picked out another photograph of him. She stated that she
418 [part
Richard Hodgson.
never knew the gentleman when living. [My remembrance is that Mrs.
Piper was left alone while she made her choice of the photographs, but I
cannot find any notes of the incident other than the preceding statement
made at the time by the stenographic reporter. —R. H.]
Third. November 30th, 1892.
Present : Mr. and Mrs. Howard, and (during part of the sitting)
their daughters Katharine and Evelyn, R. H. and Reporter.
Part of this sitting was occupied by Phinuit's attempts to obtain some in
formation about certain articles that were presented and that had no connec
tion with G. P.
There was also some writing, purporting to be Italian, written by G. P.
at the dictation of Madame Elisa, but apparently illegible except the final
words for "Good-bye." Most of the time was occupied by questions con
cerning G. P's. impressions of his new state of existence, etc., and there
was not much of an evidential nature. Incidentally there were several
curious points which struck the Howards and mysolf as particularly sug
gestive of G. P. The most important are too personal to quote, but the
following may be given.
G. P. : [controlling the voice.] "Take Kant and Aristotle, take Locke,
Descartes." [George had a habit of pronouncing French words like English
ones, at which we have often laughed and accused him of affectation. He
pronounced Descartes in this way here.—K.]
Mrs. H. : Could you have the Alexandrian library that was burned ?
G. P. : Yes, everything. It does not make any difference how much the
material is destroyed. Plato was a philosopher and a good one. You know,
Hodgson, that was our argument, our discussion.
R. H. : That came in certainly ; we used the old Platonic analogy.
G. P. : Socrates was a medium. . . .
[For remarks on this incident see pp. 363-5.]
There was some special conversation between G. P. and Evelyn, during
the last part of which the other sitters were sent away. One of the first
things said was, " Well, I won't tantalise you now," and later on " I used
to torment Evelyn ; but she will forgive me, I know." [He used to tease
her a great deal]. . . . " Evelyn is a girl that can always tell how much
two and two is."
E. : Yes.
G. P. : You have just learned, haven't you? You are not a great one
for mathematics, are you 1 [She is specially weak in mathematics.]
[Evelyn gave the following account of her conversation] :—
She says that she was unable to hear all that was said.
G. P. : Now be good, Evelyn. It doesn't matter so much about your
lessons ; being good is the most important thing of all. Do you remember
the little book I gave you, and wrote your name in 1 E. : Yes, I was looking
at it but the other day. G. P. : Well, you bring it and show it to me next
time. [Here G. P. wrote a few words on a sheet of paper, and told E. to
keep these words and compare them with the handwriting in the little book.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 419
He told her she might tell her mother what he had said, and show her the
writing afterwards. The writing has no special likeness to G. P.'s].
Fourth. December 2nd, 1892.
Present : Mr. and Mrs. Howard, Katharine Howard, R. H.,
Mr. Robert Marte, and Reporter.
[The sitting was originally arranged for the latter part of the
afternoon, but Mrs. Piper was unable to go into trance. The sitting
was then postponed till 9 p.m. Mr. Howard took Mr. Marte to his
Club to dine, and Mrs. Piper remained with Mrs. Howard. Mr.
Howard and Mr. Marte did not return till nearly the end of the
sitting.—R.H.]
Phinuit took control and made some statements [afterwards ascertained to
be incorrect] about a scarf and a locket that were presented, and concerning
which the sitters were ignorant. At 9.21 Elisa (see p. 335) took direct
control of the voice and talked a few sentences while G. P. wrote at the same
time. G. P. then took control of the voice, and shortly afterwards R. H.
came into the room, and for most of the time talked with G. P., who
explained some obscurities in his conversation of the previous sitting. This
talk was interrupted, as it were, by some remarks to Mrs. Howard.
G. P. : Where is your friend—wait until I think . . . Mrs.
Warner ?
Mrs. H : She was here this morning, but she is not here now. I told
her about you this morning.
G. P. : I heard you talking with her when you were telling her about me,
was with you all the time, and she questions a little, she does not know
whether it is I or somebody else.
[Mrs. Warner had called to see me on the morning of December 2nd, and
I talked with her about the previous sitting, and gave her the message for
Addie (see p. 417). She has also since confirmed G. P.'s statements as to
her state of mind.—K.] [Mrs. Warner had a sitting with Mrs. Piper in the
early part of the year, when her name was not mentioned. —R. H.]
G. P. : Then there is another friend I used to know, a Mrs. Eastern.
[Pseudonym.]
R. H. : Did Mrs. Howard know Mrs. Easton ? Was she a friend of Mrs.
Howard ?
Mrs. H. : I don't know anybody well by the name of Easton. Oh,
James Peirce's sister ?
G. P. : Yes, that is she.
Mrs. H : Well, I know her slightly.
G. P. : Oh, I know what I have in mind. I forgot to speak to him about
her. [Mrs. Easton is a sister of James Peirce, who had a sitting with
Mrs. Piper on April 28th, 1892. See p. 305.] [Mrs. Piper had been
entranced for probably about an hour when] Mr. Howard and Mr. Marte
entered the room, Mr. M. seating himself close to the medium.
R. H. : George, can you tell me anything about this person ?
G. P. : I don't want you to bother me ; I have
420 [part
Richard Hodgson.
R. H. : But this is very important, more important than anything else.
G. P. [taking the hand of M. and then reaching for pencil] : Give it to
me, I will write it.
[The quotation marks indicate what was written, and the writing was
done very rapidly, and in an excited manner.]
G. P. : " Hello, hello. Jim, where did you see Mar " [breaking off
here and shaking Mr. M.'s hand] "oh, help me."
Mr. H. : We will help you.
R. H. : Can't you talk, George ?
G. P. : "I was just getting weak when he came in. Hallo, Mart. How
are you, old fellow ? "
Mr. M. : How are you, George ?
G. P. : "All right. Thanks, dear old chap. I am glad to see you, dear
old friend. How is your family ? "
Mr. M. : They are all very well, indeed, George, all very well.
G. P. : "Oh, I am so glad. Have you seen father?"
Mr. M. : Whoso father?
G. P. : "His father."
Mr. M. : Have you seen my father ?
G. P : " Yes, he is very well, and wishes to be remembered to you."
Mr. M. : Can George give his name? Can George know my father's
name ?
Mrs. H. : Write his father's name.
G. P. : " Why did you not "
Mrs. H. : What is his father's name 1
Mr. M. : Does he keep the same name there ?
G. P. : "come here before? I nev . . I don't know, but I will ask
him. He seems to know you. Halo, Jim. Hallo, Jim."
Mr. H. [taking the medium's hand.] Here I am, George.
G. P. : " Oh, you people are so stupid."
Mr. H. : Well, George, I know we are, but we cannot help it.
G. P. : "The fact is you all want me to work for you, but you don't care
a straw about helping me."
Mrs. H. : [to Mr. M.] Speak to him just as you would to anybody.
Mr. M. : It is not easy to carry on a natural conversation under the
circumstances, being the first time that a fellow has seen this sort of thing,
George !
G. P. : "Is it Mart?"
Mrs. H. : He does care.
Mr. M. : Very much indeed.
R. H. : George, can you talk I
G. P. : "I can't now, I am too weak ! "
Mr. M. : George, have you seen your grandfather, Robert Noyes, there ?
Have you met Robert Noyes there ?
G. P. : "Robert N. is all right, and so is, and so is Robert Mart. I
know you and am glad to see, right glad to. Oh do help me, Jim."
[Shaking hands with Mr. M. again.]
Mr. M. : I will come again sometime, George.
G. P. : "Evolution is all right in the real life, as Darwin says, but it goes
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 421
on evoluting in the ideal life, which fact he, of course, who knew nothing
until he came here." . . .
Mr. M. : Have you seen old Robert Noyes since you have been there 1
G. P. : "Kind, kind old Jim dear, please excuse, oh yes, Mart, he is as
I thought, but kind friends you——."
Mr. M. : Was he satisfied with your account of his conduct in the peace
negotiations 1
G. P. : "Yes, perfectly, after I explained it to him."
Mr. M. : Have you seen Franklin ?
G. P. : " Whom do you mean. ..."
Mr. M. : I should think George would know that.
G. P. : " . . . Ben?"
Mr. M. : I mean Jim's ancestors.
G. P. : " Yes, of course I have. He has told me all about the philosophy
of electricity. Good-bye, friends. " . . . " I am so glad to have seen my
good friend, and hope he will come again soon." . . . "Yours most
cordially and sincerely, George Pelham."
Phinuit takes control again at 10. 16. Trance ends at 10. 20.
I have quoted the above written communication complete, as it
illustrates very well the kind of confusion for which sitters, ignorantly,
are partly responsible. And it may be worth while for me to
present my interpretation of this incident, as I am inclined after much
later experience to conceive it—far-fetched though such an interpre
tation may seem to persons unfamiliar by practical experience with
Mrs. Piper's trance-phenomena. Let us suppose for the moment, as is
claimed, that the "energy" available for the trance is nearly used up,
and that, not only for this reason, but because the act of communicating
itself benumbs the agent, G. P. is at the point, so to speak, of
exhaustion. At this stage an old friend enters, there is a rush of
excitement ; G. P. immediately greets him in a natural way, but is
compelled by the circumstances of the case to express himself at the
slow rate of writing. Cteteris paribus, more energy is needed to use the
voice than to use the hand, and there seem also to be other difficulties
in the way, as very few communicators are able to use the voice at all.
The writing itself moreover appears to be not the result of any
conscious effort of writing on the part of the communicator, but the
result of the communicator's thinking what he has to say at the slow
rate of writing. (See p. 332). The next important point to notice is
that G. P. apparently starts out in a natural conversation with his old
friend, but is immediately pulled up short by questions which are
entirely foreign to the thoughts and emotions surging through his
mind. Still at the first opportunity where a question is not thrust
upon him he begins to say something which is peculiarly appropriate
to the sitter, connecting evolution in this life with evolution in another,
but is not allowed to finish. The sitter interrupts with his series of
422 [part
Richard Hodgson.
questions, and remonstrance on the part of G. P. is entirely unavailing.
G. P. was the author of a biography of his own grandfather, Robert
Noyes, of whose conduct in certain international peace negotiations
G. P. took a special view. Mr. Marte's question at this point evidently
referred to this. Further, G. P. is deprived of the opportunity of
finishing his sentences, in reply to the sitter's inquiry. G. P.'s reply to
the question, " Have you seen Franklin 1 " was evidently, "Whom do
you mean, Ben 1 " It must be remembered that as soon as words are
written they are uttered aloud, usually by me when I am present at a
sitting. This was originally in accordance with the request made by
G. P., so that he might know that he was understood. Thus as soon
as " whom " was written it was pronounced aloud, and so on. In this
case the sitter interrupted after the word "mean" was written, just
as G. P.'s question higher up, " Why did you not come here before ? "
was interrupted in the middle of the writing by two questions which
ignored what G. P. was trying to express. G. P.'s reply about
Franklin was exactly to the point, but, of course, Benjamin Franklin's
experiments in electricity are probably a matter of almost universal
knowledge. I have said that the statement about evolution's con
tinuing in the other life was peculiarly appropriate to the sitter ; but
it must be added that during a portion of the previous sitting and the
early portion of this sitting G. P. had been talking on this very point.
Mr. Marte is widely known for his contributions to the doctrine of
evolution, was an intimate friend of G. P., and had talked much with
him, when living, on philosophical subjects. But Mr. Marte is so well
known, both as a writer and lecturer, that any mere knowledge of his
name and work cannot be regarded as having any evidential value.
(See the sitting of December 9th, 1892, p. 428.)
Fifth. December oth, 1892.
Present : Mrs. Howard, R. H, Reporter, and (part of the time)
Katharine.
Phinuit says that George has gone to find Jim and will "come back and
tell Hodgson what Jim is doing."
R. H. makes an inquiry and presents articles on a matter having no
relation to G. P. A locket (also presented at the previous sitting) was given
to Phinuit for further statements.
[The reporter reads over to Phinuit what was said in connexion with the
locket, and Phinuit makes a few corrections. While doing this he stops the
reading at the word Susio and uses the right (left ?) hand in making letters
of the deaf and dumb alphabet quite rapidly, then tells her to go on. (The
reporter recognised some of the signs used, but not enough for any intelligible
interpretation.—R. H.) While the reporter is talking with Phinuit, George
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 423
uses the right hand of the medium and carries on a conversation in writing
with Hodgson and Mrs. Howard. The quotation marks indicate what was
written.]
" Hello ... I am with you now and, Hodgson, Jim has seen
Fenton. [Correct. Mr. Howard had gone into the country to visit a friend
named Fenton.] Tell Mart [see previous sitting] I am so glad to have seen
him." [Several words here supposed to be Italian, but indecipherable].
Mrs. Howard : Are you writing for Madame Elisa 1
"Si—Yes." [Several more words supposed to be Italian, but indecipher
able.] . . .
[R. H. tries for some time to obtain an answer to a question given him
by Mr. Y. Z.] [I cannot give an intelligible account of this incident without
referring to private matters. It was of evidential value only indirectly as
indicating an emotion in G.P. concerning circumstances of which I was
ignorant. See next sitting.—R. H.]
Jim is reading, or was a short few minutes ago (9. 10). [Correct]. . . .
Tell Orenberg I will tell him something when I come here again that will
surprise him. Ask him for me what he wanted to destroy my papers and
letters which I gave him. [Orenberg helped G. P.'s father to destroy G. P.'s
letters after his death.] [This was known to the Howards.—R. H.]. . . .
[Here came the reference to Mattie Johnson ; see p. 312.]
******
At 10.12 [G. P's.] place at the writing was taken by Madame Elisa
(see p. 335), who wished to tell her sister that she was living.
Mrs. Howard took a paper from her pocket and placed it in the
hand,i saying that she had received it from Frederica (the name of the
sister). The hand was passed wholly over the paper and then a
Christian name was written, and almost immediately afterwards a sur
name, both correct. The name was that of Frederica's husband, and
the paper was some verses written by him and given to Mrs. Howard
some months previously. Other personal and characteristic messages
were written, including appropriate references to the sitters, the full
name of the communicator and several (not uncommon) Italian words,
viz. : stabene, pazienza, adagio, taceo, addio a rivederci. The writing
ended " addio. I remember the flowers you sent me." Mrs.
Howard's impression was, that she did send some flowers [apparently
during Madame Elisa's illness] but could not be absolutely sure.
G. P. then took control of the voice and talked for a short time. I
quote a portion of the rest.
G. P. : . . . There are two things : first of all is the argument, and
second is the test.
R. H. : Yes, first-rate.
G. P. : It is hard work, Hodgson, but I have got courage to brave it out.
R. H. : You are doing first-rate.
G. P. : That is what I am here for. And I will make Orenberg realise that
I exist or else I will go back in the body and do it over again. Dear old
424- [part
Richard Hodgson.
Orenberg. He has the same views of this life as I had before I went away.
You know his views are the same. [Correct statements according to the
Howards]. He has a lot of incoherent views. . . .
It is difficult to convey ideas through the medium, but it would be diffi
cult through any medium. It is like crawling through a log, a hollow log.
Mrs. Howard : George, you said you had been following Jim. Do you
know where he is now, or where he went ?
G. P. : He has gone to see his friend Fenton [correct] saw him not three
quarters of an hour ago, as near as I can go by the time.
R. H. : Well, it was more than three quarters of an hour.
G. P. : That I can't specify.
Mrs. Howard : George, do you know what Fenton and Jim were talking
about ?
G. P. : About this very subject and about me [correct]. They have been
discussing it, but Fenton is as hard-headed as Orenberg, for you could not
turn him any more than you could Orenberg, but they will have to turn and
be glad to come back and acknowledge it as I have. . . .
Sixth. December 7th, 1892.
Present : Mr. and Mrs. Howard, R. H., the Reporter, and (part of
the time), Katharine.
R. H. presented some fresh articles in connexion with the case about
which he inquired on December 2nd and December 5th, and Phinuit made
various statements about them after sending Mr. and Mrs. Howard out of
the room.
Later on G. P. writes and gives satisfactory reasons for his treatment of
my inquiry concerning the questions of Y. Z. at the previous sitting, Mr.
and Mrs. Howard having returned. This inquiry, owing apparently to
antagonistic personal remembrances which G. P. living entertained towards
Y. Z. on account of private matters unknown to me at the time of the
inquiry, seems to have produced a certain temporary irritation on the part
of G. P. communicating towards myself (see below). Then came the
following (written) :
G.P. : "Don't you want me to give, please give me mother's letter."
[Mrs. Howard had received a letter from Mrs. Pelham which was then given
to the hand.]i " Oh I see father is not well."
Mrs. Howard : She says that in the letter.
G. P. : "I am sorry, but it cannot be helped. Where is it that she says in
that letter she is going ?"
Mrs. Howard : First to New York and then perhaps to come here,
George, to see you.
G. P. : "Oh, I am sorry I asked you now [crumpling letter in hand]
going to dispose of it all right, then it will be far better "
Mrs. Howard : Let us see that word again, George.
G. P. : "for father, since he is so delicate."
i Beyond the field of vision of Mrs. Piper (see p. 317, footnote).
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 425
Mrs. Howard : Now what is the place that they are going to dispose of,
what does it say in the letter, George 1 Tell me the name.
G. P. : "the house and "
Mrs. Howard : I can't read that, write it again. The house and what ?
G. P. : "property in "
Mrs. Howard : Wait a minute, have another sheet.
G. P. : "N. Y."
Mrs. Howard : What is the name of the place, George ? If you remem
ber the name write it down.
G. P. : [Scrawl.]
R. II. : Can't read that, George.
Mrs. Howard : Never mind, George. Take the letter and read it and
then you write it down. Wait a second, be patient.
G. P. : [crumpling letter.] [Scrawl.]
R. H. : Take your time, George, capital letters, George, capital letters.
G. P. : "I do wish Hodgson would be more patient."
B. H. : I think I am patient, George. I am telling you to be patient."
G. P. : "He exasperates me "
R. H. : All right, George. I will keep entirely silent if you like.
G. P. : "in the extreme. Fire away, Mary, Go "
Mrs. Howard : Now George, I want you, if you remember the name of
that place in New York, that country place that is going to be disposed of.
I want to know the name of it. Yes, here is the letter, and if you can give
me the name write it down.
G. P. : " Well, why do you confuse me so, why don't you let me go on
and tell you what she says 1 "
Mrs. Howard : Yes.
G. P. : "Without interrupting me so often [crumpling letter again] why
don't you answer ? "
Mrs. Howard : George, you know there is a question she wants me to ask
you in that letter.
G. P. : "Potomac."
Mrs. Howard : Yes, it is on the Potomac. That is all right. [Some
confusion here. The town Z. which had been mentioned by G. P. in a
previous sitting (see p. 302) and which was the place referred to, was on the
Hudson, and this was well-known to Mrs. Howard. Washington, where his
father lived in the winter, is on the Potomac.—R.H.]
G. P. : " What is it, Hodgson ? "
R. H. : Nothing, George, nothing. I am listening.
G. P. : " Why don't you say your say ? "
R. H. : I have said my say : now I am letting Mrs. Howard.
Mrs. Howard : George, I want to ask you a question. Just read what
she says there, something about what she has been doing.
G. P. : "I prefer you [Hodgson] to ask for evidential purposes, for she
knows."
Mrs. Howard : Yes, I do.
R. H. : Well, but she knows what questions to ask, George, and I don't.
It is all right if she asks, never mind if she does know.
G. P.: "those . . . oh, all right."
426 [part
Richard Hodgson.
R. H. : Now, Mrs. Howard will ask.
Mrs. Howard : I want to know, George, what you have seen your mother
doing.
G. P. : "I simply see the letter and tell you for test."
R. H. : Well, George, I am going to look at this letter again and ask a
test that nobody knows here at all. She says that you perhaps saw her.
G. P. : "please look, but I tell you all I can anyway whether you ask
or not. "
R. H. : Yes, well, that is a question, George ; if you will wait just a
minute, I want to ask because your mother asks it.
G. P. : " She has asked me what she has been doing."
Mrs. Howard : Yes, that is true.
G. P. : " Well, she has been shaking up my things a little, I mean my
clothes, it is a simple thing but will go for a test. " [I believe that this was
ascertained by Mrs. Howard to be correct, but she has not filled up the
spaces for her notes to this sitting. —R. H., 189G.]
R. H. : First-rate, George, we will find out from her about this.
******
[He is told that Marte is coming the next time, and requested to find out
the name of Marte's father in the spirit. Some remarks with reference to
Marte and the difference between him and Y. Z.]
G. P. : . . . " Ask me anything you like. "
Mr. Howard : Well, he said at the last sitting he had something for
Orenberg.
G. P. : " Well, it was this he wrote you Jim about me."
Mrs. Howard : Yes.
G. P. : " And wanted to know what I had to say." [Orenberg had
written for information about the sittings. —J.]
Mrs. Howard : Go on, yes.
G. P. : "Well."
Mrs. Howard : If we had got that before the letter it would have been
interesting.
G. P. : " All I want is to convince him that there is a real existence after
the liberation of the spirit from the "
Mrs. Howard : Wait a minute, I can't see.
G. P. : " material organism. "
R. .H: Material organism.
G. P. : " Good, Hodgson, if you can read this you do mighty well."
R. H. : Well, I think you are doing mightier well to write it, George.
G. P. : " Well, I wish you knew how many "
R. H. : Write that word over again. Difficult ?
G. P. : "Oh, no" . . . "stumbling blocks there are, Hodgson."
R. H. : Well, perhaps I shall know them some day, George, when I
come to try it myself.
G. P. : " Yes, then you will be glad to congratulate me for what I have
done."
******
Phinuit makes some more statements about the articles given to him at
the beginning of the sitting, during which the hand is seized and makes the
xxxin.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 427
letters of the deaf and dumb alphabet. Phinuit on being asked who is
using the hand, says that he does not know "who she is." (See pp. 439-40.)
After Phinuit leaves, Madame Elisa talks in a whisper for a short time to
Mrs. Howard—personal messages, no fresh evidential matter. The trance
ends, and while Mrs. Piper is recovering she says, half dazed, "I dreamed
I saw a lady with a lot of flowers in her hand. Where am I ? Do you
know Walter Leaf ? . . . I tell you what I do remember, of seeing
a lady with something in her hand, I don't know what it was. . . She
had dark curly hair, not very much curly, crinkled a little up here (fore
head) brushed back like that. She had a very pronounced looking face,
very fine looking face, quite large eyes, quite a large mouth." (What sort
of flowers ?)
"I can't tell you, it is going from me now."
To the ordinary reader, most of what I have quoted above may
seem not merely tedious but worthless from any point of view. This
obviously is not my own opinion. It would be indeed impossible,
even by filling some thousands of pages with full reports and detailed
comments, to convey to the reader the impressions produced by
attending hundreds of sittings with Mrs. Piper. I should, however,
entirely fail in producing any approximation to a correct impression
were I to limit myself to a bald enumeration of the facts indicating
supernormal knowledge on the part of Mrs. Piper's trance personalities.
It is my desire, if possible, to enable the reader to appreciate, if only
to a small extent, the mise cn scene of the sittings, the subtleties of
the different personalities that purport to communicate, particularly of
George Pelham, and the difficulties involved in such communications
under the circumstances described. It is important that the reader
should remember that in the above dialogue, as in most of the other
communications from G. P., what he has to say, either spontaneously
or in reply to questions, is written, that in these earlier communica
tions at least, while I was yet ignorant, so to speak, of what the
difficulties appear now to me to be, he was continually being
vexatiously interrupted, and that frequently the writing was illegible,
and it was necessary that the words should be re-written. The.
scrawls and the re-writings are not as a rule here reproduced, but
there is enough indication in what I have quoted to show the kind
of difficulty that this re-writing must occasion in the mind of the
communicating intelligence, whatever that may be. Further, it is
only by more or less prolonged conversations that glimpses into per
sonality may be obtained in inquiries of this sort, and the evidence in
relation to G. P.'s identity rests not a little upon the characteristics
of his mental make-up, including not only his intellectual, but his
emotional qualities, his affections, his weaknesses, his sympathies and
antipathies, and his loyalties. In the badgering (this is really the
nearest term to suggest the actual fact) to which I had subjected him
2 F
428 [part
Richard Hodgson.
by the persistence of the inquiry which I made in connection with
Y. Z.'s question, I had touched unwittingly the very core of that
loyalty to his friends which was highly characteristic of the living
G. P., and which apparently led by my association with Y. Z. to the
manifestation against myself of a certain amount of annoyance—
followed, be it noted, by a desire to remove the dissatisfaction
produced in me by his remarks.
Seventh. December 9th, 1892.
Present : Mr. Howard, Mr. Marte, R. H. and Reporter at beginning
of sitting, and a little later Mrs. Howard.
Phinuit said at the previous sitting that he would not be present the
next time at all, but he appeared at the beginning, and said that he had come
because he had got some further information about the subject of the
articles presented at several previous sittings. He complained that "the
light" was "not so strong," "not so good as it is sometimes."
R. H. asked if it was because the medium was not very well. Phinuit
said she was ill; "there is something wrong down here," and shortly
afterwards, just before the writing began, said again : " You know there is
something wrong with the medium." Also near the beginning of the
writing G. P. remarked "this light is weak," and later on "don't hurry
me, for this medium is not clear physical organism."
Partly (as I now think) owing to Mrs. Piper's ill health, and
partly to our inexperience, the sitting was not successful, though the
personal relations between G. P. and Mr. Marte were marked as on
the previous occasion of Mr. Marte's presence. (See p. 419.)
Mr. Marte put some questions on philosophical subjects, and there was
some confusion of the kind which I have illustrated in the account of the
sitting of December 2nd, 1892, p. 421. Mr. Marte also asked about the
book One or Many, and G. P. showed no knowledge of such a book. It
appeared that G. P. living, in conversations with Mr. Marte, had proposed
giving the name "One or Many" to a philosophical MS., which he, G. P.,
had written. Mrs. Howard noted that G. P. living never so called his MS.
in conversations with her, though she saw him constantly at the time it was
written, but always referred to it as his philosophical book. He also several
times mentioned it to myself without giving any name to it. I supposed that
the general subject was the " Mind-Stuff Theory." The MS., as I learnt
long afterwards from the present custodian of it, does not bear any title like
"One or Many." The communications were chiefly in writing, but partly
in speech from G. P.
Most of the conversation that followed after G. P. took control of the
voice was of a non-evidential character. In reply to enquiries he said that
ho had seen us three (Mr. M., Mr. Howard, and R. H.) in a club that day,
eating, the Tavern, that he had been there with R. H, and once with John
Hart.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 429
[All correct, except that whether he had been at the present quarters of
the Club once or more than once with John Hart is uncertain. He had
been to the old quarters of the Club several times with John Hart.] Also :
G. P. : I saw you in Marte's library a few days since.
Mr. Howard : All three of us ?
G. P. : No, simply you, Jim. [I was there, but not alone, all the time
with Marte, December 1.—J.l
He had heen asked at the previous sitting to find out the name of the
father of Mr. Marte. He said here that he had not got it, could not find
everybody in a minute, etc.
Mr. Marte formed an opinion entirely unfavourable to Mrs. Piper.
The remaining sittings of this series are nearly all much shorter,
and contain much less characteristic matter. This fact I attribute to
Mrs. Piper's increasing ill-health, leading to an operation in March,
1893.
Eighth. December 1Uh, 1892.
Present : Mr. Howard, R. H., and Reporter, and, later, Mrs.
Howard, Katharine, and Evelyn.
Phinuit talked for a short time about various persons and makes a
prophecy not yet fulfilled. G. P. began to write : "How are you, Jim and
Hodgson. Where is Mary, and what is that little piece of paper she has in
her hand ?" I then inquired if ho could tell us what Mrs. Howard said to
him alone, if he happened to be there, soon after the last sitting. " She
asked me to help her and try and make things right, and asked me to help
her convince you and others that this is I. Now I think that is all I heard
her say." Mrs. Howard comes in shortly after, and reads this, and says : "I
knew you knew some of the things I said to you. Did you see me writing
to you ?" [Mrs. Howard did not fill in her notes to this sitting. My im
pression is, that she had thought something more specific than this which
,was not mentioned by G. P. She writes at the end of 1897 : "What 1
said to G.P. alone was said for him alone and was therefore not put in any
note, but all his references to that and to my writing were I think correct.
I think I had the piece of paper in my hand in my own room but not when
I came into the library, where the sitting was held, but I cannot be sure of
this as my memory may play me false."] Previous to Mrs. Howard's
entering, G. P. had expressed a wish to speak to me one moment, and now
proceeded with this. He wished to explain again about the difficulty of
communicating, and the necessity of his not being interrupted when he was
answering a question. "This is the most difficult task, I must say, that I
ever had to perform, so please be as kind and patient as possible . . .
first you asked me to pump Phinuit."
Phinuit : You better shut up about me. . . .
Mrs. Howard gives Phinuit some articles, and is talking with Phinuit
while the hand is writing: "His proper name is John Pt. [?] Scliville,
oidy P no Phinuit at all." [Phinuit seems to be having a struggle with
the hand. George in the meantime is trying to go on with the writing.]
2 F 2
430 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Two or throe illegible words written and the paper is torn. Then "this
is a tabula rasa," emphatically underlined.
Mrs. Howard : Who has got the hand, doctor ?
G. P. : "George, I am going into the head. ... I want Hodgson
to speak his mind fully to me personally now." . .
R. H. : Well, I have not got anything specially on my mind now,
George.
G. P. : "Have I said anything to trouble you ? be frank, please."
R. H. : No, you have not said anything to trouble me, except this, except
the things that make it difficult to reconcile with your identity. You said
things that easily contradict, George, and those things conflict evidentially
with the proof that it is you. Of course, those things trouble me a good deal,
but I have not anything special.
G. P. : "I think you will find my statements contradictory only when
you confuse by all talking at once, or when I do not fully understand your
questions."
R. H. : Well, George, I am going to go over all the things that appear to
be contradictory, and ask you about them, but I was not going to do that to
night.
G. P. : "That is what I want. It has worried me far more than it has
you, my dear fellow."
R. H. : Well, I suppose it must have, George. I can understand that.
G. P. : "Now just let me illustrate. When I began to speak about
my existence here and was ready to quote it philosophically, you interrupted
me continually. "
R. H. : Well, we are very sorry, George ; we would like you to go
straight on without our saying a word for an hour, if you could.
G. P. : " Don't you know you did it 1 Please be frank."
R. H. : No, I am not aware that we did, George, except you seemed as
though you needed us to speak to you occasionally.
G. P. : "Have you not got the things written ? "
R. H. : Yes.
Mrs. Howard : Yes, I think he was interrupted a good deal by Marte at
the last sitting.
G. P. : "Well, please read them carefully . . . and see if I am not
right."
R. H. : Well, we will take care, I think, George, not to do you an
inj ustice.
G. P. : "Thank you."
The statements made here by G. P. I now believe to be fully justified,
though apparently I did not think so at the time.
R. H. : Now, George, if you can give us a description of your life there,
or of the views that you had on philosophy here, or anything of that sort
continuously, we shall be glad to have you write or speak without saying a
word.
G. P. : " Yes, but this has worried me so much I had to speak to you
about it."
R. H. : Well, we are very glad, George, that you have spoken, and I
know that we have interrupted, but
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 431
G. P. : "Because it is most difficult to express one's thoughts through
material substance. Now when you consider this, I think you will allow for
some snags, won't you ? "
R. II. : Certainly. Now, would ycu like to answer Marte's questions or
to talk on your own account ?
G. P. : "Thought exists without material substance, and is in no wise
dependent upon it. [We probably could not decipher it immediately, and
so he wrote] body. I assure you this. For thought continues to exist even
after the annihilation of or non-existence of body. Is that not like me ? "
R. II. : Well, go on, George, we are taking it all down.
Mrs. Howard : That is like you.
G. P. : " Well, the personal existence or the reality of the Ego is not a
truth of inference. Am I getting you mixed up? "
R. H. : No, not at all, George.
G. P. : "All right. I want to be sure that I am clear myself." "The
[Ego ?] exists after the disposition of the body, and in an immediate
intuition . . . [This last sentence was apparently not deciphered at
the time, and the result was that G. P. 's attempt to distinguish between
" an immediate intuition " and " a truth of inference " as applied to " the
reality of the Ego " entirely escaped us, and the train of his thought was
switched off. I said we could not read it, and asked him to write it again,
etc. Then followed] "The Ego exists after the disposition of the body,
and consolidated with thought in which one and the same is thought. Am I
confused?" We read this aloud, and "consolidated with" was rejected
for "combined in," and finally "it is all one. That is what I want to
explain." . . .
G. P. : " All right. Well, now then, after the Ego (which goes to make
up the material organism) leaves the material organism, it goes on existing
just the same as in the material, only is much more free, and can express
itself in a much clearer sense than when in the material. Man's mind or
soul is a tabula rasa here for a register of thought. Read it now
please . . . you know that already . . . but let me tell you what
I know."
At this stage Katharine and Evelyn were introduced and greeted, and
G. P. was asked if he could talk to them.
G. P. : " Not now, dear Jim. Well, I want to finish this article. Then
as thought goes on in the spiritual, I express myself, my thought to you.
[Questions and repetitions, owing to difficulty in deciphering] . . .
All right. Here I am as the Ego of George Pelham . . . well, now,
you see as thought is not cause, but cause is thought. Do you understand ? "
R. H. : Certainly, exactly. [?]
G. P. : " Well, then, so thought goes."
[Pause. Feeling of cap on head and working his arm.] . . . "I
,want my shawl." [Shawl placed on head.] Here G. P. begins to use the
voice, speaks again about the difficulty of recalling everything in a moment,
and the confusion produced by interruptions, etc., and says inter alia : "I
am getting farther away from you each time. I am going on ; it is too bad
in one sense, but it is all right for me." He wanted to know what Marte's
questions were, could not remember to whom the book on The One or the
432 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Many was dedicated. When asked if he remembered anything about any book
called One or the Many, he said : (Mrs. Howard having previously remarked
that it was not a printed book) "No. I did not know there was such a
book printed."
R. H. : You never heard of any book by that name printed or unprinted ?
[See previous sitting.]
G. P. : " Yes I have. Wait a minute. Say that again, Hodgson."
R. H. : You don't know of any book by the name of One or the Many
printed or unprinted ?
G. P. : " Yes I do ; that is mine—[pause]—let me think ; let me write it
for you, will you t "
Shortly afterwards there was some writing, very confused, and not
all decipherable, in which the names of Orenberg and Rogers were
mentioned.
R. H. : Do you mean that you think it was Rogers who wrote The One
or the Many ?
G. P. : " I think so, but do not remember." Then followed a little
more writing, expressing a consciousness of being mixed about the book,
Phinuit in the meantime taking control of the voice and talking. The last
writing was "remind me of it when I come again, and all I ever knew I
will tell you." Phinuit talks for some time, chiefly with Katharine and
Evelyn. [The references to Orenberg and Rogers suggest an automatic or
dreamy association of ideas. He had been told at a previous sitting that his
MS., about which he inquired, was in the care of Orenberg, and he knew
that a volume of his poems had been in the hands of Rogers for
posthumous publication.]
I have given these lengthy and detailed extracts from the sittings
partly to lead my readers along the path by which I myself have
traveired, that they may be to a certain extent equipped for some
of the points to be considered in asking whether there is any
evidence here of an extraneous intelligence or not, but partly also
because of the impossibility of summarising, in any brief statement,
the evidential value of a conversation where one of the interlocutors
may be restricted to frequently indecipherable " automatic writing "
as a channel of communication. Whether spoken or written, I regard
the dramatic form of the utterances as an integral part of the
phenomenon, which must in no wise be neglected, even though we
may think that it can be fully explained as an outcome of still embodied
minds —for example, on the analogy of morbid or ordinary dream
processes. Much of this dramatic form is incommunicable, and herein
lies one of the difficulties of affording a fair estimate of those manifesta
tions of personality which depend upon intimate habits of thought and
emotion, and cannot be expressed by the verbal reproduction of
definite remembrances.
The above instances may, however, suffice to illustrate some of the
causes of obscurity and confusion in this automatic writing.
xxxni.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 433
Ninth. December 19lh, 1892.
Present : Mr. and Mrs. Howard, R. H., and Reporter.
Sitting begins by G. P. 's using the voice. . . . Mr. Howard and
R. H. leave the room on request of G. P., who holds a short conversation
with Mrs. Howard, after which they return. G. P. says he wants to under
stand Marte's question. After some references to this by Mr. and Mrs.
Howard, G. P. expresses a strong desire to see Helen Vance, saying that he
had seen her father [who had a sitting March 30th, 1892J. He is told that
she is coming the next time.
Mrs. Howard gives a letter, [this must be supposed to have come within
the field of vision of Mrs. Piper though, as I have explained, I believe that
the trance-personalities do not acquire any information by the ordinary
process of vision (see p. 317).—R. H ] saying, " 1 want you to see your
father's letter, because there is something in it that will please you. "
G. P. : This does not sound as father would talk when I was in the body.
. . . He believes that I exist [calls for Hodgson, complains of being
muddled, and asks Hodgson to put his hand " up there" (i.e., probably
against the forehead) ] He was pained, but he is no longer pained, because
he feels that I exist.
Mrs. Howard : That is right ; I have read it.
G. P. : That brings me nearer to my father ; now give him my tenderest
love and tell him that I am very near him, and see him almost every day, if
I could go by days, but I can't judge of that, because I have no idea of time ;
that is one thing I have lost, Hodgson. . . . But, still, I am very near
to him, and wish to express my kindest feelings, Jim, Hodgson, both of you,
and I see him and hear him when he is talking of me, hear him discussing
with mother certain things about my life, some things that perhaps pained
him, and some things that perhaps pleased him. I often hear him discussing
my good qualities and my weak points, but it is a pleasure to me to know I
can be so near him.
R. H. : He will be very glad, and we will be sure to send the message.
[The letter handed to George was one entirely on business matters, not
the one we supposed, in which his father did speak of George's re-appearance
at these sittings, and his own interest in hearing of it. —J.]
G. P. : You of all others are the one that I want to be absolutely certain
of my identity. . . . Hodgson, I mean, and Jim, I want you both to
feel I am no secondary personality of the medium's [struggling to get the
last phrase out.]
Shortly afterwards he says he is "getting weak," and soon Phinuit
"takes control of the head" and greets the sitters, but is interrupted by
the seizing of the hand by G. P., who writes. I quote the first part of the
writing, omitting the remarks connected with our interruptions.
" Now, about my theory of spirit life independent of the material
substance. I live, think, see, hear, know, and feel just as clearly as when I
was in the material life, but it is not so easy to explain it to you as you
would naturally suppose, especially when the thoughts have to be expressed
through substance materially. However, this only gives me pleasure to
express to you all that I can possibly even in this peculiar way. 1 am not
434 [part
Richard Hodgson.
distressed, though, because I cannot do as I would like. I am very thankful
and willing to do all I can (for you in this way) even though it is not all
clear. . . Nevertheless, I am bound to do just all I can for you to prove
to you that I (George Pelham) do absolutely exist, independently of the
material body which I once inhabited. . . . Now, then, what I want to
say is that I am light and free, and much clearer in thought than I was in
my material body. . . . You see as I was explaining to you about
thought, and had not strength materially nor time to finish, I will go on
to that again and in a little more detail, which will explain to you (as well as
anything) how and what [ am now, i.e., as a spiritual Ego. Thought is, as I said
before, in no wise dependent upon body, but must necessarily, a$ yon see, depend
upon the body of another person or Ego in the material to express one's
thought fully after the annihilation of one's own material body. ... In
consequence of this you see that there must necessarily be more or less
confliction between one's spiritual Ego or mind, and the material mind or
Ego of the one which you are obliged to use to explain these difficult
problems to you, my friends, in the material. . . . Well, then, thought
is an immediate intuition or primary datum of consciousness ... in
my present life everything is expressed by thought. Now I am getting a
little hazy."
Questions asked for. R. H. asks what becomes of the medium during
trance. " She passes out as your etherial goes out when you sleep." R. H. :
Well, do you see that there is a conflict, because the brain substance is, so
to speak, saturated with her tendencies of thought !
G. P. : " No, not that, but the solid substance called brain, it is difficult
to control it, simply because it is material . . . her mind leaves
the brain empty, as it were, and I myself or other spiritual mind or
thought takes the empty brain, and there is where and when the conflict
arises."
A little further conversation with G. P. writing, followed by a short
general talk with Phinuit.
Tenth. December 21s<, 1892.
Present : Mr. and Mrs. Howard, Reporter, and most of the time
Miss Helen Vance. Miss Vance was not present at the beginning of
the sitting, and Mrs. Piper did not see her at all while in the normal
state.
[G. P. had been informed at the previous sitting that Helen Vance was
"coming next time," and after the previous sitting was over, and Mrs.
Piper was perfectly normal, it was mentioned in her presence that Helen
Vance was coming to the next sitting, though Mrs. Piper appeared
indeed not to have heard this remark. But it would be fair to assume
in any case that Miss Vance might have been known to Mrs. Piper.
Her father, the reader may be again reminded, had a sitting on March 30th,
1892.—R. H.]
[Towards the close of the previous sitting, Mr. Howard remarked to
Phinuit that he was going to see "that old friend of mine" (referring
obviously to Fenton, whom Phinuit had described, alid G. P. mentioned by
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 435
name at previous sittings, and who lives in a country town). Phinuit replied
"Good, I will go with you. You do something special, move some object
or- something, and I will go and see if I can tell you what it is."] . . .
Phinuit : Where is Jim ? I saw him at a place.
Mr. Howard : What did you see me do ?
Phinuit : I saw a thing like that there ; what is that thing there ?
Mrs. Howard : A table.
Phinuit : I saw you there, and saw you take a lot of things on that—
what do you call that—books !
Mr. Howard : Books, yes.
Phinuit : And what is the scarf thing you had over you there, you and
the old gentleman there 1 He is an elderly gentleman. You had a thing
something like this that attracted my attention, a desk ; you know what I
mean ; and then I saw you take and put one book on the other, books they
were.
Mr. Howard : Yes, there was a lot of books there.
Phinuit : Well, what were you doing with them 1
Mr. Howard : I was looking over them to see what I could get to read.
Phinuit : I saw you do that particularly ; I mean to say that one thing.
Mr. Howard : Well, I wanted to get some old books to bring down to the
library.
Phinuit : Oh, I see ; I saw you lay them on this thing, you know, like
a desk. I saw you lay two or three there. You see what I mean ; you
remember of doing it ?
Mr. Howard : I do perfectly. I brought the books down and gave them
to the public library to-day.
Phinuit : Oh, I see. And then I saw this gentleman sitting in a big, like
a chair, with arms to it ; you know what I mean, and you were sitting back
in another one with arms to it, talking to him.
Mr. Howard : Yes, 1 was sitting in a chair with arms, and he was lying
down.
Phinuit : He was reclining, but you were in a chair with arms to it.
. . . And there were in the room where they were a great many books,
do you know, all round the place, and right over—I am not very good at
illustrating, but you know what they call the mantel there, a great big
thing, looks like a picture in a frame, and there is one in that ; then on
the other side there is another one, and a great big curtain drawn, what we
call in French a portiere, in that same apartment.
Mr. Howard : Yes.
Phinuit : Then there is a great big desk with feet to go under it.
Mr. Howard : Yes, he has that right by where he sits.
*******
Phinuit : Well, is there any question you want to ask me about that old
gentleman 1
Mr. Howard : He is ill, isn't he ?
Phinuit : He is quite ill, and he has trouble right here [chest], and right
round here ; right round the heart there is a little bit ; it is difficult for him
to breathe ; you see what I mean 1
Mrs. Howard : Yes, he said so yesterday.
43G [part
Richard Hodgson.
Mr. Howard : Yesterday he had a sort of an attack.
Phinuit : Well, that is what I am getting at, his physical when you were
with him, and his breathing [medium breathing hard] ; then he has got a
white medicine, looks something like a little powder, that he takes. I
don't know as you have seen that.
Mr. Howard : No, I have not.
Phinuit : Well, he has taken that sometimes when he is not well. It
seems like a valvular trouble.
***♦,* *
Phinuit : I saw you sitting at that desk too, Jim.
Mr. Howard : Yes. I sat there talking with him. I went up and
wondered whether you would see me. Wo spoke about you.
Phinuit : Do you know that scarf thing ?—he has got something with
him—what do you call that, afghan [struggling over the last word], like a
scarf, round thing ; I saw him have that on. And do you know really that
fellow knows in his mind that he is not going to get well ? Do you know
that?
Mr. Howard : Oh, yes.
Phinuit : And he may not say to you -that I am not prepared to say,
but, however, in his mind he feels that he is not going to get well . . .
[I placed about half a dozen different volumes on the writing table by
the side of the bed on which my friend lay. These he examined, at my
request, to determine which he would give to the Boston Public Library,
as early American imprints.
I wore no "scarf thing," merely my usual velveteen coat. He wore a
sort of thick blue dressing gown.
He sat in no chair, but, as I said, lay in his bed, resting on pillows and
one elbow. I sat much of the time opposite him in an arm-chair. There
are bookshelves pretty much all round the room. Over the mantel is a
moderate sized picture about 18 by 20 inches. Opposite, two curtains,
not large ones, overhang a window, keeping out the light from my
friend's eyes.
He has trouble with his heart. I know nothing of any white medicine.
He feels that he will not recover. He wrote to me December 22nd: "I
have no special apprehensions, but it seems to me obvious that I lose strength
and vitality from year to year (to put it mildly) and, anyhow, it can't last
for ever."—J.]
Phinuit says that G. P. is coming, and writing begins just after the
entrance of Miss Vance. There is much misunderstanding of the writing,
owing partly to the absence of R. H., who is more accustomed to deciphering
rapidly. G. P. gives both names, Helen and Vance, asks after the society
[a little society for literary purposes (i.e. practice in writing), to which
George and Miss Vance belonged as well as two others, young women. —H. V.]
[George had been questioned about this society before. See p. 302—R. H.],
after her father and mother and brother [natural], and said that one died in
infancy, that he sees her. [The statement that a sister died in infancy was
correct. —H. V.] Miss Vance asked the name of this sister, and then just
afterwards the name of " Ken's friend who passed out, in college with
Ken." G. P. begins to explain about the need of asking questions slowly,
xxxin.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 437
and waiting for the answer. Phinuit also begins to explain to the sitters
what to do. In the meantime Miss Vance apparently dropped the question
about her deceased sister's name, and repeated her request for the name of
her brother Ken's friend, and the replies suggest that G. P. thought that
she wanted to speak with that friend. "I will bring him for you." " He
will tell you and send a message to Kenneth." [Name of Miss Vance's
brother.] Later on G. P. writes the name of Harry Guild. [The name of one
of my brother's college friends who died more recently than the one whose
name I wanted. —H. V.] Later on he wrote: "Charles is with me.
You asked . . . tell Ken ... to keep the book he gave him
in college (what book, history V) Macaulay's. (Charles gave it to Ken
in College ; is that it 1 ) Yes. at least he had it, so he says. Tell
him about Hale and . . . how is Berwick ? [See p. 301]. Tell him
Charles says he is to keep work he instructed him about and help him write.
I don't think you understand." [Charles was the first name of the class
mate of Kenneth and George, about whom Miss Vance was inquiring. He
died in 1887. Harry Guild died in 1888. She notes that Ken has no
recollection of any book, and does not understand the allusion to Hale.]
He referred to having seen Miss V.'s father [sitting on March 30th, 1892],
asked after "the rest of the girls connected with our Society." Miss V.
made a statement about one of these other members, giving her name, and
soon afterwards asked if he remembered the names of the others in the club.
G. P. asked after ' ' May . . ." [My sister Mabel sometimes called May.
In this place George wrote May followed by last name we could not read.
Some scribbles, one of which was dotted, may have been meant for Davis,
the correct name. Later on (after Miss Vance mentioned this name. —R. H.)
when George said he had already written it, he turned back to this page and
wrote above the two names, "It is there."—H. V.] Miss Vance repeated
later her question about the other lady member of the club, and asked also
to be told about "a girl we both know who liked you and you liked her very
much." As interpreted, " Alice " was written. [Incorrect. —H. V.] Later
G. P. asked after Nell. [No " Nell " I know of.—H. V.] Some time after
wards Miss Vance mentions the name, apparently, of this third lady member
[Louie ] of the club in answer to G. P.'s question,—"Now, whom do
you have to correct your writings 1 " [We all corrected each other's papers
in turn.—H. V.],—"But do they give satisfaction? (Yes). What, in
their corrections ! [Miss Vance did not at first understand. Reporter
explains.] (Yes, but not as much as you ; your corrections were better than
theirs). Well, that is what I am trying to get out of you. (In other
words, George, you wanted a compliment from me). Oh, bosh, you know
me better than that." After references to other matters (among them a
question about a pencil which he said he had given Kenneth, who has,
however, no recollection of any pencil) he wrote that he had asked half a
dozen times about Louie but could not get any answer, and he finally insisted
on their turning back to the early sheets of the writing, where he claimed
that he had written it. At the time of original writing the word which he
now said was Louie was read as Sadie (as it certainly is), but this interpre
tation was negatived at the time by G. P., and the subject was not pursued
then by the sitters. . . .
438 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Eleventh. December 21nd, 1892.
Present : Mr. and Mrs. Howard, R. H., and Reporter, and, part of
the time, Katharine and Evelyn.
Phinuit talks with Evelyn, about her health, diet, etc.
G. P., writing, refers to my absence last time: "I followed you on a
railway train for some distance and then I thought you were in N. Y.
[correct, but of no importance evidentially] but am not sure ... I
would not be too positive, as things look differently to me now from what
they did when I was in my materisl body. (I suppose . . . that you
don't see the physical universe directly, but come into relation with our
perception of the physical universe ? ) Yes, absolutely in a spiritual sense ;
in fact it is, and must necessarily be, through the spiritual that I see you,
and can follow you, and tell what you are doing from time to time."
See pp. 320-2 for the rest of the account of this sitting.
Twelfth. January 24th, 1893.
Present : Mr. and Mrs. Howard and Reporter, and, part of the
time, R. H, Katharine, and Evelyn. Mr. Hodgson comes in after the
sitting is begun and leaves before it is finished.
Mrs. Howard places a book on Mrs. Piper's head, just after G. P. has
begun to write, and says : " Do you remember that ? "
G. P. : "Oh, yes. It is my French Lyrics." [Correct.] [There is no
other contemporary memorandum as to how Mrs. Howard placed the book
on Mrs. Piper's heid. My own remembrance is that Mrs. Howard came
into the room holding the book behind her own back and placed it on Mrs.
Piper's head from behind. Mrs. Howard writes at the end of 1897 that her
recollection agrees with this. She adds : " I brought it in for a test, and put
it so that it could only be perceived by supernormal means." The correct
statement may of course have been due to simple thought-transference.
—R. H.].
Very little communication from G. P. He says he has not yet found
Marte's father [see p. 429], that he had seen Marte himself, that he thought
he was out west, Chicago, or some place like it, lecturing. [Correct, but of
no special importance, known to Mrs. Howard, and easily ascertained
knowledge. —R. H.]
R. H. : Well, George, I want to ask you if you can't do something.
G. P. : " What you want me to do for you I will, and I know what it is
. 3Tou want to do something, and have me tell you what you are
doing."
In reply to questions he wrote that he heard me say so to Jim ; "heard
it distinctly." I replied that he " heard my thought," (I had not mentioned
it) and asked if he could tell me more specifically what I was going to ask
him to do. " Oh, no, not until you are doing it."
R. H. : Well, George, I want to go away very shortly while you are still
here, and I want you to either go yourself or to get Phinuit to go, and if
possible tell them here where I am going and what I am doing.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 439
G. P. : "Yes, I will try my best, but it will depend wholly on my seeing
your spiritual body, so please send out your spiritual body to me as much as
you possibly can while you are doing the trick." . . .
Shortly afterwards I left, and G. P. also stopped writing. Phinuit talked
about some articles that were given (two of them presented at previous
sittings). Later he said there was a Mr. Osgood there who seemed to know
the Howards [correct]. Then came, through Phinuit, Louis [see p. 337],
who mentioned Billy Parker, spoke of himself as a painter, asked if it
wasn't the room where he had been many a time, asked " Where is Bessie ? "
Mrs. Parker.] Mrs. Howard brought some brushes. "These are the
brushes I gave to you." [Correct.] He said he had been to P h i 1 d e
[Mrs. Howard then said Philadelphia] [Phinuit trying unsuccessfully to
pronounce it] and seen his friends there recently. He also asked after his
friend Theodore [the first name of an artist friend of Louis].
Phinuit then described a little girl named Grace. " She used to know
you years ago. She has reddish hair ; she passed out with diphtheria."
Mrs. Howard : I am sure I don't know. [See Proceeding*, S.P.R.,
Vol. VIII., pp. 40-1.]
Mrs. Howard asks several times for the return of G. P., and after an
absence of about three quarters of an hour the writing comes, " I have only
returned for one minute, and really must go immediately back with Hodgson,
or I shall lose it all now. He met my friend Vance, and now I must leave
and watch them. Ait revoir. George P." [Incorrect.]
Almost at the end of the sitting there is a communication apparently
having something to do with "Laura Bridgman," the hand gesticulating
deaf and dumb characters, and afterwards writing words backwards (not
mirror writing). [See pp. 422, 427, 440.]
A sitting had been arranged for Mr. T. B. C. (see p. 472) on January
"28th, and I requested Mr. Howard to take the first part of this sitting
and report to me what G. P. claimed to have seen me doing. The
following is from Mr. Howard's notes made the same day :
He [R. H.] went to Arthur Carey's house and talked with him there
[there were several persons present, then or later, I think he said], and
R. H. got on a table or some elevated thing, and turned a chair upside
down. These things he said he saw.
All this was wrong. Mr. Howard reported that he had a close
and intimate conversation about friends, etc. Among the statements
was the following :
He said he had seen Mrs. Howard recently doing up some things to send
to his mother. "What things could you see?" "Books and pictures."
[Correct.]
Thirteenth. January 30th, 1893.
Present : Mr. and Mrs. Howard, R. H , and a gentleman who was
introduced to the medium under the name of Smith, also a reporter.
G. P. did not manifest until specially asked for by Mrs. Howard.
440 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Phinuit spoko a little of Mr. Smith's character, and said there was a
young man, also apparently an older one, who wished to communicate with
him. The latter tried to write a few words, but they were almost entirely
illegible, and Phinuit said he would go and try to get George to help him.
There were further vain attempts at writing while Phinuit was talking about
persons and articles inquired about at previous sittings, and then came some
legible writing : "I am glad to see you," and soon after, Phinuit still
talking, "Tellher I am living still, Walt W.". . . . [On April 25th,
1892, Mrs. Warner had presented a cap which had belonged to Walt
Whitman, to whom she was known personally. See p. 324.]
Then came several different writers. A lady wrote a short message to a
previous sitter. A friend who had died two or three days before, as was
known to us, wrote his name and "I am all right now, adieu." Alice
James (sister of Prof. William James) made a brief statement about her
brother " Bob," as Robertson James was commonly called by members of
his family. All this was accompanied by much violent movement in the
hand and arm.
Ph. : What is the matter ? I don't know what they are doing with me,
any way.
R. H. : Seems to be a regular stream of them now.
Ph. : I can't help it ; they say these things, and they will say them,
Hodgson. I can't help it.
Then, "lam with you, also, Laura Bridgman." . . . Mrs. Howard
then asks for George, and the writing stops and Phinuit complains because
Mrs. Howard has " sent that lady out," and there is some discussion in con
sequence, after which O. P. writes that he does not recognise this gentleman
and does not think he is a friend of his, thinks he has met him, but doesn't
quite recall him. Asked where he thinks he met him, he writes : "I think
with my friend, Marte. Ask him if he remembers me, please tell him who I
am. I am George Pelham." Sitter asks if he has been in New York ? G. P.
asks if he did not meet him once in the club, or reading-room, of his friend,
Berwick. Sitter had met a Mr. Berwick, but not for many years. G. P.
referred again to the club, also to Marte, asked that his photo should be
shown to the sitter and said : " I do not remember you by name, only
by face." Sitter said that he had met Marte in New York when there
were many others present, whose names he did not know. " I really
was there."
[On the morning of this day the gentleman here spoken of as Smith, one
of our members living in New York, happened to call at my office. A
desirable experiment occurred to me, and I inquired if he knew anything
about George Pelham ; he replied in the negative, and I requested him to
attend the sitting with Mrs. Piper that evening at the house of Mr. Howard.
He accompanied me there and I introduced him as Mr. Smith, not giving
any information whatever to the Howards. On a previous occasion I had in
the same way taken a friend who knew Mr. and Mrs. Pelham, but not George
Pelham, and was unknown to Mr. and Mrs. Howard. On that occasion
there was no sitting owing to Mrs. Piper's illness, and after it was decided that
Mrs. Piper was too ill to sit, I had introduced him by his real name to the
Howards, who then learned that he was a personal friend of Mr. and Mrs.
xxxni.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 441
Pelham. I wished to see whether at this sitting, G. P. communicating would
claim some personal knowledge of Mr. Smith, or would claim that Mr. Smith
was known to his father and mother, as I felt certain that the Howards
would infer, from the fact of my taking Mr. Smith to their house under the
,circumstances, that he had some special relation to G.P. I might thus, I
thought, obtain some clue as to how far the minds of the Howards might
affect the communication from G. P. The result was quite different from
any anticipations that I had formed.
After seeing G. P.'s photo, the sitter wrote : " The features in the photo
do not look unfamiliar, yet they do not serve to assure me of my having
previously met Mr. Pelham. While it is entirely possible, or probable even,
that I may have done so, I cannot recall any definite memory of such
occurrence." But it is not improbable that on the occasion of Mr. Marte's
visit (March 1890) to New York to which the sitter referred, G. P. was
present at the meeting. Mr. Marte was unable to make any statement as to
whether G. P. was present or not. Also the sitter and G. P. were both
members of the University Club in New York. This last fact must I think
have been known to me, though I did not consciously think of it at the
time. I may add that the Berwick referred to in the G. P. writing was a
Harvard classmate of G. P., that the Berwick referred to by the sitter was
a Yale man ; and that both were members of the University Club. The
sitter afterwards recollected further that he had once met Mr. Pelham,
Senr., quite casually, also at the University Club.]
442 [part
Richard Hodgson.
APPENDICES II. and III.
Unless otherwise specified, or obvious from the record, the accounts
given in Appendices II. and III. are of first sittings, which were held
at Mrs. Piper's house in Arlington Heights, Mass., and the appoint
ments for which were made by me. I believe that in all these cases
the sitters were previously unknown to Mrs. Piper. Their names
were never mentioned by myself, and I introduced all sitters by a
pseudonym, usually Smith. Of other first sittings of which I know,
held during the period covered by these Appendices, from the end of
1891 to the end of 1895, there are not more than six that can be
classed as complete failures.—R. H.
APPENDIX II.
The following accounts are of first sittings held during the period
November, 1891 -February, 1893.
November 6</t, 1891.
Sitter: Miss Cornelia Hartshorn, Providence, R.I. (Associate
A.B.S.P.R.). R. H. taking notes. Miss Hartshorn added a few
minor points.
Miss Hartshorn wrote on November 7th, 1891, after her return
home :—
The result of my sitting with Mrs. Piper becomes more and more
interesting, both directly and indirectly. The round silver box had
absolutely no associations. It did not " amount to a row of pins," although
I supposed it did.
The handkerchief was left at T.'s house at a party, and we do not know
to whom it belonged. Janet (Janette) was present, and when she returns
next week we will see if it is hers.
"Elsie" is explained. T. thought seriously of sending something
belonging to Elsie.
I have made full commentary notes, and will forward all to you as soon
as we see Janet, who is engaged after great opposition on the part of
parents, but she has not run away. Perhaps you have forgotten what Mrs.
Piper said, but I will return your notes as I have copied them.
******
Miss Hartshorn wrote on January 6th, 1892 :—
By this mail I send you your notes, and in another envelope the whole
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 443
thing as I wrote it out for myself just after I returned. I have remembered
a few trifles that you had not noted.
******
[The following is the report, with notes by Miss H. I have made
a few slight changes, where Miss H. probably misread my scrawly
original contemporary notes, and have altered most of the names
except her father's in accordance with her request.—R. H.]
Phinuit : You have lots of friends. Middle aged elderly lady friend of
yours, not well, she has a very spiritual nature. People don't know how
lovely she is. I am very sorry, she is not going to recover, she's going
to pass out. . . . She's got a daughter, she's got two, one of them is
naturally younger than the other. One of them is with her mother more
than the other. One of them goes to and fro to see her mother. The
youngest one is going to be very sad.
[Quito correct. Both daughters live at home, but one rooms with the
mother. It is the youngest. Lady in very frail health. (Has just been
very ill, but is gaining. January 6th, 1892)]. ["She died in the spring of
1894." From letter by Miss H., July 12th, 1896.]
[Ring ?] Tillen, Tillien, Tilie [stumbling over sound of Till] - very nice
person, good traits. Takes care very hard. She mustn't. [Correct. Tillie
a great favourite with sitter. Characterised correctly.]
I got your mother's influence very strongly. Don't like her as well as I
do you.
Sitter : Is she living ?
Phinuit : No, she's in the spirit.
Wait a minute. There's Tillie's mother. There's a cousin of yours.
Tillie's mother is your own cousin. (That's a fact). That makes Tillie your
second cousin. [Relationship correct]. You know I get a boy's influence.
He makes me very nervous.
Sitter : What boy is that 1
Phinuit : Oh, he's a trial. Tillery, Tillie, there's a child in her surround
ings. It comes very close to you.
[No child in Tillie's surroundings.]
It's a boy, very nervous temperament, very positive.
Sitter : Are you sure it's a boy 1
Phinuit : Well, he looks like a boy, he's got his hair short any way.
Hullo, here's Marie—M-a-r-y. That's connected with her too. She's
living.
Lou, Louis, Louie, Louie. Well, I don't know whether it's a girl or
a boy. It's Louie any way.
[No clue to any of this.]
You tell her there's some severe trouble with somebody's eyes in con
nection with that. They told me that afterwards.
[Sitter gives ring].
Phinuit : Person connected with this that's passed out of the body.
[Correct.]
I get the name of Sarah.
Sitter : No.
2 a.
444 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Phinuit : There's a lady by that name connected with you. Hadn't you
an aunt of that name ?
Sitter : No—yes I did, uncle's wife, I had forgotten. [I never saw this
aunt.]
Phinuit : There are two influences with this. Another lady wore it and
then you wore it. [Correct.] And I get your mother's influence strongly.
[Mother not connected with it in any way.]
Also I get a sister here.
Sitter : A sister ?
Phinuit : Not your sister, your mother and her sister. [Mother had no
own sister, only sisters-in-law—all dead.]
Sitter : Is she in the body or not ?
Phinuit : Yes. An aunt by marriage in the spirit and she is very cranky.
[Easily applies to two aunts.]
Former owner [of ring] is in spirit, and it passed from her to you.
[Correct.]
What's the matter with your mother's foot 1 [Sitter afterwards recalled
dropsical affection of foet, necessitating bandaging. ]
Sitter : I don't know, do you mean now ?
Phinuit : Yes. (In the spirit world ?) Yes. She's holding up her foot.
[Sitter gives square silver box.]
Phinuit : Do you know who Emily is ?
Sitter : I know several Emilys.
Phinuit : There's somebody connected with this (box) that's had some
trouble with the ear, a little deaf. [Box belonged to an uncle, afterwards to
mother, who became somewhat deaf from age.]
Now I get Louie clear. (Not with the box). No it comes clear now, Louie's
in the body. [No Louie known.]
That [box] was found, the material of it. [Source of box unknown.]
Sitter : How did I come to get it 1
Phinuit : That was passed to you for me to try. [Wrong.]
There's a gentleman's influence comes from that in the body. [Wrong.]
There's a gentleman's influence upon that, that's passed out of the body.
That's the father's influence. [Wrong.]
Two persons that owned this are now in the spirit. [Correct, but not
connected with father.]
Sometimes I get mixed up, but I get the name of Charles. That's one
of the names in connection with one of the persons who owned this.
Sitter : No, try again.
Phinuit : I think it's a second name. [Wrong.]
Sitter : What did they use it for ?
Phinuit : I see some square things, stamps like.
Sitter : Well, I just took some stamps out, but what was [it] used for
before ?
Phinuit : He used to carry little round things in that, things to eat you
know. Cowchoose [as pronounced].
[Sitter could not for several hours remember what she had been told
her uncle kept in the box, finally recollected it was camomile flowers to
chew.]
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 445
Sitter : Cachous 1
Phinuit : That's what I was trying to get at when I got Charles. How
would you like to have people say ch, ch, ch to you, and you thought they
were giving you a name ? That's what you blame me for, Hodgson.
Do you know anyone named Jennie ?
[Sitter knows several Jennies, intimate with none.]
Sitter : Yes.
Phinuit : Well, Jennie doesn't have much to do with you.
[Dr. Hodgson asks about Jennie.]
Phinuit : Jennie be hanged . . . That [box] comes in connection
with this lady. It has her uncle's influence upon it. [Correct.]
[Concerning first ring.] Belonged to a very dear friend of yours in the
spirit. Not a relative. (That's right.) [Correct.]
[Sitter gives bracelet.]
Phinuit : Uncle John. I want to get it over that way. [Inside of
bracelet on head.]
I get your uncle's influence still. This takes me with it. This was got
across the country. This was given to a lady who had some trouble with
her throat. This was made to order. It came through a lady's influence
to you in the body. Lady in spirit to whom it belonged received it from
her uncle. Name Willie comes in connection with it. Susie connected
with it. Lady who owns it now is in some trouble.
[Sitter knew nothing of bracelet. It was lent to her byTillie. No John
about it. It was brought from Africa, made to order, and sent by an African
prince to sender's family. Details of transmission unknown.]
You've got an Uncle William. (In the body or not ?) In the spirit.
[Correct.]
[Sitter gives round silver box.]
Phinuit : A gentleman gave this to a young lady who is now in the body.
For sweet things, little peppermint things like. I can't tell you so much
about that, because I don't get any influence with that.
[Bon-bon box given by a lady to a lady, both living. No especial associa
tion. Sitter knew nothing about box, but supposed it had associations.]
[Sitter gives ear-ring.]
Phinuit : That belonged to elderly lady who passed out of the body.
Elizabeth and Aunt Martha connected with it. The place where that was
bought is burst up long ago. Aunt Caroline connected with it. Sarah wore
it originally.
[Sitter knew nothing of ear-ring. Finds out afterwards it belonged to
owner of the finger-ring she first presented. No names are right.]
Lady in the body owns this [correct] ; this was kept in a little case
with a lot of other things, a sort of keepsake, [correct]. People now
surrounded with this had a great deal of means, financially, they lost it
principally, [correct] they had something to do with something like mines
[not mines, however]. The loss of money was connected witli the death
of a relative. [Correct.] [All this happened so long ago sitter had almost
forgotten it.]
Liza connected with ring. [Wrong.]
Don't you know your Uncle William 1
2 r. 2
446 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Sitter : Yes, of course I do.
Phinuit : Well, I'm talking to you. He's very much surprised to see
you here.
Give me the ring your mother gave you.
Sitter : I haven't any.
Phinuit : Well, there's one in the family that belonged to your mother.
[Wrong.]
[Feels sitter's rings.] There's no association with any of them. [Correct.]
[Sitter gives a handkerchief.]
Phinuit [putting handkerchief on head, much interested.] I like this.
There was a young girl in connection with this that ran away, married against
her parents' wishes. Looks to me liko a Christmas present. Came with a
toilet set. I get the name of Janette, Alice, Elsie. He no, I won't tell
you that.
[Sitter knew nothing of handkerchief given to her by Tillie. When it
was returned to Tillie before any details of sitting have been mentioned,
sitter said "Phinuit liked this handkerchief." Tillie said "I hesitated
whether to give you this handkerchief of which I know nothing, as it was
left at my house at a party, or to give you a ring belonging originally to
Elsie. I took them both out of the drawer, and finally decided on the
handkerchief."]
Dr. H. : Yes, tell us.
Phinuit : No, it is too sad. Elsie had a child and lost it.
[Elsie died at the birth of a child, who lived, though she had previously
lost one ; her husband was nearly insane at the time from grief. Elsie had
the ring on when she died, and her husband gave it to Tillie. Sitter did not
know Elsie, and did not know Tillie had such a ring.]
There's a young fellow named Arthur in the surroundings who's very
clever. The person who gave you that is very eccentric, likes to read, the
person who takes care very hard. She had a lot of school friends. Ran
away ; that is she left her home and married.
[Janet was at the party, but the handkerchief was not hers, and as yet
no owner has been found. She was the only Janet there, and has not
married.]
Elsio comes from different surroundings.
Tillie, Tilie. (Way you spell it, double !)• Tell her not to be so nervous.
She went away a while ago, and that did her a lot of good. She's going
away again before a great while, tell her I said so. Tell her she mustn't
take things so hard. Gentleman's influence in her surroundings makes her
nervous. He is poky.
[Tillie is very quick, and her husband is slow. This amuses the family
vastly.]
Do you know who Robert is ? He is an elderly gentleman in the spirit
who knows you. He wants to sent his love to you. Grandfather's influence.
[Correct.]
Sitter : Grandfather ?
Phinuit : Yes, I don't think you know him very well. He passed out of
the body before you were born. [Correct.]
Do you know Kittie 1
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 447
Sitter : No, I think not. [After the sitting, sitter remembered a child
friend Kitty who died many years ago.]
Phinuit : You may find Kittie in connection with this [handkerchief].
[MSS. given.]
Phinuit : That's nothing but a notebook.
Sitter : What influence is upon it 1
Phinuit : I get very strongly the name of Thomas. There's something
written there by him. He recognises it, and he's in spirit. That's your
father's influence. He says he is your father. [Correct.]
This lady had an Uncle William. He's in spirit, and he had something
the matter with his heart. There was pressure here, crowded on the heart,
don't you know ? [Cause of death forgotten.]
[Phinuit handles the articles again. ]
[First ring.] From a dear friend. [Correct.]
[Square box.] Her uncle's. [Correct.]
[Bound box.] Another lady gave her that. That don't amount to a row
of pins. [Correct.]
March 7th, 1892.
Sitter : Miss Gertrude E. Macleod, Cambridge, Mass.
The following report was received early in 1893, probably in
February, and I knew nothing about the sitting until shortly before I
received the report. The sitter, Miss Macleod, died in August, 1894.
She was not a member of the Society at the time of the sitting. Her
sister, the Mabel referred to in the sitting, has given us the following
further information. The sitting was arranged " for a friend of his"
by the Rev. M. J. Savage [who remembers making the appointment],
and Miss Macleod went as an entire stranger to Mrs. Piper. The
Etta referred to in the sitting was Miss Macleod's sister, who died 0n
December 21st, 1891, at the age of twenty-four. Miss Macleod asked
Etta what Mrs. Putnam, a friend, and Mabel were doing at the timet
as a test, and first mentioned their names. The Albert was Albert
Braid, not a relative, who died about the end of November, 1886, at
the age of six ; Susie was the name of his mother. Agnes and Annie
were friends,—Annie Mary not known to Miss Mabel. Frank and
Georgie were deceased brothers. Georgie died in 1876, at the age of
thirteen. Miss Macleod never crossed any large body of water, and
did not " have many books behind her."
Copy of notes made immediately after a sitting with Mrs. Piper on
Monday, March 7th, 1892.
At 12.15 o'clock.—Mrs. Putnam writing in her room. A lady was there
at first who was not there when Etta came away. [I asked if Mrs. Putnam
wrote with a pen or a pencil, and Phinuit said "a pencil." Mrs. Putnam
wrote a letter with a pen, and her landlady, whom Etta had never seen, was
there for a little while, but Mrs. Putnam thought she was not there just at
that time.]
448 PART
Richard Hodgson.
At 12.45.—Mabel walking in a large building. She arranged her hair a
little and brushed herself. [Mabel was at Fay House at that time, but did
not remember doing the other things.]
Some picture to be turned round in our house ; Annie's picture or a
picture of a girl with a pail. [He was very angry because I could not think
of the right picture. No picture was turned around.]
David will die soon. [David is still living, but is now very ill.]
Annie Mary has turned her ankle. [Not true.]
Albert wants his mother to go to Wilton, and will go with her. [I
mentioned Albert first, but Phinuit talked about Wilton himself. Wilton
is a place in New Hampshire, where Albert went once with his mother.]
Agnes will be ill. [For the first time since early childhood Agnes was
ill for a week in the fall of 1892.]
Snsie.—[I did not understand about Susie, but Phinuit may have meant
Albert's mother.]
[More notes on this sitting written on March 9th.] Phinuit said that I
could write for Etta. [This was after saying that I could be a medium.]
Albert could come to his mother if she would let him.
I had many books behind me, and should cross the water soon, after
writing much more than ordinarily.
Cousin Mattie wanted to know where David was.
Something which I did not understand about Fred, Henry, and Edward,
and Marion. [I do not know what Marion.]
Etta said that the last thing she saw was mother's face until she became
conscious in a room and saw her body lying uuder something white. [This
is really the only thing which had already happened, and which I did not
know until after the sitting. I always thought that Etta's eyes were closed
while mother held her in a sitting posture to aid her breathing, and that she
fell back without opening them. But when I told mother what Phinuit said,
she said at once, "Why, yes, did you not know that? Etta was looking
right into my face when the light went out of her eyes.'1]
Phinuit decided, after some hesitation, that Etta's hair was gold coloured,
and very light. [True.]
He said Frank was a little fellow, and did not seem to know Gertie as
well as Georgie. [I had not mentioned Frank, nor indeed anyone but
Albert, and Frank died at six months old, before I was born.]
Georgie had lung trouble which made Phinuit cough, but Etta had
stomach trouble, and that Etta did not like some broth which we gave her.
[Georgie died of quick consumption. If Mrs. Piper had asked any person
in Cambridge what caused Etta's death she would have learned that she had
a heart trouble. But what Phinuit said is just what Etta would have said if
someone had asked her the day she died. She did not in the least know that
her heart had anything to do with her distress, and called it her stomach.
Still it seems more like something from the things she knew before leaving
her body than like what she would have said if she had been around and
heard us talking afterward. And about the broth which she did not like—
there was a kind of medicine which she hated and finally refused to take.]
Albert is afraid his mother will never get over the loss of him. He
wishes she would not grieve so much, but would go to Wilton.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 449
Georgie and Etta and Frankie are all altogether and happy, and not very
far away. "What we want you to know is that we are alive." Phinuit
said that Etta was so eager that it seemed as if she would tear him to pieces.
This is the end of my notes, but I remember a few more things which
may explain some of them better. When Phinuit spoke of Mattie he said :
"Your cousin Mattie is here, and wants to know where David is." David
is her father. Phinuit explained that David and Mary and my father were
brothers and sister, which is true.
He spelled several of the names, and could not pronounce them until I
told him how.
When he said Etta was there he said, ' ' There is a very pretty lady who
wishes to speak to you. I am trying to get her name. She is telling me
her name, Ada, Edda, how do you say that name 1" I thought that was
near enough, and told him.
He spelled Gertie, and said "Who is Gertie?" and seemed sur
prised at its being I. If Mrs. Piper had been doing it she would have
called me Gertrude, as nobody calls me Gertie of late years. Only Etta
used to call me Gertie occasionally for fun.
In speaking of my sisters and me he said, " There are three of you, one,
two, three ! " This was rather odd, because we had a little joke about there
being "one, two, three" of us, about which Etta was very much amused.
[It is, however, not uncommon for Phinuit to count up in this way when
trying to give the number in a family.—R. H.]
In telling the colour of Etta's hair he said at first that it was darker than
mine. Then Mrs. Piper put her hand on my head, saying, "Let me see
what colour your hair is. Why it is dark. I thought it was light. My
friends say that I make mistakes about colours. Is there gold colour ? Her
hair is that colour." Her hair was really very golden.
Gertrude E. Macleod.
Miss Macleod added, on March 27th, 1893 :
" My uncle David, whose death Mrs. Piper predicted at the sitting which
I had with her on the seventh of March, 1892, died at Chicago on last
Tuesday, the twenty-first of March. As far as I know, his health was
perfectly good at the time of the sitting."
March 10th, 1892.
Sitter : W. L. Parker (Associate A.B.S.P.R.). [R. H. taking notes.]
[The words in large capitals were spell.]
[Mixed and unimportant at first, until]
(I want to speak to a friend who used this [giving cheque-book] )
Hodgson, that reminds me of Dr. L. [Books were placed in Phinuit's
hands in experiments in connection with Dr. L.]
1. Here comes a spirit who's got rheumatism. He passed out with
trouble round here [pointing exactly to region of liver, and pressing hard and
450 [part
Richard Hodgson.
pounding on that spot.] [My friend Louis R. [an artist] died February
24th, 1892. Had suffered with rheumatism, and died from cancer of ilrer,
which was discovered by an operation in January 1892. The spot touched
and pressed hard was almost exactly where the incision was made.]
2. He's a very nice gentleman, but he's older than you are. [Wrong.
Age 38 at time of death ; mine 44, but he looked much older than he was.]
[He was known to me, and I should say that he certainly looked older than
Mr. Parker.—R. H.]
[Much turning over of leaves of cheque-book, and feeling with fingers as
though seeking for something. Cheque-book held with back to forehead and
front part of head. No direct vision of it possible. Finally stops at a
particular page with pencil marks.] It's there. He says it's there. (That's
it.) [The day before the operation at the hospital, Louis drew his last
cheque, and when alone occupied himself in figuring with pencil on the back
of the next page the balance and the possible amounts due him from various
sources, all of which 1 found when I received the book later on. This
particular spot had more of his personality than any other, and I had made
up my mind beforehand that the spirit would stop at that page, but was not
prepared to find the finger passed exactly over the balance in bank.]
3. Where's his pocket book ? (Pocket-book ? Don't know. ) [At the same
time I received a pocket-book containing a letter to his wife, and sundry last
wishes which he kept near his person until his death. This was handed to
his wife and forgotten by me at this time. Hence my answer, but in a
moment I remembered.]
W A L C E,— Who's A D W A L C E ?— ALACE? (Not
quite.) W A L A S E (A S E ?) A C E [apparently Phinuit's attempts
at Alice. See below.—R. H.]
4. W I L L A M (He says that ?) He says that to you. R U B—
Reuben. [Note that Reuben represents, apparently, Phinuit's attempt to
catch the words "you've been."—R. H.]
Oh ! You've been buddered (Troubled ?) About this — Don't . . .
William. WILLIAM. [My name William.]
5. Don't worry about this. You're doing right. There's stonts and sticks
thrown, but let them throw. Don't mind them. Go ahead. I leare it to you.
[Expressions very like those used by Louis in the body.]
(Want something else 1)
Where's DAVIS? (What name'f) Roberts. (What's that other
name ? ) David—Something like Davison. Somebody he knows in the
body.
(Give me the name of the spirit ? )
His mind's very unsettled. (He hasn't been with you long ?)
What about the b a I fc ? (Not quite right) b u f a 1 - It's b a 1-bulf buf b a
—b a 1 s n. (Give you something else of his ? ) Yes.
6. Ask Will about U. [Exactly as I have heard him talk. He was one of
the few who called me " Will," and as I helped him in a business way this
very expression was common.]
[Giving watch and chain] That's his. WHITE. Pencil and bunch of
keys goes with this. Who's THOMAS?
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 451
Be wants to lell Will to take care of the b a 1 c k (Bank, is ho thinking
-of?) No. That isn't it.
But who's the lady that's deaf? (Ask her if it's my mother-in-law.)
She's had a great deal of trouble.
(Give you something else ? )
7. Give me all you can. This [ring attached to watch-chain] came from
across the water. [Ring was one found in his, " Louis'," father's house after
his death, and worn by Louis, and later worn by me and offered for sale.]
[Gives receipt-book] Father, here with him. Your mother's got a cough.
(She used to have a very bad one.) She makes me cough.
[Turning over receipt-book leaves, said, " stop there " two or three times.
Nothing special where Phinuit stopped.]
(Tell me about the ring.)
8. Two different influences. That came from across the water. That's
got your influence on it [ring]. [I wore it on my watch chain in my pocket
for some weeks.] That belonged to him.
Who's Henry ? That's the old gentleman in the body. He'll find him
at the—where's the office ?
(My office ? ) Yes. Tell Will he'll go into it.
Who's BRADLEY? (Don't know.) There's a J O—
9. I tell you I hear the name of Louis LOUIS. (That's right. Is
that the person talking ? ) I got it mixed up with the ladies before. [Louis,
correct name of owner of the article.]
10. He says, tell Will it's Louis. It'll come out all right, but there's a good
deal of fault found with it one way or another. [Repetition of my name,
familiar phrase. I am at present settling his estate, and have had much
trouble and many difficulties.]
11. Balk (Tell him to use the French word for it.) (Bank?) No.
(Balance?) That's it.
(Balance in bank to be kept by itself i ) Yes. [When very sick at
hospital, one day his wife asked him to draw a considerable cheque for her ;
he replied, " Ask Will about it." " He has got money of mine, and I want
to keep the money in the bank as large as I can, and make a good sum for
you."] Person—Parson —Pearson.
He's [sitter] going across the water. (I am ?) Yes, you are. I see that
myself. Trip — not long trip, but you're going across just the same.
Young girl, musical, got a sore throat, in body.
Who is Alice ? [Sister of sitter.] That's the one I'm tolling you about.
She plays and sings —She's going across too. (She's going with me 1 ) Yes.—
(I understand.)
(Can Louis tell me anything more ? )
Balance.—There's instance (Insurance?) That's got to be replenished.
(Renewed ? ) Yes.
12. [Phinuit then says he will try to write. The name " Louis " is twice
written, and on five separate sheets a sentence is written very indistinctly,
which, on the second and third sheets, appears to* be " Go to the bank and
get the railroad bonds."] [Writing small and running, not unlike Louis'
own hand.]
452 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Where's the factory ? (?) (I don't know.) Goto the bank it is. (Why
can't he talk that ? ) He's too weak.
You tell Alice about your mother. Tell Alice your mother tells her to
take care of her throat.
Bring this book [cheque-book] and he'll help you out of all the
difficulties.
[For other references to Louis R., see the two following records,
and also p. 337.—R. H.]
March Ulh, 1892.
Sitter: Mrs. W. L. Parker, wife of sitter of March 10th. [R. H.
taking notes.] [The words in large capitals were spelt.]
[To R. H.] How's Will ? You tell him I've seen Louis, and he's got a
lot of things he wants to say to him.
There's a lady round you that's ill. (Which one ? There are several.)
Old or rather middle-aged lady, sick in stomach, internally, sort of form
of inflammation—between GO and 70.--\Vell developed head, high forehead.
Hair originally brown, now mixed with grey.
Who's Gus ? (Gusta, Augusta?) Augusta—Augustus. It's Gutto,
G U S T A. Some such name as that. Very nice person indeed. She's
not very well.
(Tell me something more about Louis). He talks about the B O W-
D I T A H—B 0 W I D T H. (What about them ?) He says you know
who he means. (Yes, if he has any message I'll give it.) Al—Alfred—He
says he wants to see Alfred. Who's Alfred ? Somebody he knows anyway.
Paper—something to do with a paper, that nobody knows anything about.
Old lady with him and his father—elderly gentleman, high forehead, large
nose, curious mouth, curious chin.
[Soon after the death of a friend of " Will's " and mine, named Louis
R , I had this sitting with Mrs. Piper. Augusta was the name of the
wife of Louis, and Dr. Bowditch one of his greatest friends.]
(Does he wear a moustache ?) No moustache. Medium height.
1. [Gives letter.] [Must be assumed to have been within the field of
vision of Mrs. Piper. See p. 317, footnote.—R. H.] (That has something
to do with Louis). That's an awful funny name he's giving me. He says
he told Will about Henry in the body, and he was confused about the
person. AL—Al—Alfred. Sounds like Alfred, anyway. You're a nice
lady, you'ro a medium. Hodgson, have you had this letter ? (No.) This
letter was made since Louis passed out. (No.) There's two persons con
nected with this letter. (Yes.) [The last note I had from Louis. It was
in reply to a note I wrote him, and was written on the reverse of my note,
in pencil.] Who's the doctor connected with Louis ? (Bowditch?) [Seizing
fob of sitter's watch]. This came from a long way off. Lady's influence
came from that to you when travelling. (What part of it ?) This part.
[The upper part.] This (lower part] gentleman's influence. This [upper
part] a lady's.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 453
2. (This is something that belonged to Louis),—[giving book.] Hi !
Here's three spirits connected with this book, in the spirit, you understand.
(Isn't Louis one ?) Yes. Then there's an elderly gentleman and a lady.
[Book—an old Gorman Testament, which had belonged for a long time to
Louis. I do not know where he got it from.] [Describes lady with hair
parted on each side, bluish-grey eyes, pretty mouth, pleasant face, etc.]
She smiles to you in the body. (Not in the body). I mean you in the body.
He calls for William.
[Pause. Feeling round sitter's waist, etc., and pressing on region of
liver, etc.]
He says he knows you, Hodgson. He wants to know if you're still
fishing for facts. (Yes, I'll be glad for him to help me.) He bows his head
and says he will. [Book.] This was Louis' father's. That was handed
down to him.
You're going away. (Am I ?) Yes. He tells me Will's going across
the water. (Am I going with him ?) There's two of you going. I get the
name again of Alice. Somebody says she must take good care of her
throat.
(Tell Louis to give me messages for William.) Doctor—Will. (Dr. and
Will). Doctor and Will. They are to see about a house in country. There's
something the matter with the pipe. Don't care much about it himself, but
thinks it better be known. He's so pleased to see you, but there's a sort of
veil, and he can't see you so clearly as he would like. (Can ho come to see
me i) Yes, he'll come. He can come to you very easily when you sit
quiet.
(Ask him if he can remember the name he used to call Will, a sort
of nickname—German ?) Ho ! He laughs at that. He smiles. (He
may ! I want that name badly). He's trying to get that for you. (Can
you hear it 1) I can't get that quite distinctly. [Pause.] Ha ' That's
very funny.
3. [Gives knife] He says this is the letter [see above] he wrote about
the pictures. Ask hor if that's so. (Yes, it is). He wrote this about the
pictures, that they are good. He says ask her if that's right. I mean
right not write. (Yes.) That's for scraping off the edges of some
thing. (Yes.) The edges. He says you'll know. [The letter.] He was ill
when he wrote that. (Yes.) [Old clasp knife used in the studio. The letter
was about certain pictures to bo exhibited.] Who's hot bi'te-cr ?
4. (Ask again about German name for Will.) Sounds something like
durstan. (Get another name that's not like that.) (Does it sound as though
it began with auf ?) No there's man—op—an—appen—(appendustan ?)
appendust—(appendust ?)—appeudust. [Significant, as Up and Dust was a
joke between Louis and Will, having Ich habe Dnr.it as its origin. It was
not the word I had in mind.] (Ask him whether the other name isn't
written in this letter.)
Hodgson, he's calling for his watch. (Will has it.)
5. Cnrlin.—[Carline?] I never saw another spirit peck at another as he
does at me. He's very anxious for you to know that he lives. (Will you
try to find out what he's trying to say about Alfred ?) Tell Will to see
454 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Alfred, and he'll find out what it means. Tell him to go to the vault and
get the cheque. No matter what anybody says, he's to do it. He can call
Alfred as witness or something.
6. Where is the last picture I was going to have put up ? Scene.
(Scene ? Landscape ? Paysage ?) Oui, oui, merci. (In my room ?) Yes.
Have it varnished. Scrape a spot off the lower corner of the big picture.
Take this [knife] and scrape it off. He'd like you to keep that. (The big
one ?) Yes, the big one. There's one without frame. Keep it for yourself,
but scrape off that spot in the lower corner. [Curious, as I had had the
custody of Louis' pictures from the time he was taken very ill.]
Who's Heelen 1 . . . Something to do with the picture.
[Book] That's what you call a bible. (Ask him if he remembers painting
it once ?) He did that to keep it, you know, to keep it. The lady that's
with him looks something like you. (Isn't she darker than I am ?) She
looks something like you, a little bit. Who's Mllen—11 ? Two l's in it.
And there's a spirit named Sarah here, a young woman, and she had a
trouble here [left jaw]. (Bad trouble ?) Yes, it took her out of the body.
7. She has a young lady with her named Annie, who passed out with
trouble here [stomach] something like peritonitis. [Location of trouble
incorrect.]
8. (Does she know anything about this ?) [handing ring.] Oh ! That's
this. How did she forward it so quickly 1 Wear. She used to wear it
there. [Left hand, third finger.] [Correct about the ring in every respect.]
Who's Lou— Lou— (Louie?) Louie. (Man or woman 1) Louie—Louis is
all right, I've met him. Now I hear that funny name again—Uppendust.
[See above.—R. H.]
9. Where's her mother's [givos needle-case]. [Needle-case belonged to
Annie's mother.] Where's the old chest? She's got an old chest in the
body, a sort of trunk. It's got a little lace thing here [pointing] in it.
Here's Louis again. (Ask Louis if he's got any message for his wife.)
Who's Marie—friend of Annie's who owns the ring.
10. I get the name Elizabeth. Elizabeth owns this [the needle-case].
[To R. H.] (What name was mentioned early in the sitting?) [R. H.
says Gusta.] Augusta's in the body. Aunt Elizabeth in the spirit owns
this. She passed out of the body with trouble in the stomach. She says
you're a good girl, a good girl. That brings me very close to this case.
Black lace thing she used to wear round her neck. You know she wants
you to bring it. [Correct. She always called me her good girl, and we used
to have much fun about the name.]
11. Annie sends her love to you.— INS — She wants you to have
her pictures. She wants you to look after them. (Yes.)
[The Phinuit personality then seemed to lose control of Mrs. Piper's
hand, and the hand wrote : "I am Annie D [correctly given]—I
am not dead—I am not dead but living—I am not dead— — world—Good
bye. I am Annie D ."] [Name correctly given.] [Mrs. W. L. P.]
[See p. 291.]
Good girl, good girl.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance, 455
March 25th, 1892.
Sitter: W. L. Parker. (Second sitting. See March 10th, 1892,
p. 449.) [R. H. taking notes.] [The words in large capitals were
spelt.]
[Nothing given, only holding hands.]
That's Will. You're a good fellow, happy-go-lucky, jolly, genial kind of
a chap.
Hodgson, you and Will are both good fellows. You haven't grown old
since I saw you. There's a lady coming here. (Who is she ? Describe her,
or tell me her name.) She's getting hold of me. She's getting my hand.
She's gesturing to mo. [Much moving of hand, and finally demand for
pencil and paper. ]
[Writes.] "Good-day, Will—Billie, I am glad to see you. You look
quite natural." (2) "I am so glad and happy, do think of as not dead."
(3) " You will know me. Iam Annie D ." [Evidently intended for
D , though not very plain.] (4) " If you will will paint for your sdio. "
[Studio?] (5) "Go to Lewis' studio." (6) "And look after everything.
Good bye, Billy.—Annie."
Who's AUNT ELIZABETH? (Aunt Elizabeth.) I called her
your mother before. I made a mistake. She wants you to read my
MESSAGES, and see if you can COMPREHEND them.
(Shall I give you some articles ?) Have you got anything belonging to her ?
She's gone and brought an elderly gentleman.
Who's Dustanuppan ? TJppendustan. He's so glad to see you. I saw
you in the S T U D A O (studio ?) cleaning up the things, tidying them up.
[Giving watch and chain] (Was this watch yours ?) That's mine.
L E W Lewis. He's here, and he's very fond of you.
The picture that isn't finished may be left as it is. He says you'll
understand that, but it's all like Greek to mo. (Left where it is ?) Yes.
I had a cheque-book, you know. Who's BILLIE? (Billy's got
the cheque-book at the office). Well, he wants you to keep it. Who's
Alfred ? (He talked about that before. I can't find out who he is.) Well,
I'll try and explain about that after. . . .
Elizabeth. Who's BO WD ITCH? (Bowditch ?) You didn't
bring anything belonging to Annie. That's too bad. Elizabeth, mother.
One aunt, one cousin. Alice connected with them. (With them or with
me ?) With both.
1. [Giving lace barbe with pin.] (What is this you have got in your
hand ?) A tie. Mary. That's connected with this. [My sister Mary wore
this barbe until near her death, nearly five years before this time. It was
put away and never worn, but given to my wife two years ago. Never been
worn since.]
2. Awful glad to see you, Willie. [Very characteristic expression of the
same, and she always called me "Willie." It is curious that while Miss
D spoke of me as " Billy" and Louis as " Will," they, as well as my
sister, used the same expression that each used in the body.] I tell you,
Willie, I've only discarded the flesh. I suffered a good deal that you didn't
45l3 [part
Richard Hodgson.
realise. I'm better now, and wakened to find out all is right. (Where did
you suffer?) Here. . . . [Description of locality of pain.]
I think Alice had this. It seems to me I saw her have it. She put it
away in a little box. She took it out and gave it to you. (Well, not
exactly, doctor.)
(Where was the most pain ?) Here [touching same spot again]. (Where
was the principal pain ?) What is PATIENCE? (Patience. ) Do you
think the same of me as before ? (Tell Mary to tell where was the trouble
she passed out of the body with.) She'll tell you directly.
3. [Giving ear-rings.] (What's this ?) [Puts up to left ear.] That's
cancerous—cancer. . . . [Description of locality of pain.] Opiates at
the last. She thinks she passed out in the evening, dusk. — (Between
daylight and dark ?) dusk, early evening. She wants you to know that
she's free from pain now, &c. [Ear-ring worn only by my sister. . .
(Verification of Phinuit's description of locality of pain, with cancer.)
Suffered very much, and opiates were used very freely, but died shortly after
midnight.]
4. Alice has been very good to preserve things in my memory. [Alice,
name of my living sister,]
5. [Sealed package.] Oh, that brings the gentleman. That's one of his
books. (Now, I want to talk to him seriously. Will you ask him if this is
one of his own books, or whether it belongs to the outside library). [Pause.]
No. That's his. That's mine, he says. Tell Uppendust that's mine. [This
was a test question, a valuable book that I do not know about, if private
property, or belonging to a musical library now for sale, and this question
was put to see if so important a fact could be obtained, with no result.]
Who's Woffen, Waffen ? That's some kind of German lingo.
[Handing watch and chain]. That's his. (What does he want me to do
with it ?) He wants you to put it with the rest. [My impression is that
this referred to the sealed package.—R. H.] He got this from across the
water. He had another book his father gave him. This came from across
the water. Where's the poems ? There's some MSS. that's written there.
What have you done with it? (I sent them to his relatives.) Who's
mother ? That's hers. That's got the mother's influence about it. Who's
Mers—Mers—Merric ? Poems—There's some MSS. Partly written.
(What am I to do with this ?)
Send this home HOME. (Where is home ?) 1 23456 7. Every
place is home to me. Give me watch. How is everything in Newark ?
(I've got the money.) All collected. Good on your head. (That sounds
like him.) Who's Frank ? (Yes ?) He's in the body, and he wants some
thing to do with him. He wants him to call round. Who's marriking—
something he's trying to remember. I knew all would be settled well. I
think on the whole I'll leave this to you. You do with it what you like.
C L L. Hyston—something. Who is it's got the funny finger ? [Feels
right thumb. ] He's an artist. You'll call it.
Boter—B. . . .—B O T H E R—That's what I tried to get before.
I can't get it. Name of some person in the body.
Newark. Place where he had some dealings, place where he had collec
tions to be made.
xxxin.] Observations of Certain -Phenomena of Trance. 457
[Talk about Phinuit's understanding English, French, etc.—purgatory,
hell, etc.J
Mary, pain in internal body, in the womb. [Gives tie.] Your sister Mary
is back here again. She wants to ask if sister Alice always understood me.
I may have been irritable sometimes,—but I had pain, etc. (Yes, well, we
used to differ somewhat.) Well, this was coming on years before, you know.
On the religious topic we never agreed. (No, that we didn't.) I was a little
prejudiced, a little agnostic, yoa know. [Long quotation of Mary's remarks
here about things in general.] (What do you call that in French ?) [R. H.
says what is it ? Answer to R. H. by sitter : Barbe.] Fichu. Barbe.
[Fichu was mentioned by a previous sitter.] [The previous note was a
contemporary note made by me, as I recalled that Mrs W. L. P., the wife
of the sitter, had mentioned the word fichu in connection with the "black
lace thing " referred to by Phinuit towards the close of her sitting.—R. H.]
What's HURST, Huston. (Hospital ?) HUSTIPAL. I don't
hear it quite distinctly. . . .
I want you to tell Alice that in my—is that a German chest— trunk,—
there's that old black dress of mine. It's there with a lot of other things.
Sometime when you come, fish out some of those things, and bring them
with you. That's your mother. The lady. (That came with Mary ?) Yes.
******
6. You're well. You've got no kidney trouble. Sometimes a little
trouble there—[ear]—a little liver trouble and sometimes a little indigestion.
(Well, I used to be sick once.) Well, you've outgrown that. You're not
going to be sick much to speak of. You may have a little rheumatic pain.
(Where was my trouble ?) [Tries stomach, back of head, etc., and finally
stops on stomach and says] : Flatulency principally, but of no importance.
There's no special organic disease. [And details all the organs one by one.]
Two Marys connected with you, one is a mother and one is a sister. She
just came back to whisper that. [Wrong about the "ear." Balance correct.]
Who's PA?—Purly-Purly—P ARCK-P ARCK—let me hear
that again—P A R K. . . .
March 30th, 1892.
Sitter : Mr. Vance [pseudonym], (Associate A.B.S.P.R.), R. H.
taking notes. [The words in large capitals were spelt.]
[Phinuit began by saying that George wanted to tell me something.—
R. H.]
[Writing.] Pelham, Father—George, George Pelham, Father, Pelham.
Tell to Father I want to see him—I have some things to say to him,
private.
[Phinuit gives messages from G. P. to R. H.] I want to tell you where
I am, and what I'm doing, and what this life consists of.
He says [i.e. George says to sitter] "How is your son? I want to see
him some time." (Where did he know my son?) In studies, in college
[This is correct. I have a son who was class mate of George.]
458 [part
Richard Hodgson.
(Where did George stay with us ?) That gentleman's got a lady here, a
lady in spirit. That isn't George that's talking — wait a minute. Who's
Mamie, Mary ? There's an elderly lady around you in body, not vary well.
•Sister, a little bit cranky, passed out many years ago.
[Referenco to previous sitting.] .
Young man in spirit belongs to you. Passed out when very young. A
girl also. There are three of them. A lady and two children. I get the
father's and mother's influence. What are you doing ? You are . . .
Country. Peculiar house, trees around, porch that projects at the front.
(Who is this talking, George Pelham ?) He was here talking a minute
ago and told me this. Vine at the side. Porch at the front, and string on
the other side.
Pazza—What is that, Hodgson ? (Piazza ?) No, a sort of landing.
[This is a correct answer to the question, " Where did George stay with
us ?" My country house has projecting porch in front and vine at side ; the
porch is especially prominent ; the swing had been removed before the visit
alluded to ; but George might have seen it on some earlier visit.]
******
Mary. —I want to speak to you particularly. You look familiar to me,
but 3'ou've grown older. (Wo all do that.) Haven't you got something
belonging to her ? (I have something associated with her.) Well, give it to
me, quick. Who's Doctor Bowditch ? W o d. . . . Elwood— connected,
with this gentleman in the body.
[Gives paper A.] [Must be assumed that it came within the field of
vision of Mrs. Piper. See p. 317, footnote.—R. H.] Ellis—Woodbury—No,
I'll get that directly. Aunt, mother's sister. CHARLES connected
with this [paper], Mary connected with this gentleman in early life many
years ago. Cousin (Mary, is that right ? Are you a cousin ?) No, she's got
a cousin of yours with her. Did Mary put that there ? (Yes ) This has
been written a long time. [It was written 18 years ago.]
She is his lady. (Do you mean his wife ? ) Yes. Speak to her.
(Well, 1 know a Mary, but—) He's her brother. [Correct].
(Do you recollect under what circumstances you wrote what is on that
paper ?)
Katherine in the body is connected in some way with this [i.e. a previous
recent sitter who was called Katherine at sitting.]
Have you been well? (Yes, fairly well.) Well, you've had a loss of
vitality. . . . Have you got anything else of hers? (No.) Got some
thing of your mother's? (Yes.) ELLEN Ellen —and she's in the
body still. You don't recall that, do you ? (No.) Ellen had trouble here.
. . . Mary had trouble here. . . . Who's Craigie—C R A I G E.
Something about the Doctor here. She thinks she wasn't feeling well when
she wrote that. Long distance away—across water this letter was written
(No) as she came home. [The sister had come from South America, via
England, shortly before she wrote what was on the paper.]
(She wrote that at some one's request. At whose request did she write
that ? )
It's awful little to go by, isn't it Hodgson ? (Yes.) I'll do the best I
can for you.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 459
There's some disposition of something here. Who is it they're calling
Doctor ? Ask the Doctor about this.
It looks more like a little verse than anything else. (Yes.) [It was a
short verse from the Bible.]
Do you know there's two Marys connected with this. Two Marys were in
the body. One Mary suggested it and the other Mary m ote it. One is mother^
and mother suggested it. [This is strikingly correct, and suggests mind-read
ing, or something else.J
It's a long time ago, and its hard for her to remember things so long ago
in earth. She was literary—great deal of talent. Writing still in the spirit.
She had a poetical turn of mind. [In a general way this is true of my sister.
No doubt about her talent.]
Who's Madgie ? (I don't know.) Wait, it's Mary—again. That was my
mistake. It was for mother's benefit I wrote that. [Correct],
ALLEN. She's got a friend in the body named Mrs. Allen. [Sister
knew a lady of that name, but she was no special friend.]
Any question more to ask 'I (What was it written fur ?)
What have they done with all my books ? (Who says that t) She says
that. [No significance in question.]
(Was Mary married ? Can she tell me that t) No. (She was not
married ?) Who is it that calls Helen ? H E L L E N. (This letter has
nothing to do with that.) No, but she's a sister. Helen's in the body.
The lady I'm talking to is married, and had children.
Helen is more closely connected with you. That's yours —your Helen.
[I have a living daughter of that name.]
Who is Aunt Ellen ? That's mother's mother—as true as you live.
(Are there any children with my sister ?)
There's two that belongs to her. The little child in spirit belongs to her.
There are two in the spirit with her. [Correct.] (How many has she in
this world 1)
There's two more— Two in the body and two in the spirit. That's all
she remembers. [My sister has three living children.]
There's something to do with singing in connection with that. [This
may possibly refer to the vocal powers of sister, who was famous as a private
singer ; a fact that I was anxious that Phinuit should mention.] She got
more from this [bit of envelope] than from the writing.
******
I want something belongs either to your father or your mother. (Well,
here's a letter of my mother.) [Must be assumed that it came within the
field of vision of Mrs. Piper. See p. 317, footnote.—R. H.] There's
somebody connected with you named Wood. Can you recall a relative of
your mother that married a Wood ? (No, I don't think I can). Wood.—
It sounds very much like it. Who's Hu? HOWARD? That's
where I got the Wood. It's Howard. [These names, which had no signifi
cance for Mr. Vance, are the names actually mentioned at the sitting,
and have no relevance to the friends of G. P. whom I have called Howard.
—R H.]
Cancer, cough, and rheumatism. There's a relative of this gentleman's
mother who passed out with a cancer.
2 H
460 [part
Richard Hodgson.
That's an aunt of his mother's. She had a son whose name is Howard.
S N M I — sounds something like Stevens— SNMISON— I can't
get that.
It's connected with this letter. [The letter was written in 1856 and
contains much about a Mrs. Sherman. I had not read it, and had no idea
what was in it.]
Recently he [the sitter] hasn't lost any friends.
(I'll give you a watch. It was worn by a friend. I've worn it for some
time, but a friend wore it for a great many years ) HOWELS —
DAVIDSON. (Who are these ?) This belonged first to an elderly
gentleman, than a younger man had it.
This came from across the water. (Was its owner any relative of mine ?)
Gentleman connected with this used to write. [All wrong about the
owner of the watch.]
Clergyman—man who used to lecture. That's where I get the cousin's
influence. (Where 1) On this watch—cousin and an uncle. Give me the
letter again. There's a gentleman here in spirit looks like you. Looks like
enough to be his son. Old gentleman who formerly owned this. That's
where the name Will comes in. . . .
Mr. Vance adds :—
I have noted the points of significance in this sitting. Most of Phinuit's
deliverances were wide of the mark, and had the appearance of guessing,
with perhaps some dream-like source of information as a starting-point.
His best hit was striking. The verse referred to was written by my sister
at my mother's request shortly before her death ; it was given to me with a
special motive, and has been kept under lock and key until it was taken to
Mrs Piper.
April 28th, 1892.
Sitter : Professor J. M. Peirce. R. H. taking notes.
Several days previously (I believe on April 23rd) Professor Peirce
accompanied me to Mrs. Piper for a sitting, but she was unable to
go into trance. This sitting of April 28th was a failure as regards
the sitter, but is noteworthy as having led to the incident in con
nection with George Pelham which I have described on p. 305. The
sitter's explanation of the giving of his name in Mrs. Piper's whisper
was (quite naturally from his point of view) that Mrs. Piper had got
to know it by ordinary means. And as Professor Peirce is well
known in Boston and had moreover been seen by Mrs. Piper several
days previously, when she failed to go into trance, his explanation
was, of course, the rational one for him, though, as the reader is
aware, I have no doubt myself that it was Mrs. Piper's "subliminal"
that whispered the name Peirce, whether at the instigation of " George
Pelham " or not. The following is a general statement by Professor
Peirce himself.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 461
472, Broadway, Corner of Prescott Street, Cambridge,
May llt, 1892.
My Dear Hodgson, — I return the notes of my sitting with Mrs. Piper,
after having filled in some passages from my memory. I am sure of the
essential (and generally almost of the literal) correctness of my additions ;
but in one or two cases I am not quite certain of their place.
It is, of course, still true that much was said, especially while you were
out of the room, which is unrepresented in the notes, but I think nothing of
real importance. At any rate, I am unable to amend the notes further with
out danger of error.
Would it not be well to mark the place at which you were recalled and
came back t Mrs. Piper said something like : " Hodgson, come, tell the
gentleman what to say. "
You asked for my comment on the sitting. I find it difficult to convey
the impression left on my mind, — there was so strange a mixture of truth
and error,—some correct knowledge of a few facts, on the one hand, and a
complete failure to indicate personality, or even to identify the spirits
alleged to be present on the other. I am still in doubt about all but
my mother, as to who was meant.
Of the names mentioned, the greater number are names of persons known
to me and closely connected with me. But some of these were strangely
confused, and nearly all were left in the air, as it were, without any indica
tion of the persons whom they designated. Two of them appeared to be
wrongly applied at first, but were afterwards, in obedience, as it seemed to
me, to indications conveyed automatically by me by intonation of voice or
otherwise, used differently. Some of the names wholly unknown to me.
Names could not be given in several important cases. Nearly all the names
given are very common ones. There seemed to me to be only one striking
case in the use of names. The name of Rogers, an unusual first name,
was spoken distinctly, and without any of the gradual process of formation
which is commonly employed by this medium. This is a name of marked
significance to me, and was rightly closely associated with my mother. It
is, of course, also a name which might easily be ascertained by enquiry to
have interest for me ; while it would be less obviously a part of common
knowledge concerning me than my father's name, for example, or other more
public matters.
Of the matters of fact and other things which make up the substance of
the interview, less success is to be predicated. One or two points were
correctly stated, or indicated. The greater number, including all those on
which special stress was laid, are utterly without meaning for me. They
are simply mistakes.
In regard to the indefinable, unreasoned impression made by the inter
view,—a point to which I am forced to attribute much importance in the
case of some of my friends who have visited Mrs. Piper,—I must say that
I received none that tends to strengthen the theory of a communication
with the departed. No personal trait, no familiar and private sign, no
reminiscence of old affection, no characteristic phrase or mode of feeling or
thought, no quality of manner was there, to make the presence of a beloved
spirit seem real. I never for one instant felt myself to be speaking with
2 h 2
462 [part
Richard Hodgson.
any one but Mrs. Piper, nor do I perceive any change of voice or personality,
beyond what is ordinarily witnessed in skilled impersonation, even where
there is no abnormal psychical condition, and constantly shown by persons
in the hypnotic trance.
You will understand that I am not undertaking to discuss Mrs. Piper's
manifestations in general—I am only trying to transmit to you, as trans
parently as possible, the view which remains in my mind as the result of
my own experience. I think it ought to be remembered as an essential
fact, bearing on that experience, that my first visit was entirely without
result, and that an interval of several days passed before my second visit.
I regret not to have witnessed any of the wonders which are reported of
this case. Had I seen them, I should have gladly borne my testimony to
them. A real communication with the glorious dead would surely be
the greatest conceivable satisfaction to one who cannot be many years
separated from the state in which they abide.
******
I meant to have added that Phinuit seemed to me to be constantly
groping after indications from me to correct and direct his intelligence,
and in some cases he seemed to me to be so directed. Whatever the
explanation of the phenomena, I believe this process to go on,—a struggle
for knowledge to whose issue the sitter contributes. J Peirce
P.S.—Since writing the foregoing, I have gone over the notes in
detail, making a memorandum of successes and failures. I am surprised
to see how little is true. Nearly every approach to truth is at once vitiated
by erroneous additions or developments.
May Gth, 1892.
Sitters : Dr. and Mrs. L. E. H. New York.
The notes marked with an asterisk are from additional information
supplied by Dr. H. in 1897, and are as nearly as possible in Dr. H.'s
words. He adds : " It would, I think, be of interest to preface the
sitting with the remark that Mrs. Piper was entirely unknown to both
of us, and we to her ; that Dr. and Mrs. Thaw were the only mutual
acquaintances, and that they said nothing to Mrs. P. about us except
ing that we were to have a sitting. The large number of little details
brought out about the family are extremely interesting, the most
marked being those relating to Walter, his death and his friends, and
to David,—many of the remarks made by both of these are strictly
characteristic. However, nothing appeared in the sitting which could
be afterwards confirmed, which was not fully known either to Mrs. H.
or myself. All the things here brought out might be explained as
simply mind-reading, but a wonderful example of that."
[At the house of Dr. A. B. Thaw, who arranged for the sitting, Mr. A.
Dow taking shorthand notes, Mrs. Thaw present at beginning.]
xxxin.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 463
Phinuit : Comment vous portez-vous, Monsieur ? Hodgson ! Where am
I? Where am I? What's this thing ? [Feeling Dr. H.'s head.] What's
this ? What this ? Where is this place ? Where is this place 1 Where's
Hodgson ? (Dr. H. He's not here.)
Phinuit : I want to know where I am. Oh, I see, I'm some other place.
Oh, I see, you want me to talk to this gentleman and this lady. Why the
Dickens didn't you tell me so in the first place ? [Feeling Mrs. H.'s head.]
How are you, sis ? You're a good girl. (Mrs. H. : I'm very well. Glad to
see you.) Phinuit : Oh, you're all right. (Dr. H. : You're well to-day,
Phinuit ? ) Phinuit : I'm always all right. I'm never ill. [To Mrs. T.]
Who's that lady ? [To Mrs. H.] Here's a gentleman wants to speak to you.
Come here. I want my watch. [Dr. H. offers his watch.] [To Mrs. H.]
Your father wants his watch. He's a doctor—a doctor. [Phinuit then made
a motion as though unwinding something about the hand and then dropping
it off the side. Repeated several times. Then put something to Dr. H.'s
nose as if to smell.] Give me that thing. I want that thing quick. [Is
giving paper and pencil. Several words written—among them "Evelyn."
" I am glad to see you, and see you well. Think of me not dead." " I am
living." "Yours truly, Dr. R." Also, "Did you get the bottles of
medicine? Yours truly, Dr. R ." "I am your friend, Dr. R ."]
[Mentioning correct name of a doctor whom Dr. H. had recently visited
in Boston.] (Dr. H. : Is he in the body or in the spirit?) Phinuit:
[Writes.] "Body." "Do tell me if you want to ask Dr. R ."
[Writes again.] "Come and see me, William." [Unknown.] "Doctor,
I am Chamberlain." [Unknown.] [Writing down very rapidly, Phinuit
turning leaves.]
[Evelyn, five years old, daughter of Mrs. H. Dr. R . was not asked
concerning the possible significance for him of the names William and
Chamberlain.*]
[To Mrs. H.] : Give me your father's watch.
(Mrs. H. : I haven't it.) [Before coming Mrs. H. had made an unsuc
cessful attempt to bring the watch.]
Phinuit : There's a trouble in his head. [Incorrect.] There's also a
trouble here, right in the stomach. [Correct.] That's true. Perhaps you
don't believe me, but you ask him and he'll tell you. I want that lady to
come here, and I want you to step out. I want that lady. I want to tell
that lady all about her friend. I wish you'd all go away.
[To Mrs. H.] You'll remember what I say to you, and what I say to you
you can tell your friends. I want to tell you about your little girl, you
know what I mean, that's in the body, the little girl that's in the body, that's
yours. She's a sweet little thing, but awfully positive. She's awfully
positive, but you let her have her own way. I can talk to you, and then to
the gentleman. I want Lewis. [Unknown.] You know what I mean. I'll
tell you about your Ellie—Ethel, Ethie. [Evelyn, the name.] No, that's
not quite right. Wait a minute—I'll get that for you in a minute. She's
got a pretty good temper of her own ; excuse me for telling you that.
She's got a lot of talent in her ; just give her her own way. Don't oppose
her any. She's a little headstrong. You see what I mean, don't you ?
Go away, Alex, [to Mr. A. Dow.] That's too bad, isn't it I I get also
464 [part
Richard Hodgson.
the influence of your mother. [Characteristics of child quite striking.]
(Mrs. H. : My mother?) •
Phinuit : You speak to me, don't go to sleep.
(Mrs. H. : You tell me about my mother )
Phinuit : She says that if you will follow my instructions she will come
out all right. There is one, two, three ; you see what 1 mean. I want to
tell you about the different ones. There are two children, and that's all.
[Correct.] There are no more. How do you suppose I know that ? There's
one ; that's the little girl ; she's the one that is so positive that I told you
about. And that's the one who'll have her own way. She's a little sensitive.
She has a little trouble here. [Correct.] Right inhere [feeling throat], and
it's the only trouble she's had about the whole physical body. She's pretty
well, pretty strong in the legs here. What's the matter with her foot the
other day ? [Probably alluding to Mrs. T.] (Mrs. H. : I don't think there
was anything the matter with her foot.)
Phinuit : That's there ; but all her little trouble is right here. [Feeling
throat.] You know I see her going a distance where there is water around
her I don't think you understand me. Where's that other lady 1 She'll
[tell ? ] you how to talk to me. She's got two children, and there's a little
girl that's got a little trouble with her throat, but she'll get well and strong,
and stay in the body. She's going where I see water around her ; she's not
going to fall in the water. [A journey to a town on Lake Ontario was taken
very soon after.] [This journey was intended at the time of the sitting, and
Evelyn went there a few days after.*] Tell those fellows to go out and keep
quiet. Her mother is here.
(Mrs. H. : What do you mean by here ?) Phinuit : Here with me, right
beside me. (Mrs. H. : Is she in the body or in the spirit ?) Phinuit : In
the body [correct], but I get her spirit influence, so I can tell you about her.
She's what —what do you call it ? Your double. That is, the mother and
you are alike. You look alike, you know what I mean ; that is, you are
both the same. [Correct.]
(Mrs. H. : See if you can get any friends of hers.) Phinuit : I called for
your father's watch and you said you couldn't give it to me. You ought to
bring that for me to help me out. I can't bring any one without their
influence. He's in the spirit and the mother's in the body. [Correct.]
Oh, she's such a beautiful lady. (Mrs. H. : I thought about bringing the
watch. )
Phiuuit : I know you wanted to bring that, and that's why I called for it.
But, oh, weren't you stupid ? [To others.] Why don't you keep away ? I'll
talk to you and then I'll talk to them.
[Mrs. H. gives Phinuit a toy wheelbarTow made by Walter.] Now wait a
minute. Who's that they call Bub ? Who's B-r-o-b-e-r-t-s ? I get that.
R-o-, he's in the body. Tell Mr. Roberts I'm all right. [No one of that
name known in this connection.]
[Writes.] " Daughter, I'm your father." [Mrs. H.'s father deceased.*]
" Walter, Walter." Phinuit : I want him to tell the Dr. I'm all right. He's
your cousin. [Correct, both as to name and fact.] Evie Evy. [Sister-
in-law of Walter, with whom he lived. ] Tell him not to worry about me for
I am happy now. How's Fred ? [Abrupt and positive.]
xxxiil] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 465
(Mrs. H. ; Did you suffer 1)
Phinuit : Tell Fred I'm all O.K. [Characteristic of Walter.] What does
that mean ? Put that down there quick. That's father's. Here's Willis.
[Unknown.] Here's a mother, Marie. Marie is the mother [Mary, correct]
and a wife of this gentleman that's talking to you. Don't you suppose
I know that. She's the lady's mother. [Yes.] [Mary is the name of
Mrs. H.'s mother, not Walter's wife*] Your father just told me that.
Tell him that I'm alive in the spirit. I am not dead. That name was
Ed—Ed. [Emphatic.] [Ed. correct name.] He wanted to send a message
to you. It sounded like Fred. I called it Fred, but it's Ed, if you please.
Ed. That's my dear friend, you know. [EJ., Mrs. H.'s brother, Hying,
a dear friend of Walter.*] [The apparent confusion here becomes clear if
we suppose that the father of Mrs. H. and also her cousin Walter were both
present giving messages. —R.H.] Evly—Evie—Evie. Dear Evie, I want
her to be good.
(Mrs. H. : She is good. )
Phinuit : I want her to live right. He is awfully anxious to send his love
to his mother. And to Mary, too. She didn't understand him, that is, since
he passed out. That is, since he was here she didn't understand that he
lived. She doesn't understand that he is here. She didn't understand him,
and never did since he came out of the body.
(Mrs. H. : Can you get the father's name ?)
Phinuit : Henry. Who is Henry ? Who's your father ? He wants to
send his regards to Henry. Tell Henry I'll talk to him soon.
(Mrs. H. : Who is Henry ?)
Phinuit : He is my brother ; he sends me to see him. [Correct.] [Henry
is brother of Mrs. H.'s father.*]
(Mrs. H. : Wants to see Henry ?)
Phinuit : That's your Uncle Henry. He is in the body. [Correct.] How
ever, he wants to be remembered to you, and asks me how things are at the
office—at the office. He wants to know that because he's frequently at the
office. [Intimate business relations existed between the two.] Please speak
to me. Give me something belonging to your father.
(Mrs. H. : I haven't anything. )
Phinuit : Well, give me Walter's little instrument. Here he comes. He
had a little clock shaped thing, and he made that also, he tells me. [Correct.]
There's a little chair, you recollect that. [No.] The little chair, little stool,
with a round top, with a pyramid on the top. He made that and he
remembers it distinctly. [Walter's instrument is the toy wheelbarrow
previously referred to. He also made many little brackets and other things,
among them a small clock which he had given to Mrs. H.'s mother. Nothing
remembered about the chair.*]
But who is Evie ? He says he remembers her perfectly, and wants her to
know that he is satisfied over here. That's where the sister comes in that I
told you about. J-o-h-n. Tell John, J-a-ane,—wait a minute. I haven't
got that right. That connected with Evie. [No.] Oh, here's Will.
[Unknown]. He's smiling, and he's in the body. J-o-h-n. I don't know
how you pronounce that, but that is connected with him too.
(Mrs. H. : Who is John ?)
466 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Phinuit : That's his John. [John, child of W.'s intimate friend, of whom
he was very fond.] [See helow.—R.H.] He belongs to him, and that
belongs to you. That's his boy. There is a little girl, and he's trying to tell
me about them all, and he's very fond of these two children. [Correct.]
I've got something the matter with my head. [Killed by an injury on the
head.]
(Mrs. H. : Did you suffer with your head ?)
Phinuit : He tells me it hurt him. It hurt his head. Inhere [feeling of
the neck, arm, and shoulder]. She'll know all about it. Now I woke up
quick and I didn't know I was out of the body. I woke up and found that I
was living again. Tell her that. You'll forgive me if I ramble, but this is
strange to me. I'll get over this condition in a minute. It hurt me, didn't
it 1 It was accidental. It was too bad, wasn't it t
(Mrs. H. : Has he any message for his mother ?)
Phinuit : He's a little confused, but he's all right. Where's Florence ?
[Unknown.] I want Hattie. [Unknown.] That's not right. That's the
brother. I told you about him. But he's a little confused. Please, people,
leave me alone a few minutes. You're really good fellows, and after I get
these messages clear, you can come all you like. I want you to stay with
me. You took good care of the little girl, didn't you ? John belongs to you,
[John, nephew of Mrs. H.] that's the little one. That's the brother. That's
your child. The brother's child —your nephew, that's what you call it. It's
your brother's child, any way. [There is only one John, a little son of Ed,
who is Walter's intimate friend, and brother of Mrs. H.*] This Walter is
your cousin. [Correct.] He calls Ed. He's a friend of his, you know—most
intimate friend on earth, you know. [Correct.] And he says he wants to
send his love to him particularly. He gives you this so you know he is here.
Tell him that I wish he wouldn't fret because everything is all right. It was
so to be, and I am happy now. You can ask me any questions you like.
There are two of us h-re. Then he wants to send his love to his mother.
Who's Davy—David 1 [A friend recently dead ] Give me David's book.
[Dr. H. brought David's book from a chair.] I want to speak to him—but
where are father's things ? Oh, you didn't bring them. No, this is David's
book. He wants me to tell you he is all right. Aren't you glad to see me ?
I want to tell him that he is as near right as they make them. That's all
right. Tell the doctor I'll speak to him. He's the one that brought these
bottles of things. [Dr. H. attended David in last illness and took him many
things, some in bottles.*]
(Dr. H. : David, do you want to speak to me ?)
Phinuit : I want you to feel that I am with you still. It's only a tie
that binds us here. We live and then we pass out. Stand up. You look
just the same. That's the greatest treat I ever had. And you're the
best fellow I ever knew. You're glad to see me, old fellow. Speak to me
quick. He's close beside me and is very happy. I wish you were as happy
as I am.
(Dr. H. : What are you doing ?) Phinuit : Writing. I'll write for you so
you can get it legibly, in a way that you will know that it is I. (Dr. H. : Ask
him how he's getting on.) Phinuit : All right. Where are the rest of the
fellows here ?
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 467
That's mine. [Takes book.] He is David's friend. He used to live with
him. He's the friend that he lived with when he passed out of the body.
[Correct.] I'll tell you about him, but he seems a little confused. How are
the children ? [David fond of the children.] (Dr. H. : Very well.)
Phinuit : Busy as ever? You're all right, feeling well? He says that
he is going to see his friend and is coming back to see you. (Dr. H. : Is his
friend in the body now ?) Phinuit : He is in the body, he has not passed
out. (Dr. H. : Is he well ?) Phinuit : He's going to see. He's left for a
minute, and he will come back and tell you all about him. I'll talk about
him in a minute. Is there anybody else you want to see ? That gentleman's
mother is here. (Dr. H. : Is she in the body ?)
Phinuit : . . . That little girl of yours is a perfect little positive ;
she will have her own way. I would let her have it if I were you. She'll
make a noble woman. As soon as she gets over this little difficulty she'll
be all right.
(Dr. H. : How about the other child ?) Phinuit : The little rascal. He's
good, honest, different in temperament, that all. [Correct.] Is there
anything you want to say particularly ? (Dr. H. : Can you tell me something
about this person ?) [An old silver spoon was placed on Mrs. Piper's head.
It was one of a pair. Dr. and Mrs. H. knew very little of its history, and
nothing of the people connected with it.]
Phinuit : You know he keeps calling El—rie. [Unknown.] Wait a
minute. I have called it to you two or three times. That's connected with
this. Oh, I have heart trouble. A difficulty around here, and a kidney
trouble comes with this. [Phinuit at this point had silver spoon on head ]
I don't believe I'll get that so clear for you. Now there's a lady and gentle
man both connected with this ; the lady is in the body and the gentleman's
in the spirit. [No history of spoons except they were made from the hilt of
an old sword. No names connected with them known.*]
(Dr. H. : Is the lady well ?)
Phinuit : There's something I'll tell you about. You may not believe it,
but there's something the matter with her head. [Age only.] There's also
a nervous condition. I can't get that so well as I can the other. Who's
that they call L-u-r-i-e, L-a-u-r-i-e, —Laurie, Laurie? [Unknown.] Here's
a gentleman wants to speak to you very much. He's connected with this
article. Who is N-o-t—N-o r-t ? Tell George I am happy, and if the doctor
knows who that is, I'll be satisfiad. That's all right. [Unintelligible.]
(Dr. H. : Who's George ? Is that connected with the spoon ?)
Phinuit : That's connected with the book. [George, brother of Mrs.
H., but not intimate with David.]
(Dr. H. : Has David come back ?)
Phinuit : I'll leave that until later. (Dr. H. : Is George connected with
the book or spoon 1)
Phinuit : With the spoon—with that. I get those two a little mixed.
That's connected with this, and there's something else belonging to him.
You know there are two like this. [Dr. H. brings second spoon from bag
and gives to Phinuit.] Now I've got them together, now I want the glove.
[Dr. H. gets glove from bag also, which is placed with spoon on Phinuit's
head.] Merci. Merci, Monsieur. That's right, if I can attract their attention
468 [past
Richard Hodgson.
I'll get them all right. He says there's a lady and gentleman here. Tell
George I want him to . . . that dosk. What does that mean ? D-e-s-k,
[Unintelligible.] (Dr. H. : Whose desk is it, Doctor?)
Phinuit : Tell him to take those books and put them back, and get the
paint and the brush together. What does that mean ? For the pictures are
all disturbed.
(Dr. H. : Is this with the spoons ?) [Dr. H. knew nothing of the history
of the spoons.]
Phinuit : That's with these things here. And he says that the easel has
been turned around the other side too. Now what does that mean ?
[Unknown.] (Dr. H. : I don't know.)
Phinuit : If you get that, you'll understand him, perhaps. What is it
about the easel? [Unknown.] (Dr. H. : I don't know.)
Phinuit : And the books have all been taken from the desk and he wants
them to be put up. [Unintelligible ]
(Dr. H. : That's a man that wants them put back ?)
Phinuit : There's a gentleman and a lady, his sister. That's your cousin,
that's not Walter. Walter is gone. There's another one here, and he talks
to me. I tell you I get that name Lulu and Ellen. [Unknown.] I want
you to know that this was originally Lola's. [Lola unknown.] If you can
remember that you can find out about it afterwards—and then, the old
lady's name was Hellen. [Unknown.] You've got that, haven't you ? (Dr.
H. : Who gave it to Lola ?)
Phinuit : Margaret, Margaret. You know who Margaret is. (Dr. H. :
I know one Margaret.)
Phinuit : That's not connected with you at all. Take those spoons
away. (Dr. H. : Can you tell me about the glove ? Will you tell about
Mary?)
Phinuit : Mary, that's Elizabeth. That's all connected with these two
things. [Unintelligible.] [In this connection a name Dorton is mentioned
by Phinuit.] (Dr. H. : Tell about the glove.) Phinuit : C-a-r-r-i-e.
(Dr. H. : Has David come back ?) Phinuit : That's passed out of the body.
That's the one whose lady is in the body and has trouble in the head and in
the heart. That's the one that I just called Margaret, and this is connected
with you ; she is an aunt. She is connected by blood, you know, not by
marriage. [Glove belonged to Margaret's sister. The facts correct.]
[Margaret, great aunt of Mrs. H., was seriously ill with heart-disease.
Her husband, Charles, had been dead less than a year. Carrie perhaps an
attempt at Charlie.*]
(Dr. H. : Is she going to get well ?)
Phinuit : This has something to do with Margaret, and this is the one
who has got the trouble with her head and with her heart. She looks very
poorly to me. You don't know this friend, I think. If I could I would tell
you she is going to get well, but I see inwardly a more serious condition,
that is developed in the lower part of the body, down here. That's Margaret.
[This trouble (swelling) had existed before ; was supposed by Mrs. H. to be
absent at time of sitting, though it did exist at that time, and was observed
by Mrs. H. upon visiting Margaret some time afterward.]
(Dr. H. : Do you hear from Margaret's husband at all ?)
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 469
Phinuit : That's the gentleman who is connected with the other articles
that came with this. The other influence you gave me and this came from a
gentleman in the spirit, and a lady in the body. I'll try to get a message
for you as soon as I can.
(Dr. H. : Has David come back ?) Phinuit : He's gone to find his room
mate. [Room-mate living. Room-mate's wife dead.*] He'll be back in a
few minutes, don't you hurry me. Give me plenty of time and I'll tell you
all about it. That physical condition is a poor one. Can you help her ?
(Dr. H. : Well, we'll try.)
Phinuit : She doesn't worry because there is no necessity of worrying.
She's got some sense about it. [Very characteristic of the lady.]
(Dr. H. : I'll turn this inside out for you, Doctor.)
Phinuit : That's better. That's the mother. That's connected with
your mother, your mother's sister. [Mary the mother of Mrs. H. ;
Margaret, Mary's aunt, but brought up in same family and usually addressed
each other as sisters.*] She's a good lady. They're both good. Mary and
Margaret. Two good names, don't you think so 1
(Dr. H. : Yes. Tell me about the lady and the glove.) [This glove had
been worn by the owner to the house of her sister Margaret. It is curious
that no mention was made of the owner, but only of the invalid sister, about
whom all the statements made are entirely correct.]
Phinuit : You know. I get this. That's not Margaret that's connected
with her, but that's the daughter. Oh, you're Marie's daughter. [Feeling
Mrs. H.'s head.] [Correct.]
(Dr. H. : Do you hear anything from Marie's husband, that is, this lady's
father 1)
Phinuit : You know, I see a great long couch, a long couch in the room,
with a little alcove place in it [correct] and I see this girl there. I get music
with this. There is some music connected with this. There's somebody
who plays well. [All this connected with Margaret. Her daughter very
musical.] Who plays very nicely. Is nervous and a little curious.
Margaret is in the body too. That's funny, and that's her that's speaking.
I hear that name very distinctly. Send for Charles, and tell him I'm all
right. Tell him I'm not dead, I'm alive. (Dr. H. : Who says that ?)
Phinuit : David says that. [David not connected with Margaret or her
deceased husband, Charles.*] You folks will have to straighten that out.
You connect these people if you can. I could do better if you would leave
this with me, and then come back and I'll tell you later. I do like you
very much. You're getting on all right in everything, and she's the nicest
lady in the country.
(Dr. H. : Do you hear about Eugene ?) Phinuit : E-v-e-n, I called him
several times, but the lady didn't know whom I meant. I tried to get that
name for you but I couldn't get it. I could get part of the name but I
couldn't get all of it. [Abruptly.] I'd like to know who Warren is.
[Another deceased relative.] This comes in connection with this. [Warren
had no connection with the glove.*] Well, it's very trying. He's in the
spirit, Warren is. There now, I got that all right. Now, friends, you must
tell me what you want to know most about. (Dr. H. : Has David come
back?) Phinuit: David is coming. In the meantime about David's friend's
470 [part
Richard Hodgson.
wife. Is she there ? The wife of David's room mate ? That's Charles.
[The Charles alluded to above, but he was not David's room mate.]
(Dr. H. : That's all right.) Phinuit : That Charles sends a message
to her. Tell her I am all right. That's her husband. (Dr. H. :
Is David here ?) Phinuit : Louise, Louise. She's in the body. Wait a
minute. Louise is connected with this Warren. They both want to be
remembered. They are in the body. Warren is here and the lady is there.
So that makes two of them, but she's in the body and he is in the spirit.
[Warren dead was Louise's grandfather.*] (Dr. H. : That's right.) Phinuit :
Can you tell me as much as that ? You'll be satisfied when I tell you. Don't
think I'm not going to tell you, because I am. (Dr. H. : Who's the lady
with David ?) Phinuit : David's gone. I don't know who he'll bring back,
but he'll be back in a few minutes. Margaret is connected with this also,
and I get the name very distinctly of Henry and Will, William. The
William is a brother also. Henry is a brother of the father. I thought
that there was a Will and Henry, but it's William Henry, one person, the
two names come together. [Quite correct.] [William Henry, brother of
Mrs. H.'s father, whose home was in Brooklyn.*]
(Dr. H. : Is the father happy ?)
Phinuit : That fellow had a trouble with his head, with his neck.
[Probably referring to Walter.] Frank is coming. Rockwood—Rockwood.
Brooklyn ; with David, just returned from Brookwood. This is David.
Dr.—Dr. —Hertford.—Herford. [Unintelligible.] Who's he talking about,
Doctor ? (Dr. H. : I don t know, Doctor.)
Phinuit: H-o-u-g-h-t-o n—Houghton. Oh, I can't get it. (Dr. H. : Is
it David that's talking ?)
Phinuit: I can't get that. B-e-l-l-e-n. B-a-r-r-e-t-l. (Dr. H. : Who
said that ?) Phinuit : Barrett, that's it. Now you have it. He's connected
with David. He is, indeed, and he's all right. [Barrett, a business friend
of David.] (Dr. H. : Is Barrett in the body?) Phinuit: Tell the Doctor
he is with him and he is all right. [Barrett living.*]
(Dr. H. : How about the wife of David's room mate ?) Phinuit : She's
in the spirit. She's the one I spoke to you about in the first place. Her
name, that is the one I told you about, that she has you know, is Evelyn.
[No.] (Dr. H. : What was her name, the wife of David's room mate ?)
Phinuit : She's the one who came in with Evelyn, Alice we called her. She
is all right, and sends her love to you. [Alice was the name. But Mrs. H.
had brought with her something given by Alice to Evelyn, and the names
and persons were closely associated in her mind.]
Who's Tom ? He knows him.. David's connected with him also. [A
friend.] Thompson. [Unknown.*] There you've got it. I'll have to see
you again, friends. You speak to David and ask him if there's anything he
wants to do in the meantime. (Dr. H. : Has David any message for his
father ?) Phinuit : Ask the lady. His father came to him with her.
[Unknown.*] He's what you call not low, but poorly—not in good health.
[Correct.] I can't toll you anything about this, I'm too weak. [Phinuit
takes a ring.] That's connected with that also. I wish I had had that a
little sooner, but I'm too weak now. I'm sorry, good-bye. Ruthie. Mollie.
[Unknown.]
xxxiii ] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 471
May 17th, 1892.
At the house of Dr. A. B. Thaw in New York. [R, H. taking
notes.]
The following account is an abridgment with names changed, and one or
two other circumstances somewhat modified. I was sent out of the room
part of the time, and the lady, friend of the sitter, who was to have written
out the record of the sitting, began but did not complete it, and the notes
are particularly deficient as to which questions were asked by the sitter
in Italian and which in English.
The sitter was an Italian lady, Madame Frederica, who had lived long
enough in America to be familiar with English. The deceased sister, Madame
Elisa, also spoke English as well as Italian.
Phinuit referred to the " sister," attempted a name that had no signifi
cance, made attempts at the name Frederica, gave a personal description of
Elisa, also designated (by pointing out locality, etc.), the trouble that caused
her death, and mentioned some specific points in connection with the scene
at the moment of her dying. A watch which had belonged to Madame Elisa
had been lost or mislaid by the sitter, who inquired about it ; but the
statements made concerning its whereabouts did not lead to its being
found.
The communicator began to write " Dear Sister," and was at once
requested to write in Italian, and several sheets were written—some fifty
words, of which a few are evidently repetitions, attempts to write more
clearly, but none of it is clearly decipherable except the words si [yes] and
mia [my] and the Christian names of the ' ' communicator " and the sitter.
The hypothetical interpretation of several other words is much too doubtful
to be of any evidential value as indicating a knowledge of Italian words.
The communicator was then requested to write in English, and Phinuit
begged the sitter not to speak so loud. The sitter then asked in Italian,
" Does my voice hurt you, Elisa ? " The reply was, " My dear sister, I hear
you speak to me and it makes me so happy to hear your dear voice again."
There were then some replies written to questions about the whereabouts of
the lost watch, some of the words being undecipherable, but the writing
ended, as we ascertained afterwards, by an attempt to write the communi
cator's full name.
George Pelham, known to both the sitter and her sister, then acted as
amanuensis for Madame Elisa, after greeting the sitter, and wrote replies to
questions about the watch. I interrupted her by a demand for the last name
of the communicator, to which G. P. wrote : " Don't bother me while her
sister is speaking to me please, for I have quite enough to do without this."
Later on G. P. referred to the sitter's mother as with the communicator,
adding that he himself did not know her. [Correct.] There was further
writing of a personal character, after which I asked where had I been with
the communicator, at Newport. We had been guests at the same house
together, and the name of our hostess was correctly written. The writing
ended, and I supposed that the surname of the communicator had not been
given but the last faint scrawls, as we found later, were clearly intended
for this name. Suddenly Phinuit called out " Who's M-A-N-N-O-R-S. I
472 [part
Richard Hodgson.
got that for H-O-D-G-S-O-N. Tell Hodgson I gave this to you as I could
not stay there longer on account of Elisa." This was G. P.'s message
apparently through Phinuit. "Mannors" was the surname of Madame
Elisa. Immediately after Phinuit's departure, and before Mrs. Piper
recovered consciousness, the following was whispered in Italian : Sta Bene,
Sta Bene, Pazienzn, Pazienza, Pazienza. [It is well. Patience.] [For other
communications from Madame Elisa, see pp. 335-6.]
January 2Sth, 1893.
Sitter : Mr. T. B. C. (Associate A.B.S.P.R.), Minneapolis, Minn.
[Mr. C. gave me the following account on the afternoon of the day
of the sitting.—R. H.] :—
Phinuit said there was a lady who wanted to speak with me, my wife.
He indicated that she died of inflammation, and gave the name of the disease
peritonitis. He gave the name Louise, and said Louise was my daughter,
and was with her mother, and that others were there also with them. He
then gave the names Irrie, Nellie, Dellie (D E L L I E) and Lizzie, and said
they were my [four other] children in spirit, as is true. [All these state
ments were correct.—R. H.]
Laura was mentioned and said to be my sister. [Correct. She died
nearly forty years ago.]
Phinuit further said there were two children in the body—some distance
away. One of them, "nice bright little fellow," was sick, had sore throat
and something the matter with his head. [True, when I left them three
days ago in Washington.] Phinuit said that he would come out all right,
and live a long time. Phinuit gave these statements as coming from my
wife and Louise. Louise also said, "Give my love to Lon." There was
some stumbling over the name Lon, which was, however, finally correctly
given, and spelled out Alonzo, which is the full name. But she always
called him Lon. This is her husband, still living.
Irvie was rightly said to have died of consumption.
[There was some writing apparently by Louise, as follows] :—
[If by Louise, she must have been acting as amanuensis for her mother
whose name was Sarah.—R. H.] "I told you in my note to keep the
appointment, did I not, dear?" Spoken. "This appointment was what I
meant." [See note below.] [I had given one of my wife's rings to a friend
of hers. Knowledge of this was shown in the following writing] :—
"Give my ring to my dear friend." (Was that right?) Yes. (Who
was the friend ?) [Attempts at Shepherd, which was finally written]
S H E P A R D. [Should have been Shepherd.]
The other writings are private messages of personal affection to convince
me that my relatives were actually present and talking with me.
It was mentioned that Hattie's mother had died of cancer, and that I
could find this from Hattie. This is not yet known to me, but Hattie is my
brother's wife still living. [Afterwards ascertained to be not true.]
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 473
Note by Mr. V.
On January 22nd, 1893, I tried Ouija Board for the first time with a
private lady friend in Washington who has had various remarkable experiences
with it. A few private things came out at the first sitting which were a great
surprise to me, but somewhat personal. At our next trial, which was on
January 24th, several messages were spelt out as coming from my wife, who
wrote, inter alia :—
" All your movements are noticed. (By whom 1) By me. (Who ?) By
Sarah. Did I not mention to you that I am always waiting for you. Bitter
it is. Meet your appointment. You should trust. I make you no promises.
I am a law at your side. "
I kept this appointment [sitting with Mrs. Piper] specially because of
this message, which was thus indirectly corroborated as coming from her by
the communication through Mrs. Piper.
I have never seen any Spiritualistic medium before of any sort.
[Some weeks previously I had made two different appointments for Mr.
C. to accompany me to Mrs. Piper, but both these sittings had to be given
up, in one case owing to Mrs. Piper's illness, and in the other owing to
circumstances connected with the death of a friend of Mrs. Piper's. In one
of these cases Mr. C. met me at the Boston station. In the other case I
sent a note to his hotel to prevent his going to the station. In neither case
did he go out to Arlington Heights. Mr. C. was travelling about a great
deal, and arranged that I should have a sitting on his behalf with some
articles which he sent me for the purpose. I informed him by letter that
I would have the sitting on January 28th, but he finally decided to come to
Boston again himself. Not finding me at the Boston Station, he thought
that the arrangement for the sitting had fallen through, but was induced to
go on to Mrs. Piper's by the persistent iteration of the thought "Keep
your appointment." I had requested Mr. Howard to take my place that
morning, so that he might ask G. P. a question, the answer to which was
known to me, but not to Mr. Howard (see p. 439), who explained the matter
to Mr. C. on meeting him at Mrs. Piper's house.—R. H.]
February 8th, 1893.
Sitters : Mr. and Mrs. Thomas B. MacDonough. R. H. taking
notes, but not very full ones. Mr. MacDonough is an Associate
A.B.S.P.R., New York district. Mr. MacDonough's comments were
not made till about the time of his letter which follows the report,
July 1st, 1896, when he made some notes on the type-written copy
of my record which I sent him, and gave further explanations in
his letter.
[Phinuit.]
Here's the Colonel. Wants to speak to this gentleman.
Little children. Two of them. Two children ; both belong to you
[Indicates size by hand.] ... [A gap in my notes here.—R. H.]
474 [part
Richard Hodgson.
[Colonel Bundy wanted to speak to me. He had died not long before.
The two children spoken [of] were both mine by former marriage, one two
years younger than the other.]
[Written.] Fred. (Fred Cleveland ?) [An acquaintance who died of
consumption at Denver, Col.]
[Spoken.] He's got a mother here—in tho body, that he wants to send
a message to. She lives up in a hotel—flats. [Do not know her.]
(What city ?) Now York. He passed out with consumption. [Right.]
Old gentleman—grey hair, nearer to you than any of them except those two
children. One is a little bit of a thing. [Very correct.] Sarah, Sarah
Warren—no Pitrcdl—had littlo locket in body, was well acquainted with
this lady's mother. [Cannot connect this with anything I know about.]
Old gentleman says : What about those papers ? [No. 1. See note.]
Do you know Louis R. ! [No.] [Known to me and several previous
sitters.—R. H.]
[Describe the old gentleman.] High forehead, prominent nose, bright
eye, hair back like this [indicating.] [Can't identify by this description.]
William—That belongs to the lady. [Unintelligible.]
Mickles, Michols. (Michael.) That's it—Mickle. He wants to speak to
you very much. Double twisted sort of brother. [See note No. 1.]
Two children and Fred, and Will and Michael. (Ask him what relation
he was to me 1)
Who's that young girl in the body that's musical 1 She plays, and would
like to sing but can't.
[The word "Father" written apparently in answer to question of sitter
while Phinuit was speaking. —R. H.]
You know that I see your father. You've got some paper belonging to
him. Insurance paper. (No.) Deed, paper. [Know nothing about paper.]
[Word very much like Gilder written in mirror-writing, not deciphered
at time.] (Carvers and Gilders' Association. That's what he means. He
was very proud of that.) [Embraced in note No. 1.]
[Written.] John Mc is here. Mc . John Mc I am. Yours
for ever, your brother, J. Mc. [My brother John.]
(Why could you not do more for us yesterday ?) [This refers to a.
sitting of Mr. MacDonough with his wife alone, not with any other medium.
—R. H., 1897.] Because I could not, but left to reserve for now.
[Mr. MacD. asks about some leakage.] Look at them at once. But you
will find them in the cellar. (Not in the cellar in the tower ?) [Undecipher
able.] Tower. [In mirror-writing.] (What side ? East or west, north or
south ?) East, emphatically, emphatically. (On the east side ?) Yes, yes.
You will find it in the pipe, pipe under the sill near the window in the
partition. But I will s . . . water. [Note No. 2.]
Tom, you dear old bro. I will keep my promise and help you
through with it. [Can't connect.]
[Phinuit speaks.] Who's Murray, Mary 1 [Not recognised.] [Written.]
M. . . [under.] Mother is all right. Michael. [My father.]
(How are things in Kansas City ?) [Question by Mr. Mac Donough.]
[Phinuit says.] Where's the glass—a lot of pottery things ? [unin
telligible.]
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 475
[Written.] Broken property is going to be all right. Tom, old chap.
Hold on to a good thing. [Kansas City.]
Find the leak at once.
Mary, Nellie, Nellie, Nellie [unintelligible.]
Tell my son John Jr. to stick to his interests. [My brother's son. Note 3.]
[Undecipherable.]
[Spoken.] John has something the matter with his throat and in his
head. (Nervous ?) That'll do him good to be out there. In big building in
present time. His health's going to be a great deal better. [My brother's
son.]
(Tell us about our health.)
[To Mr. MacD.] You've got no heart trouble. You thought you had.
You're an old chump. A little too fat, that's all. I should advise you to
practise with dumb bells. No Bright's disease of the kidneys. You've just
got a little indigestion. You'll stay in the body a long time yet. [Note
No. 4.]
[Feeling him all over.] You go home and go to sleep [to Mr. MacD—.]
[To Mrs. MacD.] You needn't get nervous. [Mr. MacD. and R. H.
sent out of the room. On return Phinuit says :] She has a little bronchial
trouble. Looks as if she inhaled smoke at some time. Little trouble by a
fall. Spray her throat with a toaspoonful of " hamamelis " in tea-cupful of
water, with an atomiser twice a day.
[Written.] Don't forget me, Tom. For I will watch over you always.
Good-bye. Yours, etc., J. Mc—
[" Looks as if she inhaled smoke at some time."
Some years ago Mrs. MacDonough, during the Southern Hotel Fire in
St. Louis, when several lives were lost—in trying to escape from fifth story
window by means of sheets tied together, fell, and was picked up almost
lifeless and badly burned. She was laid up about six months. Her fall
and escape were miraculous, and furnished the newspapers at the time with
material for illuminated cuts, etc., etc.]
Thos. B. MacDonouuh.
The Birches, Lake Mooselookmeguntic.
Rangeley Lakes, Maine, July 1st, 1896.
Dear Mb. Honuson,—I kept no notes of the sitting with Mrs. Piper,
and therefore the three years which have elapsed 1 eaves me hazy regarding
it. All I can positively remember I have set down on schedule, or incor
porate hero.
Note, No. 1. The old gentleman who asks " what about those papers ?"
was Michael MacDonough, my father. Phinuit, in struggling with his first
name, called him "Michel" which is French for Michael. As I seemed at
the time to recognise my father, I suggested the correct name or English of
it, and Phinuit, with emphasis accepted the translation. The only connec
tion I can make with the "papers" asked about and my father's pride about
them, arises from this. My father was an Englishman, who came to this
country in 1834. He was treasurer of the Carvers' and Gilders' Association
or Guild of London—now defunct. As its representative he had purchased
a building site for the guild—the deeds for which were somehow made in
476 [part
Richard Hodgson.
his name. I can remember, when I was a lad, quite a little excitement in
our household ovor a letter from Lo:ulon asking my father to go before
some authority—possibly the British Consul, and make over the property
to the guild -since they could do nothing with it or about it while he had
legal possession. We were very poor. My father's pride arose from the
fact of his prompt compliance.
No. 2. The leak referred to was a defect in tower on the east side of our
cottage at Long Branch. We followed my brother's directions, discovered
the leak under the window sill and repaired it.
No. 3. My brother's son—John Jr. —was at this time quarrelling with
his employers, . . . Theatrical Agents . . . and was contem
plating throwing up his situation. His head and throat were ailing him—
all this I heard about after the sitting. I had hitherto supposed his relations
with his firm to be most amicable.
No. 4. At this time I had been suffering for some time with pains about
the heart, and was alarmed, supposing it to be organic. I asked Phinuit
whether he could see anything the matter with me. His reply was remark -
able. Some time after the sitting I consulted a physician, and by the way,
he was Dr. Pomroy, a clairvoyant, who pronounced my case one of indiges
tion—using almost the same words Phinuit used. Both have been proven
correct. Indigestion has long been my tormentor.
I am unable to recall all of the message signed George [February 2 1st,
1894, see below] except that part which said " you will sell Kansas property
this year." The property is not in Kansas—but Kansas City, Mo. It is
not sold. My brother died February 12th, 1892.
I hardly think you will make much out of this, but it is the best I can
do. Mrs. MacD. appends her signature and unites in regards.—Yours, etc.,
Thos. B. MacDonouuh.
I have read my husband's notes of the sitting wo jointly held with Mrs.
Piper in company with Dr. Hodgson, February 8th, 1893, and append my
signature in corroboration.
Frances MacDonottoh.
[It is probable that on February 8th I told " John Mc " that he could
send communications to his brother through me. Numerous instances of
brief messages of this type from various communicators have occurred at
sittings, and I give the following as illustrations.]
On February 13th, 1893, in the presence of another sitter, Phinuit said :
" John sends his love to Tom and Frank," and on February 17th, 1893, at a
sitting which I was holding on behalf of another person, the following
message was written :—
" I am John Mc, you [wanted ?] me, did you not. I am John Mc, very
well, I came here to speak to you one minute.
Whose hat is that ! (That is not yours.) I see, I don't recall it. Oh, I
see now, but who are you, please ? (I'm a friend of your brother's.) Tom's
Oh ! I am glad to see you, sir. (I was with them before.) Oh, yes, are
you the gentleman ? Well, will you be kind enough to give both him and
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 477
Frank my love, and ask thom to especially advise tny son John to still
continue travelling, as this is most important, and tell him it is especially
good for his weak condition of health, weak state of, and love to him and
*** also.
(R. H. reads it over. Is that right ?) Yes sir. Now, please tell Tom ,
my brother, that I will advise him as to when he had best sell his land in
Kansas City. [R. H. reads.] Yes, sir, and it will be a help to him.
Thank you very much. Good day, sir. I am, yours, etc., J. Mc."
I learned later from Mr. MacDonough that the name whose omission
is indicated by asterisks and which was unknown to me, had special
significance but of a private nature. Kansas City was mentioned by
Mr. MacDonough at the sitting on February 8th. "Frank" is Mrs.
MacDonough, but Mr. Mac Donough may have called her "Frank " at the
sitting of February 8th. On January 18th, 1894, when G. P. was writing,
the following occurred :—
. . . "There is a confusion, H., you had better wait a little until it
gets more quiet here. Do [you] know this is just like being in a very large
hall and hearing two or three dozen voices all at the same time discussing
different subjects. . . .
Who is this John McDonough. (I know his brother. I understand and
will send message). Give my love to him and say that I should be delighted
to see him and Frank again some time and tell him to hold on for awhile
longer and I will advise him just what to do. 1 am ever your brother,
John Mc. Do you know these people, H. ? (Yes, that's all right). O. K.
I didn't. (Tell him I'll send the message). Oh, good."
I forwarded this to Mr. MacDonough, who replied :—
"Pittsburgh, Pa., January 29th, 1894.
Dear Dr. Hodgson,—The message you send, and which I re-enclose, is
singularly opportune. I am in great perplexity over a business venture
of grave importance. "John" seems to be aware of my perplexing
anxiety- , • • Thos. B. MacDonough.
On February 21st, 1894, when G. P. was writing, the following
occurred :—
" Here's a message from John McDonough. Tell Tom ....
[undecipherable.] is here. (You're writing too fast. I can't read it.) I must
give it quickly while I am clear, H. I am looking after him and he is better
off, for he never could be well in the body. Tell him this. Got it, H. 1 (Yes).
And we are awfully glad to be able to help him out. He would have lost
his mind if he had remained longer. (Who is this he's talking about ?)
Wait. His son. (Whose ?) John's. (Passed out recently ?) Not long
ago. (He wanted to send a message about some property, didn't he ?) Yes,
he told me this, also. The Kansas property will go this year and all
satisfactorily to him. Hold on a bit longer. Tom, dear brother, I am
helping you out. Trust in me thoroughly, and I assure you it will be all
right, and go right, Tom. . . . He is waiting a moment. I'll tell you
soon . . . keep the house at the island. Lovingly your brother, Jh—
Mc . Thanks to you sir, good-day. . . . Bring me some thing
2 1 2
478 [part
Richard Hodgson,
belonging to him some time. He is in a little dreamy state at times, yet he
is clear with me as his interpreter."
To this Mr. MacDonough replied :—
Providence, R. I., March 1st, 1894.
Dear Mr. Hodgson, . . . The message is very confusing. "John,"
a son, has not passed away, but is doing very well. We have no island
property. We have property at Long Branch. We have no thought of
disposing of Kansas City property. The character of the message is unlike
my brother. I have been in some uncertainty as to a business matter of
importance, which John however does not seem to see. . . .
Thos. B. MacDonough.
In July, 1896, Mr. MacDonough informed me that the son John died
in Philadelphia "just about one year ago " [about July, 1895].
On October 14th, 1890, Phinuit said : " McDonough says tell Frank
she's good for a good many years yet." I sent this to Mr. MacDonough's
permanent address in New York City, and on October 20th received a
letter from him from Detroit, Michigan. He says: "The message is
understood, Mrs. MacDonough (' Frank ') for the past month has been
under the weather, and conjured up visions of disintegration. Thanks."
xxxin.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 479
APPENDIX III.
The records in this Appendix are of first sittings given by Mrs.
Piper after her operation, which was performed on March 14th, 1893,
by Lena V. Ingraham, M.D., of Boston, Mass., who has furnished me
with the following account. The reference to Mrs. Piper's pulse and
temperature concerned a sitting with Mrs. Piper on March 12th,
1893, which was almost exclusively devoted to conversation between
Phinuit and Dr. Ingraham and two other doctors, during which I was
not present.
May 20th, 1896.
Dear Mr. Hodgson,—The operation upon Mrs. Piper was coeliotomy
for removal of diseased Fallopian tubes and ovaries. . . . The wound
healed by first intention, and the patient had an uninterrupted and uneventful
recovery. Upon exammation after operation the parts were found in good
condition, with complete relief of all symptoms for which the operation
was done.
Mrs. Piper's pulse before the trance was rapid, from the fact that she
became rather excited over dread of examination, operation, etc., but just
before the trance it was about seventy-two per minute, and was not
accelerated during the trance.
Her temperature was 99 deg. before, during and after the trance She
took ether without any unusual symptoms.—I am very truly,
7, Gloucester Streot. ^' In0ItAHA51-
The operation was performed at Dr. Cushing's Sanitarium,
Brookline, Mass., and I went out to the Sanitarium and remained in
the building while the operation was performed, so that I might be of
assistance in case of any unusual occurrence. After the operation,
and while Mrs. Piper, who had been taken to her room, was still under
the influence of the ether, and apparently unconscious of any person
present, Dr. Ingraham requested me to enter the room, as Mrs. Piper
was calling for me. I went in and spoke to her, but she seemed to be
quite unaware of my presence, although she moaned occasionally, and
several times called out spasmodically " Mr. Hodgson." During this
interval of unconsciousness her attention became fixed as upon an
object of interest, and she exclaimed : " Who is that old man ? Take
him away." Then came a pause, as if she was listening, and she then
added, " Oh, no. He's a nice old man. He can stay." This
naturally caused me to think of Phinuit.
The first sittings Mrs. Piper gave after her operation were two in
the early part of September to a previous sitter, and were largely
480 [part
Richard Hodgson.
personal. I was present taking notes. There were personal messages
to other previous sitters from G. P. and others. At the first sitting,
September 7th, 1893, Phinuit said, with reference to the operation :
" I saw the medium on a long table and helped her out. I saw
Hodgson too, and tried to make the medium see me."
I believe that the first sittings given afterwards were those
arranged for by Mrs. Howard.
Early in October, 1893.
Sitter : Mr. L. Vernon Briggs, Hanover, Mass.
During this month I was in Chicago, and Mrs. Howard arranged
for two sittings at the house of Mrs. T. in Boston, who was present
for a few minutes, for a private conversation with Phinuit, not
recorded, at a sitting of March 12th, 1893. Some notes were made at
these two sittings, chiefly by Mrs. Howard, but I did not receive a
copy till several months later from Mrs. T. Mr. Briggs was present
at the second sitting only. I understood at the time that the sitters
were anxious for privacy, and did not learn who Mr. Briggs was till
the summer of 1895. Mr. Briggs never had an opportunity of study
ing at leisure the attempts at Hawaiian writing at his sitting, the
original writings of which were apparently lost. I received in the
early part of November a brief account orally from Mrs. Howard of
the sitting concerned with Kalua, at which she was present, and also
Mrs. T. The following is from the written account which I received
from Mrs. T.
******
The medium was then given a handkerchief of a Honolulu boy who had
been shot in Boston—intentionally or unintentionally was not known. This
boy had shown great affection for a person present—fallowing them twice to
Boston from Honolulu as a stowaway. The medium showed great suffering
—placed her hand to her side, saying, "It's my stomach—Oh, my side.
They put me out too quick." Here the medium seemed to suffer too much,
and Dr. Phinuit was asked to take control and speak for the boy. Conver
sation continued through Dr. Phinuit. —"Is this you, Kalua?" [This
question was put by Mr. Briggs.—R. H.]
" Yes, I did not kill myself. He killed me. We were gambling—that
was wrong. He hid my purse under the steps where I was killed." [The
cellar was examined—five planks, one below another, we/e taken up but no
purse was found.] Kalua also said there was shrubbery near it. [There
was no shrubbery in the cellar of this house.]
The boy seemed delighted to speak with his friend, and finally took the
hand and wrote, " This is splendid—Oh, Dr., help me." He asked questions,
and tried to give the name of a place in the Hawaiian Islands, which finally
was made out. He then tried to write his own language, and did write some
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 481
words which were understood. For instance, he wrote " lei," which means
" wreaths"—and which he always made daily for his friend.
Dr. Phinuit said what he heard sounded like Italian—and that the boy
was singing—which ho was always doing in life. He spoke again of his
death, and said : "The man had a hot temper and disputed with me, and
he shot me—he did not mean to." [Question] " What became of the
revolver?" [Answer] " He threw the revolver into the hot-box where the
pepples are." [Note. —This was true—the revolver was found in the
furnace.] [Known to Mr. Briggs. By pepples was meant pebbles, inter
preted by the sitters as coals. —R. H.]
" Did you get my trunk 1" "Yes." "So glad you have it—keep my
things." " Did you get them, M. i " "Yes."
He was asked where his father was. And we could only understand
Hiram. — Phinuit could not get Hawaii for sometime—it was finally written
Hawaiin Islands. We asked which one —Phinuit said it was Tawai. This
was interesting, as the island is spelled with a K, but pronounced with a T.
The following is my record from notes of a conversation with Mr.
L. Vernon Briggs on June 11th, 189o, revised by Mr. Briggs. —R. H.
June 12th, 1895.
Mr. L. Vernon Briggs, of Hanover, Mass. , called upon me yesterday morn
ing, and gave me an account of his sitting with Mrs. Piper in October, 1893.
The sitting was arranged for by Mrs. Howard, and was held at the house
of Mrs. T. Mr. Briggs attended the sitting, and was introduced as Mr.
Smith.
Mr. Briggs had taken with him a handkerchief and other articles that
had been worn by a Hawaiian whose acquaintance he had made originally in
Honolulu. His name was Kalua.
During the time, six months, that Mr. Briggs lived in Honolulu, Kalua
became very much attached to him, and was very anxious to accompany him
when ho left the Islands in the year 1881 to return to America.
One day, about July in the year 1883, a cousin of Mr. Briggs entered his
office accompanied by Kalua. It appeared that Kalua, when the ship which
had taken Mr. Briggs away, returned to the island, had concealed himself
in the hold and lived on raw onions till the ship was well out to sea. When
he revealed himself the Captain sent him to the forecastle, and finding that
he was intelligent, and taking a liking to him, employed him as cabin-boy.
He accompanied the ship to China, and when it returned to Boston left it
and inquired for Briggs. Some person explained the directory to him, and
it happened tlvvt the first person by the aame of Briggs whoso address he
got from the directory was a cousin of Mr. L. V. Briggs. This gentleman
knew something about Kalua from the letters which his cousin had written
him from Honolulu, and he took him around at once to Mr. Briggs' office.
He lived with Mr. Briggs some months. He was a very devoted servant,
and was very ambitious, and anxious to be educated.
After three months he was sent back to his native island very much
against his own wish, but when the ship arrived at Honolulu he refused to
land, climbing to the top of the mast and remaining there half a day lest ho
should be dragged from the vessel, possibly.
482 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Eventually the Captain brought him back again to Boston, and he again
sought out Mr. Briggs, who placed him at an academy, where he learned
very rapidly.
While in the academy he went to a sailors' Bethel, where he had somc
clothes stored in a trunk. He had purchased a new trunk, and was taking
the clothes from the old and putting them into the new trunk. Word came
to Mr. Briggs that Kalua had committed suicide by shooting himself.
Inquiry was made, and it appeared that Kalua was engaged in the work of
removing his clothes from one trunk to the other when a revolver went off
and shot him through the heart. The announcement of his having shot
himself was made by a Swede, Olaf, who immediately disappeared. Officers
were immediately sent in search, and discovered him after some time on
board a Gloucester fishing smack that was about to sail. He said that Kalua
was engaged in taking out the cartridge from a revolver with a knife when it
went off, and that he had run away because he was afraid of being
imprisoned.
He was imprisoned, but there was no evidence against him, and eventu
ally, after remaining some time in prison, he was discharged. The revolver
could not be found anywhere, and it was supposed that the Swede must
have thrown it into the harbour. Finally the Swede was induced to confess
he had hidden it behind a flue. Part of the chimney was taken down, and
the revolver was actually found there.
Sitting with Mrs. Piper :—The articles were produced. Phinuit placed
his hand on the heart and spoke about the heart. There was also some
writing purporting to be by Kalua. The word " lei," meaning wreaths, was
written clearly and frequently, and there was also an attempt to write the
word "aloha," which means greeting. There were apparent attempts at
other words in Hawaiian, which could not be deciphered.
Kalua was very fond of making wreaths of wild flowers.
Phinuit also gave the name of "Tawai," pronouncing it, but in the
writing the word was spelled "Kawai."
By the natives of the island itself, and on the island where Kalua was
born, this word is pronounced "Tawai," although it is spoiled "Kawai."
The natives of the other islands call it " Kawai."
[I think if you refer to the notes, that this statement cau be added to
considerably. I first met Kalua probably in February, 1881. He came to
Boston first in 1883, lastly in 1885. He was killed in June, 1886. I left
Honolulu in May, 1881.
L.- Vernon Briggs.]
Early in October, 1893.
Sitter : Dr. S. Weir Mitchell, Professor W. James present. Sitting
arranged for by Professor James at his house in Cambridge, Mass. A
failure. See the letter from Professor James, p. 494.
1524, Walnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa., January 27th, 1894.
My Dear James. —I have read, with care, since the receipt of your
note, the memoranda you and I made at my sitting with Mrs. Piper. I
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 483
return thom to you, as they are of no special value to me, and you may
find the name desired. My report would be this :—
If I had never seen you and heard your statements in regard to Mrs. P.,
my afternoon sitting with her would have led me to the conclusion that the
whole thing was a fraud and a very stupid one. Of course I do not think
this, because I am bound to consider all the statements made, not merely
the time spent with me. As to this point I want to make myself clear,
because I should like on another occasion to repeat my sitting.
On re-reading your notes I find absolutely nothing of value. None of
the incidents are correct, and none of the very vague things hinted at are
true, nor have they any kind or sort of relation to my life, nor is there one
name correctly given. . . .
S. Weir Mitchell (M.D.).
November 18th, 1893.
Sitter: Mr. A. A. C. (Member A.B.S.P.R.) [R. H. taking notes.]
In September, 1893, a message was sent to Mr. C. purporting to come
from his deceased brother Harry through G. P.
Near the beginning of this sitting Phinuit said, "Do you know who's
Harry ? He hasn't been here a great while." As this applied to the sitter's
brother, Phinuit was encouraged to get all the information he could from
"Harry," but in Phinuit's talk, as also in the writing that followed, the
names and other references, amid some confusion, had no significance for the
sitter. Especially the "Harry" was anxious to send a message to " Gussie
in the body." G. P. wrote, but there was some confusion which perplexed
him, and he apparently did not recognise me at first, but thought I was
Howard. He wrote that there was "not so much light as there is some
times," and he left to try aud clear the matter up. Then came some more
writing, probably from the first cmimunicator, and then again another wrote,
who soon gave his name as Carrington. [This was a friend of Mr. T. B. C,
who had the previous sitting, November 16th, at the end of which sitting
Carrington was represented as present, and I had explained that at some
other time I would take a message for him.] I told him that I would be
glad to listen to him another day, but that I was anxious to hear then
from the friends of the sitter. He then apologised for mixing things up,
but reminded me that I had told him to come. " Did you not tell me to
come another time ? . . . Then why did you not explain to me ? . . .
But you see I am sorry for this, as I did not know, and besides there's not
much strength to come in on, so I have tried to make the best of it.
Excuse me, sir, and I will go out. Now I am going. Good-day, sir."
Following this Phinuit talked again, but the only relevant matter was,
" Young man named Harry—I want to see my brother." Phinuit also com
plained of confusion.
Mrs. Piper had begun to come out of trance, but was strongly convulsed
again, and the hand moved to write. I put a pencil in it, and a very direct
personal communication was written to the sitter, who was addressed by his
first name. The full name—first, middle, and surname—of his brother
484 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Harry, from whom the communication purported to come, was written
several times with great violence, tearing the paper of the block book. The
wild anxiety of the communicator, as shown in the writing and in the
movements of Mrs. Piper's hand and arm, was very striking, but it would
be difficult to appreciate this without witnessing it. Phinuit stated on
November 23rd that when he " went out " he found this young man, who
bugged most earnestly for the opportunity of speaking to his brother, and
that he, Phinuit, had "helped him in," &c. (See. p. 325.)
Two or three days later I learned of circumstances which threw some
light upon the confusion in connection with the Harry who was represented
as sending messages at the beginning of the sitting, and whom I had
encouraged. Mrs. Howard not long beforo had taken a lady to a sitting
who was very anxious for privacy, and who had received, as Mrs. Howard
informed me, very remarkable communications from her deceased husband
Harry, and it was arranged that if he wished to communicate with her
again he should announce that Harry wished to send a message to Gussie.
Mrs. Howard was to tell me of this, so that in case of such a message I
might deliver it to her for transmission ; but Mrs. Howard had not had an
opportunity of giving me this information until after the sitting of
November 18th. It reminded me of the statements at Mr. C.'s sitting, and
I submitted them to Mrs. Howard, who stated that they were relevant, and
evidently intended for her friend. I have received no statement, however,
from her friend, who remains uuknown to me.
December 8th and 21st, 1893.
The appointments for these sittings were made by me.. Mrs.
Howard was present on both occasions and took notes, which I think
can be substantially relied upon, as Mrs. Howard is a rapid writer,
and had been present at many previous sittings (the G. P. series and
others, see Appendix I.), and was aware of the importance of recording
any information given by the sitter. Mrs. Sutton herself has had
many remarkable psychical experiences, especially in seeing the
" figures " of deceased persons, and in 1887 published a little book
giving an account of some of these. It was called Light cm the Hidden
Way, with an Introduction by James Freeman Clarke. (Boston:
Ticknor and Company). The book was published anonymously. It
happened, however, that I knew a member of the publishing firm, who
sent me a copy of the book, with a letter of introduction to Mrs.
Katharine B. Paine (as her name then was), who at that time lived in
Cooperstown, N.Y. I never used the letter of introduction, and did
not see Mrs. Katharine Paine Sutton till after her sittings with Mrs.
Piper. Mrs. Howard, I believe, had made her acquaintance only a
short time before the sittings, when Mrs. Sutton was staying for a
short time in Boston. The Rev. James Freeman Clarke, who lived in
Boston, (or its immediate vicinity), was well and widely known. I
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 485
regard Mrs. Sutton as a most excellent witness. Mrs. Howard was
present at various first sittings for persons who were friends of
hers, and assured me that she always introduced the sitters by the
name of Smith. The notes marked with an asterisk were added in
1897.—R.H. •
Sitting with Mrs. Piper at Arlington, Heights, December 8th, 1893.
Present, Mrs. Howard, Rev. S. W. Sutton, and myself. Deport by
Mrs. Sutton from notes token by Mrs. Howard during the sitting.
Mrs. Howard held Mrs. Piper's hands. She became immediately
entranced under the control of Dr. Phinuit. After a brief communication
to Mrs. Howard I took Mrs. Piper's hands and Phinuit said : This is a lovely
lady,—she has done much good,—has helped so many poor souls. A little
child is coming to you. This is the dearest lady 1 have met for a long time—
the most light I have seen while in Mrs. Piper's body. He reaches out his
hands as to a child, and says coaxingly : Come here, dear. Don't be afraid.
Come, darling, here is your mother. He describes the child and her " lovely
curls." Where is papa ? Want papa. [He takes from the table a silver
medal.] I want this—want to bite it. [She used to bite it.*] [Reaches for
a string of buttons.] Quick ! I want to put them in my mouth. [The
buttons also. To bite the buttons was forbidden. He exactly imitated her
arch manner.*] I will get her to talk to you in a minute. Who is Frank in
the body ! [We do not know.] [My uncle Prank had died a few years
before. Wo were much attached. Possibly Phinuit was confused and my
uncle was trying to communicate.*] A lady is here who passed out of the
body with tumour in the bowels. [My friend, Mrs. C, died of ovarian
tumour.*] She has the child—she is bringing hor to mo. [He takes some
keys.] These bring her to me—these and the buttons. Now she will speak
to me. Who is Dodo ? [Her name for her brother George.] Speak to me
i|uickly. I want you to call Dodo. Tell Dodo I am happy. Cry for me no
more. [Puts hand to throat.] No sore throat any more. [She had pain
and distress of the throat and tongue.*] Papa, speak to me. Can not you
see me ? I am not dead, I am living. I am happy with Grandma. [My
mother had been dead many years.*] Phinuit says : Here arc two more.
One, two, three here, —one older and one younger than Kakie. [Correct.*]
That is a boy, the one that came first. [Both were boys.*]
The lady has a friend, Elizabeth, —Lizzie. Mary wants to send love to
Elizabeth. [This last is not intelligible to us.]
The little one calls the lady, Auntie. [Not her aunt.*] I wish you could
see these children. Phinuit turns to Mr. Sutton and says : You do a great
deal of good in the body. [To me.] He is a dear man ! Was this little
one's tongue very dry ? She keeps showing me her tongue. [Her tongue
was paralysed, and she suffered much with it to the end.] Her name is
Katherine. [Correct.*] She calls herself Kakie. She passed out last.
[Correct.'] Tell Dodo Kakie is in a spiritual body. Where is horsey? [I gave
him a little horse.] Big horsey, not this little one. [Probably refers to a
toy cart-horse she used to like.] Dear Papa, take mo wide. [To ride.] Do
you miss your Kakie ? Do you see Kakie ? The pretty white flowers you
486 [part
Richard Hodgson.
put on nie, I have here. I took their little souls out and kept them with
me. Phinuit describes lilies of the valley, which were the flowers we placed
in her casket.
Papa, want to go to wide horsey. [She plead this all through her illness.]
Every day I go to see horsey. I like that horsey. \go to ride. I am with
you every day. [We had just come from Mr. Sutton's parents, where we
drove frequently, and I had seen Kakie with us. (This means that Mrs.
Sutton had seen the "apparition " of Kakie. —R. H.) Margaret (her sister)
is still there, driving daily.] [I asked if she remembered anything after she
was brought down stairs.] I was so hot, my head was so hot. [Correct.*]
[L asked if she knew who was caring for her, if it was any comfort to her to
have us with her.] Oh, yes, —oh, yes. [I asked if she suffered in dying.]
I saw the light and followed it to this pretty lady. You will love me
always ? You will let me come to you at home. I will come to you every
day, and 1 will put my hand on you, when you go to sleep. Do not cry for
me,—that makes me sad. Eleanor. I want Eleanor. [Her little sister.
She called her much during her last illness.*] I want my buttons. Row,
Row,—my song, —sing it now. I sing with you. [We sing, and a soft child
voice sings with us.]
Lightly row, lightly row,
O'er the merry waves we go,
Smoothly glide, smoothly glide
With the ebbing tide.
[Phinuit hushes us, and Kakie finishes alone.]
Let the winds and waters be
Mingled with our melody,
Sing and float, sing and float,
In our little boat.
Papa sing. I hear your voice, but it is so heavy. [Papa and Kakie sing.
Phinuit exclaims : See her little curls fly !] [Her curls were not long
enough to fly at death, six weeks before.*] Kakie sings : Bye, bye, ba bye.
bye, bye, 0 baby bye. Sing that with me, papa. [Papa and Kakie sing.
These two songs were the ones she used to sing.] [She sang slight snatches
of others in life—not at the sitting.*] Where is Dinah? I want Dinah.
[Dinah was an old black rag-doll, not with us.] 1 want Bagie [her name for
her sister Margaret.] I want Bagie to bring me my Dinah. I want to go to
Bagie. I want Bagie. I see Bagie all the time. Tell Dodo when you see
him that I love him. Dear Dodo. He used to march with me,—he put me
way up. [Correct.*] Dodo did sing to me. That was a horrid body. I
have a pretty body now. Tell Grandma I love her. I want her to know I
live. Grandma does know it, Marmie—Great—grandma, Marmie. [We
called her Great Grandmother Marmie but she always called her Grammk.
Both Grandmother and Great Grandmother were then living.*]
Here is Hattie. Speak to her. I am so happy. [Button string broke—
Phinuit is distressed. Wo gather thom up and propose to re-string thom.]
Hattie says that is a pretty picture there. [Hattie was the namo of a dear
friend who died several years ago. She was very fond of my copy of the
Sistino Madonna, and in her last illness asked to have it hung over her bed,
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 487
where it remained till after she passed away. This did not occur to me
when Phinuit gave her words, nor for some weeks after the sitting.]
1 want the tic-tic. Take the buttons, and give me the pretty tic-tic.
Open the tic-tic. Mamma, do you love me so ? Don't cry for me. I want
to see the mooley-cow,—where is the mooley-cow ? [R. H. : Did she so call
it ? A. : Yes.*] Take me to see the mooley-cow. [She used to be taken
almost daily to see the cow.] Phinuit says : I cannot quite hear what it is
she calls the tic-tic. She calls it "the clock," and holds it to her ear.
[That was what she called it.] I want you to talk to me before I go away
from this pretty place.
Phinuit asks : What was the matter with her tongue ! She shows it to
me. All well now. She has the most beautiful, great, dark violet eyes.
[Correct.*] She is very full of life—very independent, but very sweet in
disposition. She is very fond of Bagie and Dodo, and so very glad to
see you.
Here is Eddie—little thing passed out quite small—she knows him.
[Correct.*]
Phinuit tries to get a new name—Louie—Louie—Alonzo. He is here
with Kakie and he is a dear fellow. He says : Don't think it wrong to call
me back,—I am so glad to come. Did not you dream about him after he
passed away ! some time ago ? a few years since ? [Not that he remembers.]
Here is a little one Kakie calls your brother. Alonzo, Kakie wants you to
speak to her uncle Alonzo. [Mr. Sutton had a brother Alonzo, also Eddie,
who died young, and his mother lost a still-born child.] [Boy. "J Mr. Sutton
asked : Can he hear and speak in that life ? [He was a mute.] He can hear.
We talk by thought here. [Phinuit, for Alonzo.] How strange your voice
is ! I went up, up, up, and came into the light. I suffered a great deal
more than you realised, and was depressed. I will take the best care of your
little ones. [He had dreaded death, thinking of it as going down into the
dark.*]
Phinuit tries to give the full name—says it has two t's, ends in ton—tries
to pronounce it Csutton. Mr. Sutton said the middle initial in his name was
C. " That is it," cried Phinuit. Alonzo C. Sutton. He is very happy. He
can look back and see you and your work. Adeline—little Addie—he
remembers her. [His sister's baby at the time of his death.*]
[Kakie again.] I will be with you when you do not see me. I want you
to tell Eleanor [her little sister*]. I send her my love, and my love to Bagie.
I don't forget Bagie. Do not worry for us, we are so happy. Where is
Grandma Sutton ? I want her to know that I love her and come round her,
and sing "Bye, bye," when 1 am in heaven. I am so happy with all these
little girls. What was the pretty white thing, with the pretty flowers
hanging over it, that you put in the little mound ! [The little casket of our
dead, new born baby.] Phinuit says : Three little mounds, but only their
bodies there ; their spirits are happy here.
Phinuit says the lady who has Kakie wants to speak to me. He tries to
give her name—Mary—where is the school ? C who is Mary C 1
[That is the name of the lady.] [The surname correctly given but omitted
at request of sitters.—R.H.] She wants you to always remember that your
brothers and I are always with those children. [1 had one brother only, but
488 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Mr. Sutton's may have been meant, or both.*] I will be with them as you
would wish me to be. [I asked about her death.] The thread connected
me with the body for a time, till at last I passed up and saw the body.
Phinuit says : A in the body, daughter to Mary >. Mary says so, and
sends her love. A great change in her life since she passed out. She is
pleased—it was not right that A should be so much alone. [Name and
statement correct.*]
There will be more harmony by-and-bye. She likes him very well.
[This to my question if she likes him.] A will understand him better
later on. There is opportunity for him to grow spiritually. They will be
happy together.
[Kakie again.] I will put my hand on papa's head when he goes to sleep.
Want the babeo. [Her characteristic pronunciation.*] Phinuit takes the
doll and says : She wants it to cuddle up to her, so. She wants to sing to it,
Bye baby, bye bye. God knew best, so do not worry. The little book.
Kakie wants the little book. [She liked a linen picture book.*] I gave
Phinuit a neck-tie and some writing, and he began : Where is father? I
don't believe—Charles in the body—where is my desk in my room ? [Not
intelligible.] [I do not know what is the significance of this. I did not
know the gentleman and but little about him. I afterward learned that the
desk is significant, also the beautiful face.*] Phinuit describes a gentleman
with a beautiful face, greatly agitated, also a very large gentleman with him
—he was a great preacher—Phillips—Phillips Brooks. He says : I want to
say that when I made mistakes in life, I hope you will do all in your power
to rectify them. [1 asked if he did not believe in an after-life t] Yes, but
I did not believe in the possibility of communication after death. [Mrs.
Howard thought this correct. In Dr. Brooks' sermons, " New Starts in Life,"
VIII., series, recently published, p. i>6, in a sermon written in 1873, he
avows his belief in the possibility.*] [Mrs. Sutton said that she did not
know Dr. Brooks, but it appears from her account given to Miss Edmunds,
that she had mot him several times, once at a tea with six other persons, but
had no special conversation with him. Mrs. Howard notes : " I knew
Phillips Brooks from the time I was a girl and had more than one long talk
with him." It was known to myself and also to Mrs. Howard, that the
Rev. Phillips Brooks had spoken disparagingly of attempts to obtain
communications from the "deceased" through Mrs. Piper's trance.—R.H.]
Here we see its full importance. [He adds that a mutual friend is very
anxious to speak to me.] [Dr. Brooks (deceased) was friend and pastor of
the gentleman whose necktie Mrs. Piper held.*] Where is that little book '?
[Possibly the little book referred to twice at this sitting was the little
prayer book mentioned more specifically at Mrs. Sutton's next sitting.
See p. 493.—R.H.] Oh, will you help me? Where is John? [Possibly
intelligible if from a different influence.*] Where am 1 ? [Phinuit says.]
He puts his hand on his heart. He passed out with heart disease. [Correct
of the gentleman whose necktie Mrs. Piper held.*]
******
Here [the hand] wrote for some time. [Dr. J. F. Clarke's name was
written. I was affectionately greeted by him, and he asked that I would tell
his daughter his desire that she would believe in spirit communication. He
XXXIII.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 489
also greeted Mr. Sutton with great warmth—prophesied a bright and
prosperous future for us, and said that I would write books. There was also
a long and painful effort with great agitation and anxiety to give an address
asked for. This address is not known by those desiring to have it. To
obtain it was the object of the communication with the gentleman whose
necktie was placed in Mrs. Piper's hand. Nothing intelligible was
obtained.*] After the writing, we thought the sitting over, and Mr. Sutton
had gone across the room, when Kakie's little voice piped up. Want papa—
want papa. Bear papa. [Phinuit pats his face.] Do you love me, papa ?
Want babeo. Sings, Bye, bye—papa, sing—mama sing. Cuddles doll up in
neck and sings. [An exact imitation marvellously animated and real.*]
It may be of interest to note that the day before the sitting, Mr. Sutton
had questioned whether it was right or desirable for them to bring them back
for our gratification. It did not occur to him during the sitting, but Alonzo
said—" Do not think it wrong to bring us back—we love to come."
The "sitting" was as a whole very satisfactory. The conversation did not
follow the order of our conscious minds, and had the movement and vivacity
of objective personalities.
Katharine Paine Sutton.
Second sitting with Mrs. Piper at Arlington Heights, December 21s<, 1893.
Present, Mrs. Howard and myself. Report by Mrs. Sutton from notes
taken by Mrs. Howard during the sitting.
[Mrs. Piper was sitting talking with us, not ready to be entranced, when
she suddenly put her hand to her head, rose, and moved toward the window.
Before reaching it she staggered and would have fallen but that we supported
her to a chair. For an instant only she seemed lifeless, then as suddenly
rose full of animation under the control of "G. P."], who, after a few words
of greeting to Mrs. Howard, said so many were waiting for a word with Mrs.
Sutton that he would not detain them longer. Dr. Phinuit assumed control,
and I exchanged seats with Mrs. Howard, holding Mrs. Piper's hands. He
recognised me cordially and said : Baby wants to see her mamma, come,
dear. A sweet child voice sang softly,—
Lightly row, lightly row,
O'er the rippling waves we go.
Smoothly glide, smoothly glide,
With the ebbing tide.
Let the winds and waters be
Mingled with our melody,
Sing and float, sing and float,
In our little boat.
[The words and tuuo were sung frequently by the child during her
illness,—the last she sung on earth.]
Mamma sing with Kakie. ["Kakie" was her name for herself, though
she could say Katherine.] She sang it through again with me.
Mamma, where is papa ? Want papa. Kakie wants papa. [Nothing
could be more characteristic :—her call whenever she missed him, or heard
his voice.]
490 [part
R ichar(l Hodgson.
I told her that papa staitl with Eleanor.
Kakie go to papa.
Phinuit described the child accurately—beautiful eyes with long, dark
lashes, the sweetest little mouth, and such lovely curls— "the dear, happy
little girl." [The child voice again.] Kakie did see papa. Papa is march
ing with Eleanor. Sings, "March, march," etc. [Eleanor is a little invalid.
Mr. Sutton carries her a great deal—often sings, "March," etc. —had done
.so at this time.*]
I asked her to sing " By Bye " with me, which she did precisely as when
here. I could not repress the tears. Phinuit said : You must not weep.
When the little shroud is wet, the child grieves.
" Kakie " says : Dear Mamma, do you love me so ? I love you and I see
you. I am happy here, I have so many little children to play with and I
love my Auntie. I like to be with you. I play with Eleanor. Does
Eleanor see mo ? I play with her every day. I like the little bed. I play
with it. [The lady with whom we staid in Duxbury had lent Eleanor a
doll's bed, which she greatly enjoyed. Of course we had not associated it
with Kakie.] Where is Bagie ? [Her name for hor sister Margaret.] Tell
Bagie I love her. I see Bagie with Grandma. [Margaret was visiting her
grandmother.*] I love Grandma. Where is Marmio ? I love Marmie.
[Great Grandmother—we called her Marmie, but the child called her
Gammie, and never Marmie.*] Where is Dodo ? I want Dodo. [Her
brother George.] Tell Dodo I love him.
Phinuit said : Mary C. wishes to speak to you. [See previous sitting. —
R. H.]
She said : We will care for your babies. We love them dearly. Hattie
[a deceased friend*] is here. She loves them too. I was not mistaken in the
reality of your experiences, or in the good you do. I can see you and know
the darkness and perplexities, but it is the darkness just before the dawn.
I see you in such a pleasant home, where you will do such good. Why do
you get so discouraged ! You are bright and good, and help so many others
to be better. I see you are nervous and impatient sometimes when the
aching body is tired out, —but control your nerves, can't you, dear ? that is
all I want to change in you. I know you try, but it seems as if you ought
to rise above it. [This is not in the least like her.*]
Phinuit said : There are many here anxious to speak to you. Here is
your father and your mother. They have been here a long time, —your
mother came 6rst. [Correct.*] They are very bright. They want to tell
you to be patient. They see bright days before you. [No. We have had
much illness and tribulations manifold with smaller income than ever
before.*] And much usefulness, and that all is well with your children
here.
I asked my mother's middle name. I only knew the initial, M. Mary ,
was the reply.
Kakie wants her buttons. [I gave them to Phinuit.] She wants them
all, they are not all here. [At the previous sitting the string had broken and
they scattered on the floor. We thought we found them all, but when Mrs.
Piper's sweeping day came, the rest were found and sent to Mr. Hodgson,
who did not know to whom they belonged.]
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 491
Phinuit said : There are eight buttons here. Kakie, let me see how
many you have. [He counts twelve in French.]
I exclaimed : Do you have buttons there ?
He replied : She had not the button, but she has the idea of them, which
is the reality. Kakie wants the horse. [I gave him the little horse she
played with during her illness.] No, that is not the one. The big horse—
so big—[Phinuit shows how large]. Eleanor's horse. Eleanor used to put
it in Kakie's lap. She loved that horsey. [This horse was packed, in
Trenton, and had not occurred to me in connection with Kakie. What she
said of it was true.]
[Kakie asks for her ball. I gave it to Phinuit, who tries to find what she
wants to do with it.]
Bito it ? Toss it ? Roll it ? Throw it ?
[No, she wants a string. Mrs. H. gave him a string. He tries to tie it
around the ball.] [A little red wooden ball with a hole through it. The
ball had a string through it when she used to play with it.*]
No, that is not right, through it.
There, there, be a good little girl. Don't cry. Don't be impatient, you
want your mamma to see how you do it, so she will know it is you, don't
you, dear ? Old man will do it for her.
[He put the string through, held it up, and hit it with the finger, making
it swing.]
That is it, is it not, darling, ! Nice little girl as ever was.
[While she was sick, it was her great delight to have me hold the string,
and let her hit the little red ball with her finger or spoon. She made the
motions as if doing it, after she became unconscious.]
[Again I saw her for a moment, (t e. Mrs. Sutton herself saw the
"apparition" of Kakie. See introductory remarks to her sittings p. 484 —
R. H.) standing at the table, trying to reach a spool of tangled red knitting
silk, and at the same moment Phinuit reached for it, saying : ] She wants
that, she and Eleanor used to play with. She calls it Eleanor's. She is
delighted with it—it brings her nearer her little sister.
[All true, but I had not connected it with Eleanor in my thought.]
I gave Phinuit a lock of Eleanor's hair. He felt it a moment and said :
You cut that close to the head—that was right. I can see her perfectly—
lovely little girl. [I had not told him whose hair it was.] She is inclined to
be irritable—nervous, 1 mean—nerves are irritable. One of the dearest
Httle things that ever lived. Must be watched carefully on account of her
nervous condition Do everything to soothe her. Rub her a great deal,
that is good for her.
Mrs. Howard asked : Would Christian science help her 1
Would what I exclaimed Phinuit.
Mental treatment.
Oh, yes, that would be good for her. Keep her in the open air as much
as possible. Do not let her get tired. Carry her out with something soft at
her back. She has been very ill. How that poor child has suffered ! [She
is recovering from spinal meningitis and paralysis.] She sleeps badly—
twitches—delicate stomach—that is nervous—bowels constipated. Keep
them open. Poor little back ! Do not give her any fruit for some time.
2 K
492 [part
Richard Hoilgson.
With care she will get over it in time. At least, I do not see her go out of
the body, hut I see she is very frail. She must have great care, or she will
go out like that [snapping his fingers]. [She still lives and now begins to
walk and improve, but has been very ill and a great sufferer ever since this
sitting. We have only held her by the greatest care.*]
You have a son,—tall—I see him—n beautiful young man. Dodo—
Kakie calls him Dodo. . . . Kakie wants the book with red letters and
pictures of animals. [Correct description of a book she was fond of.*] She
wants Eleanor's hair.
Phinuit makes the motion of drawing something from it and giving it to
her, saying : Now she has it. She can get nearer her little sister with it.
. I gave him a bit of Mr. Sutton's hair, without saying whose it was.
As he took it, he said laughing: That is papa's hair, —mighty little of it, was
not he stingy of it though ? [When I cut it, Mr. Sutton warned me playfully
that ho had not much to spare.] He will live to be a hundred. You need
not worry about that. [Mrs. S. has all of a woman's solicitude for a
perfectly healthy husband.—S. W. S.*]
He described his character accurately,—noble, unselfish, broad-minded,
too modest—not enough self-appreciation. He is not appreciated, except
by the few who know him well. Never mind, it will not be always so, it
will come all right. He has a brother here, —Alonzo, and there are two
others with him—they came here very young—one never lived on earth.
[True.] Alonzo loves them and your children very much. He is very happy
—so glad he came here.
Phinuit described Mr. Sutton's mother.—The dear, sweet old lady—she
is so good—1 like her. Described Mr. Sutton's father—said he was not well,
[true], that he would not live long—that he would go there then—that he
would benefit Mr. Sutton. [He lived three years. His wife died a year
before him. He left a small insurance which Mr. S. shared.*]
Phinuit exclaimed : I see you in such a pleasant home ! All the sur
roundings so pleasant—lovely trees. Mr. Sutton will receive a " call " soon
from a good parish, and will accept it. Substantial people—a good work in
a small town near water. [I asked if it was Duxbury.] No, New burgh ?
No, not so far from Boston. [I named several places.] I think it ends in
ton—Winchendon sounds like it. I think it is there. He says there are
two churches there on a hill,—a little church with quaint, peculiar spire,
and a chapel,—what do you call it i Vestry, church parlors, etc.—a comfort
able support and opportunity for a good work. You will be successful
there, and it will be a permanent settlement. But before this comes, it
will seem very dark, very dark to you. [We came to Athul to a small
struggling parish and small salary ! No vestry, or anything of the sort.
The church is the usual old New England white church and steeple. It is
on a hill-side. Our house is among pine trees and charmingly situated, but
the permanence of the settlement is problematical.*] Here is Kakie with
Uncle Charlie [my brother.] He did not know he was coming. It was very
sudden. He went to bed with terrible pain in his head, and the next he
knew he was here. He is so grateful to you that you never doubted him—
it grieved him that anyone could. How could anyone have thought he
would do that? [He was found dead in bed in his twenty-fourth year.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 493
Some thought he committed suicide.] [A small vial that had contained
chloroform was found in the room. He had sometimes put it on his head
when in acute pain. The physician who was called said that had it been full
it was not enough to cause death. He died of valvular disease of the heart.
He had been told by two physicians a month before that he was liable to die
any hour and could not live long.*] He is very happy here. He would not
come back for all the world, Phinuit turns his head, as if looking at a
child beside me, and says : Yes, I know "Kakio wants," but Kakie must be
patient, others want to speak to mamma. [She was very persistent with
" Kakie wants " when here.] He loves your children, and they love him.
He is with you in all your trouble. Ho sees a brighter future for you—this
will not last. . . . You dear little girl, you want to get in mamma's lap,
and you shall. [Phinuit makes the movement of lifting her into my lap,
and for a moment I saw her distinctly lying in my arms, with the sweet look
of demure contentment she used to have when I held her.] Phinuit said :
You have a child here who came long ago. He is a beautiful spirit now, he
does not get near enough for me to hear him, but I can see him. And there
is another little one here, too, they call "baby," not long here, it never
lived on earth. Mary C has it. She does love that baby so, she and
Hattie. Elizabeth is here, too, they love you and will care for your babies.
[Elizabeth. Possibly an old lady I dearly loved, but I never called her or
heard her called Elizabeth.*]
Kakie wants the little bit of a book mamma read by her bedside, with
the pretty, bright things hanging from it—mamma put it in her hands—the
last thing she remembers. [This is curious. It was a little prayer-book,
with cross, anchor, and other symbols, in silver, attached to ribbons for
marking the places. It was sent to me by a dear friend, after Kakie had
ceased to know anyone, except, perhaps, for a passing moment. I read it,
and so did our physician, in the night watches, when she seemed un
conscious, and after her death I placed it in her hands to prevent the blood
settling in the nails. The last thing she remembered was my placing it in
her hands ! What does this signify I ] [Mrs. Piper held her hands in just
that position when she asked for it.*]
You have so many friends here, but you do not need to come here to
meet them. They come to you, and you see and hear them. There are
many here whom you have helped, and they crowd about you. You have
done much good, but you have much more to do. You have many dear ones
here—so many. Here is an old gentleman wants to speak to you, Dr.
Clarke. [I saw James Freeman Clarke as he spoke.] He asks if you gave his
message to [name of his daughter*]. [I had not written to her, as I had
expected to see her.] Here is a gentleman very anxious to speak with you.
[I hoped to get the much desired address.*] He did not know you in the
body. You have seen him since he came here. He has trie'd to speak to
you. You have a mutual friend. Tell her he is living here in this beautiful
world. He told where he was born and where he died [correctly, though
at the time I thought both wrong]. Asked that his papers in A be
sent for, and tried to give an address. All we could get was, B ,
2771. Orvee [Nothing in the least satisfactory]. Phinuit said : Try to
write it.
2 k 2
494 [PART
Richard Hodgson.
The remainder of the sitting whs occupied in writing. [I cannot give
more details of this. It was all confused and agitated. Nothing given that
I had not known that was intelligible.*]
This sitting was more satisfactory than the first. It was freer in move
ment, more friends communicated, and there was less agitation.
[Mrs. Sutton.]
[It may be worth noting that in these sittings no mention was made of
the near death of my grandmother, who always helped me. She lived with
me, and at her death left me enough to somewhat ease our straitened
circumstances.*]
December 7th, 1893.
Sitters : M. Paul Bourget, Mme. Bourget, and part of the time,
Marie Garin, a servant of Professor W. James, who made the
appointment for the sitting and at whoso house in Cambridge the
sitting was held. I understood from Professor James later that the
sitting was successful as regards Mme. Bourget as well as M. Bourget.
But Professor James never received any account from them. On the
day following the sitting Professor James wrote me the following
account of the statements made concerning Marie Garin. (M.
Bourget had another sitting on December 11th, 1893, p. 495).
Cambridge, December 8th, 1893.
Dear Hodgson, —The Piper sitting with the Bourgets yesterday was a
fairly successful one, though there was much confusion owing to the number
of clues that were started and could not develop in the 2 hours and 20
minutes that the trance lasted. ... I have urged B. to send me a
written account. Meanwhile something interesting occurred to my servant
Marie.
In Weir Mitchell's very bad sitting, six weeks or so since [see p. 482],
the name " Marie" kept coming, and he failed to connect it with any one
whom he knew. I thought of our bonne, but said nothing, as I didn't wish
to confuse M.'s hour. Yesterday the sitting opened with Mme. Bourget
holding Mrs. P.'s hand, and this same name " Marie" and " I want you to
tell my sister Marie, in the body, " kept coming through the hand, mixed
with much other matter. At last a name "Carrie", or " iiarie " came,
which was so like Marie Garin's surname that I got her to come up to see if
she were the Marie in question. Immediately she took Mrs. P.'s hand the
other hand wrote " Sunstroke. I passed away with sunstroke, I am glad
to see my dear sister Marie. Tell Mother I am happy. The children are
well with her. There has been great confusion but the two children will be
well with her, etc."
I don't give the exact words, some of which came through mouth. There
were other names and references which Marie couldn't understand. One of
these was "James." Mme. Bourget said to Marie "That's Jacques in
French, have you any Jacques ? " The hand then wrote Jack Alexandre,
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 495
Jacques Alexandre being the name of an uncle of Marie's who many years
ago came to America and had never been heard from. Louise, Daniel,
Julie, Eugenie, Charles were mentioned, all being members of Marie's
immediate circle, Louise her mother's name. The whole thing very brief.
Now Marie's brother had had a grave sunstroke shortly before we left
Switzerland in August. In September Marie got a letter from hor mother
saying he was dead. The mother, Louise, has Marie's' two children with her.
No member of this family ever mentioned this to Mrs. P. I mentioned it to
you and M., as a good possible test for Mrs. P. before the news had come of
the death, but M.'s sitting was otherwise so full that Marie was crowded
out. Marie herself hardly speaks two words of English, and only knows
two persons in Cambridge, servants who know nothing of Mrs. Piper. She
is very reticent and says she does not think she has mentioned her brother's
death to these persons, one of whom is a recently arrived Italian servant
and the other a French Canadian servant of the Miinsterberg's.
Wm. James.
December Uth, 1893.
I met M. Bourget on the evening of December 10th, and he
referred to Mrs. Piper [see record of December 7th, 1893] and
expressed the wish to have another sitting. It happened that a person
for whom I had arranged a sitting for the next day was unable to be
present and I took M. Bourget to the sitting instead. He took an
article to the sitting about which Phinuit occasionally made some
comments while the writing was going on. I ascertained later from
Professor James that some reference had been made at M. Bourget's
previous sitting to the lady who had drowned herself. The notes
italicised in square brackets were made by M. Bourget himself during
our return to Boston in the train, and the other confirmatory or non-
confirmatory notes were my contemporary notes from statements made
by M. Bourget. The notes of Phinuit's remarks during the sitting
were made by M. Bourget. The record is not adequately annotated.
I hoped to have made some further inquiries through Mrs. Piper's
trance, and I understood from M. Bourget that he would send
me some articles for experiment so that I might obtain answers if
possible to his special questions. He did not, however, communicate
with me again, and made no reply to my later inquiries. I now
insert some additional explanatory remarks in the record, according
to my remembrance of what M. Bourget told me, signing these
It. H. Soon after the sitting began, M. Bourget asked questions,
four specially, which he continually repeated, in English. He wished
to know
1. The name of the painter who painted the portrait of the lady, a
portrait which M. and Mme. Bourget had seen on a visit to the lady in
49G [part
Richard Hodgson.
question when the lady herself however was absent. M. Bourget did
not know the name of the painter.
2. The first name of the lady.
3. Place where the lady lived.
4. Place where the lady died.
Some of the writing is addressed to M. Bourget, some of it to
myself and some of it apparently to the would-be communicator, to be
imagined as talking to G. P.
[So far as I am aware, the communication purporting to come from
Mrs. Pitman is the first and only one from her through Mrs. Piper.
Part at least of what she first wrote was apparently addressed to
Phinuit, "if you will forgive me for doing as I did by you when I was
in the body." Early in June, 1888, Mrs. Pitman, who was a member
of the American S P.R., had two sittings with Mrs. Piper. She was on
the point of making a trip to Paris, and died in France that year, and
my notes of her sittings were not commented upon in detail.
At the time, Mrs. Pitman apparently regarded them as failures,
but was much impressed before her death at what she believed to be
the fulfilment of Phinuit's prophecies. This I ascertained afterwards
from a Boston lady, Miss Josephine Jenkins, who was with Mrs.
Pitman during her last illness. Phinuit said " You're going to be
very sick .... You're going to Paris. Going to be quite sick.
Going to have a weak state of organs of stomach. Weak in head.
. . . Sandy-complexioned gentleman will take care of you when you
are sick across the ocean." As I remember, Phinuit several times
evaded Mrs. Pitman's question as to her health after this prophesied
illness, until finally she requested me to get an answer. I urged
Phinuit to tell us, and he replied " After she gets over illness she'll get
on all right." These quotations are from my original notes made at
the sitting. Mrs. Pitman denied that she could have anything the
matter with her stomach, and contradicted Phinuit on this and other
matters in a way which seemed to annoy Phinuit very much. When
Mrs. Pitman was seriously ill, and was attended by Dr. Herbert
(described by Miss Jenkins as "a decided blond") who treated her for
"inflammation of the membrane of the stomach," she recalled the
details of her sittings and reflected that she had done Phinuit an
injustice, and believed that she would..recover, since Phinuit, she
thought, had so prophesied. Phinuit's exact words, however, as given
above, appear to be somewhat oracular.
As I learned from Miss Jenkins, Dr. Charcot in June said that
Mrs. Pitman's trouble was a nervous one and put her under his hydro
pathic treatment. "At first the baths improved her, but when they
were renewed in the autumn she seemed to go all to pieces and her
xxxin.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 497
mind was affected. A seeming cold after one of these baths developed
into this inflammation of the membrane of the stomach, as Dr.
Herbert said." Mrs. Pitman grew worse, and Miss Jenkins finally
sent for Charcot, who pronounced the trouble to be " consumption of
the spinal cord," and said that she could not live. " This consumption
of the spinal cord, I forget the technical term, is not a rapid matter,
and poor Mrs. Pitman had been suffering with it for years."
When the " Mrs. Pitman " statement came I suggested to M.
Bourget that he should talk in French, as he then did. My impression
now is that he continued talking in French till the end of the sitting,
and that he told me afterwards that his remarks and questions
appeared to be clearly understood by the "writer." The last two
words written followed a spasmodic resumption of the pencil after the
writing had apparently come to an end. — R. H., 1896.]
[After a few remarks by Phinuit, the hand was seized and the first two
words were written faintly. Then came a strong writing, beginning Old,
coming from G. P.—R. H.]
A Leuille.
Oui rou de la Monsorer, Paris. [My street.]
How are you, Hodgson. I came in to help you out. Mademoiselle . . .
[undec.] is here in the spirit, but she speaks in French, which I do not
understand, and she wishes to speak to the Hodgson, tell me who she
is, Hodgson, . . . No, I think not. I'll go and speak to her directly.
She had a severe trouble with her head before she passed out, then she
had some confusion. [Tine.]
But, now believe me, Hodgson, she is most anxious to awaken so as to
speak to this gentleman, and . . . give me my hat or the bangle
[articles which had been worn by G. P. and had been used in previous
sittings.] Help her and I will do my level best. . . . give O the
fire away, Hodgson.
Sir, I get from your friend here a beautiful lady who was an artist by
profession, who had very expressive eyes and short hair, combed and parted
curiously on the side. [True.]
Bou P. [undecipherable] yes, did you say ? Whose do I see. . . .
but she is talking to me and you must not crowd but wait patiently until I
translate what she says . . . not trouble her about any one thing, but
first wait until I get her quite clear.
She says that she, in a fit of insanity, she jumped out of a gondola or
boat, as I get it. [7V)!c] And when she awoke she was here and I speak
to her to come here with me and tell her friend who she is and what she can
remember.
Arselieu (?)... Ar P. ... J A J. ... A 1. . . .
she is spelling it to me. . . . A1, yes, it is . . . yes, where are
my books ?. . . where is the little Petite . . . little ring [this
unknown] .... Yes, she gave to you. . . . but she has it.
Where is B ? . . . Tell him to speak to her now.
Millen. . . . Millen (?) . . . speak to me, Bou. . . . then,
498 [part
Richard Hodgson,
Bour, she is doing very well. . . Hodson. . . . yea, very.
but I understand you wish her to give two names. Now,
which is it I Her name and the Adelin (?) [Not known to B.] I do
hear her say . . . A . . . Artist. . . . Oh, I see. I'll ask
her. . . . she is thinking (?) . . . and she will get it.
Who is this man Jenka, who is talking to G. ? Oh, no, something which
you said . . . told. But it was (?) lasn (?) . . . Pot. . . .
yes. . . . yes. . . . that is right. [Reference to previous sitter.
See p. 381.]
P P [undecipherable.] Borshing(?) Bou. Oh, that she calls continually.
Where is my friend B— . . . But I am. I'll go and speak to her,
then I'll come back soon. Yours, etc., G. P.
Yes, I'll get it for you from her. I am going now. Adieu. G. P.
I remember. Remmi (?) . . . R E A. . . . R e m e m ber. I
will return soon and get it. Adieu.
[Phinuit.^ Some person connected with the writer of the letter has
something matter with the sole (?) of the foot.
Pictures all around it.
Who is John ? . . . he is very funny—he is in the body—in some
large building—in the college—across the water—he writes something—
papers. . . .
N [uncertain.]
[ Written by 0. P.] Now I have returned and the name is not to gotten
by her, Hodgson, to be found out from her. No she refuses to give it to
me. I have asked and urged her to give it me, but alas no it is no fault of
ours I can assure you. . . .
But she passed out of a city and in the water. [True.]
What does it mean. Oh, Hodgson, she knows perfectly but I cannot
seem to make her understand but she has just told me that she was in a
but she doesn't [?] recall everything in . What does she
mean by Rede—lean—Re den—Reu de . . she told me to give it
yes—yes—Reudemer—yes—yes—yes—yes—can't—he cannot—
R enned—Rendemet—R E N—N e E—R M I E—yes—yes ... all
right I will give it. Remmer [?]
N . . . oh . . . please talk to me. ... all right I will.
[New writing. Three words, the first and second probably mon, and
the third probably rfien.]
[New writing ] I came in for one moment to speak to you sir .
and say that if I can do you any good I will. Who are you first of all ? I
used to understand French very well, so I will assist this lady if you will
tell me who you are, and if you will forgive me for doing as I did by you
when 1 was in the body. I am Marie Pitman. Pitman —I used to see you
when I was in the body. I kinskey—spinkinsey. [Attempts at an answer
to one of B.'s questions. —R. H.] Putman—Pitman. . . . she is
Polish [An approximation.—R. H.] Yes. . . . bur. I underst-ind just
what you wish and am . . . yes, I will ask her who painted her por
trait ... all right. . . . she says she knows him very well, and
his name is W . . . [undecipherable, like Worleaauee] yes W .
no it should not be W, but speak your messages quite clear. Tillie. [Her
xxxiii ] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 499
name was Matilda.] Yes it [undecipherable] understand. A. I do not
go yet. want to help you do this and I will try for him.
Will you like this Monsieur . . . [undecipherable.] Bonny (?)
[Bourey (?)] [Undecipherable.] B . . . there have it ... it is
written for him . . . oh, I do wish I could have been in here before
. . . yet I will help you . . . but I am going [undecipherable] with
you, don't you want me to . . . [?] [Scrawl —undecipherable.] A
. . . [Undecipherable.] [A name beginning with A. the correct answer
to one of B.'s questions.—R. H.] Venice. [Venice correct answer to one
of B.'s questions ]
March 2nd, 1894.
Sitters : Mrs. M. E. P. (Associate A.B.S.P.R.), and lady relative,
Mrs. Dale (pseudonym). R. H. present at beginning and end of trance.
The following record reached me with a letter of March 29th, 1894.
On March 2nd, 1894, a young relative and I went to see Mrs. Piper, a
Bitting having previously been arranged for us by Mr. Hodgson.
When we reached Arlington Heights, accompanied by Mr. Hodgson, who
kindly went with us, we drove directly to Mrs. Piper's house. We were
introduced to the medium, who opened the door to us, as Mrs. Jones and
Mrs. Robinson. We had never seen her before, She struck us agreeably
at first sight. A naturally refined and womanly woman, and very genuine
she seemed to us. After a little desultory conversation she went into a
trance and was controlled by Dr. Phinuit. The passing into the trance
state was disagreeable to witness. It seemed to me like a person inhaling
ether very unwillingly, and with more or less struggle.
As soon as Mrs. Piper was well under the influence of the so-called "Dr.
Phinuit," Mr. Hodgson left the room, and we had our experience to
ourselves.
Dr. Phinuit turned to my companion and told her accurately the number
and sex of her children, and described very truly the character of her
governess and nurse, and also gave some advice about one of the children
who is rather delicate.
I had taken a hat-band with me, belonging to a young friend who had
gone away for his health. This band Mrs. Piper applied to her forehead,
anil described fully the person to whom it belonged, saying he had a great
deal of headache from over study, but rest and a change he was then having
would soon set him right.
A good deal of the time of our sitting was taken up with the effort of a
friend to make himself known to us through writing. He had been dead 27
years, and it was difficult for this reason, so he said, to communicate.
Much of what was imparted to us was too personal to be repeated, but
nothing was said that was not true. We afterwards, however, came to the
conclusion that every thing we had been told might be explained by the
theory of thought-transference, except one or two predictions that are yet
to be verified.
After seeing her, we felt no doubt of Mrs. Piper's genuineness.
M. E. P.
500 [part
Richard Hodgson.
In reply to my inquiry, Mrs. P. writes on August 3rd, 1896 :—
"In my sitting with Mrs. Piper, March, 1894, she predicted three things
that were to come to pass in my life. One has been fulfilled, the other two
are still to be verified ;" and on August 10th, she adds: "The prophecy
that was fulfilled was that we should leave our (then) home and settle in the
city in a corner house. This has come to pass. The other predictions
unfulfilled are of a more private nature."
On March 3rd, 1894 (see p. 505), the first writing that came was as
follows [names altered] :—
"I am Polly, sir, and I want to see my sister, Alice Dale. You tell my
sister I am happy. I am with Elsie at all times, also my own [or "come"]
little girl. Tell her I am living [?] for her and Will. I often see Alice
Wilkinson . . . yes, sir. [R. H. asks if she will be able to speak with
the voice.] Yes, this old gentleman [Phinuit] has told me I could . . .
thank you, sir [to the sitter who deciphered the word " could."] I shall be
so happy, sir, thank you ever so much. [Then evidently to Phinuit ] You
are a dear old fellow and I like you already, sir. [Phinuit says: "Never
mind talking to me. You go on, sis."] for letting me come in here so
dearly [?] [Disturbance in the hand, and scrawls] do help me, sir. [Scrawl.]
Uncle Will is so fond of mama he cannot help coming in here to express his
love for her, thank you, sir [to the sitter, who deciphered the words "for
her "]. You have light, haven't you, so you see what I say very well, and I
am very grateful to you for your kind help, assistance . . . do, oh yes,
I see his father, yes I do, also a lady friend of his. Alice is all right and I
love her dearly."
I sent this communication to Mrs. Dale with inquiries as to its
relevance, and asked her whether the names had been mentioned at
the sitting of March 2nd. She replied on March 5th :—
" 'Dale ' and 'Elsie ' may have been casually mentioned at our sitting.
Alice Wilkinson was not, but the wording of the sentence spoilt what might
have been quite a remarkable knowledge of names. It reads, 'lam with
Elsie at all rimes,' and further down the page, 'I often see Alice Wilkinson/
' Polly,' who purports to write the communication, was my adopted sister,
whose real name was Alice Wilkinson. My last baby is named after her,
but is called Elsie, to avoid confusion, as my name is also Alice."
On March 8th, 1894, another writer ("Q.") in the middle of a
communication wrote :—
" Here is a dear lady whom I have met who is very anxious to speak one
word. Her material name is, or was, Polly Watson. She says, do not worry
about her she is happy. God knows best. This is all I hear. [It. H. asks
about confusion in previous message. W'hy should Polly say she was with
Alice Wilkinson when Alice Wilkinson was herself? If she is there still,
ask her to explain this ] Yes. Alice Wilkinson and Watson are both is her
name, but this was not she who wrote it for you but another lady who was
just coming in, and caught what she said, and I have no doubt she put it
on paper as she heard it. You will understand it."
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 501
Again, on March 13th, 1894, Phinuit said (whether in reply to a
question of mine or not I do not know, but no question was recorded)
that " Polly began to write her own message, but that Daisy [name of
deceased wife of sitter on March 3rd] completed it."
The next communication was from Mrs. Dale, but whether I sent
both the foregoing explanations or not I do not remember. I must
have sent her at least one. She was away from home at the time, and
her letter is dated April 6th, 1894, and was forwarded to me to New
York when I was busy interviewing witnesses and supervising a series
of sittings that Mrs. Piper was giving in that city. She wrote : " Dr.
Phinuit has made a delightful mess out of his explanations. You
misunderstood my complicated note, and Dr. P. took your version of
the affair."
In going over my documents I found that this letter from Mrs.
Dale was apparently never answered, and I wrote to her recently to
have the matter cleared up. My explanation is that probably
" Daisy " was in contact with the writing machine as it were, and
was communicating the words thought by " Polly," but also her own
words or possibly the words of some other " intelligence " present, so
that it was either " Daisy " who thought the words " I see Alice
Wilkinson," or some other person —possibly " Q."
Mrs. Dale, who is now at a distance, states in a letter received
August 13th, 1896 : —
" As you have written out the words and explanation in this letter,
it all makes sense. I will read it over with you some day and explain it to
you. It would be all too long and complicated now. Mrs. Piper is certainly
a most interesting phenomenon, but I do not like to have her brought into
spiritualistic relations with one. It seems sacrilegious to me, as I do not
believe that such things are any more than mind-readings."
The names and circumstances referred to in the above com
munications were unknown to me.
March 3rd, 1894.
Mr. Charles Heywood, Gardner, Mass. (Associate A.B.S.P.R ).
R. H. present part of the time.
Mr. Heywood accompanied me for a sitting on March 1st, 1894.
There was no speech but apparently strenuous attempts at writing .as
by different persons. The oddities of spelling and writing were
probably Phinuit's. The following is the complete record of the
writing of March 1st.
no light no light here [Spelt backwards and written forwards, on
thgil, etc.].
-502 [part
lit chard Hodgson.
no liht liht [spelt backwards and written forwards] no [written correctly].
no liht can't stay y yes no liht [Spelt backwards and written forwards].
can't stay [spelt forwards and written backwards, i.e. yats time, beginning
with the letter c and writing from right to left].
here [spelt backwards and written forwards, the h in mirror-writing].
Phinuit [mirror-writing] followed by a stroke with an r perhaps intended
for Dr.
on tighl [or lighl].
too bad [spelt backwards and written forwards] bad dab oot.
Dr. Phinuit [spelt backwards and written forwards, and some of the
letters mirror-writing].
Adieu [Spelt backwards and written forwards].
No use G. P. [followed by a scrawl suggesting Adieu],
I want to see my brother Alice [followed by a scrawl which I conjectured
at the time might be James. Professor James has a sister Alice deceased].
Walter [?]
Water [? Vater ?]
[Two illegible words, the first looking like hs written upside down, and
the other conjectured by me on the day of the sitting apparently to be
Phinnnit written upside down iu mirror-writing].
No use (We'll come again) oh do oh do I must speak to him because
I was wrong to him.
[illegible scrawls suggesting a signature of initials]. Adieu G. P.
Mr. Heywood accompanied me again on March 3rd, 1894, and had
a successful sitting. In the afternoon of the same day, he wrote me
the following letter: —
Gardner, March 3rd, 1894.
My Dear Mr. Hodgson,—After arriving here this afternoon, I took the
envelope containing articles belonging to my wife to the room where her
belongings are, and requested her to ask Mr. Pelham or Dr. Phinuit to give
to you from her some further explanation of one or two things in our
interview. So I will be obliged to you if you will watch out for anything
from Pelham or Phinuit.
On looking over my notes, I find this curious thing :
D. P. B. : " Where are those pants !"
C. H. : "Pants?"
D. P. B. : " Yes, those light things. 1 do not like them—too much like
a negro."
C. H. : "Negro?"
D. P. B. : "Yes."
The fact is that in the summer of 1891 (the year before my wife died), I
had a pair of very light coloured and very loud trousers, which afforded
infinite amusement to my wife and myself. I used to call them, in allusion
to their similarity to the nether garments of coloured gentlemen, my coon
pants !
Will transcribe and send soon. There are some things which I am much
in doubt about, as there are various possible readings.
C. Heywood.
xxxiii.] Observattons of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 503
Concerning the first paragraph of the ' above letter, the only
memoranda which I can find of any special messages concerning
Mr. Heywood are that on March 7th Phinuit said : "Do you know
Daisy Bradford ? She's very grateful to you. She isn't here now, but
she told me to tell you," and on March 10th he said : "Do you know
anybody named Heywood? (Yes). There's a lady wants to send her
love to him."
The following documents explain themselves.
Gardner, January 107A, 1895.
Dear Mr. Hodgson,—In fact, it occurs to mu in looking over my papers
that I never sent you the promised transcription of the results of my sittings
with Mrs. Piper last spring. There are two reasons for this. My interpre
tation of several obscure passages obtained at the first [second] sitting, which
I wrote out fully and carefully, were materially modified by communications
received at the second [third] sitting ; and all the writing secured at that-
sitting, I regret to say, has disappeared, and I am afraid got burned up with
a lot of old newspapers, etc., which a servant hid received orders to destroy.
At any rate I can't find any traces of it.
Much of the report already written out, therefore, was rendered value
less, and some of the more striking proofs, or at least coincidences, wore so
entirely personal as to exclude, for propriety's sake, their appearance in
print. There are many things, however, which I can write out for you, and
this I will do gladly if you desire.
Phinuit made some remarkable prophecies at my last sitting. The minor
predictions, many of them, were fulfilled, and I naturally expected a corres
ponding realisation of the two great predictions up to which the lesser led ;
but the Doctor evidently took too much for granted. The big things failed
to occur. If Mrs. P. is still giving sittings please remember me to Phinuit,
and ask him if he ever sees Daisy Bradford or Charles Heywood. You were
obliged to interrupt my last sitting at the critical point when the intelligence
purporting to be that of C. H. (my father) was about to say something which
he considered of very great importance, and of vital interest to me. I have
always wanted to get hold of him again.—Truly yours,
Charles Heywood.
Gardner, February 10th, 1896.
Dear Sir,—After writing my letter of last week, I made a strict search
among my papers in an endeavour to find the MSS. obtained upon the
occasion of my second visit to Mrs. Piper (the first visit which afforded
satisfactory results).
But I was unable to find them, and learning from a friend of the family
that my mother had had them in her possession a short time before her
death, I came to the conclusion that they could be found, if at all, among
her papers.
I dismissed the subject from my mind for the time. But last night,
having occasion to open my mother's safe, my brother-in-law and I found
therein, not only the original writings, but my transcription and supple
mentary dialogue, made within a week after the sitting, together with some
504 [part
Richard Hodgson.
additional comments in my handwriting, the existence of which had entirely
escaped my memory. In fact, I hadn't seen the transcription itself for a
very long time, and I couldn't have sworn to its existence, nor whether, in
fact, an entire transcription had been made.
******
Of course any attempt at this late day to construct a dialogue from the
.automatic writings would be almost valueless, but the selections which I send
you are from the aforesaid transcript made within a very short time of the
sitting. I send all which I can positively submit to strange eyes, and I beg
to assure you that what is omitted is of a character which exhibits startling
internal evidences of being communicated by the personality of my dead wife.
As I have said, the notes of the second (really the third) seance are lost,
but from the memoranda concerning it found last night, and from my
memory of its salient points, I am enabled to give some interesting informs-
tion about it. . . .-Sincerely yours, Charlus Heywood.
Gardner, Mass., February 10th, 1896.
Some Notes upon Automatic Writing obtained through Mrs. Piper.
I have had three sittings with Mrs. Piper. The first was unproductive.
Phinuit said there was not enough "light." The second Listed about one
hour and a quarter, and was devoted wholly to automatic writing. Phinuit
was very quiet, and "George Pelham " seemed to be the controlling and
directing intelligence. Of course, nearly all the writing was done by the
" D. P. B." intelligence, but Pelham seemed to supervise, and at times took
the pencil himself and assured me that he was looking after things.
"D.P.B." spoke of Pelham as standing within "earshot," if such a term
may be used.
The third sitting occupied one hour, and was divided between some
" psychometry " by Phinuit, and writing by "D.P.B." and an intelligence
said by "D.P.B." and by himself to be the spirit of my father (died 1882).
The writing obtained at this time cannot be found, but from the memoranda
in my possession I can say that the results were in most respects eminently
satisfactory. "D.P.B." gave an eminently satisfactory explanation of the
" Haskins" matter [see p. 505] ; while my father brought along the spirit of
Amos Morrill (died 1891) with whom he had been in business relations for
many years, and they gave me some exceedingly good business advice, and
made one or two predictions, in a general way, which have been fulfilled.
Phinuit's readings from locks of hair, gloves, etc., pressed against Mrs.
Piper's forehead, were excellent so far as they related to the character of the
persons and their circumstances, but. his predictions were simply my own
ideas of the probabilities, and in almost every instance have failed.
From my minutes made shortly after the first [second] sitting I quote :—
"The intelligence which controlled Mrs. Piper's hand, whatever it was,
possessed or had acquired an intimate knowledge of my married life, and an
intimate acquaintance with the little mannerisms and more superficial
characteristics of my late wife."
******
"Favourite expressions often used by her, i.e., 'Don't be stupid!'
'Now you are waking up!' 'Well, I should say 1 had!' 'Don't I?'
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 505
'Well I guess!' 'Dear,' and particularly 'Dear little boy,' Mowed from
the pencil in such a familiar way that I felt the influence of her personality
very strongly. Some little traits were shown in the impatient brushing
away of loose articles upon the table, and the pounding of the table with
the fingers when perplexed." When I saw that motion I exclaimed : " Ah !
now I recognise you beyond a doubt ! " Little things like that seemed to
-supply the missing links in the chain of identity.
In closing I wish to mention one fact which struck me at the time as
very awe-ful and impressive. On one occasion the point of the pencil was
broken suddenly, and the hand turned the point up in precisely the fashion
it would be turned up for the inspection of one standing just at the medium's
shoulder. My sensation at the moment was that it was as if some person
behind the medium had slipped his arm through the medium's sleeve, and
,was in this manner writing. xx
h Charles Heywood.
[From the Automatic Writing at Sitling of March 3rd, 1894.]
D. : Charlie, I am Dorothy [a pet name of my wife] C-h-a-r-l-i-e, this is
to you. Will tell you all soon. Wait for him [me, her.]
G. P. : The lady is [through ?] [This was a fragment intended for some
body who had sat the previous day.] [See pp. 499-501.—R.H.] George.
Read [a scrawl, perhaps meant for "Charlie."]
[Daisy ?] I am here [a scrawl, then "strong."]
C. H. : What is that ?
G. P. : Strong. I am and I saw her and in consetpience right it for you.
Hodgson and Heywood : Ha ! ha ! See how George spells " write ! "
G. P. : Am I not right f [Presumably to D. P. B.] Well, do speak and
I will help you. This was a mistake, if you please. Trust me—trust it to
me, sir.
C. H. : What, to her ?
G. P. : No, to me. [Probably G. P. was acting as amanuensis through
out.—R.H.]
C. H. : Is this Daisy 1
D. P. B. : Yes, and I love you and I want you to forgive me for not
coming before. I tried so hard to reach you, dear Charley, you know
[Neither I nor my wife ever spelt my name " Charley."—C.H., '96.]
C. H. : Yes, I know, dear, but now you have come to me.
D. P. B. : Oh, speak to me ! My cough is right all now [all right now.]
Where is my picture, dear ? Give it to me a minute. [My wife had no
cough.]
[I carry a photograph of my wife in my watch case. Taking the watch from
my pocket I placed it in the hand, which rested upon it a few seconds, and
then resumed as follows :]
D. P. B. : Do you miss me now 1 I see you always.
C. H. : I can scarcely believe this to be you, Daisy. Can't you give me
some proof ?
[Then followed an attempt to write a name. Probably ten minutes were
consumed in this effort, but she seemed unable to write the whole name. It
was a name similar t« " Haskins," let us say, and she wrote " Askins," over
and over again, confessed her inability to complete it, and then wrote the
506 [part
Richard Hodgson.
first three letters of the given name of the person. She finally spelt it
phonetically, but I absolutely failed to recognise what she was driving at,
and remained in utter ignorance until the next sitting, when she was able to
write the full name correctly, and imparted a bit of information of which I
was entirely ignorant. She had intended to tell me the matter, and about a
month before her death had started to do so, but something had turned the
conversation. The whole alt'air was so trivial (although very personal) and
so natural a solution of the difficulty that I have often wondered at my
blindness, and laughed at the ridiculous answers which I hatched out in the
interval between the two sittings.
In attempting to explain the matter at her first sitting, she referred me
by name to a person who might readily have given me the needed informa
tion, but I felt unwilling to discuss the matter.]
C. H. : I can't think what that means.
D. P. B. : Do, dear. Give it [the watch] to me a minute. Oh, how
this helps me. I am still a little confused—fused—fused : I will be all
right in time. Wait for me. I could not stay longer—[any ?]—longer.
Where is Jack ?
C. H. : Jack ? I don't know whom you mean.
D. P. B. : Yes.
[I am now convinced that this was ' George is speaking."—C.H., '96.]
[Then appears what is evidently the autograph of George, and an
undecipherable word which may be "speaks," followed by "is "or "in"
or "ie." I said I didn't understand, whereupon the writing continued:]
[Probably an attempt to explain that G. P. was acting as amanuensis.—R.H.]
D. P. B. : George is here with you. I see his [face, power ?] and he
helps me.
C. H. : George who ?
D. P. B. : George Pelham—Pelham—yon read—P-e-l-h-a-m, Pelhham
Pelham.
C. H. : Do you know him ?
D. P. B. You don't know him, do you ? Where—
C. H. You are controlling that hand, are you 1
D. P. B. Yes, I am, dear, and I did want to see you before I came here
now. Do you hear me, dear, do you hear me ? Do you hear me, can you
see me ?
C. H. : I am reading what you say. Can you see and hear me ?
D. P. B. : Yes. Don't do anything wrong. You know what I told
you. You know I love you and always did. All is well.
******
[Then follows a reference of an extremely personal nature, which afforded
me a strong proof of personality. It was perfectly intelligible at the time,
and it began with " I tell you this, but don't let that gentleman hear me,"—
evidently referring to Pelham, as Hodgson had left the room— sent out
some time before by Phinuit. —Abridged from original transcript.—C. H. '96'.]
D. P. B. : Don't feel strange with me, dear, for I love you and always
did.
C. H. : Can't you give me some further proof of your identity 1
D. P. B. : I will.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. o07
[Then follows an extended reference to another matter which was known
only to myself and my wife. Then the pencil began to flutter and wander,
and wrote a few words, like "lean—remember your—speak so I can hear
hear you, dear," and then it brought up as follows : ]
D. P. B. : Am I dreaming ? Where are you now 1
C. H. : Right here, near you. I wish I might see you.
D. P. B. : I will try to have you see me as I am. Poor little boy—too
bad—yes—do you recall—recall—can't I help you when you go home. I say
—don't you hear me ? Do you remember the Sunday . . . and . . .
went off down to the Island—
C. H. : The Island ?
D. P. B. : Yes.
C. H. : What island ?
D. P. B. : I can't make it—[and the pencil tapped the word Island
sharply and impatiently. I did not remember the circumstance and said so,
whereupon the conversation changed].
[Then followed an allusion to some private matters with which I was little
acquainted. This part of the manuscript is obscure and unsatisfactory.
—C. H., '96.]
[When I professed ignorance of some of the circumstances the pencil
rather impetuously wrote "Don't be stupid," and then "Don't be dis
couraged." ]
D. P. B. : A . . . is gone and I am glad of it. I am so happy for
that. Now talk to me, dear. Don't you know the Sunday we went to the
Points
C. H. : —Point ?
D. P. B. : Yes [joyfully]. That is what I want to say : was it Sunday I
And I remember it so well. P—oint Pines [triumphantly].
C. H. : Oh, the Point of Pines.
D. P. B. : —Yes.
C. H. : And that is what you were trying to say, is it ?
D. P. B. : —Yes, all the time. Do you remember the little place
where we sat. I go there often, yet I don't see you there.
C. H. : Well, haven't you seen me there sometimes ?
D. P. B. : (joyously) Well, I should say I had !
C. H. : Oh, I recognise that expression ! I know now that you are
Daisy.
D. P. B. : Well, I know I am D.—[a scrawl].
C. H. : Can you write your name 1
D. P. B. : Yes, I'll give it to you—Bb-R-A-a. [Here the hand seemed
angry at its inability to write, and covers the paper with dots.] Over. I
wrote it. I wrote it. Do read. It is over here, turn, [hand fumbles
among the loose sheets lying on the bible covered with writing].
C. H. : Can you give me your middle initial ?
D. P. B. : Yes, P. D. B.—do read—R—no more—A—that is not [a
scrawl].
C. H. : Will you give it me later 1
D. P. B. : Yes, before I go I will write it in full. Yes. Now let me
speak my mind. Do you go west ?
2 L
508 [part
Richard Hodgson.
C. H. : No. Didn't you like me to go West ?
D. P. B. : Not a bit. You know how I felt. Don't try to fool with
me now.
C. H. : You see me now, do you ?
D. P. B. : I see you better than ever I did. . . . You want me to
speak natural[ly] [which was exactly the wish framed in my mind].
C. H. : You feel well and happy, then ?
D. P. B. : Don't I—well, I guess ! [one of her favourite idioms]. All
burden that about.
[Then follows some advice upon a certain matter which events have
proven to be invaluable. Any other course than the one advised would have
been fatal to my welfare.—C. H., '96].
C. H. : Can you tell me what is in the room where our things are ?
D. P. B. : B-o-o-t [scrawl, evidently intended to be an " s."] Now read.
C. H. : Is that Boots ?
D. P. B. : No. I'm exasperate—ex-asperate.
C. H. : With me ?
D. P. B. : Me. Yes. I can't seem to say all I know.
C. H. : But you are sure you are here.
D. P. B. : My, yes, I am just as sure as sure—what?—S-U-R-E. I
can [make—think] it now. S-B-o-o- S.lno-no-S-I-St—can't.
C. H. : I will try to make out your meaning.
D. P. B. : Oh, do ! S-I [scrawl] Slippers.
[Stockings was the word in my mind when the question was asked ; but I
have found since that a pah' of slippers, unknown to myself, was in the room
referred to.]
D. P. B. : [resuming] What became of the chair ?
C. H. : The chair in your room ?
D. P. B. : Yes.
C. H. : Oh, that is in the baby's room now.
D. P. B. : Look at my dresses. Too bad, they are all put up there in
the attic. I go there often.
C. H. : Have you seen me there?
D. P. B. : Yes, I should think I had. Where are those pants ?
C. H. : Paids ?
D. P. B. : Yes—those light things. I did not like them—too much
like a negro.
C. H. : Negro, is that ?
D. P. B. : Yes [joyfully and flourishingly].
[During the summer of 1891, the year before the death of my wife, I
owned a pair of very light and very loud trousers, which afforded endless
amusement to my wife and myself. In honour of their resemblance to the
garments often worn by gentlemen of colour, we called them my coon pants !
But reminiscences of that sort, as may be imagined, were far from my mind
during the seance.]
D. P. B. : [with a long dash, to change the subject.] I hear you call
for me.
C. H. : Then you see me ?
D. P. B. : Well, I think I do.
xxxin.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 509
C. H. : And you don't consider yourself dead ?
D. P. B. : I don't think I am dead—not much ! I want to trouble you
a little while longer. What about your hair ? Yes, dear. [The hand dropped
the pencil and came forward to my head and fingered my hair.]
C. H. : It's longer than it was when you were here. That's the
fashionable cut now.
D. P. B. : Looks well.
C. H. : You like it, don't you ?
D. P. B. : Yes.
C. H. : Others do, too.
D. P. B. : I don't care whether they do or not. I do. Where is the
cradle ?
C. H. : It's in the baby's room.
D. P. B. : It's where I can't see it. I can't find it.
C. H. : If you go in there you can't fail to see it.
D. P. B. : But the cradle
C. H. : [suddenly recollecting] Oh, I know what you mean !
D. P. B. : [energetically] Now you are just waking up !
[The hand, in the exuberance of its pleasure at my evidence of intelligence,
swept watch, note book, loose sheet and pencils off the table on the floor.
After they were replaced the writing continued.]
D. P. B. : Too bad.
C. H. : Oh, that's all right.
D. P. B. : I know, but see what I did. Look here, do you remember
the cradle you never got ?
C. H. : Yes, and that's a very good evidence that Daisy is here. I
remember very well. And you remember that promised cradle.
D. P. B. : Yes, I am now. Well, I guess I do.
[Then follows another attempt to give light on the " Haskins " matter.
Then—]
C. H. : I will try to find out.
D. P. B. : Now do, yes, do. What can I do to help you. Can't you
take my picture at home, as you used ? Now talk to me as you could. . . .
C. H. : Will you be near me and help me in the future ?
D. P. B. : Yes, I will. I promise. Ask him [G. P. 1] to help me.
George [?] : Yes, I will.
D. P. B. : You can help me, dear, will you 1 Do speak.
Enter Hodgson.
Hodgson : Come, Dr. Phinuit, it is time to close the sitting.
D. P. B. : Who are you 1
C. H. : This is Mr. Hodgson, the Secretary of tfie Society for Psychical
Research.
D. P. B. : Do you know my baby ? He is a very nice boy. You go and
see him. He looks like me.
C. H. : Now remember your promise to write your full name.
D. P. B. : Yes, D. P. B. [indistinctly]. Now D. P. B. [in startlingly
distinct capitals] Daisy—Park—Bradford. [The "Park" scrawly ; the.
2 L 2
510 [part
Richard Hodgson,
" Bradford " very plainly written]. Da [scrawl] Par—[oh well, this—mc !]
Forgive me for my wrongs.
C. H. : But there are no wrongs to forgive.
D. P. B. : Mistakes. [Then, as if seized by desire to summarise
rapidly the proofs of identity, the hand scrawled in coarse, hurried letters—
"Point of Pines"—"the Seat "—,' Don't take A. . . .—no"—"My
stomach is better—so is the baby "].
C. H. : You remember what we dreaded for the baby ?
D. P. B. : Well, yes, but no fear of them now. I must go.
C. H. : Good-bye !
D. P. B. : No, don't say good-bye. [And with this the sitting
terminated.]
April 4th, 1894.
Sitter : Mrs. J. E. R. R. (Associate A.B.S.P.R.), at the house of
Dr. A. B. Thaw in New York. Appointment made by R.H. Notes
taken by R.H. during the sitting, and a few remarks added afterwards
by the sitter. The names Wilson and Wilton are pseudonyms substi
tuted for the real names. Mrs. R. has had some veridical psychical
experiences, especially in connection with crystal-gazing.
Mrs. Piper became first controlled by Dr. Phinuit.
[,Sjoofcc>i] :
That lady's a medium. You have a very wonderful light, but you doubt
yourself sometimes.
I get Catherine round you. I like her influence very much. You're
going to write sometime. There's a gentleman in the spirit world helps
you to write. I'll bring lady and gentleman both together. Lady suffered
a good deal—nervous temperament.
I get a funny name spelled with a K. This is your gentleman, he is
passed out of the body. I get child here (question by sitter : " Little child
or large child ? ") C-H-I-L-D, name of a person. Here's a doctor wants to
speak to her.
[Written]
[Control appeared to change, right hand violently shaking, writing not
very clear.] Are you Sarah ? [lmden.], too bad I could not see Eliza. Tell
her I see Mary come [?] here to me now [?]. I want her to know I am not
dead.
[G. P. apparently here acts as amanuensis.] How are you and where is
my wife 1 I am William Wilton, yes [in answer to Dr. H., " Is Wilson the
name ? "] No, W-I-L-T-O-N. Yes, mam [?], do speak to me and tell me
how my wife is. W yes—Will is my son's name. Yes, sir, he is physically
not well, and should not have gone south. No.
George is helping me. I shall be clear soon—wait for me. This is not
easy to—C H-alli, Caroli, C-A-R-O-Une. I want you to know me.
Caroline—I came here at first, and I am the lady (that Phinuit called
Catherine ?) Yes, sir, you were very sympathetic to me once, when I gave
a message through another personality. Yes. (Sitter: "I don't recognize
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 511
you. ") Yes, you do, do you remember the strange [or stranger ?] light and
when I wrote all I am thinking ? Well and will tell you all about my
interest. Where is G. ? . . . [or J] osin G or J-o-s J Joseph [scrawl
like monogram.] (Sitter: "I think I know what you mean.") Yes, you
know, and I want you to feel that I am with you, and I want you should
talk to me in this strange light. (It is rather hard,) but it is worse for me
than you. Where's (?) Who is this ? Mother—oh.
(bitter: "Is it my mother ? ") Yes, mother. You ought to know who
we are. Joseph also. We are the ones who came because W [?] came to
tell you about you [?]... [?] (husband ?) No, sir, not husband,
H A [?] ag H-a-n A B not [undec.]—wait, I am thinking— H-a-r—no—M-a—
I forget. A—. . . Harris? Not exactly. H. you correct. Not I—no
Oh, do read. I'll spell it, sir. Thank you. H. MI don't make it.
. . . A-nn-a (Anna V) Yes, sir. Yea, and she is in trouble—yes, she is,
Elizabeth ought [?] to know. This Joseph is? [scrawls undec.] S-No—Yes
—Lizzie is here. I wrote to you before, yes, I did. This is why I say
this. . . . Now read. Please not. . . . read over [?] to me first,
sir. Yes, we did. . . . will help me. Yes sir, I'll find it for you. I
want you to keep right on as you are. No matter what people think.
. . . Elizabeth is there.
C E S (?) R or K . . . W . . . (What is the whole name ?) all.
You read, sister Lizzie—also Caroline R E A—(A ?) I have the greatest
difficulty in making that letter. C E C (G ?) no G (G ?) No Y (Y ?) yes, I
will. Lizzie is well and happy now, so is your father .... and me
. . . . do you know he ... . (Is Josephine there ?) Oh, yes, she
is helping you with your work, but I am afraid you don't always know about
it. Do you see her standing at the desk ? Yes, when you are at work,
writing,—she often is there (Where ?) down in your room away up there in
the evening when you sit, now you know what I mean, your sister, and I am
George P. writing now for her. I shall keep her thoughts clear quite, she
is—ready [?] do you remember H-E-N-R-Y W-I-L-T-O-N ? . . . 0,
yes,—I could not keep him away. Excuse me,—Hodgson, is that you, old
chap? Good, never mind, H., I know . . . yes—thanks—they told me
so ... . this peritonitis condition and fever still lingers,—too bad.
He Henry W. do you not know your uncle ? (Sitter : "I had a step-uncle
so named, but I don't care about him.") Well—he was only a step-uncle, but
you ought to know him . . . Yes, indeed, Col. is with him. Dr. a
friend of his in England—Yes, sir, we know—yes, he has, yes, yes,—yes C
E W (R E W ?) Yes. Are you not glad ... I should .... he
had caused trouble enough ... he amends [?] Do you know Robert
who troubled your whole life ? . . . Never will any more. Yes,
indeed, Robert was a great sorrow, and we are glad to reform him here.
No—we know it all. Yes—R . . we . . . forever [Trouble all
gone now ?] always and fortver,—no more I assure you. That is a passing
thought.
[Sitter asks about her son.] Son,—yes, he was killed very suddenly,
poor R.—and too late to settle as he wished he would have done. Have you
the book or letter—Roland [here gave medium necktie worn by son at death,
wound it round wrist] Yes, he's trying to recall circumstances
512 [PAKT
Richard Hodgxon.
Yes, you know .... but will mention killed—we knew all, and will
help you as your dear father has asked us to do. Oh ! Oh ! yes, he did,
exactly—poor boy, but is clear, light and happy, and with you a great deal.
Don't you remember when those initials were given with Lizzie's It w;us
he who tried to say, be comforted, all is well. [I think Dr. H. had said
something about Mrs. R.'s Utile boy, which led to the following] who is the
little boy that—no— he is a gentleman, i.e., Roland is a gentleman, not a
boy. [Sitter: "Had he lived, he would now be 26."] Yes, yes, he did
really come, and is with you now. Mother. Do you love me still t (Sitter :
" Ah, why do you ask ? You know I do. I think of you without ceasing.")
Yes, I—but I like to hear your voice ; although you cannot see me I am by
your side, and that picture of mine will always linger in your memory—yes,
only one, and since it was so dear to you, you must know I am attracted by
it, yes—I knew it, knew the letter—oh, yes, years have passed slowly since
that was written, but yet I did this after I came here, yes I did.
Dear mother, .... Mama—but do trust me now, I am truly R.,
mama. This is all I can do, let me live with you for ever and ever.
[Note by sitter : Shortly after my son's death, I received through a
strange medium a letter, said to have been given in trance by him, signed
Roland. It bore internal evidence of being a true communication, but
being at that time bitterly sceptical, I refused to accept it. This seems to
refer to that fact.]
Call for me and I will como to you—or I. Yes,— but don't mind them now
—oh, no ! because I see this bright, clear light, and I like it, dear. " Don't
worry about me, mama, I am all right, and happy as possible." [Note.—
These words were in the earlier letter received and repudiated.] I assure
you, I am, and old Dr. Robert will trouble you no more—No. D (?) (unde
cipherable) You knew Dr.—Dr. . . . Yes, yes, oh yes—yes
I'll try—M—Ma N is it ? N yes, yes, yes, tray I see you again once more,
Mama ? only once is all I ask, only once is all I ask. I want to J. . Je
. . J . . Josephnie I wanted to say, is going on soon. What troubles
her is . . . Aun(t?) she is here in ... I don't know as I can tell
you all they want to say, but cheer up, Mama,—all will be well—R. Drew
[Spoken.]
[Dr. Phinuit here resumed control, and told me, in answer to
Dr. H.'s question whether he could control me and use my "light"
that he could and would. He added :] "You know that ball thing you
have. Well, I can make you see me in that." [I have a crystal in which I
often look.]
Dr. Phinuit told me, in answer to questions, that the spirit's work is
the same as our highest work, helping others upwards, and then broke
off to say, " I see a little child coming into the body, isn't going to stay
in the body,"—and describes its coming spirit guardian. Here the sitting
closed.
[Notes by sitter.]
Caroline and Joseph are the correct names of my father and mother.
Henry Wilton is the correct name of my stepmother's uncle. Dr. R. E.
Wilton is the correct name of the relation to whose evil influence I owe all
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 613
the trouble of a saddened life. Lizzie, also called Liesje (as evidently
attempted by the control), is a sister also known to me as Anna. Josephine
may be either a sister or a niece still living, both being ill. Nan is a sister,
living. My son's name was Roland. [I think that Mrs. R. told me that he
was killed in connection with a horse accident. —R. H.] The portrait alluded
to is kept in a little case with the necktie. I am in the habit of carrying it
about with me and never show any other picture, without producing it as the
only good one. The letter sent by him to me shortly after he passed on, I
have alluded to in the report.
Taken as a whole, it would appear that the effort was made by several of
my nearest relatives to inform me of the death of the bad influence of my
life, and to let me know that they knew a story I had never told to any one
of them. I do not know whether R. E. W. is living or dead.
Mrs. R. writes later :—
Dear Dr. Hodgson,—What do you think of this ? I have just received
reply from England as to Dr. W., who you will remember George, through
Mrs. Piper, said was "there." Well, he is alive, well, and stronger than
ever, having given up Cathedral duty. Singular, isn't it ? The peritonitis
condition must have existed in Phinuit's imagination. One cannot explain
such an experience as this in any satisfactory way. I for years have not
thought consciously of Dr. W. nor cared whether he lived or died, nor have
I borne him malice for the trouble, as "George" emphasised it, that his
influence brought into my young life. Why then so strange a re-awakening ?
Why so false a test ? . . .
J. E. R. R.
[1 do not know what my interpretation of the R. E. W. incident was at
the time of the sitting. It seems to me clear now from the record that the
"peritonitis condition and fever " referred to the Henry W. There seems to
be some confusion about the Robert E. W. Mrs. R. may have asked a
question, unrecorded, about his death.
I have no recollection of Mrs. R.'s question referred to in the following
letter. I remember that I was anxious to bring the sitting to a close, that
Phinuit was answering some questions of the sitter regarding the " work of
spirits," that I ceased to take notes, and prepared to assist in the departure
of Phinuit, and that it was at this stage that Phinuit made the prophecy
about the little child.—R. H.]
Carnegie Studios, March 23rd [1895].
Dear Dr. Hodgson,—When I had my sitting with Mrs. Piper, perhaps
you remember that Phinuit broke off suddenly to say : " There's a little child
coming, it is still in the body, not born yet." I asked if it was Dr. Moore's
baby whose arrival I was then anxiously awaiting. Phinuit said : " Yes, but
he is not coming to stay,—he is guarded by a great spirit." The baby was
born a couple of weeks later, and died suddenly this morning.
I have not the papers here but I think my recollection is correct. I have
remembered it several times since the child's birth, but it seemed so healthy
I thought it was all a mistake. It may seem worth while to note this with
out mentioning names.— Cordially yours,
J. E. R. R.
514 [part
Richard Hodgson.
April 9th, 1894.
Sitters : Mrs. L. E. H. and Mr. C, in New York. Appointment
made by R. H., who was present only at beginning and end of sitting.
Record by Mrs. L. E. H. and Mr. C. Dr. and Mrs. L. E. H. had a
sitting on May 6th, 1892 (see p. 462). [I think that the sitting was
held at the house of Dr. L. E. H. Mr. C. was unknown to me, and I
was not aware of his real name until towards the close of the sitting.
I knew beforehand only that the sitter was to be a friend of Mrs.
L. E. H.—R. H.].
Mrs. Piper went into trance rather easily at 10.30 a.m. She took Mrs.
H 's hand with her left hand, the right arm being rigid behind her, and
began :—
Ph. : The last time I saw you there was a little gentleman with you in
the body. [Correct,—about two years previous.]
Ph. : David is here and sends love to his father in the body. [David has
sent love to his father at previous sittings. His father was his only near
relative living. David not living.]
Ph. : Oh ! the baby has had the measles ! [One child, not the baby—
had just had the measles.]
[The hand, after manipulation, began to write, after letters from J.D.S.
had been bound around wrist.]
Yes, thank you very much, I have it all right now. Oh, where am I,
sir ? Will you stay with me and help me ? I wish to speak to my friend on
earth.
Oh, how are you ? I am so glad to see you. My name is David [possibly
Duane.] You dear old John. God bless you always. (I am very well.)
Good. I am not dead. Do you remember our boys [sitters were unable to
read last word] yes, yes that's B-o-y-s. Don't you remember me Duane ? I
will, D-W-A-I-N-E, D-W-1 am bothered. This is it, it alone D-U-A-N-E
[correct name] (Are you happy ?) (Are you happy ?) Yes, John, are you
h;ippy 1 What about the will ? [Mr. C. was executor and has had trouble
regarding will.]
Too bad. (It will be all right.) I am glad. O.K. Thanks to your dear,
dear pen.
Not yet. Do not drive me off. [This not in answer to any question or
remark on part of the sitters.]
I will wait a moment. (Who is with you ?) David, also David Haynes.
[Deceased friend of sitters and Duane.]
My head is clear now, John. J.C. Dear old chap. How are the
children ? [Reference probably made about some nephews.] How are the
boys 1 [This refers to a set of friends.]
Do tell me about G. [A brother of one of the sitters.] (He is happy.)
Good. (Can you see us ?) Yes, indeed, I can.
(Does it trouble you when we are sad?) No, for I can see how things
are going to terminate. (Are they going well with us ?) Indeed they will,
and the worst is over. [Nothing very sad or trying had recently happened
in the immediate family.]
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 515
(Is M. going to be well ?) Yes, tell her not to worry so, because all
things are getting better than even she could hope, and she will be well.
There are two—yes, there are two. [Sitters did not know to what this
referred.]
(Mr. C. : What am I going to do ?) There, print right away, print right
away, John, I see it. [Mr. C. is an editor of a paper.]
[Some prophecies made regarding the paper, and name given of the man
who would—it was written—soon buy it. Also a trip to Europe predicted
for Mr. C]
(Do you see aunt A ?) Yes, indeed, she is all right, but she is not
well. Did you know that she is a medium, and a good one ? [The person
spoken of has all her life had premonitions, against which she has struggled.]
(Will she give any manifestations of it ?) Yes, can't help it.
Oh 1 This is delightful. Where is M., your sister ?
(In K.) Well, let her stay there. Good.
(Have you no message for E ?) [E H , full name written
out, and great excitement in hand. E.H. was a dear friend, and physician
of Duane.] Well, I guess so, think so. Give him my warmest love. Yes,
he is a good doctor. . . . Oh ! tell E. he was very kind to me. Where
is my chair ? (Which chair ?) My reclining chair. [Sitters did not remember
any particular chair.]
(Have you anything to say about the disposition of your things ?) Not
that I care. Let them do as they wish. I don't care a fig. [Characteristic
phrase of Duane, who is J.D.S.]
(Will Mrs. M. go to Europe ?) Very soon, in June.
(No, she has given up her trip.) But she will have to see the end of A.
(How is Aunt A.H.H. ?) [This person was supposed to be seriously ill
with heart disease.] O.K. First rate, she is going to be better.
(Do you wish you could come back ?) Oh, I don't want any part on
earth, not in the least. My heart is strong and well, so are my kidneys.
[These organs had not been diseased in J.D.S.]
(Are you occupied ?) Yes, all the time.
(Do you know about G.'s happiness ?) Yes, I know, and he is going
away soon, and I am glad. . . . He will travel a good deal. But I see
one thing wrong.
(What is it ?) Would you have me tell you ?
(No, do not tell us.) I don't want to. It is better so.
[G., a brother of one sitter, about to be married, and travel abroad.]
Where is Ballard going? [B., a friend, who was visiting one of the
sitters at the time, and was changing his business.] When is he going south
of France ? [Not sure whether this last referred to Ballard, or whether it
was in answer to another question.]
(Tell us about yourself.) Do you know, when I left the body that P.M.—
not P. but A., I intended to say A.M. [A.M. correct.] I saw a light, and
then I saw father (Saw your father ?) farther into this world than I at first
thought I should. Then Alice [his wife, who had died five years before]
held out her hands, and told me I was all right. Then I took her hand,
dear Alice, and we went together. Then I found the baby. [Baby had died
before it was born.] Can you hear ? (Yes.) And the baby was so
516 [PART
Richard Hodgson.
delighted to see me. You can never know how light and happy we are here.
(Are there others there with you?) Yes. Did you know Nell? (No.)
You are stupid, stupid, John. Try and know sis—sis. Don't you know ?
But I do. (Was that your mother's name 1) Eliza was mother's name.
[Correct.] I saw her.
(Are you with Christ !) Jesus —his face is the light, and whereas his
face is not discernible, yet we see his light, and know that it is he. (Does
he help you, and do you progress there?) Always. Yes, and grow on and
ever. This I cannot speak clearly to you on earth. [J.D.S. was a man of
strong religious feeling, who fully expected to go into the immediate presence
of Christ after death.]
Well, J [illegible] well, J [probably John], how are things progressing at
the office ? (Well.)
Good. Where is Henry ? (What Henry ?) Where is dear Henry, where
is he now ? Dr., Dr., (Oh ! Dr. Henry, he is at C, doing nicely.) Good,
good. [H., a physician who had attended him a short time at C]
That's you, John, you are the same old John, and all is well with you.
[Something was written that sitters could not understand or read.]
Call that gentleman back (Mr. Hodgson ?) 1 don't know his name. (The
one who was here when you first came ?) Yes, I think he will interpret this
for me. Oh ! do. [Mr. C. went to call Mr. H., and meanwhile Mrs. H.
addressed the hand.]
Your dear little one's well ? (Yes, we miss you very much, but cannot
wish you back.) Do you ? Well, I am better off. [Mr. H. returned, inter
preted writing and said] (I will know you another time, and if you wish to
send a message to your friend, I can take it.) Thank you, sir. Do you
know J.C. [full name written] in the body ? (I have met him to-day.) He
has control of my papers, and I will look into things, let you know, [to J.]
It will be best for me to go, dear old fellow. Adieu, from D-U-, etc.
Ph. then said that some tie prevented him—J.D.S.—from leaving,
which recalled to sitters the letters bound around the wrist ; after their
removal, the hand was quiet.
Ph. began to talk to Mrs. H., but soon said, " Who is this little gentle
man who passed out of the body with consumption ? He speaks so hoarse I
can hardly hear him. He wants to say something to his friend." Mr. C.
then came forward, and Ph. said : "This gentleman wants to tell you about
some papers in that little piece of furniture in the corner (the escritoire ?)
Yes, that's it. There are some Papers of his about some land he owns."
Mr. C. : At C. ?
Ph. : No, not there.
Mr. C. : At Round Island ?
Ph. : Yes, that is it ; and he wants to tell you about some things of his.
It is hard for :ne to understand. If you can get him to use the hand, you
can get the messages more direct. They often get confused, coming through
me.
Then followed directions as to the whereabouts of a cane [which was not
found where it was said to be], a jug with a handle, and other things, which
Ph. said were safely put away, and that no one had taken.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 517
Mr. C. asked about some cut-glass dishes, but Ph. said he heard nothing
about them.
Some prophecies were made about A.P.H., and it was stated that a lady,
E. P., had recently changed her surroundings entirely, and felt that it was
the best thing she had ever done. [In fact, the lady had really gone to
Europe for the first time in her life, within a month before date of sitting.]
Mr. Hodgson then sent Ph. away, and Mrs. Piper came out of trance
about 11.45.
New York, April 9th, 1894.
April 10, 1894. On this date, at the beginning of a sitting with persons
unknown to Mr. C. and Mrs. H., the hand wrote : "Duane Scott, where is
John ? John, are you there, dear? If so, speak."
Mr. Hodgson then explained that others were sitting, and that he must
go away. "Oh, I'll go. Too bad, sir. He asked me to come in and finish
my statements. Why did he ask this of me ? Why did he not explain 1
You see, I don't know this—too bad. I'll go then. Good evening, sir.
Duane (?) S."
April 25th, 1«94.
Sitter: James Mitchell (Associate A.B.S.P.R.), at house of Dr.
Anna Lukens, New York. R. H. taking notes.
It was on the morning of this day that Mrs. Piper lost conscious
ness momentarily while sitting with some persons who were trying
experiments in crystal gazing and automatic writing. (See p. 344.)
It was probably owing to this that there was a lack of available energy
for the trance in the afternoon. Several different writers apparently
seized the hand in quick succession at the beginning of the sitting, and
I inserted interrogatively what I conjectured to be the names of these
writers, the brief messages being directly pertinent.
[Sitting arranged for soon after 3.30 p.m. Mrs. Piper tries several times
vainly to go into trance. Finally goes into trance about 6 p.m. Apparently
vain attempt to speak. Hand writes : ]
[Ph. writes ?] oot das [ = too sad] on [ = no] light [g and h nearly written
mirror writing.]
["Roland" writes?] Add LO in place of AND . . . ROLLO [See
p. 344.]
["M. M." writes?] tell James I'll see him later. [See second part of
sitting.]
[Ph. writes ?] oot das [ = too sad]
[M. M. writes ? ] Ma [y or g ? ] M—yes.
[Then followed a wild rush of incoherent writing interspersed with words
that suggest portions of a Latin prayer, purporting to come from a Roman
Catholic priest who said that he had taken morphine, and had "just passed
out " but had not intentionally committed suicide. Various other statements
were made, and names and localities were mentioned. I caused inquiries
518 [part
Richard Hodgson.
to be made about what was said (and also about some further statements
made at later sittings), but could find no trace of anything correct. After
this came the following writing purporting to be by the wife of the sitter.]
Mit Mitel—I am she . . . where is my son ? ... do give me
strength . . . oh, yes, indeed, I do, dear, do you miss me 'I . . . I
want to see my husband and you . . . H . . . not yet I will
L [?] will in a moment . . . will you help me to print I a L [1]
yes . . . L.M. . . . I do . . . E.M. is [undecipherable] mine,
and I see my husband ... I do ... I will don't (1) you know E.
. . . E.M. . . . E.M. mother . . . and I . . . we [?] are
with [or both] here . . . Anne . . . Yess, also . . . ddie
. . . ddie . . . ed . . . James . . . (2) Ja . . . speak,
speak,—Jane Jane . . . no me ... I want to see you .
did you not ask for me ? . . . no, but if she was here . . . sister
. . . sister ... I want to say the children are all right, and I am
helping you continually and will do so forever and ever eternally. I wish I
could speak and explain my (3) thoughts [undecipherable] what are canars—
no more cancers—you know, dear—but I want you—I want you—I want you.
Not dead, dear ... I see you ... I see you at all times
. . . Margaret dear . . . Margaret (4) dear ... I am M. M.
as sure as you live ... and not dead, but oh, so strange just now
. . . yes, I wish to tell you all ... I have been patience, have I not
. . . I have don't you think so ? Why did you come to me before, dear
one . . . Will . . . W . . . seen you, dear,—do, oh, help (5)
me . . . seen you, do you mean ? I did once through a gentleman,i—I
don't know, dear. I am with you. Don't go away. Take good care and
don't worry. I said this . . . similar . . . yes . . . yes . . .
no, sir ... I was in a strange light, something like this. Where is
Harry . . . Oh, Harry . . . mine [?] What dear, am I dreaming ?
H . no, he is speaking to me . . . yes .
(6) Will . . . Will . . . Willie come . . . Sargent—he is
here and his mother, Mrs. S. Mrs. S. He knows our ddie. But
where is ddie . . . ddie . . . he is not (7, 8) well . . , El
. . . she will—yes, dear, E . . . I wish I could print it, sir, but it
(Do you mean Edith ?)
Yes, our ddith . . . dith . . . di—I cannot make it, dear, but
you know what I wish to say ; she was very ill but will get well and I was
very anxious to let you know this because it is one of the many things I now
see and know all about, dear. All will be right, and she will get strong and
the change will do her good . . . yes, my dear, I wish you would.
. . . I told one . . . no on . . . S— I did, dear Mary [or
Moy ?] S., don't dear, because I am trying to tell him . . . Mary [or
Moy ?] S. and Mrs. S. . . . C. . . . have I seen him . . . yes,
dear, Will is his and he or . . . no, dear ... I have not seen him,
have I, dear ... he is not with me now . . . where is Al. . .
A L, where is Allien . . . Allen ? . . . yes . . . there are a
i [Re message through another medium.]
xxxni.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 519
number of people who are confusing me a little . . . it is so hard to
talk, dear . . . why . . . yes, our C. . . . what is the matter
. . . I have no cancers more . . . don't think about me as dead,
will F you . . . there is so much I want to say and I can't talk to you,
dear . . . will you . . . will you, dear, will you ... I am
your wife, M.M. . . . and I am in heaven, dear, and now that I can
speak I will wait ... I will, will you, will you wait for me 1
Notes on Sitting of April 25th.
The sitter, J.M., has a wife and two sons, James and George, in spirit
life. Of course, nothing of this was known to Mrs. Piper or to Mr. Hodgson,
and no help was given at the time to Phinuit or the intelligence controlling
the automatic writing.
(1) "E.M." is a daughter living, who has been very ill and is now about
recovered.
(2) I think this "Jane" is an attempt to write "Jamie," the favourite
name of her husband.
(3) Mrs. M. died of cancer.
(4) Mrs. M.'s name was Margaret.
(5) J. M. asked if she has ever communicated with him before.
(6) These names are not known.
(7) See note (1).
(8) Mr. Hodgson asked that this name be printed.
New York, April 26th, 1894.
Dr. R. Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—It may interest you to know that my
wife died of cancer, which explains the allusion to that disease in the
automatic writing of yesterday. . . . I can't explain the " Willie and
Mrs. Sargent " at all.
******
Jas. Mitchell.
April 30th, 1894.
Sitter : Mr. James Mitchell, at house of Dr. Anna Lukens in New
York. This was Mr. Mitchell's second sitting. (First sitting April
25th, 1894. See p. 517.) R. H. taking notes.
[Phinuit.] You're not the strongest man in the country. Blood very
poor, vitality weak, not very much of it, nerves not very strong. You'll
have to take care of yourself, if you want to stay long in the body. Take
exercise and open air, etc. I don't tell you this for idle talk, there's a great
deal of meaning in what I say.
Do you take milk ? (Yes, some.) Don't take it, it sours in the stomach.
Not very good for you. Take a glass of lemonade, hot or cold, better than
milk.
(Wine ?) I shouldn't advise you to take much wine—not very good for
you. Take acid wine instead of sweet. There's a little catarrh in your
520 [part
Richard Hodgson.
stomach, and its all through your system. Right down through the mem
brane, and right through stomach and bowels. You don't want to take milk.
You sometimes have bad taste in the mouth in the morning. Rinse your
mouth out with warm water, and take glass of hot water.
Take a tepid sponge bath. Rub yourself—friction with coarse towel.
Don't think too much. You worry, too.
(1) There's a voice I hear as plainly as you would a bell ring, and she
says: " That's right, doctor, tell him not to worry, because he always did
so—my dear husband—I want him to enjoy his remaining days in the body.
Tell him I'm Margaret Mitchell and I will be with him to the ends of
eternity, spiritually."
**♦**♦
Do you know a gentleman named Adams ? (In the spirit ?) Yes, he used
to know you years ago and your father before you.
(2) Do you remember a funny little house with low-pitched roof, door in
centre, room on each side, and unfinished room at the end ? It had a long
walk—a little pointed path all about it. (Beds 1 flower-beds ?) a blossoming
shrub in the corner. A gateway entrance on the side. This lady's telling
me all about this.
The lady's going to borrow my hand.
There's a George comes here too.
[Hand writes.]
I am Margaret M.
[To R. H. apparently] You are not my husband, sir.
Oh, you are here, aren't you, dear ? I see you now. I want to tell you
how and where I am. How is Edith getting on ? She will be well and
strong yet, dear, but I am most anxious to see and hear about you, dear.
Are you [Requested to write again the last words, ow ing to the difficulty of
deciphering.]
No, I can't—it is too much work and too weakening, and I cannot repeat
—you must help me and I will prove myself to you. I cannot collect my
thoughts to repeat sentences to you. My darling husband, I am not away
from you, but right by your side. Welcome me as you would if I were with
you in the flesh and blood body. [Sitter asks for test.]
(3) Yes, do you remember the little house where we first lived—but you
must read for me—and the little stoop where I used to sit . . . (yes). Who
could know this but your loving Marg . . . Margie . . . Maggie, I
mean,—yes . . yes, dear, yes . . Maggie
(4) [Sitter asks for pet name.] B i . . . B M You called me Maggie
first ... I shall recall the rest and give to you . . . help me . . .
(5) Where is [undecipherable] D e 1 1 i e . . . not quite, dear . . .
but El. . . (6) can't do it . . . the baby . . . Baby with me
Yes, I tried to say this but you see I cannot tell myself just how you
hear me, and it bothers me a little . . . how do you hear me speak,
dear, when we speak by thought only ? but your thoughts do not reach me at
all when I am speaking to you, but I hear a strange sound and have to half
guess . . . How strange you look, my dear, yet I do know you, and
here .
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 521
(Don't you see me at other times ?)
Oh, yes, dearest, and much better than I do when I try to speak, dear,
consequently have to go by what I hear from . . . I'll try, dear.
(Did you ever speak to me before ?)
Yes, once, I . . .
(How ?)
Writing ? . . this very way by writing—
(R.H. : You mean through this medium ?) Yes.
(But through any other person ?)
Yes, once I followed a light, but it was a long way off, dear.
(Do you remember what you said ?)
Not very well. . . . I am with you,—I think it was this, namely, if
I remember rightly,—do not.
[R. H. refers to change of pencil, which is broken.] Pencil, what do you
mean ? I did not say that.
[R. H. explains, and says, not to bother about pencil, etc.]
You must have forgotten, dear. . . . Do not worry about me . .
for me . . . because I am still with you. . . . Do you remember it ?
0)
Yes, in a moment—I will tell you, dear . . . but let me recall one
thing more about the little house. Do you recall how I liked it ? We were
very happy there. Dearest, I am so happy to see you in this peculiar way.
. . (7) George, dear, is all right, and will get settled soon. ... he
will tell you ... he will soon get clear as I am,—don't be anxious
. . I see something belonging to him—give it me, dear.
(8) [Sitter produces gold watch, hand touches it.]
(Do you remember this ?)
Yes, indeed, dear papa . . . father . . .
My dear—what about Peggy— Polly . . . P-O-L ... I can't
write—never mind, dear, here is George—here—all right. now. . . .
Yes, dear father, if you ever had a boy, I am he, George Mitchell [?]
[Hand much excited, and R. H. remonstrates, and holds it, enjoining it to be
careful about the medium's sore finger, and saying that if he can't be quieter,
he can't stay.]
All right, I will go if you wish me to, sir,—oh, do be kind to me, sir !
[R.H. says of course he can stay, etc.]
Where is my dear father .... have him see me as I am .
. . I am with you, dear father, and will you ever forget the day I came
here—night it was—we have none here now—we have no night here, dear
father—I with mother now ... do you remember Grandma ?
(Oh yes.)
She is with us too . . . the little one ... he is not so little
now . . do you hear me . . . mother [?] baby happy [?] b-a-y
[perhaps intended for baby ?] . . . yes, not key . . brother J-a-m-e-s
They are all with us . . we are .
Your name is James, too, and my little brother ... or not so little,
after all ... is named for you, dear father. Now how can I prove
more to you, dear ?
[Sitter asks about some deceased friend, once known to George.]
522 [PABT
Richard Hodgson.
Do I know him ? mine.
(You did know him,—your mother knew him better. Tell his name if
you can. Have you seen him ?)
Did I ? I'll find him for you if he is here near us, father dear.
[Hand feels for something, watch apparently.]
I remember, Ma told me you had it.
[Watch produced again. Hand indicates wants it opened.]
Yes, [Fingers feel inside of case, as though looking for inscription.]
(10) I put it there.—Oh I remember now—it was the silver one I had in
. yes, you remember I lost the chain I had for the other,
yes, I did,—and (11) Davidson—yes—found it had [I] in the water after [i]
I came here. I put this in my watch, G. A. M.
(A isn't right.)
Not A.—not A. . . G. I. M.
(No.)
I can't write it.
(Who is Davidson ? )
My friend, don't you remember ? . . all right, yes, dear mother, I
will. Mother had a cancer [?] did she not. . . . did you know . .
too bad, but it is all right now and . . . not in the least. . . .
S [Q or S] is the middle.
(12) (S, that's right. S is the middle letter.) Yes—yes—
Read. . . . they are in my old silver watch G. S. M. Oh, it will
help me so.—
(13) What became of Rif. . . . Rich. . . . Rise. . . . you
know who I mean. . . . Robert. . . . S[orG?]. . . . I wish
I could remember his name. . . . what—am I. . . . (14) My lungs
are well—yes, my lungs are strong and well.
(Do you remember where you went for your health ?)
(15) Yes, South. . . . good, but not well. . . .
(What friend of ours did you scs there ?)
f[J?]a. . . . do you. . . . W-i-l-l-i. . . . W-a-l-t. . . .
not. . . W-O-D. ... I can't do, father, yet I know perfectly
well. . . he is here. . . . W. ... I wish I could tell you
more about him. W-i-l-l-i-o-n ? Looks like Wilson perhaps.
(That's right, Wilson.)
(16) W-i-l-S-o-N. ... all right I remember, but it is hard to put it
as Pelham asks me—W-I-L-S-O-N. [G. P. apparently asking him to write
the name in capital letters.—R.H.]
(I didn't give him any hints to it.)
Father, why do you say hints ? . . . I don't need hints. I am here,
father, but imperfect as I am, I am your son George S. Mitchell [?]
Do you think consumption a bad thing ?
(Yes, I do, don't you ?)
No, not so bad after all,—Goodbye, father, dear, I'll see you clearer
soon. ...
G.S.M. in my watch.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 523
Father, dear, I am with you. . . . James. . . . Jamie. . . .
James . . . think about me often.
[Sitter places note-book on hand and " What is this 1 "]
(17) My accounts and description of my trip to. Geloo?
[undecipherable.] V E. . . . No, I will, [undecipherable.]
Oh, I remember ... at the office . . . office.
I go there ? often ?
Switz-land 1 in—too bad,—yes, dear mother. . . . love all to Edith,
dear little sister.
(Anybody else you want to send your love to ?)
Yes [undecipherable] . . .J [?] tell [? undecipherable] J-o-s-e. . . .
(18) I am too weak . . . I'll go with you in heaven [?]
Notes on Sitting of April 30th.
(1) This description of J.M.'s physical condition is accurate. Although
well he is not strong, has had catarrhal trouble for years (although Mr.
Hodgson said, on being asked, that he would not have suspected it). Has
been too much given to "worry " during life.
(2) This description of our first home is not quite accurate, especially as
regards the garden infront, it answers to the garden in the rear of the house.
(3) Correct.
(4) Quite true.
(5) This is evidently an attempt to write " Dollie," the name asked for.
(6) " The baby " is probably a dear little grandchild who died a year ago,
—always spoken of in our family as " the baby."
(7) George is my youngest son, dead these eleven years.
(8) This watch belonged to George.
(9) " Jamie " is the other (dead) son.
(10) This was in a silver watch, the first one owned by him. It cannot
now be found.
(11) "Davidson " is not known.
(12) S is the correct middle letter of name.
(13) Rich was the name of a gentleman well known in our family.
(14) George died of consumption.
(15) Correct.
(16) Wilson is the right name, but he is still alive.
(17) The book given him was one of several containing a journal of a
voyage to China via Australia.
(18) Perhaps an attempt to write Jessie, the name of another sister.
New York, May 9th, '94.
Dear Dr. Hodgson,— ... I am very sorry to find that my son's
silver watch was given to a poor relation some years ago, and was afterwards
stolen—so that all trace of it of course has disappeared. . . .
James Mitchell.
2 M
524 [part
Richard Hodgson.
May 25th, 1894.
Sitters : Professor and Mrs. N. S. Shaler, at the house of Professor
W. James. The sitting was arranged for by Professor James, who was
also present taking notes. I quote the account of the sitting given by
Professor Shaler (of Harvard,—the well-known geologist), in a letter to
Professor James.
Cambridge, June 6lh, [1894.]
My Dear James,—At the sitting with Mrs. Piper on May 25th, I made
the following notes :—
As you remember, I came to the meeting with my wife ; when Mrs.
Piper entered the trance state, Mrs. Shaler took her hand. After a few
irrelevant words, my wife handed Mrs. Piper an engraved seal, which she
knew, though I did not, had belonged to her brother, a gentleman from
Richmond, Virginia, who died about a year ago. At once Mrs. Piper began
to make statements clearly relating to the deceased, and in the course of the
following hour she showed a somewhat intimate acquaintance with his
affairs, those of his immediate family, and those of the family in Hartford,
Conn., with which the Richmond family had had close social relations. The
statements made by Mrs. Piper, in my opinion, entirely exclude the
hypothesis that they were the results of conjectures, directed by the answers
made by my wife. I took no part in the questioning, but observed very
closely all that was done.
On the supposition that the medium had made very careful preparation
for her sittings in Cambridge, it would have been possible for her to have
gathered all the information which she rendered by means of agents in the
two cities, though I must confess that it would have been rather difficult to
have done the work.
The only distinctly suspicious features were that certain familiar
baptismal names were properly given, while those of an unusual sort could
not be extracted, and also that one or two names were given correctly as
regards the ceremony of baptism or the directory, but utterly wrong from
the point of view of family usage. Thus the name of a sister-in-law of mine,
a sister of my wife's, was given as Jane, which is true by the record, but in
forty years experience of an intimate sort I never knew her to be called
Jane, in fact I did not at first recognise who was meant.
While I am disposed to hold to the hypothesis that the performance is one
that is founded on some kind of deceit, I must confess that close observation
of the medium made on me the impression that she is honest. Seeing her
under any other conditions, I should not hesitate to trust my instinctive
sense as to the truthfulness of the woman.
I venture also to note, though with some hesitancy, the fact that the
ghost of the ancient Frenchman who never existed, but who purports to
control Mrs. Piper, though he speaks with a first-rate stage French accent,
does not, so far as I can find, make the characteristic blunders in the order
of his English words which we find in actual life. Whatever the medium is,
I am convinced that this "influenco" is a preposterous scoundrel.
I think I did not put strongly enough the peculiar kind of knowledge
which the medium seems to have concerning my wife's brother's affairs.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 525
Certain of the facts, as for instance, those relating to the failure to find his
will after his sudden death, were very neatly and dramatically rendered.
They had the real life quality. So, too, the name of a man who was to have
married my wife's brother's daughter, but who died a month before the time
fixed for the wedding, was correctly given, both as regards surname and
Christian name, though the Christian name was not remembered by my wife
or me.
I cannot determine how probable it is that the medium, knowing she was
to have a sitting with you in Cambridge, or rather a number of them, took
pains to prepare for the tests by carefully working up the family history of
several of your friends. If she had done this for thirty or so persons, I think
she could, though with some difficulty, have gained just the kind of
knowledge which she rendered. She would probably have forgotton that my
wife's brother's given name was Legh, and that of his mother Gabriella,
while she remembered that of Mary and Charles, and also that of a son in
Cambridge, who is called Waller. So, too, the fact that all trouble on
account of the missing will was within a fortnight after the death of Mr.
Page cleared away by the action of the children was unknown. The deceased
is represented as still troubled, though he purported to see just what was
going on in his family.
I have given you a mixture of observations and criticisms ; let me say
that I have no firm mind about the matter. I am curiously and yet absolutely
uninterested in it for the reason that I don't see how I can exclude the
hypothesis of fraud, and until that can be excluded, no advance can be made.
When I took the medium's hand, I had my usual experience with them,
a few preposterous compliments concerning the clearness of my under
standing, and nothing more.—Faithfully yours,
N. S. Shalee.
May 26<A and 29<A, 1894.
Sitter : Professor C. E. Norton, of Harvard, at the house of
Professor W. James. Appointment made by Professor James, who
was also present most of the time. R. H. also present. The sitting
on May 29th was very short ; there was apparently very little
" energy," not enough for the use of the voice, and the writing was
very incoherent. On May 26th also the writing was more incoherent
than usual. G. P. wrote most of the time and referred to Professor
Norton by name. The most important incident had reference to an
inquiry made by Professor Norton which (as was quite obvious to me
at the time and must have been quite obvious to G. P. living and in
full consciousness) concerned a prize essay on Jane Austen, which
G. P. had gained at Harvard. But G. P. communicating did not
give the name of Jane Austen. Professor Norton has made the
following statement :—
Ashfield, Mass., September 1st, 1896.
Dear Mr. Hodgson,—Dr. James asks me to write to you twenty lines
giving my impression of the two sittings with Mrs. Piper which I had at
2 m 2
526 [part
Richard Hodgson.
his house some two years ago. You may recall that the sittings were not
regarded as altogether satisfactory. I made no memoranda of them at the
time, and, after such an interval, any account which I might give of the
sittings would be open to question.
I can only give you a statement of certain general conclusions to which I
came at the time.
First, that there was no question as to Mrs. Piper's good faith, or as to
her delusion in respect to the nature of the influences to which she was
subject when in the trance state.
Her conditions seemed to me analogous to those of an ill person dreaming
a suggested dream, in which trains of dream to which the dreamer has been
accustomed are modified by the special conditions of the moment.
There was no indubitable evidence of mind-reading, but there were some
evidences of imperfect thought-transference.
There was no evidence of acquaintance with any facts known only to
myself, or which were remote and obscure.
But there was enough that indicated a peculiar influence upon tho medium
to interest me greatly in the sittings, and I should not have regretted a
further opportunity of trial of Mrs. Piper's, I will not say powers, but
conditions when in a trance.
As to the origin of many of the phantasmagorias of her trance dreams, I
formed a very distinct opinion, but many experiments would be required to
test its correctness, and these I shall never make.
I am not sure that what I have written is to your purpose. If not, and
you will be so good as to put to me the questions which you wish to have
answered, I shall be glad to answer them to the best of my power.—I am,
very truly yours,
C. E. Norton.
June 1st, 1894.
Sitter : Professor J. Trowbridge, of Harvard, at house of Professor
W. James. Appointment made by Professor James. R. H. present.
Professor James taking notes. Professor Trowbridge made the
following statement in a letter to Professor James :—
Cambridge, June 7th, 1894.
Dear James,—I took to the sitting an Indian handkerchief, brought
from India by Captain Thayer, a brother of Mrs. Trowbridge, who died
about a month ago. He brought it from India in 1859. It has never been
out of Mrs. Trowbridge's hands, and has been worn by her constantly.
I can only give you my general impressions, which, of course, are those
of an untrained observer in the region in question.
I was struck by a sort of insane cunning in the groping of the woman
after something intangible.
It did not seem to me that she simulated a trance state. She was
apparently, as far as I could judge, in some abnormal condition.
I could not discover that she hit upon anything that was connected with
the handkerchief. . . .
John Trowbridge.
xxxin.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 527
June 11th, 1894.
Sitter : Dr. F. H. K., Illinois. Alone. Appointment made by R. H.
Dr. K. afterwards became an Associate A.B.S.P.R., but was a stranger
to me before the sitting. He called at my office as a stranger, and as
I happened to have a "sitting" day vacant just afterwards I told him
that he might take the appointment. His account follows :—
The Quincy House, Boston, [June IZth, 1894.]
On Tuesday, June 12th, '94, through the courtesy of Dr. R. Hodgson, I
enjoyed the opportunity of a sitting with Mrs. Piper. The communications
were almost entirely in writing, and at times were somewhat illegible, but
during the better part of the interview were quite satisfactory.
During the first third part of the sitting, several names came, all of which
were those of strangers to me. The communications to which these names
were signed were irrelevant and upon matters unknown to the writer. After
these names appeared the personality of the control seemed to change, and
from that time through the remainder of the sitting the control purported to
be my late wife, and the name by which I knew her was frequently written.
The messages were in the main very coherent, and corroborated some
messages I had received prior to this in another city. Reference was made
directly to these messages by the medium. Most of the messages were of a
private and personal character, but still a few hints may be worthy of record.
I was asked as to the disposition of my wife's watch, and upon my reply that
I intended giving it to her namesake, the name of the little namesake was
at once written and a minute later the name of the child's mother. Upon
enquiry as to the relationship between these two names, it was correctly
stated that the little girl was the daughter of the C, whose name had been
given. Reference was made as to the location and character of the disease
from which my wife died in correct terms. Many statements were made as
to private matters which can only be verified or disproved at a later date.
I had been introduced to the medium under an assumed name and my true
name had not been mentioned. At the close of the interview I asked for
the signature in full of the control, and at once the three initials of the name
of my wife were correctly given. I asked for the surname, and the maiden
name of my late wife was at once written—a name which has the same initial
letter as my own name. I then asked for the married name, and at once
received it correctly spelled.
I will add that I am an entire stranger in Boston and some of these
names could be known to no one hero but myself. After the control ceased
to write, another control of the medium, Dr. Phinuit, told me that a little
boy, a living relative of mine, had sustained an injury to an elbow or wrist,
but he was doing well at the time. This was correct, for a nephew of mine
had sustained a fracture of the arm a few days previously, a fact which had
not been mentioned by me to anyone.
During the latter part of the interview, the impression produced by
frequent allusions to private matters and the character of the messages
themselves gave rise to a very strong conviction that the control was what
it purported to be, that of my late wife.—Very respectfully, g_
528 [part
Richard Hodgson.
To Miss Edmunds, at a sitting on June 13th, 1894, was said : —
[Phinuit] Do you know Etta? (No.) She wants to send hor love to her
husband in the body.
To 11. H. on June 14th, 1894, was said concerning Dr. K. :—
[Phinuit.]
Tell him that she will prove the test to him that was private to him. She
will do what she said she would. She won't let me tell you what it is, but
he will tell you afterwards. —G-O-O-D—He'll know what that means.
I sent these statements to Dr. K., who replied as follows :—
London, July 20th, 1894.
Dr. Richard Hoimsson,—Dear Sir,—Your very kind letter of June 29th
giving me the messages from " Etta " which came after my visit to Mrs.
Piper was received here this morning. . . . They are perfectly
intelligible to me, as I can explain to you at some future time as she said.
With reference to the writing of June 12th one matter concerning which
there was a positive statement which I could only verify in New York after I
left Boston, I found to be exactly as she stated it would be. I cannot go
further into particulars at present, but will at some future time. . . .
F. H. K.
Dr. K. had another sitting with Mrs. Piper about a year later, on
his way home, I understand, after a trip in Europe. On May 16th,
1896, he made the following statement in the course of a letter in
reply to my inquiry on another matter.
I am tempted to give you a little incident connected with my last visit to
Mrs. Piper, which was only verified when I reached my home. I received
from Mrs. P. a few words of communication from some one who claimed to
bo my Uncle G., recently deceased. I had an uncle with that initial who
had died a short time before. Among other things said was " Give my lore to
L. and tell her I sec the trouble with her eyes." L. is the initial of my uncle's
widow. As you remember I had but just returned from a year's trip abroad,
and I knew nothing about my Aunt L., and of course did not understand the
message. Later, when I reached my home, I found out that my aunt had
been for some little time under treatment for some trouble with her eyes.
December 13th, 1894.
Sitters : Professor J. Estlin Carpenter, of Oxford, and Mrs.
Carpenter, at the house of Professor James, by whom the sitting was
arranged, and who was present till Phinuit had said a few words,
when his place as recorder was taken by Professor Edward Cummings,
of Harvard, who, Professor James informs me, had had two sittings
with Mrs. Piper some years previously " with success." Professor
James adds :—
" Mrs. James and Mrs. Piper were in the same room when Professor
J. Estlin Carpenter of Oxford entered. He was introduced as Mr. Smith
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 529
to Mrs. Piper, and withdrew, speaking to her, to the end of the room.
His wife then entered and was greeted by Mrs James inadvertently as
' Mrs. Carpenter,' which of course annuls the best test of this sitting."
The following is the statement by Professor Carpenter :—
Cambridge, December 14th, 1894.
Dear Professor James,—I had a sitting yesterday with Mrs. Piper at
your house, and was greatly interested with the results obtained, as they were
entirely unexpected by me. Various persons were named and described
whom we could not identify (my wife was present) ; but the names of my
father and mother were correctly given, with several details which were in
no way present to my mind at the time. The illness from which my father
was suffering at the time of his death was identified, but not the accident
which took him from us. A penknife which I happened to have with me
was rightly referred to its place on the desk in his study ; and after
considerable hesitation Mrs. Piper wrote out the word organ when I asked
concerning other objects in the room. She added spontaneously a very
remarkable item about which I was in no way thinking, viz., that on Sunday
afternoons or evenings (her phrase was "twilight") we were accustomed to
sing there together. She stated correctly that my mother was older than my
fat her but died after him ; and she connected her death with my return from
Switzerland in a manner that wholly surprised me ; the fact being that her last
illness began two or three days after my arrival at home from Lucerne. She
gave the initials of my wife's name rightly, and addressed words to her from
her father, whose first name George was correct. She also desired me in my
father's name not to be anxious about some family matters (which have only
recently come to my knowledge), though their nature was not specified.
Finally, though I should have mentioned this first, as it was at the outset of
the interview, she told me that I was about to start on a voyage, and
described the vessel in general terms, though she could not give me its name,
or tell mo the place where it was going. I saw enough to convince me that
Mrs. Piper possesses some very extraordinary powers, but I have no theory
at all as to their nature or mode of exercise.—Believe me, faithfully yours,
J. Estlin Carpenter.
February 10th, 1895.
Sitter : Mr. W. B. C, alone. Appointment made by R. H. Mr.
C. sent the following account with subjoined table. I believe that I
was unaware of any of the facts referred to at his sitting except his
connection with music.
June 2\st, 1895.
My Dear Mr. Hodcson,— . . . Mrs. Piper's manner of entering
the trance was in no way different from what your descriptions led me to
expect.
There was physical contact during the whole sitting, the weight of the
upper part of her body being supported through her forehead resting on the
back of my wrist and hand.
530 [part
Richard Hodgson.
I endeavoured to keep track of the statements which were not correct
equally with those which were, but I am quite aware of the difficulty of so
doing, and that nothing short of a stenographic report would be trustworthy
in that respect. In cases where there was an unmistakable element of
truth I found my mind constantly tending to overvalue the amount of the
truth and to fit in or ignore the incorrect to an alarming degree. The value
therefore of my conclusions is limited by my personal equation of self-control
of which I can naturally not be a judge.
I have endeavoured to divide the statements made by Mrs. Piper into
several headings, for a description of which I will refer you to the subjoined
little table. I have numbered the items and have commented on them
following the table.
I may say at once that the thesis, which this sitting tended to support, is
that she was in condition to be able to draw upon my unconscious memory
with limitations which I had not evidence enough to define. The effort to
will a particular vividness of remembrance seemed of no avail whatever in
assisting her, and was possibly even an impediment to the ease of her
demonstrations.
Before going to Mrs. Piper I had no knowledge that anyone else held the
same view in regard to her. It came to me before speaking to any one about
the sitting as the result of that sitting and was reinforced by many small
points which I could only describe at great length if at all. I have given a
few below.
I should say further that though some months previously a separation
from a most valued friend, a man, under the most painful circumstances,
and the death of a very near relative had taken place, it was not with the
slightest idea of hearing anything from them that I went to Mrs. Piper. I
did not then believe nor do I now see any re>ison for believing anything
prophetic or supernatural in anything Mrs. Piper accomplishes.
From all possible evidence, for which in fact you can best vouch, Mrs.
Piper never saw or knew of me or my name.
Some of the items in the table are marked H to indicate those which it
was within possibility that you should have known and informed Mrs. Piper
about. I leav e you to make such statements in that respect as you see fit.
Referring to the table I will now take up some of the statements.
1. Immediately on going into the trance Mrs. Piper spoke of my being
surrounded by music, sheets of music. I have placed this in the column
"Could have Been Observed" because before the trance began I went to a
piano standing in the room, remarked upon your having spoken of her
daughter's studying music and asked leave to look at the title of the piece
on the rack. The composer was Hunter, who writes for children and
students. I carelessly enough showed my familiarity with him which would
have been sufficient to show that I had done something, even much, with
music, which has always been the case.
2-7. Next followed a torrent in regard to the difficulty with the friend of
whom I have spoken above. The chief assertions (such as that there was a
difficulty with a friend, misunderstanding, life broken up, would all come
right, etc., etc.) I have divided into six points, three of which might have
been the stock guessing of a fortune teller in a similar case, but the other
xxxiii ] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 531
three were certainly more remarkable. I do not give details as they are too
personal, and because I found in this part of the sitting nothing to put into
the column (the last two) bearing most strongly on the general thesis, except
that they raise the average of correctness and were perhaps a little more
than could havo been expected in concord and proportion with the weight of
this matter on my mind over all others. A photograph of this person was
touched by Mrs. Piper according to her custom, but no name or writing.
She gave immediately and correctly, however, the first initial of his name,
which is, it should be remarked, one of the most common in the English
language. But she could only complete the name with difficulty. This
rather curiously coincides with the fact that none but his intimates ever
knew and none at all used his first name, as he always signed with the first
initial, full middle, and full last names. The name by which he was
commonly known was his middle one and that Mrs. Piper failed wholly
to give.
8. A first name imperfectly pronounced in Mrs. Piper's French accent
was then given of the only person who knew the circumstances of the above.
It was not till several days after that I recognized from my notes and
description the person and connection, which were then unmistakable, a
circumstance which easily places this mention in the column marked
"Remarkable" from the point of view of connection with my unconscious
memory.
9. In response to the question as to the health of the person referred to
in 2-7, he was said to have a cold and to be at home lying on a couch with
his throat bandaged. He did have a cold at the time but was on no day
absent from his business.
10. The next statement, most suddenly and disconnectedly made, was in
regard to pictures, both pictures and sketches, which she saw about in great
numbers. She insisted on this several times, while, my mind being intent
on the person previously spoken of, I could see no connection whatever.
Asking her for a description, she began to describe my sister, a step-sister,
who had died a few months before and whose whole life was bound up in
painting. [11] The fairly correct physical description had gone but a little
way when she seemed to be seized with an extreme pain most alarming to
me, as it did not seem possibly a part of her trance. The pain was in a part
of the body where a surgical operation had been performed of which my
sister immediately died.
[24] Mrs. Piper then took to writing as under control of my sister and
after a few sentences wrote the complete signature, first name, middle
initial, and last name of my sister. Mrs. Piper had had in touch a letter
from my sister, and I afterwards supposed she had somehow seen the last
name signed to that and I knew she had mentioned the abbreviated form of
the first name. But on referring to the letter still later it was only signed
by initials, and the full name was nowhere mentioned in it nor had been by
me during the sitting. I should call your attention to the fact that as this
sister was a step-sister her last name was different from mine.
12. During the writing very insistent mention was made in regard to a
ring which she wanted taken from its then resting place and given to her
.532 [part
Richard Hodgson.
most intimate friend, M. In answer to my questions the ring was described
as containing a small diamond and as kept in a small box in a writing-desk
upstairs as distinguished from one downstairs. On investigating this
question afterwards I found that there was such a ring but that it contained
two other stones, one each side of the diamond, that it was kept in a small
box in a chest of drawers upstairs at the home of a sister who lives iu a
distant city, and that, as a singular coincidence, it had been taken from there
for the first time in many months on that very date, February 10th, and
placed in a writing-desk. I see no value in any of this part, especially as
the family speak of there being another ring also, about which I can get no
information as yet.
13. The assertion was made that at the moment she spoke of it, 11.53
a.m., a person, G. M. L., was at home writing a letter at his desk. From
the best information afterwards obtainable there were two short periods
during that day when he could have written. During one of them he had
written a note, and one of these periods corresponded with the one during
which I was with Mrs. Piper.
14. The death of this sister, a different one from that mentioned in No.
10, was not by consumption but by typhoid fever. We always regarded her
however as inheriting consumption, and already then showing various
symtoms of it.
16. Her description was meagre but correct, which would accord with
the circumstance that, as she died nineteen years ago, my own remembrance
is meagre.
17-23. Then followed the description of a very intimate friend, F.W. B.,
lately dead, of whom the two most remarkable characteristics, one a very
unusual one, as different from other men, were correctly stated.
25. A return to the person mentioned in 2-7 brought up a description of
a mutual friend who would most naturally have come up in the connection.
I did not at first recognise the person till Mrs. Piper abruptly said that
somel hing was the matter with either the first or second finger of the right
hand. I instantly recognised the person then, and that this was the one
slight physical deformity by which he might have been described by those
of us who had known the cause of it. It then became a question as to
whether Mrs. Piper could name the finger correctly. I exercised all possible
will-power to assist, but she wrongly named the second finger instead of the
first.
26-29. Mrs. Piper then passed abruptly to a criticism of my own physical
condition. There were four chief points, all correct, but as my own ills are
those of thousands, especially in America, I have valued them as in the
table, very little.
30. During the writing purporting to be by my sister, mention was con
stantly made of the name of her most intimate friend, and that without any
question or allusion on my part. In this event there was what seems to me
a singular piece of support for my thesis, for the name by which this friend
was called was that by which I, not knowing her well personally, always
supposed she was called by my sister. But it seems that between them
selves the middle name only was used.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 533
Seance with Mrs. Piper,
February 10th, 1895.
•a «
-2
. - Direct V
Jt — — Assertions. 3
1 -1
II
s ?
'0. Stocuessi
itto, y
act
> Event.
j| V ht
1
R s - as E
H
05
M
V TS
JS Z
1. Connecting me with music H
X X — — — —
2-7. Difficulty with friend
X X — —
8. Mention of names and description
— X X — — — —
in connection with above X —
9. J. ill with cold — X —
>* At home — — — — X — —
10. Pictures — — — — — — H
11. Pain and location — —
' — — — H —
12. Ring — — — — X? — —
13. Exact time of writing letter — — — X >. — —
14. Enumeration of family, living and
dead — — — H — H —
15. R. H. C. died of consumption ... — — — — X — —
16. R. H. C. description — — — X — — —
17. F. W. 1i. description :
height—medium ... — X — X — — —
nose—large — — — X — X —
sides of face very large ... — — — X — — X
somewhat heavy over eyes — — — — X — —
forehead rather high — X — X —
23. hair—brown — — — — X — —
24. Whole signature ... H
25. D.'s injured finger — — — X — X
,, middle ,, — — — — X — —
26. My own state of health X
X
— — — — — —
29.
X
X
30. Naming intimate friend correctly — — — X — X —
31. Other names—several — — — — X — —
32. Other statements ... — — — — X — —
Those marked H could have been known to Mr. Hodgson though I
have no reason whatever to suppose they were. [The only one known to
me was (1).—R. H.]
534- [part
Richard Hodgson.
31. Various other names were mentioned in both the writing and speak
ing, some entirely unknown to me and others proving nothing.
32. Various statements also were made which were such as any fortune
teller might make, having a general bearing, but no special worth. I am
bound to say, however, that they were few, which on the other hand again
may be accounted for by my interposing definite questions when such
remarks became at all tedious.
I have nothing more to add except that the total result seems best
represented by the contents of columns 6 and 7 of the table. . . .
W. B. C.
September 9lh, 1895.
Sitter : Professor J. M. Baldwin. Appointment' made by Professor
W. James. [Sitting probably held at house of Professor James in
Cambridge.] Professor Baldwin made the following statement : —
Princeton, N.J., September 13th, 1895.
My impressions noted immediately after my sitting with Mrs. Piper,
September 9th, are about as follows :—
1. There are three elements of truth in the matter of her "messages"
which need explanation : her description of certain facts of my brother's
life ; the initials H. B. and H. H. B. (my wife's initials) in connection with
the seal which I put in her hands—a seal given to me by my wife ; and her
telling of the death of another brother in boyhood.
2. These elements of truth were, however, so buried in masses of
incoherent matter and positive errors as to matters in which she tried to
give information, that the sense of her failure on the whole is far stronger
with me.
3. Even as to the fact of her being in a trance at all, my impression Ts
not strong despite the fact that I came fully expecting to be convinced on
that point.
4. My state of mind, therefore, is almost the same that it was before the
sitting, i.e., a condition of willing approach to any evidence on either side
of the question at issue ; I am only disappointed that she did not give me
more data for forming a positive opinion. 1 am fully aware, however, that
one such sitting has very little negative weight, considering the variations
which this sort of phenomena are subject to.
J. Mark Baldwin.
About November 30th, 1895.
Sitter : Professor Herbert Nichols.
Professor Nichols lectured for some time at Harvard University.
The following account, undated, was forwarded to me by Professor
James, to whom it was sent. I knew Professor Nichols, though not
intimately, and was unaware that he had a sitting until several days
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 535
after his sitting, when a brief message came apparently from his
mother, that led me to surmise that he may have been the "unknown"
sitter for whom I had appointed a day.
******
[Received by R. H. December 24th, 1895.]
Just before coming away I had a wonderful sitting with Mrs. Piper. As
you know, I have been a Laodicean toward her heretofore. But that she is
no fraud, and that she is the greatest marvel I have ever met I am now
wholly convinced. Think my interview more wonderful than any I have
ever heard reported of her before. I went under an assumed name through
appointment made with Hodgson by letter—even he did not know who I
was—probably does not now. The most of the interview, and by far the
important part, was of such a nature I can't write about it, but should like to
tell you somewhat of it sometime.
I asked her scarcely a question, but she ran on for three-quarters of an
hour, telling me names, places, events in most startling manner.
Then she suddenly stopped talking and began writing—this was far less
satisfactory and about an entirely [different] set of matters—mostly about
Mamma (who recently fell and was killed) and message to her grandchildren.
One thing here, however, will interest you. Mamma and I one Christmas
exchanged rings. Each had engraved in his gift the first word of his
favourite proverb. The ring given me I lost many years ago. When
Mamma died a year ago, the ring I had given her was, at her request, taken
from her finger and sent to me. Now I asked Mrs. Piper " What was
written in Mamma's ring ? " and as I asked the question I held the ring in
my hand and had in mind mdy that ring. But I had hardly got the words
from my mouth till she slapped down on the paper the word in the other ring
—the one Mamma had given me, and which had been lost years ago while
travelling. As the word was a peculiar one, doubtfully ever written in any
ring before, and as she wrote it in such a flash, it was surely curious. . . .
[Nichols.]
536 [part
Richard Hodgson.
APPENDIX IV.
The following series of sittings with Dr. and Mrs. A. Blair Thaw
and several of their closely connected relatives and friends are
quoted in full as a specimen series, owing to the completeness of the
record. Some weeks before the date of their first sitting, Dr. and
Mrs. Thaw, who had heard that Mrs. Piper had been reported upon
favourably in our Proceedings, called on Mrs. Piper at her house in
Arlington Heights, Mass., and requested a sitting, without giving their
names. Mrs. Piper was ill at the time, and not giving any sittings,
and referred them to me. They called on me, and expressed their
desire for a sitting, and finally gave me their address in New York.
They were previously entirely unknown to me and were not members
of our Society, and did not give me their names till the end of our
interview. I told them that Mrs. Piper expected soon to visit one of
our members, Dr. Anna Lukens, living in New York, and a sitting
might be arranged for them there. In consequence they had their first
sitting at the house of Dr. Lukens, to whom they were previously
unknown. Their next three sittings were at Mrs. Piper's house in
Arlington Heights, and the May sittings were in New York or its
vicinity, where Mrs. Piper was their guest. The sitting of January
16th, 1893, was at a friend's house in Boston. The omitted portions
of the sittings, marked by asterisks, and all of which I have seen,
consist, for the most part, of references to living persons, showing an
intimate knowledge of their character. The record of one sitting,
which came between the numbered sixth and seventh, is omitted
altogether, at the request of the sitter, as being too intimately personal,
and containing much very private matter concerning the deceased.
The persons who had sittings were Dr. and Mrs. A. B. Thaw, Mr.
Lorenzo Dow and Mrs. Sabrina Dow (the father and mother of Mrs.
Thaw), Mr. Alexander Dow (the brother of Mrs. Thaw), Mr. George
Perkins, an intimate friend of the Thaws and of Mr. A. Dow, and at
that time associated in business with him, Mr. Melvin W., the agent
of Dr. Thaw's country estate, and Miss Ellen Heffern, the nurse of
Dr. Thaw's children. It may be said that in the later sittings, at any
rate, some of the information given may have been acquired by Mrs.
Piper, since she was a guest at the house of the Thaws. This, of
course, cannot be denied. Dr. Thaw, however, was a careful investi
gator, and was well aware of the necessity of adopting such precautions
as were possible under the circumstances ; and there are various
xxxni.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 537
incidetits in the later sittings which probably few persons would
suppose that Mrs. Piper could have " got up " or heard about before
hand, such as the information given in connection with special articles
presented as tests, or the prophecy, afterwards fulfilled, that Dr.
Thaw's brother W would die in sleep, in six months or less, of
heart failure.
Some of the most striking incidents in the series occurred at the
first sitting, in connection with the deceased children of the Thaws,
and with their friend " Dr. H." In considering the hypothesis of
imposture, first sittings, of course, caeteris paribus, are of the most
evidential value ; but it is only from series of sittings with the same
sitters, or the same " communicators," that we can hope to arrive at
satisfactory conclusions concerning the significance of the phenomena.
Some of the more important incidents that occurred in this series of
sittings are quoted on pp. 351-2, 384-5. Of the many other references
to friends and relatives mentioned at the sittings I have not given any
summary. The records should be read in detail to be appreciated, as
the form in which the information is given is in most cases not
less important than the matter.
First Sitting. February 14th, 1892.
[Present : Dr. and Mrs. A. B. Thaw ; also Mrs. Holmes, who has
quieting physical influence on Mrs. Piper. Sitting arranged for by
Dr. and Mrs. Thaw, without giving names. Mrs. Piper says she is in
strong physical condition. Dr. T. writing notes. Mrs. T. and Mrs. H.
both sitting with Mrs. P. Convulsions strong ; continue ten minutes.
Mrs. H. steps aside.]
Phinuit : Bon jour ! Comment vous portez-vous ? I'm Dr. Phinuit.
Frenchman ! [Stroking Mrs. T.'s face.] This is nice little lady. Not very
well, but good little lady, nice little lady.
Charlie ! Come here, Sis ! [Phinuit's mme for Mrs. H.] [To Mrs.
H.] Keep your Charlie and Harry out of the way. I want to talk to these
people. Who's that standing there writing ? He's a good fellow, but kind
of cranky. I don't mean any harm by " cranky."
[1.] A little child comes here to gentleman. Puts hand on his head.
[Child always did so.] Light golden hair. [Correct.] [Dr. T. has hair in
pocket ; stands ten feet away.] Little boy. [Child was very generally
mistaken for hoy.]
Phinuit [in a child's voice, for "R."] : Tell mamma not to trouble so.
[Here, and at times later, there seemed to be great physical distress and pain
in abdomen, throat and head.] It pains me so here. [Hands on abdomen.]
[Correct. Child had dysentery, with sore throat.] My throat hurts. The
powder ! Take it away. 1 don't like it. Take it away. [Bismuth was given
through entire illness of two weeks, and was always given with trouble.]
538 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Phinuit : Curly golden hair. [Hair was very curly.]
Phinuit [for R.] : I am not dead. I am not dead. I am not dead.
Phinuit : My head aches so ! [To Mrs. H.] Sis ! Put your hand on
my head. Throat so bad! Hurt so ! [Pause.]
Phinuit [for R.] : I can't tell why mamma don't speak to me ! Don't
put it in the bottle. Take it away.
Phinuit: Little girl! Long light hair. Eh—Eh—Eth- Ethie, Ethie,
Ethie. [Changing sound of E.] She's trying to tell me. Net-tie.
Ne-thie. Can't get it. There's something the matter. This little child
hasn't learned to talk. [Correct, except for a few words which were men
tioned at later sittings.]
[2.] Phinuit [for R.] : Take me up in your arms ! The stars ! Stars !
When I saw the stars, then I knew I wouldn't stay. The book ! I want
the book. The book ! I want mamma to speak to me. I am trying to
reach my mamma. [Phinuit has pains or distress here.]
Phinuit : Never saw any one so anxious to come. Trying to get through
the veil. But can't do it. [Some mumbling here.]
Phinuit [for R.] : I've come such a long way to speak to you, mamma.
They took all my things and put them in the box. [Correct.] I didn't like
that. Oh, dear ! There's papa too.
Phinuit : This is dreadful. This littlo girl will take me out with her.
She's tearing me to pieces. [Great pain apparently.] See the littlo curls !
Ethie! Ethie! Oh, dear ! Oh, dear ! [More suffering.] What do I see ?
I don't want Harry. [To Mrs. H.] [Pause.] Here come two! Baby and
little girl. [Correct. She's gone to get baby.
Phinuit [for R.] : She's here, too. And I'm not sorry.
Phinuit : Ellie—Ethie. [We tell Phinuit that the first letter of the
name is R.] These children are crazy, trying to get to you. To reach
through the veil.
Phinuit [for R]: I've been to you once. [Ab >ut six weeks after her
death Mrs. T. woke one night and heard a noise like light rapping on the foot
of ihe bed, which lasted for several minutes. She told me about it in the
morning.] I'll come again often. Some time you'll see me. See papa
writing. Tell papa to go home and think about it. Tell papa I'll come t,>
him, too. I'll touch him.
Phinuit : Ret-tie. Ret-thie. [Phinuit is given watch and chain that
belonged to Dr. T.'s mother, who died thirty years before.] Here comes a
lady. Grandma ! She's here, too, with children. Grandpa in the body.
[Mrs. T.'s father is living.] Never saw such a trouble to reach anybody.
[Another pause. ]
[Loud.] H-T-U-R H-T-U-R. [Ruth backward.] Ruthie. [Child
was always so called and with about equal accent on each syllable, as
pronounced here by Phinuit.] Who's Mar—M;ia—Mar—Mar— [Mary and
Margaret pronounced later.]
Oh, dear ! In the body. Another one, to be. Coming to stay with
you. [See later in this sitting.]
I've got something the matter with my teeth. [Baby was teething when
she died.]
Two little girls. One want's baby's beads. Mar—Marie. Mar—Ma—
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 539
[Margaret used to play with a necklace of gold beads belonging to her older
sister Beatrice (living).] Grandma's sister Marie. [Mary. Correct.]
Phinuit [for R.] : Speak to me. Don't fret for me so. Take me in your
arms, mamma. [Suddenly.] And there's my picture ! [Mrs. T. was painting
a picture of Ruthie when she was taken ill.] It's good. It was the last
chance. I watched it every day. And you never did better.
Phinuit : They're not very old. She seems to be delighted. Puts arms
around mamma's nock. One comes first and brings little one. Only says
papa and mamma.
Phinuit [for R.] : That thing they put in the box was not me. I'm not
dead.
Phinuit : This little girl had some flowers in her hand. [Referring to
the other one, Margaret.] Liked them and took them with her. Now she's
brought them with her to you. [Mrs. T. placed three little flowers in
Margaret's hand after her death.]
Phinuit [for R] : Little chain and locket ! I want it. I'm not talking
about locket. I want the chain. [See later about necklace and rosary.]
Little sister's not dead.
Phinuit : I can see— Who's Ellie—Ella—Ellen 1 [Nurse's name is
Ellen.] Mar— This little one makes me quite ill. [Motion of patting.]
Pat ! Pat ! Pat ! [Foi R.] I want to pat papa's face. [Dr. T. takes one
hand of Mrs. P.] Phinuit pats Dr. T.'s face. [This very characteristic.]
Phinuit : Maa— Maa— Mar— Look at the light hair. Mamma puts it
on her finger. [Feeling heads of Dr. and Mrs. T. above the ears, where the
baby's hair curled most.]
Phinuit [for R.] : Not Ruth. Call me Ruthie.
Phinuit : Who's mother ? Grandma. Hear the little one call Grandma.
Phinuit [for R.] : Tell papa to think it over, and when alone I'll come
again.
Phinuit : Give me the watch. [Takes watch again.] There's a little
book. Cards ! With picture on it. Four together. One separate. [Not
recognised.] Where's Sis ? [Pain in head again.]
[To Dr. T.] : I'll let you go, gentleman. I'll speak to you presently.
[Pause.]
(Mrs. T. : Tell me about baby.) Phinuit [suddenly and loud] : She's
gone to get Margaret. [Correct.] Margery—Margaret—Marguerite. They
want to speak to mamma. This little girl brings flowers.
Phinuit [for R.] : Come to me often. I will touch you and papa both.
Phinuit [impressively] : Friends, let me speak a word to you. Let me
tell you there will be another that will stay. [Mrs. T. asks if there are any
more.] One now. Only one.
Mrs. T. : (Will she stay ?)
Phinuit : She will stay. One more ! [Mrs. H. asks, " Boy or girl ? "]
Phinuit : I'm a little boy. Three sisters ! Two to stay and two to go,
but not to die ! [Pause.] [Mrs. T. has since had two children, both girls,
born one in October 1893, the other in September, 1895.]
H . H . H . Oh, dear. He's with us, too. Seems to be
a gentleman. He's coming, too. [Confused.] [To Mrs. H.] That's yours,
Sis ! H , you go off. Oh, my head feels so bad !
2 n
540 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Phinuit [for R.] : Speak to me, mamma ! Speak to me. I want to stay.
Can't you think I'm here ? Tell papa. [Watch is given again.] Watch.
Grandma's. Put Sis's hand on my head. [Short pause.]
Ruth ! Two Ruths ! Two of them. Mamma's grandma. [Correct.]
[Pause ]
Phinuit : George, in the body. A friend. 11l. Is going to pass out
suddenly. Lung trouble. Away now. [See reference to George Perkins
in later sittings.]
Phinuit [for R.] : Great grandma. My namesake. [Correct.] [A. B. T.
asks whose watch it is.] Watch not Ruthie's, but papa's mamma's watch.
[Correct.]
(A. B. T. : Do you know her name ?) Phinuit : She'll tell me. Too
weak now. [Another pause.] [Loud.] Friend! HOW A — He's talking
to me. I hear him whisper. He's coming nearer. [Phinuit here gives a
nickname for a friend recently dead. Nickname not known to any one
present. On inquiry his widow said it was the name commonly used by his
mother and sisters, all dead, but not used by any one living. A. B. Thaw.]
[3.] H . H . [Giving name of friend.]
(Mrs. T. : Does he know the babies ?) Phinuit : [Speaking softly and
with feeling.] Quite well, quite well. [True.]
(Mrs. T. : What is he doing ?)
Phinuit : Hears music. Puts paint on. [Mumbling. Indistinct.] [Loud.]
He writes fast. H .
H. : Write it for me. Write it for me. H . No more tronble now.
It was my head. [Correct.] I was wandering a little. [Correct.] Not now.
[4.] Tell F I don't suffer any more. [Voice weaker.] [Loud and
in characteristic manner.] How are you 1 We are all brothers and sisters.
[Weaker.] Give me love. [Pause. Something about F . Whispers.]
(Mrs. T. : Have you a message for any one else ?) H. : Give my love—
to my wife. [Whispering.] Tell her I'm very happy now. Phinuit :
[Loud.] He's gone.
(Mrs. T : Is there any other friend ? What about the one who paints ?)
Phinuit : He puts it on that way. [Motions with hand.] He puts it on
canvas. Who's Louis ? Tell C. H. [Unintelligible.] [Loud.] Here it is.
Oh, here. Oh, dear ! You seem so stupid. W H W .
(Surname began with W.]
(Mrs. T. : How does he look ?) Phinuit : He looks so fine. He puts
hand on head. [Suddenly.] Where's F ? [F was the first name
of the painter friend.] I am not so far away after all. Did you see me
paint 1 I painted for him. [Points at Dr. T. One of his last pictures was
an order for Dr. T.] Phinuit : Friends ! I can say no more. R. : Mamma !
Don't trouble.
Further Comments on Sitting of February 14<A, 1892, by Dr. Thaw.
I. My child Ruthie had died three months previously, at the as;e of
fifteen months. Her twin sister Margaret, mentioned later, died twelve
months before the sitting. Ruthie had a special habit of putting her hand
on my head, and also of patting it.
xxxni.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 541
2. For two or three months prior to her death Ruthie was fond of
pointing at the stars through the window. She was particularly fond of
her picture books.
3. Dr. H , our dearest friend, though known to us for only three
years before his death, which occurred about eighteen months prior to the
sitting.
4. F was the name of his brother, a physician, with whom Dr. H.
had corresponded concerning the cause of his illness and the nature of the
early head symptoms.
Second Sitting. February 27th, 1892.
[R. Hodgson and Miss R. have first part of sitting ; those present
at last half are Dr. and Mrs. A. B. Thaw and Mrs. Thaw's brother,
Mr. A. Dow, who writes shorthand.]
Phinuit : Well, well, well, where did you come from?—Oh look ! Well,
you are a dear little lady any way. Hodgson, you go out. H. : Well, good bye,
Doctor. [He goes out.] Phinuit: Au revoir, Hodgaon. Keep a stiffupper
lip and behave ! [To Dr. and Mrs. T.] I'm so glad to see you. [To Miss
R] Good-bye. Why don't you stay t
Oh, I am so glad to see you. Are you pretty well 1 All pretty well !
Well ! Here is—Oh dear! Give me—[Feeling in Dr. T.'s pockets ; gets
envelope with chain of beads mentioned in last sitting of Dr. and Mrs. T.,
and belonging to Beatrice. See below.]
Baby's here. [Rubbing chain on head and breathing hard.] I'm here.
But I want—that's what I want. [Getting chain out of envelope.]
Phinuit : Come here, little girl, come here. Tells me to pat you on the
head. [To Dr. T.] That's it. She talks very sweetly and very softly.
She comes here and says that — Who is B — Berthie — Bertie —
B-E-A-R-T-A-I-C-E. [Living child Beatrice—her own pronunciation.]
Ruth, Ruthie — Ruthie here—This little girl—Will you give me a piece of
something belonging to this little girl ? I want those little light curls.
She has a whole head full of little curls. [See first sitting.]
Speak to me. I'm not dead—not dead—not dead. She makes me put
my hand on you. She tells me to do this. She has brought another little
girl. Little Marjery—Marjaret. You speak to papa too. She's your baby
,—She comes very near to you. There ! Talk to her. Wait a minute.
[Pause.]
(Mrs. T. : What do they do there ?) Phinuit : They're playing with the
beads. [Twines beads around hands.] She makes me take this little thing
this way, and puts it down, down over my wrist that way. You see she
knows this. She used to have this to play with in the body. And she sees
mamma in the body. And there's only a veil.
M. : I can see you, but you can't see me. I will come to you—I will
come to you. You will see me soon ! Soon !
Phinuit : She says you will see her soon. This dear little thing is all in
white. And she says you will see her when she comes, wearing something
looking white. You talk with her. She makes me play with these.
2 n 2
542 [part
Richard Hodgson.
(Dr. T. : Can you ask who is taking care of them ?) Phinuit : She's all
right. She's all right. Margie's all right. But who is Bet—Bet ?—Tie—it
sounds like Tie—I send love to Bettie. [Family name for Beatrice.] Bettie's
in the body. Is all right. [Pause.]
Who's George ? [Mr. D.'s chum, George Perkins. Last name given
later.] [Feeling Mr. D.'s face.] Oh, you're a good fellow. You go on and
write. Who's George, George there—George ? George. [Loud.] Here,
Uncle George ! Uncle George in the body. There is—this isn't right—I'll
straighten it out.
R. : I want you to speak to me, mamma ! (Mrs. T. : Dear baby !) R r
And I see you. (Mrs. T. : What can I do to see you ?) R. : You do what
you do do. You will hear my fingers tapping, tapping. I will be there—I
will be there. My stomach is not sick any more. And I'm happy. And
I'm so glad to see you.
(Mrs. T. : What are you doing ?)
R. : I'm playing. I'm playing all right. Don't you see ? Don't you
know baby ? Papa, dear, you've changed. You look funny. Why is that ?
I want to pat you so. (Dr. T. : Who takes care of you ?) R : I have a sister.
Phinuit : Grandmother's watch. [Taking watch. Correct.] I'll take it.
Here's Ruthie and a Ruth. Great grandmother. [Correct.]
(Dr. T. : Whose watch was it ?) Phinuit : That's my grandmother's
watch. I will get her here in a minute. She didn't come with the child.
But I'll bring her here to talk with you. She's been here a long time. But
I'll send the children away to get her and bring her here to me. [Aside.]
You get out of the way.
Love to Betty, Betty in the body. Dear Betty. I want to see Betty,
Betty ! I'm not dead. I'm alive.
(Dr. T. : How about grandmother !) Phinuit : That youngest child has
gone to get her.
(Mrs. T. : Can they walk now ?) Phinuit : Walk ! Certainly ! There's
only a veil between.
Hodgson ! Where's Hodgson ? (Dr. T. : He's gone). Phinuit : One of
his friends just came up here.
[To Dr. T.] If you will be a little patient with me, I can get the
influence of these here. [Watch.] I can get your mother. I will get her.
But who is that calls Abbie ? A—B—I don't know how you spell this
word. A—D—Who is that ? Tell A [A is name of living daughter
of Dr. H .] She's calling for this lady. Here comes a lady to you. You
have got her picture—a very large picturo of her. [Correct of Dr. T.'s
mother.] And she has come. She is attracted by the influence in the body.
I will awaken her in a minute. Don't hurry me, please. The children
don't like to be sent away. The little one is gone. Little Ruth is here with
me, with little light curls all over her head. [To Dr. T.] She makes me
pat your head. But two will stay. Little Betty is going to stay in the b >dy
with you. And there is going to be one more that is going to stay. There
will be two with you and two of us here. I can't quite— [Broken.]
Her voice isn't very strong—and it's a child's voice, you see. And it's
weak, you understand. And it's very much like a little baby that doesn't
talk quite plain.
xxxin.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 543
(Mrs. T : Does she live in a home the way we do ?)
Phinuit : She lives in a house just exactly as you do. And you attract
her attention ; she notes every motion of your body. Will you speak to
this little girl ? She used to play with these when in the body. This one. —
Where's the crib 1— You know the picture ? Mamma's lovely picture.
You did the picture.
(Dr. T. : What kind of a picture ?)
Phinuit : Oh, the hair is so pretty ! It looks as if it was going to speak,
doesn't it, dear ? [Pauso.]
You know me, dear ? Where is A in the body t [A living daughter
of Dr. H., and a great friend of Mrs. T.'s.] Mother comes here, a lady,
and sends her love to A . A . A . Who is this lady ? I don't
know this lady. You wait a minute. A is in the body ; she is con
nected with you. [To Mrs. T.] And that sister died. Brother George. Her
brother George. [A.'s dead brother.] I can't tell you. But there is an
elderly lady here. Tell me this. . . . You know I have something the
matter with my heart. You know what I mean, and I'll be all right.
[A had a brother George, deceased, and also a sister deceased. These
facts were known to us. We were unaware of the cause of the sister's death,
but afterwards ascertained that the cause was heart disease.—A. B. T.] Any
questions you want to ask 1 (Dr. T. : How about grandma ?) Phinuit :
Little girl gone for grandma.
Mamma, speak to me. Speak to little Ruthie. I'm here just now. I'm
here alone. They will be here soon. Don't worry. The little one is gone
to get her. [Pause.] Here's H .
I've come to put in a word a minute. I want to say there is no death. I
am living. I am with you still —and fear not. Close your eyes and go
to sleep. Waken up, and it's all over. You live again. And not much
memory of what has transpired. I see you clearly ; as clearly as anything
you like. I will answer for it. I was never so glad to see anybody as I am
glad to see you. Tell my wife I live. What are they doing ? (Mrs. T. :
What are who doing ? ) Why do they mourn ? Why fret for me ? They
must not weep ; I cannot have it so. Tell them it is wrong. I live. I —
Phinuit : Wait a minute. He has lost his word. Wait a minute. I'll be
back in a minute. [Pause of several seconds.] Phinuit : Here he is ! Here
he comes !
Has anybody a word from Top ? [Nickname of best friend of painter F—
in first sitting.] I want to do—I want—Tell Top all's well that ends well ;
and all that is well, is well. You tell them I'll prove it to them yet. Hurry !
Who's Penkie—Perkie—Pinkins— Perkins ? [Mr. D's chum.] I couldn't
get that name. But it is he I want.
(Mrs. T : Is he all right ? ) Phinuit : Well, I should laugh if he wasn't !
Tell them I am level headed yet. [Common saying of Perkins's friend who
•died recently.] It's all right. It's all right, now.
He is writing. Who is writing ? Who is writing 1 Where is Top ? Here's
the little one. Who's Margaret 1 There are two -two Margarets. There are
two Margarets. One for you [to Dr. T.] and then there's a little one.
There are two Margarets. [All correct.] And there is something to do
•with this. [Beads again.]
544 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Margaret had this—owned this. I got that as a plaything. She says
you gave that to her to play with. Well, take that away. [Watch again.]
There is—Who's Aunt Margaret ? But if I see rightly, I will hear it over
again. There's a sister of somebody—Aunt ! We have called Margaret.
She's an aunt Margaret, if I see rightly. [Dr. T's sister Margaret, and
Babies' aunt.] If you can't connect this, I can't get it for you. It is very
difficult for me to get it straightened. S-A-R-A-H. [P.'s grandmother's
name.] It sounded like—I don't know, I don't know. Yes ! She is talking
with me, but it's so indistinct ! [To Dr. T.] Which one of your brothers
had a sore throat ? He's had a sore throat, they tell me, but it's better now,
and he's gone away. He's writing. He's getting well now, and he's going
to be better still. [All correct.] But he is positive ! He's such a peculiar
fellow. And they hardly understand him sometimes. He'll be better some
time. But wait a minute ! Who's this calling me ?
[To Dr. T.] This is your mother. This is her watch. She says, "Tell
W——[Dr. T's. father] that the baby is all right." [Mother died in
premature childbirth , but father was also dead at the time of the sitting.]
[But Dr. Thaw's then living brother was also named W . See below.—
R. H.] 1 don't know what that means.
(Dr. T. : Will she say anything more to me ? ) Phinuit : It seems to me
she was unconscious. She loses herself. But I tell you she's been here a
long time. [Twenty-nine years.] And.it bothers her to recall. I think
she'll recall it all right.
But I wish you would tell me who A—A—Wait a minute ! A—1—Alfred
—Al—Elf— I tried to get that for you, but I can't—Alfred. Will you under
stand that, if you can ? Wait a minute ! He's connected with you. [Dr. T.
had brother Albert.] And I got the name. Florence—Florry. [Mrs. T.'s
name.] Who is—She doesn't seem to know quite who that was—(Mrs. T. :
That's I.) Phinuit : Why don't you tell her so l Tell her ! Talk to her
and make her recollect. What can she say— She has sometimes lost
consciousness. She's very well indeed. But you must tell her ! Explain
to her ! But it's hard for her to recall. But you are married since she
passed out of the body. And there are three children. [Correct.]
(Dr. T. : Are they with her ? Does she know about my father ? )
Phinuit : W . Who is W 1 W , that's a brother ! [Correct.]
Brother W . [Correct.] Well ! There are two W 's. There are
W and W , a father W and a son W you see ? [All correct.
Name of father and son, with diminutive for son correctly given.]
I have a— of that for you.
(Dr. T. : How about father ?) Phinuit : I get his influence too. I get
your father's influence, not very strongly. It is weak. And he is weak. Do
you know what I mean ? [Turning to Mrs. T.] Who is connected with you
that is paralyzed ? There's a relative of yours here, who passed out of the
body, who had parnlysis, and don't you forget it ! I know what I am talking
about ! (Mrs. T. : You are right.) Phinuit : Of course I'm right. I know
that you can't recognise everybody, but at the same time he is here. At
the same time, he is a gentleman. [Mrs. T. saw her grandfather only once,
when a child.] Wait a minute ! He is a relative of yours. But he brings
one that passed out with paralysis. [To Mrs. T.] And this is a relative of
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 545
yours. But also there is Ruth. She passed out.—This is your mother's
mother. [Correct.] And she passed out of the body with paralysis ; and
don't you forget it ! [All correct.]
Now wait a minute ! Here is—I want you to tell who M is — M .
[To Dr. T.]. That comes to you. And this woman sends her love to father
—and this in the body. And this seems to be connected with—But let us
see —[Dr. T's sister living.] That's all right. Here comes the baby again.
Speak to me, papa. She's with me. We're both here. (Dr. T. : Can you
talk ? ) Can I talk ? Can I talk 1 This is the baby. This is little Margaret.
I can speak to you, but not very plain.
Phinuit : But still she speaks.
I found grandma. Other lady. Who is L L E 1 [Correct.]
[To Dr. T.] Dear boy ! [E. is Dr. T's mother.] W is here too.
Phinuit : Friends, you know I am getting too—will you tell me what I
shall say to him 1
I can't say good-bye to you, for I'll be with you just the same. Tell my
son I love him well.
E. : Ask him if he doesn't love me.
Phinuit : She says to them—
E. : I have been here for many a long year. I love you, and my interests
are always with my children. I cannot stay here. I am weak yet. I will
talk with you better next time. Shall I speak to you before you go ?
(Dr. T. : Are you all happy there ?)
E. : I am very happy. Oh, if you will only believe there is no death I
I live and love you. Don't let these little things worry you. It grieves
me. Will you cherish me in your memory as you always did, and think of
me as I am ? Watching over you. [To Mrs. T.] This dear little woman.
[Placing hands on heads of Dr. and Mrs. T.] Who is L ? I don't know.
1 only love you. I will stay with you.
R. : Speak to me. Tell Betty I love her.
(Mrs. T. : How does Margaret look ?)
Phinuit : The dear little thing—dear little thing. There, pat her, and
papa, we love.
M. : He used to take me on his arm. I see him. He can take me no
more in the body, but in the spirit, if he will. You have carried me, you
have seen me. You will see me again. Truly, truly, truly !
(Mra. T. : What can we do to see you ?)
Mamma, dear ! Mamma, dear ! We'll be with you. Do nothing. Be
patient. When your pillow is wet, I cannot rest. When you are cheerful,
I am happy. Don't cry. —In the body. Dry away those tears, and don't
fret. That's all right.
Phinuit : Friends, I am growing weak, and I've got to go. Au revoir.
Au revoir. [A sentence of French here.] Now I want to say " good-bye."
Third Sitting. March 12th, 1892.
[Dr. and Mrs. Thaw sitting. Mr. A. Dow writing shorthand.]
Phinuit: Come here. I'm here. Now let me speak to you. My name's
Dr. Phinuit. I'll speak to you ; glad to see you. How are you ? Oh, I know
546 [part
Richard Hodgson.
you, friends ! I'm so glad to see you again. You know me, don't you ?
Well, I'm not far away, after all. There's only a little distance between.
[To Dr. T.] I've seen your mother. You remember her not very well, if
at all. She says that when you left her you were a little fellow, and since
then have made many changes in your life—you see your mother tells me so.
She left your father. She left him in the body, you understand. Come
here ! [Putting Dr. and Mrs. T.'s heads together.] Well, well ! I like to
see you two together. You speak to this lady here—she comes.
(Dr. T. : Is my mother here ?)
Phinuit : Give me her influence. She's gone and brought the baby. She
says she is a bright little thing, the little one who went to find her, little
Margery, and she's here too, and she's very glad to see you. She says she's
very glad you have made your life what it is. Let me tell you a word.
You know spirits can see ahead—she says there's still a brighter prospect,
and you've a long life in the body. She wanted me to tell you that, and
she wanted me to send her love to your father.
(Dr. T. : How about father ?)
Phinuit : Your father passed out after she did. She passed out first—
she doesn't know how many years ago. She wants to tell you she is with
me, and there are two little children with them ; also, there is a little
brother—a little one in the spirit—another in the spirit—in the spirit.
There is one that passed out years ago. I think that was before you came,
who passed out before you came in the body [correct], and there are with
you also others. You can speak to them. This will help me to straighten
this out.
(Dr. T. : Can I speak to them ?)
Phinuit : I told you about them. I told you about them once before,
but I got a little mixed. There is a Betty in the body. You speak to
them. You do not know them, of course, you were not born then. But
you understand. #
(Br. T. : What is father doing ?)
Phinuit : Your father remembers you better than your mother. But
where's your aunt that had some care of you ?
(Dr. T. : An aunt ?)
Phinuit : An aunt—years ago, that passed out of the body.
(Dr. T. : Does her name come ?)
Phinuit : You had an aunt that was kind to you. [Correct.]
Phinuit [to D.] : But I've seen your influence before—but I don't know.
But I've told you about what the babies said about you. Said about their
uncle. The baby told me about it. Sent her love to her uncle—her uncle
Allen—Alfred—It's something like that. [Wrong. Name comes later.] I
tried to tell you, but you know the baby told me—and I couldn't get it from
her. But I do the best I can. There's a W . [Correct. Father of
Dr. T.]
(Dr. T. : But what does he say ?)
Phinuit : He sends his love to you, and wants to know what you are
looking for. He's got a high forehead—and he comes. Do you know Cler—
Clerk—C . C ? Who is that gentleman that comes to you ? High
forehead. Bald on top. He wants to speak to you.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 547
(Dr. T. : Is he in the body ?)
Phinuit : I think he is, but he's going to pass out of the body. He's a
friend of yours.
(Dr. T. : Is he a young man ?)
Phinuit : No, he's not very old—but at the same time he's in the body—
I don't know his age. [Correct description and name of a cousin and friend
of TVs.] Your father is here with a high forehead. You don't look much
like your father. [Correct.] Your father sends love to you.
T.'s father : Well, I'm here, and E , E . [T.'s mother's name.]
(Dr. T. : Any other name ? Does he call her any other name ?)
Phinuit : I'll tell you as fast as I can. Here's the baby. Oh ! I'm so
fond of this little one. She wants me to tell you she's not afraid of me any
more. She knows I talked to you in the body. You know what I mean 1
I explained it to Ruthie.
(Mrs. T. : Little Ruthie !)
Phinuit : The little baby is Margaret. She is very delighted. She wants
a posie—give her some posies. [Mrs. T. had brought some little flowers for
the babies, at this time on the table in paper.] Posie, posie,—give one
posie. [Taking flowers and separating them.] That's for the little one.
(Mrs. T. : I brought them for the little ones.)
Phinuit : That's for the little one. She wants some for the other one—
just two or three. You don't know how the little one can speak now. You
know she takes the spirit of these things—the spiritual thing—and the
spirit part is just as real to her as your life is to you.
. M. : Come to me, Mamma. (Mrs. T. : If I might see her !) Phinuit :
What a bright face ! She has grayish blue eyes—large, full and pretty. I
call them blue, a grayish blue. What a very bright and pretty little mouth
she has ! [Correct description of M.] She loves you both. Do you know,
I can get more from the children than I can from the old ones, because
there is such a strong tie between you.
Who's George in the body ? Well ! I hear something—Oh ! I thank
you for the posies. She wants me to separate the posies and give some to
the other baby. I will give her so many [separating flowers], and that one
will have so many. Just the same for each little one.
R. : Pretty, pretty, pretty, pretty. Where's the little blue flowers ?
Pretty, pretty, pretty.
Phinuit : Oh ! That's a pretty baby—Ruth—Pretty, pretty, pretty.
Do you love the babies ? (Dr. T. : What do you think, Dr. ?) Phinuit :
She says that. Baby, baby, babie. This little one says—Pretty, pretty,
pretty, pretty, pretty.
BABY— Can you hear her speak ? Do you hear her speak ? Bettie—
Bettie—Bettie—she keeps calling Bettie. Give me the little toy thing. I
like that—it refreshes her. I never saw two brighter children. You know
they have no more pain in the stomach.
(Dr. T. : Doctor, don't they ever suffer in the spirit body ?)
Phinuit : No more pain— no pain.
(Dr. T. : Do they grow up as we do here ?)
Phinuit : In just the same number of years, but in this world there is no
time. Life goes on for ever. That is, there is no death. I tell you,
548 [part
Richard Hodgson.
friends, just as sure as you live in the body, I lived once in the body. I
lived in Germany and Paris and Marseilles. I know if those cranks
weren't so stupid they could find me. [Referring to efforts on the part
of the S. P. R. to find out about him.]
Well ! I hear Baby, calling baby, baby, baby. [All these words—baby-
pretty—Bettie—were given with just the accent Ruth gave when she was
alive. Pretty was one of the first words, and she said it constantly about
anything she liked. These were the only words, except Mamma and Papa
and pussie.] Do you know she takes your hand and pats it like that [patting
Mrs. T.'s hand] like that. You will see her just as sure as you live. The-
veil will be lifted so you can see these two little ones when you are partially
dreaming. It will not be a dream. It will be real. I promise that will be
your reward for bringing these little things. They realise these, just as
much as you realise that you live. There is grandma taking care of them.
(Dr. T. : Which grandma is that ?) Phinuit [to Dr. T.] : That's your mother.
There are two mothers with them, and at the same time a grandpa.
Phinuit : Do you know who G is ? He's a relation of yours.
[Correct. Name of a brother-in-law and also of a cousin.] He is here with
them, and he is in the spirit. You know what I mean. He sends love to-
them. Love, love, love—that's all I can get. It is with the children that I
see him.
Do you know who Cor— It sounds like— Speak to him— You must.
Who is Perkins ? [Mr. D.'s chum.] He's all right ; a good fellow, a good
fellow, but he has forty minds at once, and doesn't know which way to
turn. He's going across the water. •
[Pointing to Dr. and Mrs. T.'s foreheads.] I see a great big light. What
is that light ? What is that light here ? [Pointing.] You, friends, are
going to make n change in your life. It is going to be the best change you
can make. The baby speaks to me. It's in a different street—a different
place entirely. It's a pretty place. I see the change. I see all the little
details. I see it in detail, that I can't describe. [All correct.]
Who is that lady that is with you ? No, the stout lady. [Not stout.]
She is very good to your little girl, and she is very faithful. You know
what I mean 1 But she gets very cranky sometimes, but she doesn't mean
anything, but she gets cranky sometimes. She is what you call .
She has care of the little ones, and is cranky sometimes.
(Mrs. T. : Do the babies remember her ?) [She was the nurse who had
charge of them all their lives.]
Phinuit : The little ones, the babies in the spirit world, remember her
very well.
Do you know who Jane is ? Jenny—this is connected with this gentle
man. [Pointing to Dr. T.] Wait a minute. This connects with this lady.
(Dr. T. : Who was she ?) Phinuit [to Dr. T.] : She is connected with you.
You know what I mean. It's an Aunt J Aunt J . (Df. T. :
Any other name ?) Phinuit : Who's M J 1 Your mother told me
to tell you. [All correct. Aunt of Dr. T.'s.]
(Dr. T. : Is she happy now ?) Phinuit : She remembers you when you
were a little fellow. She was with you when your mother come out of the
body. [Correct.]
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 549
(Mrs. T. : Can you get H back ?)
Phinuit : All the rest of the friends want to speak to you. But you see
there's a brother G . [Correct. Brother-in-law mentioned before.] He
wants to speak to you. Don't be indifferent. Where's W ? He wants
to send love to W . [His own brother.] (Dr. T. : Who is W ?)
Phinuit : Brother W it is. He's got a friend W . Named W .
Two of them in the body. It is his brother W . [All correct.]
(Dr. T. : Does he send any message to anyone else ?)
Phinuit : There's a lady in the body ; his lady [correct] and he wants to
recall her. He's talking to me as fast as he can.
Ali— Who is Ellio? Who is Nellie? The baby calls that—she
calls her Nellie. [Nurse spoken of before.] Nellie ! That's a good memory
for the little one, isn't it 1 Such pretty light curls ! All over her head.
Just as perfect a little girl as can be ! Tells me she remembers you. You
will see her in the new house. She wants me to go there for you. She says
there is going to be a better change for you. It's going to be near the
corner [correct of new house], and you will go up to the upper room, up
one flight front, and in that room you will see the babies come to you.
This is a kind of—what do you call it ? A sitting place. You will get the
babies there. You stay there some twilight evening. They will come to
you. You will hear some patter, patter of the little ones, and soon you
will realise they are with you. I shouldn't be surprised if you saw—
How funny your mother wears her hair ! [Smoothing hair as Dr. T.'s
mother always wore it.] Wears it so funny. She's the picture of modesty ;
she's the most modest looking woman you ever saw !
You know that what you call death in the body is natural. You know
that it is hard, particularly when those you love pass over behind the veil.
But they are far more happy behind the veil than in the body. For it is
God's will to take them, as they have lived. We tell you of these things,
because it is right for you to know, and the instrument like the one I have
here is to use to explain what we are in the spirit. But sometimes it is
very hard to get the influences straight, and I tell you everything I can, and
even then it is hard for every one.
* * * * * *
Look on it right. Don't let it worry you and affect your health. Little
woman, keep straight. Don't be too much exercised, and keep perfectly
cool. You will get all you want. It will be a help to you in the body.
When you meet a friend aud you want them to know your experience, you
can explain it to them with perfect reason. Go on with your own experi
ence. If they do not wish to listen to you do not bother them. Your
mother is guiding me every minute.
(Dr. T. : Any message?)
Phinuit : You know Aunt M ? M J ? She wants to send
love. Who is—who is—who is—who is All—Ell—Ell—in the body ? He is
connected with her. [Points to Mrs. T.] Who is that ? Tell me quick.
It begins with L— That's it.
(Dr. T. : A man or a woman ?) Phinuit : It's a gentleman in the body,
and he has a sister. [To Dr. T.] How many relatives have you got ?
Goodness gracious ! How should I know them ? They're such a lot of
550 [part
Richard Hodgson.
them. It's a puzzle to me. You have cousins—uncles—aunts. One of
them passed out of the body in the water. He went across the water and
passed out. [True of Dr. T.'s father.]
(Dr. T. : Does my father come ?) Phinuit : You know this gentleman ?
He has a beard here—the beard here. [Touching T.'s face.] You have
none. He has a prominent nose. (Dr. T. : What does he do there ?)
Phinuit : He is reading and writing, your father is ; but that's not
connected with the body. He never was so pleased with anything as with
the babies.
[Reaching for A. D.] Physically you're pretty well. Look at the
bottles of medicine. [In A. D.'s pocket.] Give them to me. [Bottles
given.] Homoaopathique—pellets. Belladonna. Can't quite tell large B—
Belladonna. (No.) Bryonia—that's it. Good medicine for babies. You
won't have to take medicine long. It's very good medicine—these pellets.
I'd rather give you a 2 oz. iron powder ; some cinchona. You won't have
to take medicine long. The more medicine the worse for you. Headache
better now ? Expect a headache—you will be sure to have one. [A. D. up
late ; in consequence, bad headache.] How many girls have you got ? One,
two, three. Look out for the girls. You don't care for them, but they're
after you.
Oh heavens ! What a lot there is in your life. You haven't begun yet.
You write a good deal. Don't write too much. That's a funny one.
[Laughs.] You're all right. You won't pass out of the body. No trouble
with you. Good stomach. Good heart. Good lungs. It makes me laugh.
[Laughing.]
Here's Eliza here. She comes. You can ask her any question you like.
*♦**♦*
Here's H . H . He is calling to see you. He says you are
—[?] since he has passed out. Give me your handkerchief. [Places this
over head. Rubs forehead and eyes and top of head for several minutes in
manner peculiar to Dr. H during period of last illness, a period of two
years.]
Phinuit : But he is here now beside me. Who's Ida ? He has got an
Elice—no—wait a moment. Who's E-L—Elice ?
Here's H . Hurry, he's speaking to me. He wants to ask you
something about—[pause.] Who's Clark ? That's some one else. H .
H . He comes here. He wants me to take my handkerchief and put
it over that way. He wants you to tell his wife in the body that he is alive
in the spirit. Whose children are these ? He gives his love to the children.
He says they are very happy little things, and not to worry about them,
because they are better off than you are. He wants you to tell this one in
the body. There are two—three in the body—four and one more. That's
All. That makes five. I mean them—for him—that you would know it
was all—[Correct.]
(Dr. T. : What should I say ?)
Phinuit : He has two with him. He has two that talk—two that talk
with him. There's one speaking to him now. There's one that tbey have
just put to lessons, and then others. He wants—wants you to send his love
to them—to take a message—to tell them there is no death. Where's the
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance, 551
watch ? You bring something belonging to him that you may get his
influence—like this.
Oh, your mother has been here a long time. We can't make her refresh
her memory as she could if she had been here a short time.
But who is Grace ? I have a Grace here—in the spirit, I mean. She
wants to be remembered to you in the body. [Mrs. T.'s half sister.]
Who's that they call Dr. ? I don't know, but there's a gentleman here
calling Dr. Somebody. It's H . [Evidently to Dr. T.] I am so glad to
have you come in and see me. You used to come and see me before I
passed out.
I should like to know who this F is. He wants to speak too. [See
previous sitting.]
Who's that they call Dr ? Speak to those you recognise. There's a Dr.
here, [H was called Dr.] and a Dr. in the body. (Dr. T. : I am a
doctor.) Phinuit : I am glad you corrected that for me—it leaves too much
for me to do. Who's speaking ?
(Dr. T. : What does F say ?) Phinuit : Hush ! F wishes to
be remembered to you. [Painter friend spoken of in first sitting ] (Dr.
T. : What is he doing now ?) Phinuit : I told you about him before, you
know. Who's Carrie 1 [The most intimate friend of Mrs. T.'s mother was
called Carrie. Named as Caroline in later sitting. She knew Mrs. T. well
when a child.] B-e-a-t-r-i-c-e. They call Bettie—Bettie.
(Dr. T. : But who is she ?)
Phinuit : She's a sister in the body. You will correct that for me. She
is going to stay in the body. That ought to please you when I say that so
clear. But here's—well, wait a minute—Annie—Annie—no, Anna Eliza.
That's the name. Comes. Anna Eliza. That's the mother, Eliza. Anna
Eliza. I hear it. [Mrs. T.'s dead aunt. She was called Aunt Eliza, and it
was unknown to us at the time that she had a first name Anna.]
That's not H . There's his sister somebody. Who is that they call
Lizzie—that's with H , not with you ? [Unknown.] There are two we
have named—Anna Eliza—because with this watch I get these names mixed
up. Marie Jane and Eliza. [A careful distinction made between these
names.] S-u-s—I don't know who that is—I can't get it. You speak to
them and ask them what you like.
(Dr. T. : Who's speaking now ?) Phinuit : Your mother is here now.
(Dr. T. : Does she want to send a message to any one else ?) Phinuit r
Which one of your brothers is that who is kind of funny ? (Dr. T. : Perhaps
two.)
******
Don't try to mix me up. You talk straight. You ask questions, and I
answer them. Two sisters. There are two sisters.
******
Don't hurry me. I have to hear and then tell it to you. You're a good
fellow, but you mustn't hurry me. Well, you talk to her. Which one of
them is it that draws ? [To Mrs. T.] It's you. You draw or paint or
something. But there's one that plays—that's very musical. Yes, this
sister plays, she's very musical—has taste for music. [True of both sisters
of Mrs. T.] [To A. D.] Oh pshaw ! The dickens take you ! I can't get
552 [part
Richard Hodgson.
your name. A-l-e— [To Mrs. A. B.T.] You had two mothers. You had
a grandma named Ruth. She's a nice lady, and there's another named—
wait a minute—A—Well, I hear someone calling Fannie. [Unknown.] It's
got two e's—B-e—How do you pronounce it? B-e-s-s-i-e I caught that.
[Mrs. TVs father's first wife's name was Elizabeth.] She's trying to tell me
about someone that's in the body.
(Mrs. T. : How about my father and mother ?)
Phinuit : Your father is going to live a good while yet. He has
rheumatism. (Dr. T. : Oh, that's a good guess !) Phinuit : Oh, he has
rheumatism, I can tell you. (Mrs. T. : What are their names !) Phinuit :
I don't know their names at all—but I'll tell you who I hear speaking to you.
(Dr. T. : Who ?) Phinuit : I'd like to know who that A is. You say
you can't place her. You don't see who she is. A . I hear your mother
say that you know. [Dr. T.'s aunt living.] Such an awful lot of relations '
How do you expect me to remember them all ?
(Dr. T. : Will my brother say anything to me 1)
Phinuit : I told you about your father W . I told you about your
brother W . [Using the diminutive.] I told you about your aunt. I
told you about your sister M , and I told you about L—L—L—who is
she 1 (Dr. T. : She's a sister of mine.) Phinuit : Well, it is L .
Wait a moment. I know what her name is perfectly, but the last part I
can't get.
(Dr. T. : She's connected with some one in the spirit ?)
Phinuit : They tell me I am smart enough to hear this all right. [Dr.
T. offers suggestion.] I don't want any of your help, Ellen. [To A.D.]
What the dickens is your name ? A-l—[Laughs.] (Dr. T. : What is
it ?) Phinuit : I know. I know what it is. [Laughs.] (Dr. T. : Well,
tell us what it is.) Phinuit : Oh, no. I know what it is just the same.
(Dr. T. : Tell us.) Phinuit : Well, it's a great long name, and it ends with
e-r. (Dr. T. : Good guess, Doctor !) Phinuit : Oh, I am guessing, am I ?
What a good fellow I am to guess ! [Spells.] A-l-e-x-a-n-d-e-r. How do
you like that ? You can call that what you like. You can give it a name.
Do you know, if it hadn't been for your little girl I never should have
found it out. The little curly headed one. She tried to spell it for me but
couldn't. She told your sister [pointing to Mrs. T.], and she asked this lady
—the lady the little one went to find—[Dr. T.' s mother in first sitting], and
she tells her, and then she came and spelled it for me. Grace is with your
little ones, and she makes me put your hand up there so— and she wants to
be remembered to her papa in the body. [All true.] Who's L 1
[Spelling diminutive.] Your mother just called that to me. She comes
closer—closer. She wants you to tell I-d-a—it sounds like that—I-d-a.
Oh ! L ! [Dr. T.'s sister's usual name.]
***•,**
[To A. D.] I think your arm aches.
(Mrs. T. : Does Gracie send her love to anyone ?)
Phinuit : To you. She's the one I spoke to you about.
(Mrs. T. : Whom does she send her love to ?)
Phinuit : To the one that has the rheumatism. In fact both of them
have the rheumatism. [Correct.] Who's that with one—two—three—four
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 553
letters—who's F ? This is a cousin. Connected with—-who ? With you.
[To Dr. T.] Cousin F . [Dr. T.'s cousin.] Yes, cousin F has gone
away. He has got a sister, and she's all right. Hear that 1 Tell them I
say it. Will you ? They're speaking to me now. He has got a sister in
the body. F 's got a sister, and F 's there too. [All correct.]
(Dr. T. : Who's speaking ?)
Phinuit : That's F 's brother—brother. Wait a minute. He has
a brother in the body, too. [Wrong.] I don't know who—I can't correct
this for you. Who's Eliza, connected with F ? [Aunt.] Wants to
send her love to F here. You know Marie ? (Dr. T. : I know her.)
Phinuit : Marie says tell L what she says. (Dr. T. : Who sends this 1)
Phinuit [loudly] : Your mother. I told you all this. Here come the babies
again. There are two others of your relatives here, too. I'll tell you just
as well as I can. But here comes the little one. She makes me put her
hand on your hand. This is the youngest of the little ones, and she wants
to speak to you. And I want to tell you, you will see the babies in your
new house. They will be there, and then you will recognise them. They
are in the spirit, but you will see them. They know it. You will hear the
little patter, patter, patter. Don't be afraid. Ask for it and you will have
it, just as sure as you live.
******
Fourth Sitting. March I8lh, 1892.
[Mr. Perkins sitting. Mr. A. Dow writing. Mrs. Thaw in back
part of room.]
Phinuit : My name's Phinuit. [Feels Mr. D.'s head.] Oh, Alex ! how
are you ? I'm glad to see you. [Feeling Mr. P.'s head.] Well, George !
Well, you little rascal, George ! George, you have called to see me. George !
George ! George ! Perkins ! Oh, I'm so glad to see you. How are you 1
How are you, George ? You've no throat trouble—not a hang bit. You're
not going to pass out with consumption ; who said so ? That makes me
laugh. Speak to me ; don't be afraid. Where's—where's the doctor ?
(Mrs. T. : He couldn't be here to-day).
Phinuit : George, I'm glad to see you. I have seen you in the distance a
long time. You know what I mean, don't you ? You're not ill, are you ?
(George : No).
You're a pretty good fellow, take you all together. A good, square,
upright, honest fellow ; mean well, but there's lots of fun in you down at
the bottom, but you're kind of serious.
Well, how are you, friends ? I see a brother. [Wrong.] Don't be afraid
to talk to me. Who is that lady 1 [Points to Mrs. T. on sofa.] Oh, you
dear little woman. I have some friends that want to speak to you in a
minute. [To George.] You have some friends, too. Do you know that I
get the influence of your mother, George ? That is the influence of some
thing belonging to her, that you can give me. [Mr. P. takes out of pocket
chain belonging to mother, and hands it to Phinuit.] I mean the influence
of your mother. [Insists on keeping cotton which is around chain as well
as chain.]
554 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Phinuit to Mr. D. : Aleck, you pay more attention to me and stop your
writing. [To Mr. P.] This is your mother's ; you know what I mean t
[Correct.] But you know I get this spiritually. You know what I mean,
don't you 1 You want to speak to her. (Mr. P. : Yes).
Phinuit : Don't be afraid to speak. This spirit who comes to call me is
your mother.
[To Mr. D.] Alex.
(Mr. P. : What hour was I born ?)
Phinuit [counting] : Un, deux, trois, quatre [up to ten]. Oh, you were
born at two o'clock. We begin at one, that's dark ; then two. [After some
confusion, not understanding whether night or day, decides at two at night.]
(Mr. P. : Father thought it was eleven.)
Phinuit : Your mother tells me you were born at two, and she was there
then and ought to know. If your father says you were born at eleven he
makes a mistake, that's all there is about it.
Marie. Marie. [Mr. P.'s mother's name, Mary Etta.] Elmaly, Emily—
How do you pronounce that, Alex ? Emily, that's an aunt ; you recall that,
George ? [Not known.] I don't know, but I get this. You know she's
been in the spirit a long time. Then you know her, but don't remember
much about her, do you ! I tell you, you were a little fellow, you were a
little fellow when she passed out. A trouble in the heart. What was it ?
You know what cancers are. She had an inflammation in her— [Placing
hand on lower part of chest and abdomen]— had an inflammation ; that is it
—looks red. She did not pass out with the cancer. She puts her hand
here. She had inflammation here. What do you call it ?
Here's little Ruthie. Here's little Ruthin. [Mrs. T. goes to Phinuit.}
"I can't stay away any longer. I've come to speak to you. I want mamma.
Mamma. Do let me speak. I have the baby now. I want to see you,
mamma. I am not dead—don't cry—I'm all right—all right."
(Mrs. T. : Dear Ruthie ! Wait a minute longer.)
Phinuit : She can't wait any longer. [To Mr. P.] There's an influence
here with your mother. There's a child with her that comes with her, in
the spirit that has passed out of the body—a sister. [Correct.]
Who's John, in the body I You speak to him. He's connected with you
in the body ; he's kind of cranky ; all rattle headed, you understand. It's
smoking. He's always at it ; he never does anything else. [True of friend
of Mr. D.'s and Mr. P.'s named John.] He's a good fellow; he's a good
fellow, but he's a little too full of fun, and erratic, and carries on like a
good one when he gets a chance. I mean to say no evil of him, you know.
He's going awny, John is ; tell him I say so ; tell him anything you like.
[To Mr. P.] You have no heart trouble. You have no stomach trouble.
But you catch cold mighty easy. [True.]
(Mr. P. : Does my mother send any message ?)
Phinuit : 1 don't get your father here. Your father is in the body.
[True.]
(Mr. P. : How is he ?)
Phinuit : He's got a trouble with him right through here. [Places hand
over kidneys.] Right through the back and kidneys ; he has kidney trouble,
has had it for some time. Well, it's a weakness, an inactive state, and theu
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 555
he has a little dyspepsia, and it troubles him quite a little sometimes. He
has indigestion ; the blood is a little impure, the stomach being a little out
of order—his digestion not proper, and on account of that he doesn't sleep
as well as he ought to. [All correct.]
But he has no heart trouble. He thinks there is something the matter
there, but there isn't. Did you ever hear him say he had heart trouble ?
(Mr. P. : No.) Well, he said so, whether you heard him or not. [All this
not known to any one present, but verified afterwards. Mr. P.'s father had
never mentioned it, even to his doctor.]
Phinuit : Wait a minute, where's Sis— That little girl is here with her.
She'll be back in a minute. That is, there's a sister and a mother both here.
[Correct.] Now, I'll talk to them and tell you about them.
This is very peculiar. I get the sister and the mother both with this.
Do you know, they both wore this ? You know what I mean. Both
recognise this ; it's connected with them. [Mr. P.'s sister died when he
was a small child, and he did not know she wore the chain. Verified
afterwards.]
[Mr. P. gives badge.] • Does this bring any ono ? Phinuit : [Evidently
still referring to chain.] Oh ! this brings another lady. Look here ! Who's
Ettie 1 Ellie ? Ellie ? Ellie has a sister in the spirit. Who's Mary 1
[Mother's name, Mary Etta.] Talk to me. There has been a change in your
home since that. But who is it they call Aunt Mary ? (Mr. P. : My aunt.)
Phinuit : Why the dickens didn't you say so ? Mary's her name. Well,
that's all right. Aunt Mary. Who's calling for her ? That's the mother
calling for her, your mother. She's your mother's sister. Your mother's
sister-in-law. [Correct.] (Mr. P. : That's right.) Phinuit : I think I know
what I'm talking about. I know as fast as they tell me.
[Mr. P. hands a fraternity badge belonging to Alfred Howell. The other
boys who came on it were friends and members of the same fraternity.]
Phinuit : Do you know there's a young man connected with this ? He
had a cough. Do you recognise that ? Tail me who Arthur is. [Nothing
known.] (Mr. P. : I don't know who Arthur is.) He had something to do
with this Arthur. As true as you live. There's another spirit named
Frank. [Not known.] These are cousins of this gentleman on whose
influence this is.
(Mr. P. : Are they in the body ?) Phinuit : One of them is living in the
material world, and the other in the spiritual. (Mr. P. : Does this bring any
one else?) Phinuit : This brought the strongest of the two. [To Mr. P.] I
dun't think this belongs to you. But there's a young lady and also a gentle
man comes with this ; you see what I mean, and perhaps you will reoognise
one of them. There's a young lady who passed out of the body and died
some years ago ; I think fell from a horse ; had a fall. Well, well, you find
out about it. This is not a relative of yours, it is a friend. I get the
influence all right from this.
Who's Louise—Liz—Lizabeth—Liz ? I don't know if I spell this right,
but it's Elizabeth and Annie. These connected with this young man.
[Unverified.] Just as soon as I can speak to him I will. He's in the spirit.
He says something about Bawldin—Baldwin. I don't know how you
pronounce it. You know who he is ? Well, he sends love to you, and says
2 o
556 [part
Richard Hodgson.
that you kind of misunderstood him, and it was too bad. You tan make it
all right now. And he says " Tell George he is a good fellow, but he didn't
understand me ; you must say so." [Mr. P. and friend B. had misunder
standing for several months before B's death.]
I tell you what they say, but I don't know whether it's right or not.
Who's Orton ? Arthur ? It's some friend in the body. Do you know
the fellow ? He has a swagger—he has red hair.
Who's Oliver ? [Unverified.] I don't know him—wait a minute. I
don't know, but there's some one calling, who speaks in a whisper. George
will tell you something. [This friend's name, George Baldwin.] (Mr. P. :
Well, I'll listen.) Phinuit : Ask Fred. He's there with you ; tell him I'm
all right. [Verified afterwards. Fred, an intimate friend of G. B.] It was
a cough that took me off, consumption, for I passed out with it [True] and
you fellows were good to me, but you never quite understood me ; you never
did, quite. I was in the school with you. Not in the same school, but
taught in the school, so you would know who's talking to you. [G. B. taught
in preparatory department of same school.] You know this is characteristic
of me. It's not long since I came here. I'm so glad to see you. Look here '.
I want to talk to you. I tell you there's only a veil between us.
There's a good time for you boys, there's a good time for you. I don't
see you come here for a long time. I hope one of you will drop round and
see me sometimes. I didn't think I was coming here—but woke up. I
choked at first, but I'm better now. You wouldn't go to sleep if you had
seen me when I first waked up. I didn't think I was going to wake up
like this. You haven't got all your wits about you yet, and so you don't
recognise your friends. I'll be with you ; I'll help you out in all your little
difficulties. I'll be with you. I mean well.
(Mr. P. : Will you tell me about them ? There's one that passed out
after you did.)
Phinuit : This one talks in a whisper to me. Good fellow, means well.
What a funny nose he has. He looks as if his nose turned up a little. You
know what I mean. [Correct.]
Who's Charlie ? Wait a minute—A-N-D-R-A—There's a fellow with him
in the body that he's calling for—Chester—something like Blown. I'll try
again. [Not able to verify many names.]
Baldwin has been here. Here's another fellow. Now he belongs to this,
this fellow ; let me look. He's in the body ; he's writing.
There's a Harry connected with this. Will you tell them one of his
cousins passed out with stomach trouble ? And also there is one who passed
out with typhoid fever. [True of owner of badge, A. Howell.] There's a
brother. He's got a brother in the body. He sends love to his brother.
[A. H. has a living brother.] He knows this influence and he's coming, just
as fast as he can. He'll be here so I can talk intelligently in a minute, but he
does speak so indistinctly—and the—of what I have here—wait a minute -I
think—I get him here to me. [Long pause.]
Uncle Willie. I wonder if he belongs to you. Uncle Will—-William, he's
in the body, and I think he's an uncle of yours—because they tell me so—
they will call the name Uncle. [Correct.] I am sure if he had taken better
care of things, been more provident, he would have been in a better position.
xxxni.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 557
I don't tell you what they don't tell me. How many Georges have you 1
Here is one in the body and one in the spirit. [True.]
[Spelling name of Dr. H .]
[Mrs. T. goes to Phinuit] Tell them the children are all right. I want
to speak—It's a great temptation to resist. I will be [The full name of
friend called H . Dr. H .]
Phinuit : What does that mean ? Bro — Bron —, Burrie — That's not
right. F. D-V-A-L—Where's the fellow that's calling that ? A-N-D-R-E—
Andre. He calls io Andre. I was uncertain—I could not get the rest of it.
[Name of another friend in fraternity, recently dead ; Andre do Valliere.]
(Mr. P. : How is he ?) Phinuit : He's O. K. he says. What does that
mean O. K. ?
(Mr. P. : That means he's all right, very well.)
Phinuit [for Andre] : But I tell you I'm not alone. I'm here. I'm alive
and well. I was never so glad to see any one as to see you. [To Mr. P.
and A.. D.] How heavy you are ! But I see I have taken off the material
body and you have yours on. Speak to me.
Phinuit : He wants you to speak to him. He says he's very light.
Phinuit [for Andre] : This is news to me. I didn't know we could com
municate like this. I didn't know I should have a chance to speak to you
so soon. How is mother ?
(Mr. P. : Any message for her ?)
Phinuit [for Andre] : Tell mother to put my check suit in the closet,
and not to give it away ; I liked it very well. [Unable to ascertain.—R.H.]
(Mr. P. : Does this bring anyone else 1I
Phinuit : He's here, will be here presently, but this one who is speaking
to me ; he wants to know where you got that. [Pointing to G.'s embryo
moustache]. Never mind, it will grow. You look a little different.
(Mr. P. : Only a very little, I am afraid.)
Phinuit [for Andre] : Well ! It's a pleasure to see you. Where's the
book ?
(Mr. P. : Can't you get Stump for me ?) [See below.—R. H.]
Phinuit : There are so many fellows around me.
(A. , referring to Andre : Did he take cold ?)
Phinuit : Sort of influenza, not a cold. Had chills.
Who's Ellice ?—What they call the little sister ? He's gone away, and
here comes another one ; he called a fellow with dark hair, dark eyes, high
forehead, and small dark moustache—aud a kind of little colour in his cheeks
—a good-looking fellow, aud he's coming trotting along with a smile.
[Exact description of A. Howell.] I'll see who this is. He says this is his
pin. [The fraternity badge mentioned above as having belonged to Alfred
Howell, known to some of his intimates as Stump.—R. H.]
Phinuit [for A. Howell] : " This is my pin ; where did you get it ?
Tell father that I don't want him to worry about me, and I want him to
think I live."
Phinuit : Wait a minute—give me that—who's George ?
(Mr. P. : I'm George.)
Phinuit : Well, he's calling George. Who's Hen—Alfred [Correct.]
wants that. [Phinuit making motions with hand for something, after some
2 o 2
558 [part
Richard Hodgson.
delay writes the following with pencil given him, first at distance, then with
book placed on top of head, exclaiming during middle of writing : "He's
taken away my hand and won't give it to me ! "]
[Writing follows.]
Alfred Howel. A. Hall. I am not dead. Alfred Hall. Howard—
Hello George I Don't think of me as dead. I am old Stump. Alfred
Howall. Come and see me often. Tell father to go to the Lodge, and I
will go with him. I'm so glad to see you fellows ! You know me now, don't
you ? Where's my photo 1 Keep it, it looks just like me.
[Mrs. T. in great anxiety to get Mr. P. to go away, as forty minutes had
already gone. Mr. P. was unable to unclasp medium's hand. Then he said,
"Well, good-bye, Howell. Now this little lady is Alex's sister, and she
wants to speak to some of her friends. You help her to got them." Medium's
hand gradually relaxed while this speech was going on.]
(Mrs. T. : I am so afraid you will be getting weak and have to leave,
Dr. Phinuit.)
Phinuit : Don't hurry him, I'm not weak. I'm not going away.
[Laughs.]
[Mrs. Thaw sitting.]
Phinuit : Here's Ruthie. [Phinuit talks for Ruthie.—R. H.]
R's small mice : Mamma. Mamma. I'm here. I send love to you and
Bettie. Bettie. Dear Bettie. I want Bettie. Tell Bettie I love Bettie.
I want Bettie. I love Bettie. Margery's all right. Take me, mamma.
Take me, mamma. I sit on your knee. Where's papa ? I send love. Tell
papa I love papa. Grandma is all right.
Phinuit : There she is, standing by Aleck. See !
R. : But I want posie. I want posie. I want posie, posie, posie.
Pretty posie. Pretty posie. [Always with accent on last syllable, exactly
like child.]
(Mrs. T. : I couldn't get any to-day.)
R. : Don't cry for me, mamma. I want a posie. I have no posie. I
got six posies. I gave three to Margery and I kept three. I want Bettie.
Bettie, dear Bettie. Dear Bettie has got a cold. She's getting better.
[Correct.]
Phinuit : Here's this little girl talks just as if she were alive.
R. : I want to hear the tick-tick, Uncle Aleck. Give me the tick-tick,
Uncle Aleck. [Mr. D. holds watch to medium's ear.] [Mr. D. used to hold
watch to R.'s ear much more than any one else.] I hear the tick-tick. I
can't hold it, it's heavy. You hold it. It's too heavy for me. I want to
pat Bettie. Love to Nellie. Nellie is a good girl. She was so very good
to me. So good to me. So don't be afraid, mamma, she takes good care of
Bettie, dear little Bettie. I see Bettie asleep. I see Bettie asleep. Don't
worry about me. I'm all right. Nellie sings to me sometimes. I'm happy
now. I've got a big girl, Gracie. [Half-sister of Mrs. T. who died many
years ago.] Gracie looks out for me. She's very kind to me. Tell Nellie
the little one sends me to tell Nellie that it's all right, that she's all right.
Phinuit : Your mother's not feeling well, but she has rheumatism.
[True.] [Mrs. T. hands Phinuit a glove belonging to her mother.]
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 559
This is mother's influence. Mother's going to be all right. She's not
well. She's not well. She's poorly. She—I'll tell you about this. She's
got—[Working with glove fingers.] This is a weak influence. This is
your mother's influence in the body, and she's not well, you know. She's got
a trouble with her stomach, with her head. She has headache a little.
There's something wrong with her liver. She's got rheumatism a little, too.
Something in her blood. She ought to get it out. [True.] Her mother
wants to send love to her. Who's Ruth, grandmother ? Ruth, grandmother
wants to send her love to her, and tells her to take a good deal of fresh air.
Her father is here with her. But you know there's a little trouble with
your mother's hand. [Feeling Mrs. T.'s hand. Lets go Mrs. T.'s right
hand, and takes hold of forefinger of her left hand, and rubs all around
joint and nail.] Her father tells me she's had great trouble with her hand
here. Right on that finger of that hand ; yea, right there. And it's a
swelling round here. Inflammation. A sort of felon. From a sliver he's
got there. And it has an inflammation all around that nail. [All this about
Mrs. T.'s mother, right in every particular.]
Her father sends his love to her. (Mrs. T. : Can you give his
name?) Phinuit : I told you about him before. (Mrs. T. : Can he send his
name ?)
Phinuit : He was here when the fellow was here. I called it to you,
but I told you it was a little mixed. I'll talk to you—Ruth it here too—
Little Ruth and big Ruth, and Margery, and there's aunt Anna, and do you
remember this aunt Eliza? Ah! You know who this is! [Mrs. T.'s
aunt Ann Eliza.] Well, there's aunt Mary Jane.
You tell Dr. Thaw that L is all right, and she's got to come to it,
and that's what's the matter. I never saw such a lot of people. It's too
bad about mother's linger. There are forty-two Alecks in that country.
[Probably refers to sittings in England.]
Here's H . Here's H . He wan's to send his love to the doctor,
and to tell him he's all right.
Who's Henry ? James, he's here now and wants to send his love to her—
James—[Mrs. T.'s grandfather.] Henry is a friend of Dr. H . [We
knew that a Mr. French, deceased, had been an intimate friend of Dr. H.,
but we were unaware of his first name, which proved to be Henry.]
H. : How are they all at home ? (Mrs. T. : Pretty well.) H. : Do they
know of this ? (Mrs. T. : Yes, I told them and they are very glad. )
H. : Well, you tell them I am not dead, and I wish they were as well
off as I am. This is only one of the first signs of what is coming to
the whole world—of what is opening to you, and I tell you I have seen your
little children, and they are well and happy. All these things are natural,
and you have to expect them as natural, as natural consequences, so what's
the use of making a fuss and kicking up a broil over nothing ? Just pass
out of the body and it's all right. Who's this George ? I think I've seen
him in the distance. I don't quite recollect him. But perhaps you will
remember me to him. [H. had seen George Perkins only once since he
knew him in boyhood.]
Phinuit : You know Ellen, Helen. [Not recognised.] I think this is
connected with him, with that other fellow.
5l50 [part
Richard Hodgson.
(Mrs. T. : Does he remember what Mr. French said when he was dying,
and does he see him !) [This was a test question asked on behalf of Mrs.
H. The answer was unknown to us.]
H : I see him, of course. He said, " Some things are very bitter ; I'll
come to you if I can." [Unknown.]
(Mrs. T. : Can you tell me what he believed about these things ?)
H. : He was a little mixed, but he believed that he should exist. And
he exists just as he thought he would, and tells me to tell you so. [This is
the correct answer to Mrs. Dr. H.'s test question.]
Phinuit : Here's James, an elderly, gentleman comes. [Mrs. T.'s mother's
father.] Phinuit, for J. : Tell your mother that I am all right, and I wish
she would tie up her fingers and take care of her toes, and they'll get well.
[Very characteristic of James.] I am here to send love to her.
Phinuit : The babies are here. Tell mamma about the pictures of little
Margery.
(Mrs. T. : No, the picture is of little Ruth.)
Phinuit : A picture of little Ruth, and a picture of little Margery. It
was hardly finished. Ruthie's was begun, but it was not finished. It is
finished now, and it looks very pretty. Looks as if she could speak. She
wants you to make one of the little one. There is one—what you call a
photograph. [All true.]
(Mrs. T. : Will she come to me so I can get it like her ?)
Phinuit : Well, she wants you to copy that, and then she'll come, and
you'll get a picture, and she'll look exactly as if you had drawn her in the
body. [Mrs. T. gives a pin, about which we knew no more than that it was
given to us to test Phinuit with by a cousin. The pin was very small.
Phinuit muttered a good deal of French, repeating, "Petite, petite, petite,"
several times.] Well, there's a young girl connected with this in the body,
that's got sandy hair. She's got a mother, in the spirit. She's been, or
going, across the water. That belonged to a gentleman and then to a lad}-.
There's somebody named Will connected with it. 1 don't get the intelli
gence of any spirit ; if I did I could get it straighter for you. Oliver,
Arline—[a cousin's name] somebody, but I can't get that. I don't know
about it. This was given to a lady by a gentleman. It's a young man, you
know what I mean. They are both in the body, and he has a mother in the
spirit. Then she also had a friend named Lucy. [Pin was given to Arline
by a gentleman, H. L., who received it from his father William. H. L.'s
sister has sandy hair. Their mother is dead. Lucy unknown.]
[Mrs. T. gives mother's glove again.] Your mother and father both have
rheumatism. You must look after them. They are going to take a trip
that will be very beneficial to them. She's nearer to you [pointing to Mr. D.,
then to Mrs. T] I can't make out which one she's more with, but she's
nearer one of you.
(Mrs. T. : She's living with me now.)
Phinuit : Oh, you live in one home, but I see the other in another home,
and she lives with you [pointing to Mrs. T.] [Pointing to Mr. D.] She's
very fond of you.
(Mrs. T. : Yes, he's better than I am.)
Phinuit : What nonsense, he isn't better than you, don't be jealous.
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 561
(Mrs. T. : I'm not jealous.)
Phinuit [rubbing Mrs. T.'s head] : No, and you are not going to begin in
your old age, are you ? You be a good girl. You'll be all right if you don't
read lying down. If you'll only read when you're standing up you'll keep
all right. Your sister is not your sister but a half-sister. [Correct.] Your
father had two wives. [Correct.] Well, that's mighty funny. I told you
her name a long time ago, but you wouldn't recognise it. [Name Elizabeth.
Phinuit gave Bessie.] You were not quite right. You speak to her and
tell her you are sorry. Why didn't you recognise her ?
Phinuit for E. : You tell your father Gracie—Gracie is all right. (Mrs.
T. referring to E. : What did my father use to call her ?) Phinuit : She's
laughing and says he knows, ask him. She wants to send her love to him.
Who's Nana I That's another name for Nellie. Well, you tell Nana
she's all right. [Nana was a pet name of Bettie's for Nellie. Ruth made
attempts to say it before her last illness.]
(Mrs. T. : What about Father's business ?) [Phinuit immediately makes
motions as of playing on piano keys. Mrs. T.'s father's invention, a type
setter, with keys like a piano.] Phinuit : It has keys. Keys with letters
on them. [Correct.]
[Mr. D. takes Mrs. T.'s place.] Oh, it's such a funny thing. Did he
invent them ? Well, he's a great man. There's going to be a spring addition
that's going to be very useful, and after a few months of dulness it will be
all right. You are going to change the surroundings. [True.] And that
will be much better. He's going to sell some of these things. What does
he want to do with them ? Wants to rent them. [Correct.] It's been a
long pull and a hard pull, but he's going to rise out of this like a fish
jumping out of water. Add the spring part, and it will be good. All this
long pull and dull time was for the best. [Long struggle to get the thing
started.] You're going across the water. A William is in the surroundings.
Who's L-o-w-r-e-n-z-e—who's L-o-r-e-n-z-e ? (Mr. D. says: "Lorenzo").
[Lorenzo Dow, living, the father of Mr. A. D.—R. H.]
Phinuit : That's what we call it in our language. He's coming out all
right from the word go. A long struggle. But he's coming out all right.
Be a little patient. A William is coming into the surroundings, and then it
will be all right. You're going across the water. It is going to be a great
thing. Get the patterns all right. [Mr. P. and Mr. D. were making
drawings of the machines, called "patterns" by them.] It will be dark a
few months ; afterwards all right.
George Perkins. Do you know how I got his name first. One of his
friends whispered me his name. George is a good fellow. Honest fellow.
George is true blue. Don't tell that to him ; he might get conceited.
(Mr. D. : I don't believe he'll get conceited.)
Phinuit : Well, I'm only in fun.
[Mrs. T. takes Phinuit' s hand.] (Are we going to do any good in our
work ?)
Phinuit : You are going to make a change. Who's Emily ? You're going
to change your life. I'll be there. [Mrs. T. found on getting home that
the Christian name of principal of the school they were starting was Emma.
This we had never heard or seen, as the lady was not known personally
562 [part
Rxchard Hodgson.
to Mrs. T., and her acceptance of the position was not received by us until
after the sitting.] You are getting on with it. I might say you're just
beginning with it, but it's going to be splendid. It has to do with the mind.
[Feeling Mrs. T.'s eyes.] The physical being of those who can't see. To
benefit the blind, the ignorant. I don't mean the eyesight. [Dr. and
Mrs. T. starting free primary school and kindergarten.] Margery will be
there.
Mamma, mamma, I love you. Don't cry. Ruthie will be there.
(Mrs. T. to children : Do you sleep there ?)
Ruthie : I sleep, I wake, I play. I wake, I sleep, I play.
(Mrs. T. : Won't they knock for me again ?)
R. : I'll go on Bettie's bed and tap, tap, tap for you. Don't cry. I live.
I am here. Tell mamma I am here. Pat papa for me. Posie—posie—
posie.
Phinuit : Speak to me, friends. I'm getting weak. Speak to me, I can't
hear you. (Mrs. T. : Good-bye, Dr. Phinuit.) Phinuit [in a weak voice] :
Speak louder, friends, I'm going.
Fifth Sitting. May 8th, 1892.
[Dr. and Mrs. Thaw present during first part of sitting ; Mr. A.
D. reporting at short distance. Mrs. Dow (Sabrina), mother of Mrs.
T., in next room.]
* * ♦ ♦ * ♦
Phinuit [after some conversation with Dr. and Mrs. T. about the
children, (ftc.] You know Elizabeth ? She has gone around that way.
(Mrs. T. : Does she want any one 7) ,
Phinuit : Wait a minute. Where the dickens is she going to ? She has
got Gracie and is here again. Sabrine. Sabrine. Sabrine. Sabrine.
(Mrs. T. : What does she want with Sabrine T)
Phinuit : James James. Yes, that right. James ; you go away. Dr.
She's talking to him. Who is that 1 She wants me to go and find her.
She wants you to go and find Sabrina. Sabrina is the name. Sabrina.
My [?] father wants Sabrina. I don't know what that means. Sabrina is
the name.
[Mrs. Dow here enters.] Phinuit: Come here. [Continues as if James
was speaking.] God bless your life, your soul, your heart. There she is.
That's my daughter. But how she has changed. Are you happy now ?
James says that he wants to know if you are happy now ? It's a long road
that has no turning to it. I have been here many years. But you will
remember the old place. Home is home in the body, and my home is near
to me, dear. It has been a long struggle, but you have waded through it.
It's going to be all right. All you have to do is to trust in God and he will
take care of you ; trust in God. I am living still, but changes have been
made since I came here. You look older, but there is a beautiful young
freshness about you, and I am glad to see you as you are. Speak to me,
dear, don't be afraid ; it's all right. The truth is the truth and love is love,
and I love you still. I can see your life has been changed there, but all's
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 563
well that ends well, and it's indeed well with me. This meeting is great.
This is a great pleasure to me. [Pushing back veil.] Put this back, you
look so fair. Mother's here too. We are both happy together. Think not
of us as dead ; think of us as alive. Ruth, Ruth, mother is with us, too.
Mother, mother. Ruth. Tell Lorenzo he has been very good and very
kind, and we are very fond of him, and we have a place arranged for him
when he comes here that will not be a path of thorns, but a path of flowers.
He has been very kind. It's been a long struggle, but it's over now. Speak
to me. Ask me something. The years have been a good many, I can tell
you. I look at the old place when I go down home there. I think how
many times things have changed, and Marie is all right. Marie, yes, Marie.
I can hear that. Speak to him quick, he is getting a little weak. Who is
Jane, Janey ? Tell him I'll be home later. [Mrs. Dow had a brother Janus,
who died in infancy. It was not until after the sitting that she made the
connections between " Janey " and him. The child was called Janey.]
I want Liza ; that's Elizabeth, Elizabeth, two of them. One is the sister.
One is your sister ; that's the one the father tells me about.
******
You are pretty well put together, I must say. There is no danger of
your going out of the body. You have no kidney disease, no tumours nor
no cancers. Sometimes you think you are going to have another, but you
are not. When you pass out of the body it is going to be weakness—old
age. No paralysis about you. I am telling you what I know to be a bona
fide fact, and all the spirits in the world can't make me take it back. I
know your physical condition just as well as [though] you are [were ?] here.
You think you are going to have something of the kind, but I tell you you
are not.
[Introduction of phonograph.]
******
Phinuit : . . . I want to know who the gentleman is connected with
you that they call Alva.
(Mrs. D. Not connected with my father 1 )
Phinuit : This brings that. Isn't that funny 1
[Mr. Lorenzo Dow enters.]
Phinuit : Lorenze ! Don't let the other people talk to him first. Who's
that ? Here's another one for him. You are the nicest man in the world,
without any compliments to you at all. You have a pretty good brain there.
That's Lorenze, Lorenze ! Good, good, good, good, good.
(Mr. D. : You seem to know me pretty well.)
Phinuit : Elizabeth belongs to you, and wants to send her love to you,
and wants to tell you that the longest day you live in the body she will
never forget you, and she and Grade are happy together, and the spirit
world is not so remote but what our friends can return to us. You came in
last but not least. Do you know I get the influence of the machines. I can see
the spring addition that is going to be put on, and it is going to be a success.
******
[Phonograph.] [Mr. D. got Phinuit, with some difficulty, to talk into the
phonograph, which Phinuit, after feeling the mouthpiece, called " that tube
564 [part
Richard Hodgson.
thing." But Phinuit apparently did not understand the explanations of its
use. Mr. D. requested him to talk to me, and Phinuit evidently expected
an answer there and then to his remarks, which were of no special impor
tance. The phonographic record was fairly good.—R.H.]
Sixth Sitting, May 10th, 1892.
[Present : Dr. and Mrs. Thaw. R. H. taking notes.]
Phinuit : Florence, I'm glad to see you. (Well, we're glad to see you.)
Good boy, doctor. Good boy. Sometimes I come a long way to see you.
Where's the tube I [Reference to phonograph. See sitting of May 8.]
[Asks about Hodgson and says a few words to him.]
******
Here comes the baby. Give her room to get in there. That's papa, she
says. . . [Pause. Phinuit leaves. Then whispering sound which be
comes intelligible as P-ttie (Pretty).] (She used to talk and whisper that
way.)
(Did you learn to talk any more ? ) Pitty. Pssy, Pttee, Pussee, Pittee,
Pittee [repeated again frequently].
[Phinuit: returns.] (Doctor, are you there still?) I stepped out a
minute. I couldn't help it. I let the little girl come in. She brought the
cat. She's got a big dog, too. Two animals she plays with all the time.
Don't think she's dead, because that's the hardest thing you could put on
her. She's growing more beautiful every day. She's got a mass of golden
hair. She looks like wax in the spirit world, she's so beautiful.
[Remark to Hodgson about names given to previous sitter.]
I had a long talk with Alva. He wants me to tell this to you and to
Sabrina when I saw her. He caused her a great deal of sorrow, and he's
sorry for it. [Sabrina is Mrs. Dow. Alva was her first husband, deceased.
The statements made about him are true.—R. H.] Tell her about this, or
you'll do him a great injustice. He's been in great suffering. You can
help him out of this. (What can we do ?) Get her to say that inwardly
and in her very soul she freely and frankly forgives him. You'll be the
means of saving his soul. I talked with him. [Further remarks about
the great distress of Alva and his desire to be forgiven, and to be helped in
attaining a higher state.]
James did this, and wanted me to give the message as quickly as I could.
James goes and prays with him.
Here's F . Wait a minute. I'll talk to you, F , directly,
******
He's in a dark room, and he looks through a gate into the light and he
can't get there. [This evidently refers to Alva.]
[Writing.]
Halloo. . . . [Illegible.] Florence. [Illegible.]
I don't know what I want to say. . . . Wrong [?] . . .
[Illegible.] Smith. . . Fred ... I went to see you and my painting.
[A drawing was made here.] This is for you and the Dr. . . . Painting.
. . . Tell mother I am with her. . . . (Tell me the name of your
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 565
best friend.) Which friend ? . . . [Illegible.] W . [A friend of
F .] G . Iam. . . . [Illegible.] [G is a brother of F .]
Hollo [?] friends [About here Phinuit said "Do you mean his painter
friend ? "]
Do you mean J ? Tell him I'm here. . . . [Illegible]. . . .
him in spirit.
Oh I am so glad to . . . [Illegible.]
(The name I want was mentioned once before.) [Referring to a previous
sitting.]
Herbert.
(Won't you tell us the name of your dearest friend ?)
1 told it to you before.
You helped me to get settled and I am thankful to you for . . .
[Illegible.]
You gave me the only help I had. [Remark not inappropriate.]
[Spoken while the writing was going on. Dr. Thaw takes notes while
R. H. is holding Phinuit's right hand. (In what follows Phinuit is first
speaking as if to Mrs. Thaw's little child Margaret, deceased. He then
apparently assists the writing communicator, and gives a message on his
behalf.—R. H.)]
" Margaret, dear little Margaret. Tell your mother all about it. Tell her
what you have to say." [As if to Margaret.] [After sheet 7, just before
the word " Herbert."] " Tell Herbert he's all right."]
[Writing ends.]
[F's relatives not known to us, except brother G.]
Phinuit : He doesn't know where he is. Go away, you people.
Hodgson, go out. He says you are a stranger. [R. H. goes out. Dr. T.
takes notes.]
Oh dear! Passed out with consumption. [Correct.] [Of F—. —R. H.]
I can't tell you how anxious this spirit is to get here. [Phinuit apparently
leaves.]
[Deep coughing.] . . . [Hand to chest.] Oh ! . . . [Phinuit
comes back.] Oh dear ! I'm coming back after all. . . . Who's
Tom, Thompson ? That's his father. He's aspired to come, but he can't
get here. [Thompson was the name of the husband of the mother of
George Perkins, the sitter of March 18th, 1892. —Dr. Thaw, 1896.]
Here's the little child—Margery.
[R. H. returns and takes notes. Dr. T. gives a watch not given before.]
You give me the watch and I'll take it to her. . . . Ho! That brings
the gentleman. There's your mother's watch I want. (Tell me about that
watch.) That's the father and the mother. (Whose father ?) That's your
father. (Wrong that time.) [The other watch given.] [Phinuit says the
two watches confuse him.] This is the one she wanted. Your mother.
[Correct. Same watch as in first sitting.] She's been out of the body a
long time. [Phinuit asks that explanation be made to Dr. T.'s mother
about his marriage. She died when he was a little child.] She remembers
H , and W is with her and W is coming to us soon and suddenly.
[Phinuit apparently bewildered with names.] W says W is coming
566 [part
Richard Hodgson.
to us. [At this place Phinuit said, "How can W be here and W
be coming ? " Dr. T. said he understood it.]
(How soon ?) He's coming within six months or a year. You've got
two fathers. One's name is Lorenzo and one James.
(Mrs. T. : That's my father and grandfather.)
(How is W going to pass out ?) He's going to sleep, and when he
wakes he'll be in the spirit. Heart will stop. Kidneys out of order. He's
out of order all over. It'll be one of the greatest reliefs to all concerned.
[See note at end of sitting.]
[In reply to question about L .] L is going to change her views.
(Shall I help to bring this change ?) Your spiritual self will act on her
unconsciously to yourself. Consciously you can't do her good. Your
mother says that they are going to influence her.
I want to know who you call J . He's here in the spirit. He comes
in connection with yonr mother and father. He's a relative. (How old
was he when he passed out ?) A little fellow. That's your brother.
[Brother J. died in infancy, eight years before Dr. T.'s birth.]
(Is there another J ?) And there's another J , that's a funny
old crank, etc. [Also name of grandfather.]
(Why don't you tell us more about W ?) [Slight alteration.] When
he came out of the body, the first interest was back with his children in the
material body. (Didn't he want to see my mother ?) She's with him. (Why
didn't he see her first ?) Well, he did. After he saw her he went to the
children. (Has W any message to send to his scientific friends ?)
[Phinuit explains that question must be given now, and answered another
time.]
[Letter.]
[Sitter, Mrs. Thaw, asks for name of friend of her mother which Phinuit
promised at previous sitting to get and give.]
That's the lady who passed out of body with cancer. [True.] What do
you want to know about her ? (You said you'd get her name.) Well now,
I'll go find the lady and come back and tell you.
******
Here's this lady. Her name's Ellern. . . . (No, that's not right.)
Yes, it is too.—A-L-E-R-I-A-N, Ellerine. (No, not quite.) [Further
attempts at name. Requested to get name and give it at next sitting.]
[Name Caroline given correctly in uext sitting.]
(Can you tell us about Dr. H to-day ?) [Pause.] Hallo, doctor. I
want to thank you for all the many kind things you've done for me. The
children are all right. There's not one of them coming to me. What's
that about the grave, the tomb 1 (I don't know.) Well, tell them not to
worry about it. [Dr. H.'s wife was for nearly a year much depressed
by the fact that H.'s body lay in vault awaiting burial.] He says some
thing about A . [Spelling name of daughter.] She coming out all
right, and I know it. She's going to stay in the body for the present.
[H.'s daughter A was dangerously ill at that time, but on our next
visit was found to have passed the crisis.] I'm glad to see you, my best
friends. The first time I saw you, you looked like groat black specks to
me. Now you look more like yourselves. [Speaks of the spiritual
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 567
activities there], "a higher range of activities is carried on than in your
universe. Words cannot express how beautiful it is—like the dawn in
the body," etc., etc. [This long speech so characteristic of Dr. H. that
Dr. T., wishing to know whether he or Phinuit was speaking, said :] (Can
you tell me anything about Dr. Phinuit?) I'm talking to you myself, you
rascal. I'm talking for him. (Well, you're trying to make us think he's
talking.) I'm simply telling you what he says. I'm trying to imitate him.
[Writing.]
[Writing by "Dr. H."] Give me something to do for you, Dr. dear.
Tell me what I shall do for you. I will bring anything I can to prove
myself to you. (Tell us something that's known only to your wife.) All
right. I will. (Will you do more than one thing ?) Yes. Please tell me,
Dr. dear, what you want. (Will you tell us several things that your wife
only knows ?) All right. I will. You know who is speaking with you ?
[Full name written here.]
[Writing ends.]
Baby, baby. Baby—happy, happy, happy. Don't cry.
[Special spasm in coming out of trance, and struggles to say some name
—sounded like Par—Por—Par — Porline, Polline, Parline. Evidently
attempts at Caroline. At the next sitting (not published by request of
sitter) the name Caroline was spelled out in writing.]
Notk. —At the time of sitting Dr. T. had no more reason to expect the
death of W than at any time for two or three year8, W being a
chronic invalid with asthma. There had been some increase of difficulty of
breathing and circulation during the past eighteen months, and a brief
period of slight dropsical symptoms during the winter. Two weeks after
sitting W came to New York for a careful medical examination, and for
the first time kidney disease was discovered.
W died September 3rd, in sleep, of heart failure, four months later.
In the sitting of May 22nd the time of death is put at " six months, or a
little less."
W had been a great sufferer most of his life.
Seventh Sitting. May 19th, 1892.
[Present : Dr. and Mrs. Thaw and Mr. Melvin W. Mr. W. sitting
with Mrs. Piper.] [I believe that the notes were taken by Dr. Thaw.
—R. H.]
I'm Dr. Phinuit. Where's Hodgson ? (He is not here). [To Dr. T.]
Hello, Dr. ! [Touching Mr. W.] That's a gentleman. You want me to tell
you about all your friends, don't you. I have a message for you Dr. from
Dr. H. (That's all right). [Dr. T. goes out.]
[To Mr. W.] You're not ill. There's nothing the matter with you.
Why don't you talk to me ? First, I want to see how you feel. Ha, that's
funny. [Feeling head. Feeling stomach.] There's no danger of your
passing out yet awhile. You think there's something the matter with you
physically here, but you're pretty well. Mentally you get all muddled up.
568 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Sometimes you don't know what to do or which way to turn. Before your
friends come here I'll talk to you yourself. You're going away. Across a
large body of water. It is unexpected, but pretty near by. You will be
practically alone, but friends of some kind will be with you. [This pro
phecy had a curiously exact fulfilment within two weeks, though without
any expectation of it at the time of sitting.]
There's a little child around you. Funny little thing. In the body.
That's queer.
You don't know which is which or what is what, sometimes. [Feeling
head.] That impresses me. but you're a pretty good fellow all the same.
Have you got anything belonging to anybody ? [Gives a pin.] I've got a
cough. You won't believe me, but there's a lady and gentleman both
connected with this. [Pin, belonging to gentleman (dead) was thrust
through a silk band painted by a lady who died of consumption.] The lady
passed out of the body. I'll tell you about her in a few minutes. You
won't believe me, but there was a trouble through here. [Lower abdomen.
Unverified.] It takes some time, because this is a small thing.
Another one has handled this, in connection with the lady who is here. Do
you know about this? (Yes.) I am sorry because you'll say I got that
out of your head. [To Dr. T.] Dr., you go out. [Dr. goes out.]
1 get your mother on this. These articles were put together. They
were mixed up. [That was true.]
[Gives a ring.] That belongs to the mother. This is a lady who also
passed out of the body. The two connected in a funny way. Like mother
and daughter-in-law. [Not true.] You have a little piece of your mother's
hair somewhere. (Yes.) There's something funny about it. You cut it off
afterwards. After she passed out. (That is true.) I get Mara, a sister. I
don't know how you pronounce it. It is in connection with this lady. It's
an aunt. M-A-R-I-E. [Only sister of father. Sitter did not recollect at the
time, but this is true.] You will find that out. Her other name is Elizabeth.
Marie Eliza. You'll find that out. [Her name was afterwards found to be
Mary Eliza. See below.]
(What do you get about my mother ? ) You haven't the piece of hair ?
( No. ) Who's this she calls Alvin ? Elvin—E-L-V-A. Well, it sounds like
that, any way. She's talking to you. Elvin. She says, "Why don't you
tell him his name's Elvin ? " She knows—you know what I mean. She is
trying to break through the veil. She wants you to know she's not dead.
Speak to her. (Who is with her ?) She speaks in a whisper. She had
trouble here. [Touching chest.] She filled all up. She passed out with
that. But she didn't suffer as she seemed to. [All true. Consumption.]
There's this lady, a sister of your father, passed out. Marie Eliza. Some
thing like that. There's another sister. That makes two, three. Some
one in body, Jane. Jen. She was kind to her. (Maria ? ) Before she
passed out. She was not a relative. Ann. Who's this ? A sister.
J-E-N-N-I-E. There's a good test for you. Maria ?
Had trouble in her throat. Some time before she passed out. There's
one they call L-A-U-R-A. [An aunt.] One that sends her love. [Takes
object.] You put that on head.
Who's William ? Warren. [Nothing known.]
xxxni.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 569
[Gives a hat ribbon.] Now you're woke up at last. This belongs to a
lady talking to me. Mary L-O-U-I-S-E. [Not known.] Tell Elvin to speak
to me and don't bo afraid. I got a Laura too.
(What's my mother's name ?) She sends her love to you. What are you
writing ? There are papers all about you. You get awfully mixed up.
[True at this time.]
Tell Caroline I'll speak to her later. That belongs to the lady that spoke
to you. [Mrs. T. had spoken to sitter a moment before.] You don't talk
to your mother at all. Tell Elvin I am here. Who's that other person ?
There are three. An aunt and a sister of this lady, your mother.
[Gives hat-band again ] Hat. This belongs to your own family. (The
one who gave that?) Who's Laura ! (A sister of that one.) Your mother
had a sister and your father had a sister.
Maria calls Will—William. He passed out of the body by drowning.
[Unable to obtain answer to inquiry.—R. H.]
Louisa and Jane were friends of this sister. [Louisa not known.] Who
took care of her when she passed out ! Louise had rheumatism in her hands.
You find out about that. [Nothing known.] One was a sister by marriage.
There was a name, Norton.
Who does Ruth belong to ? She sees somebody and wants to talk to
somebody. She puts my hand that way. [Waving hand like a child.] Tell
doctor he is good. I like him. My son. My son. Tell them my son is good.
[To the doctor.] Tell him I'll speak later. They're all right. Tell them
all about Margaret.
Elvin. Elvin. Why didn't you come when she passed out ? To speak
to her, —after she passed out. Sura. Surie ? . . . S—S-a-r-a-h. S-e-u-s-a.
S-e-u-s-a-n. S-u-s-a-n [Correct.] I can't say it. Tell Elvin I am Susan.
You wanted to know my name, and I've told you. Don't doubt I'm your
mother. She passed out in the evening or afternoon. She passed out of
the body and reached here in the evening, and wished to speak to you but
could not.
Somebody else has handled this. It has your influence and hers. Susan
wants me to tell you. . . . [Writing begins with difficulty until Phinuit
changes ring from left to right hand, then proceeds with careful slow
writing.]
[First letter looks like an N rather more than an M.] Nelvin. [On
being asked to repeat, writes it Melvin.] I am your mother, dear boy.
Susan. Melvin. Melvin dear, speak to me. I am not dead.
(What were the last words I said to you ?) Called " mother," and asked
me if I could see you, if I remember rightly. Those were the last words I
heard you say. [Correct.] (What were the last words you said ?) I am
going, raise me. Toll father. [Nothing remembered positively.]
[Here Phinuit talks.] This is a lovely lady. Just as bright and spiritual
as she can be. She's a beautiful lady. She suffered, but not as much as you
thought she did.
[Writing.]
Tell father to get the things.* [This is the sense of last words to husband.]
I do not remember just that. Dear Melvin, I see you, dear child. I love
you, my boy, and want you to think of me often. Tell him I am happy.
570 [part
Richard Hodgson.
(Have you any message to send to father ?) G is all right. I know
it. Poor [?] boy.
(Have you any message for father ?) Who do you mean ? Oh yes. [The
hand here turns back to page having writing marked by star above, then
goes on writing] and bring them to me. Yes, I told him to bring the things
home. Tell him he brought them and I was pleased.
(Won't you send some other message ?) Yes.
(Is my father happy in his life now ?) No.
[The hand here was writing " yes " while sitter was asking second
question. The sitter, not knowing which answer applied to second question
asked, " Yes or no ? " The hand then tried to scratch out the yes.] .
[Sitter asks about owner of pin.]
He is here, but I do not know him personally. How can I, dear T I
will find him.
[Sitter asks about some misunderstanding in the house.] (Did you
remember it ?) I do perfectly, and I told [something.] [Confused.] [End
of writing.]
[Phinuit comes back, with great difficulty getting hand away, until ring
was removed from the linger ; then talks.] [On several occasions Phinuit
has purported to leave the body for a short time while the hand was being
used by another communicator. But the phrase used above probably here
means only that he began again to talk. He frequently remarked about the
difficulty of "getting the hand back " from the control of a writing com
municator. See p. 292. — R. H.] Here's the baby Ruthie. Pat papa.
[Pats for a long time.] She says I don't do it right. I am not gentle
enough. I don't do it the way she used to do. [Medium waves hands at
Mr. W.] This is for that gentleman. She says this is for him. [Waves
hands iu the way in which she always waved them to Mr. W., and to him
only.] This little girl is so lovely. Mumsey. [Pats mother.] Little
Margaret too.
Dr. H wants me to say he has some very important things for you.
Ruthie says, " Pussie, pretty pussie."
(Mrs. T. : You promised we should see them. When?) Don't hurry;
you can't get everything in a hurry. You'll see them.
(Dr. T. : Before we leave the body ?) Yes, as sure as you live.
(Tell Dr. H. to have some things ready for us soon.)
[Dr. Phinuit listened to his own voice in phonograph, saying, "Oh,
you're a nice old fellow. You've got me on record."]
[Phonograph says, "I'm going out."] So I am going out. Ha, ha, that's
good.
Ruthie wants to see Nana soon and bring Betty.
Eighth Sitting. May 20th.
[Mr. L. Dow sitting with Mrs. Piper about 30 minutes. Dr. T.
taking longhand notes. Professor J. H. Hyslop had the second half of
the sitting—omitted.]
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance, 571
Ha ! That's so funny. I'm Dr. Phinuit. You came with the tube.
You're the fellow with a little weakness. How are you, pretty well ?
(Is there anything particularly the matter with me ? ) Well, you're pretty
level-headed, to say the least. I'll tell you one thing very good, you're over
the worst of your troubles. You have no Bright's disease, no heart trouble—
just a little nervous. A little pressure on the bladder. You're going to be
all right. You may have a touch of neuralgia or rheumatism. But you'll
come all right.
(How about Medium ? She has a cough.)
My Medium ? She has a cough, has she ? Well, you have her put a half
ounce of turpentine in a half a cup of boiling water, and inhale it.
(What for her trouble under the arm 1 )
Oh, that's poor blood. A tonic will scatter that. You give her two
ounces of tincture of cinchona ; four ounces of French dialyzed iron and four
ounces simple syrup. Give her a teaspoonful one half-hour before meals.
Fabin. He knew you years ago. [Name not known.]
Before I forget it, Susan wants to tell Elvin she has found the young man
in the spirit. His mother saw him. He wants to see Elvin. (\Vho is he
with ? ) He's with his own friends. He's all right.
Here's your lady. Elizabeth. And Gracie. [Correct. See former
sittings.] She says you must take things easy. We are watching you in a
way you know nothing about.
You're in something, in business. It's coming out all right. It needs
patience and time. Everything has been good. What seems bad is for
your advantage. You will see that.
(What do you want me to do ? )
Give me something connected with your work. [Sitter gives small steel
piece of machine.] I want to tell you something important. There's a tall,
dark-complexioned gentleman with a heavy beard. He will put his interest
in the thing. His name is something like Atwood. Atwood. [L. D. had
been talking business with a Mr. Wood, of said complexion, etc.] (Do I
know him ?) I think not. He will be super—what do you call it 1 Super
—something. (Superintendent.)
It will be the greatest success of the kind in your country.
I see the propellor, or something of that kind. (Pusher.)
I see five of these things. More. Many come running together. [Asked
about Atwood, counts five or six weeks in French.] He will come in that
number of weeks. He has dark eyes and a prominent nose. [Not true.]
The name is nearly right, an A-t- and then two O's and a W. I see this my
own self. There are no special spirits [Asked how he sees it ] I see it
back of you, just as plainly as if it were before your eyes.
There's a young man has something to do with this. How's Aleck ? He's
tired, but he's going to be better. When this gentleman comes there will
be rest for all. I don't want to tell you things that are not right.
[Sitter says he knows a Mr. Wood.]
Well, I see an A and a T and two O's and a W and a D. This man is
very honest.
You're a good fellow. You're going to succeed. Do you know who Tom
is? T-h-o-m-a-s—He's connected with your uncle. [Not known.]
2 p
572 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Do you know William ? Will—he calls in the body. [Brother William
living.] Ho wants to talk to him, too. I have sent your lady Elizabeth
after him.
James [Wife's father] wants to send love to his daughter. Tell her not
to worry.
What relation are you to the baby 1 [Grandfather.] She knows you.
She's lovely, like wax. And the other is very beautiful.
Andre. Tell the boys I'm happy. Valer. [See Fourth Sitting, p. 557.]
How do you do, sir ? I'm glad to see you. I think I know you. This
is a great change, and I'm much better off.
Ninth Sitting. May 22nd, 1892.
[Two following sittings at country house where child R. died, and
quite new to Mrs. P.] [R. H. taking notes.]
First Half.
Sitter : Miss Ellen Heffern (nurse of Mrs. Thaw's children.)
How are you, Sis ?
[The right hand is then seized, and a message written by "George
for Hodgson to give to friends.]
Who's Marie ? [Mary, a niece, daughter of Bridget whose name
follows.] Tell Bridget I am happy. I don't want Hallan [Ellen] to fret
about me. I am happy.
There's an old lady with funny collar about her.
(Where is she ?) She's got two boys with her, two she's brought and
another one's coming, that's three. There with her.
(That's right.)
Who's James ? [A brother dead.]
Tell J-A-C-K—Jack—[Another brother, not known whether alive or
not.] Tell James I'm all right.
Ellen. Who's Ellen ? (I'm Ellen.) There's a baby comes here, same
light-haired little girl.
Who's Nanna ? I tell Nanna. I come, say pttee, pttee, pttee. That's
Ruthie. Happy day. Happy day. (I love to see little Ruthie.) Give
me the funny things. [Rosary given.] Here, baby, take this. Prettee,
prettee. (Ask little Ruthie where is she ?) Here comes the little thing.
She wants that. She pulls them up that way. [Moving rosary up and
down.] •
Who's James she keeps calling for ? Tell Ellen I'm all right, not to
worry about me.
Who's Jack ? Who followed the water, passed out of body in water ?
[Her uncle was drowned.]
Here, baby, take this.
(Did she have the Sacrament before she died ?) She says yes, all
right, all right and happy, too. Somebody calls mother. Who's Margaret ?
And there's one they call Berder—B R I D G E T. (What shall I say to
xxxill.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 573
Bridget?) Tell her that the pain in the head is all right. [Mother
suffered much with head before death.] Boys all right with mo—one, two,
three boys. (She's got more than that.) She's got three with her. (What
are their names?) Who's Mike—little fellow? [A brother Mike died
young.]
The baby passed with bowel trouble. (This one ?) [Giving hair and
locket.] Yes, this one. [True of a baby Ellen had nursed, and whose hair
was in this locket.]
Mary. She puts her arms up to you. She's got very pretty eyes, blue.
Speak to me, all of you. She loves you in the spirit. [This very true of
sitter's sister Bridget's child Mary, who is dead.] (How long will it be before
I go and see her ?) Not for a long time. You're going across the water first.
Three—only three, that's all there is. Who's Mary ? (That's baby's
name.) Keeps saying Mary, Mary. Why didn't you tell me so ? Who's
Nanna ? (I am.) There's another one. That's your mother. She says you
gave her a big round orange. [Can't remember this.] (Did mother see me
since she passed out ?) Yes, and she's coming again. [Ellen says that
she has seen and spoken with her mother twice ; once just before the
death of Ruthie, and once before the death of a nephew. Both occasions
preceded her first information as to anything regarding Mrs. Piper or similar
subjects.] There was a dream. She comes and walks around you. She's
got something here. [Meaning that there was something belonging to the
mother there.]
(Ask my mother if she sees my father.)
Little Mary. That belongs to you.
Who does Fred belong to ? [Mrs. T. called out, " To me, I guess "]
She told me to get that. [Object given which the sitter supposed to be
her mother's hair. It was, however, an Agnus Dei. Sitter did not know
that this object was in parcel in her lap.] [Miss Heffern brought several
articles to the sitting in a parcel. She did not know that the Agnus Dei
was among them. It was wrapped in paper, and she supposed that this
particular packet contained her mother's hair. The Agnus Dei was given to
her by a priest, and her mother when living had told her to wear it. — R. H. ,
1898.] Put that in there. Put it in there and wear it, [thrusting his finger
down the neck of the sitter] just as she told you to. [When sitter insisted
that Phinuit was wrong about this object he tore off paper and showed the
Agnus Dei.] [True. Mother had told sitter to wear it.] (Who gave me
that ?) That's hers. (No, that wasn't hers.) You did everything you could
for her after she passed out of the body.
Give me something. Give me the father's. (Haven't got anything of
father's.) Well, give me the mother's.
Two Marys in connection with this lady. [True ; a sister and a niece.]
[Hair given.] There's an aunt and a little one.
(Mrs. T. : Baby and aunt.) (E. H. : My sister's in the body.) She
wants to send her love to her.
Who's James ? He's going to be ill. (Will he get better ?) [Coughs.]
Through there. [Pointing through there.] . . . Passed out of body
with consumption. [A cousin James Donohue, of whom nothing known.]
(Who is it?) Dannis—Denny something. (Donohue.)
2 p 2
574 [part
Richard Hodgson.
Dannasu—[Further attempts at pronouncing name.] He wants to speak
to you. Trouble through there. (Does he want me to do anything 1 )
Passed out of body across the water, suddenly. Somebody in body named
James going to be ill—cold—Your mother tells me. [True. Baby James
had cold next time Ellen saw him.]
Who's Bridget ? She calls this lady's name.
(Where did mother come to me first after she passed out of the body ? )
She came to you. (What did she say to me 1 ) She's glad to see you, she
, says. (Ask her if I can be of any use to her.) You done [sk] all right.
(What religion is the best to follow—Presbyterian or Catholic, or what ?)
She says keep the way you are. That's all right. Go and do as I told you
first when I come [sic—for " came."]
(Ask her if she sees my father.) Tell her to do what I told you when I
come [sic]. She says you do as she told you to when she came. Understand
that? (Yes.)
(Ask her how many brothers of mine she sees ? ) Five. [Five dead.]
Who's James ? There's one called James. [Brother James had long
curly hair.] Funny hair. Light brownish like. [True.]
Eyes bluish grey. [True.]
(What was the height ? ) Not very tall. (That's wrong.) Have you got
that in your mind ? (Yes.) You don't know much about talking to me,
do you 1
[Message from the mother.] . . . Tell her I told her to change.
I'll watch over her wherever she goes. . . . You do right if you keep as
you are. You get kind of mixed up sometimes and don't know where you
are.
That brother's a fine-looking fellow. [James.]
(What did the brother die of ? Of disease ? )
One was choked—Oh, that's your father's brother. [Unverified.]
Another one was drowned. (What was his name ? ) Andrew. [Correct.
Mother's brother Andrew drowned.] And you never had Mass for him.
[True.]
(Shall I have one said now ? ) Never mind. She wants you to remember
always that big orange you gave her. You gave it to her behind the curtain.
[No recollection of this, but Ellen brought many things once, including
basket of fruit, from south of France to her mother's house in Ireland. Bed
had curtains.]
[Dr. and Mrs. Thaw enter and talk to Phinuit.]
(Ask mother if she's got anything to say to the boy that wrote that.)
[Giving letter.] I want to tell her lots of things. (I want to know if
mother is in heaven.) Your mother's in heaven. She's all right. She's
much happier there than you begin to be here, etc. (Is she in purgatory ? )
Purgatory be hanged. You get your purgatory here, etc.
[Exit Nellie.]
Second Half.
[Dr. and Mrs. Thaw sitting.]
[Dr. T. gives a daguerreotye of W .] Who's W ? W. says I'm
here. What do you want ? That's father. W . That's my son. How
xxxm.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 575
are you 1 I'm glad you brought me back. I want to break through this
veil. [Some question asked by Dr. T. about how he got there.] [Some
remark about mother, and then about development, etc.] I improved
spiritually, mentally, and every other way. When I first opened my eyes I
saw nobody. (Do you want to give a message to any of your scientific
friends ?)
I have one friend that I'd like to see very much on earth. Cannot think
of his name just now, but will in a minute. [Portrait.] This brings me
well. . . .
You tell Langenwine [struggles at name, approximations to Langley.]
I want him to come and see me. You've changed since I came here.
You're getting thin. (What shall I say to Langley 1) Ask him how he's
contented, getting on. Who's J ? He's a very peculiar old fellow.
They've straightened things out. They've explained all matters. I'd do
identically just as I did before —more than half. You tell Davis that I'll
help him in a few days. (Who's Davis ?) He's a friend of mine—wrote
a letter for me. [Unverified.] Tell me about the other W . He's
coming to us. (How long 1) About six months or a little less. The
children are coming out all right. You're the one that studied medicine.
Doctor, you tell him that I'm going to straighten the children. He'll
write it. Til write it.
[Writing.]
[Phinuit writes Harry twice, in mirror writing. (Harry is the name of
one of Dr. Thaw's brothers.*—R. H.) The hand was then seized by another
"influence," and the following was written, during the course of which
Phinuit made occasional remarks like these to the communicating intelligence :
"I told you if you'd come with me I'd show you your friends, you old
idiot." . . . "He's as stubborn as a mule." . . . "Don't thump
me," etc.]
[Writing.] How do you do, my son ? I am your father, and you ought
to know me. (Very glad to see you, etc.) Thank you.
***•*♦ *
(What were the last words you said before you passed out ?) The boys
. . . I said I was going to sleep, and I am anxious to have you know I
was lingering between this life and yours in the body. Then I tried to tell
you about the money. I am . . . yes ... I will, pob, pob, rob,
Bub.—I will tell you when I come again, but I shall have to recall my last
words. [Nothing relevant.—R. H.]
[Question repeated.] Yes, I surely will. What is it? B . . .
Give me a glass of water. My head—
(Do you see the babies ?) Yes. Blair.
(Can you bring the children now 1) I will. Yes. You know your
father William. I must go. Good-bye, dear. I must go, must go, good
bye.
[End of writing.]
[Phinuit then struggles to "get his hand back."] I got it away. [To
Mrs. T.] What are you worrying about ? (I want to go to you.) What ?
(To the babies sometimes.) Oh, you wicked, wicked little thing, etc. Dr.
576 [part
Richard Hodgson.
can't you straighten her out better than that ? You stop your worrying.
You've nothing to worry about. Go to sleep.
(Is he going to be sick 1) No. That's a whim you've got into your head.
No heart trouble, no kidney trouble, no stomach trouble. His head's a little
tired. That's all. (I want to see them so much sometimes.)
Oh, you act like a baby. Come here, dearie, come along. Look at the
little curly-headed one. [To Dr. T.] Your mother's got her. See her jump
her. [Dandling.] Can't you see her, you stupid fools? (No.) You can
see her, can't you, Hodgson ? (No.) Humph.
Tell mamma p-tee, p-sse, happy little Ruthie. Bring a posies. That's a
spirit posy. Don't worry mother. Dranma, she says. Ruth, dranma,
don't worry papa, don't worry you [to Mrs. T.] pt-tee, pt-tee.
[Phinuit departs—heavy breathing.]
Pttee. Pttee. (Little baby. How do you do, baby ?) Pt-tee. (Little
Margaret with you ?)
Pt-tee. [Points upwards and to one side at picture with forefinger.
Hand rises, finger points, trembles, and hand sinks.] [During the last
month of R.'s life it was a regular morning custom to bring her to the
room in which this sitting was held—our bedroom—and she would always
point, as hand did in sitting, with one finger (unusual with a baby), and
say "pt-tee, pt-tee," just as in sitting. This little incident had not been
in either sitter's conscious mind sinco baby's death, six months before.
Mrs. Piper had never been in that room until the actual time of sitting.
Many other pictures in the room, two of which Mrs. Piper's hand could
have pointed at more easily than the Particular one always noticed by
the baby.]
[Phinuit returns.] Baby wanted to come. The old lady stood up behind
her so she wouldn't fall. Don't be so impatient, little one, wait a minute,
darling. Thank mamma for the posy. Bring the posy again another day.
She has no pain—no teeth. I'm happy, happy. Don't cry any more.
(And little Margaret ? )
Little ono can't talk so well. Little Margaret, Margie, beautiful, they're
just like flowers in blossom.
(Why, they were twins. Why can't she talk as well as the other ?) She
doesn't talk so much. Her talk is different ; she doesn't articulate quite so
distinctly. I can understand it, but you wouldn't. Little da da da dada.
(Why did she put her finger up t )
Pt-tee, Pt-tee. That's what she used to do in the body. Your mother
says she had the baby do that so that you'd know it's baby.
• (How about L ?)
L 's going to get out without you. W is going to have a dream
before he passes out. Here's F . F , you be still a minute ; you can
talk dirootly.
(What's that about the dream ? ) He'll tell you about it. [Unverified.]
He's going to see your father. His eyes are going to be opened. That's all
fixed. I saw Susan She found the gentleman he wanted to know about.
[This evidently refers to Melvin.]
(How's F. ? ) He sends his love to you. Much obliged for what you did
for him when he was in the body.
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 577
[Pm.] (That belongs to friend of Melvin.) You stick it in there, and
it'll stay. (Not in medium's skin.)
[Written.]
How are you, Melvin and Dr., and Florence 1 I am so glad to be with you
again. I am—I am Steve. Dr., this is my cravat pin. This is my cravat
pin. Melvin just gave it to me. (Whom did you give it to ? ) [Attempts at
names beginning with M— finally reaching M-A-R clearly ; other letters
undecipherable ; ending] I am very weak. [" Steve's sister Mary had the
article spoken of, we believing at the time she had not. We did not know
his sister's name even."—Dr. Thaw, 1896.]
[Hand here seized by another "influence."]
Tell J [?] B. [Surname correctly given.—R. H.] J.A.B.
[Initials correctly given. F. \V. was an artist. J. A. B., also an artist, was
an intimate friend of F. W.—R. H.] I am not dead. F . Give my
love to Top. [Nickname of best friend, given independently at second
sitting.] F W . [Names correctly given.—R. H.]
(Don't be so excited. Take your time, etc.), and I try to be good, but
you don't know how glad I am to get to you. Andrew. . . . Andrew
. . . Andrew. Adieu. [Andrew unverified.] Dear old B and Top.
Give my love to them. Oh, how I thank you for all you did for me. Good
bye, dear Dr. Thaw. Blair. [F. called Dr. T. by first name only during
visit just before his death.]
Who is this man? (That's Mr. Hodgson, Mr. W . R.H. says, "Glad
to know you, Mr. W .") Glad to see you, sir. (I know your friend
B very well.) Oh, do you'? Give him my love and tell him I would
like to see him. Did you know me ? , (No. I don't think I ever met you.)
I am F W . Give me my stick and brush and I will paint it. They
ought to have known better.
Good-bye. . . . With. . . . (You know Mr. W ?) [Mr.
Melvin W., who has come into the room.—R. H.]
Yes. How are you 1 M I Will you speak to me ?
Good-bye. . . . Yours. . . . F .
Remember me to your mother and father. What was your brother's
name ? (Alexander. )
Oh yes. Remember me to him. [Writing ends. Sitting ends.—R. H.]
Tenth Sitting, May 23rd., 1892.
[Present : Dr. and Mrs. Thaw. R. H. taking notes.]
Well, little girl, you've got over your worrying. I'll go and find some
friends for you.
(I want to bring my little Betty in to you.) [Servant Nellie brings in
Beatrice, Mrs. T.'s little daughter.]
Ha ! Nice little girl, come here. Here comes the baby. Two babies.
Give me Ruthie's play-toys. [Rosary.] See the baby. It's too heavy for
her. [Puts rosary round Mrs. T.'s head, between her and Betty.] See !
578 [part
Richard Hodgson.
That's little Margaret. Dad, Dad, Dad. Ptee, pssy, Nanna, Nanna.
[Stroking B's hair.] Pttee, pttee, pttee.
[Phinuit leaves, Baby comes. Finger points toward picture.] Pttee—
pttee, etc. There, there, etc. [Places B's hand on Mrs. Piper's head,
strokes B's hair, etc., points toward picture again, "Pttee, ptt-ee. Places
hand on Dr. T.'s head and pats it.]
[Phinuit returns. Mrs. T. is sending B. away.] Ruthie wants the little
one to stay. * * * [Personal and non-evidential talk.—R. H.]
Here's W . [Father of Dr. Thaw.—R.H.] (I asked him to tell me
what he said just before he passed out, and what he meant.) He was dazed.
He thinks he said something about a glass of water, but he doesn't know.
(But he said something about a man.) He doesn't know. He was
between the two worlds. He doesn't know just what he did say. Susan
knew exactly what she said before she passed out. [Correct. See sitting of
May 19, 1892.] [Dr. T. explains what he thought about it, that it was
probably unconscious talking, &c.]
**♦♦♦*
Give mo the thing that'll bring him nearer. [Daguerreotype given.]
I understood you better than I did the rest. I didn't understand how to
treat you all. What about Langdn— Lang— ?
(L , you mean. Has he something to say to him ?)
Is he satisfied with what I did for him ? [Appropriate remark.]
That's Florence. This was taken before the war. [True of daguerreo
type.] A knows all about this. She kept it for years. A . (A
What ?) Your mother, of course. Don't you know your mother ? [Mistake.
A , name of W.'s sister.] . . . [The difficulty with A. here seems to
be due to Mrs. T.'s aunt having had name of Eliza A .] . . . She
had this for a long time. But she's been here twenty or thirty years or
more. She looks as much higher than your father as your father is higher
than you. . . .
He's explained to her all about your being here, your being married, and
the children, and all about it.
(Where did my father get this thing ?) Where's South ? (Where's what 1)
He had that taken years ago, before your mother passed out of the body.
He had it taken years ago, before the war.
(Just one thing I'd like to ask my father. What name did he call my
mother ?) He talks about two mothers, one in the body, one in the spirit.
(My mother and my stepmother. Won't he give the name of my mother?)
That's A , too.
(No, that's his sister). [Pause.]
Oh, that's the name I gave you one day, and I mixed it up with the name
of another lady. [Referring to Ann Eliza, Mrs. T.'s aunt.] Who's L ?
(That's his daughter-in-law).
***♦*♦
Who's Margaret ? Oh, little Margaret.
(Won't he give mother's name ?)
He'll write that name directly.
♦ ***#*
xxxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 579
Who's Elsine ? [Struggles after name.] That's W , too. W in
the body. (Who's speaking ?) Dr. H. : George William . . . Andre
Valliere says tell George I'm all right. I have seen Whiskers. ["Alfred
Howell's dog, then dead."—Dr. Thaw, 1896. See p. 557-8.] . . .
Eleventh Sitting. May 29</t, 1892.
[Miss Ellen Heffern at first part of sitting. R. H. taking notes.]
Phinuit : . . . She wants you to tell Ellen I'm glad to see her. I'm
here in another life. Are you lonely without me ? Do you miss me ! Call
for me and I'll come to you. Ask me to come to you in the name of God
when you go to your little cot.
Who's Mary I (My sister.) Bridget. I'll stay with you all, and help
you well. I'll be with all of you. (Father?) He's with her. She wants
you to remember a bandage here, dipping it in water and put it over here.
You bathed his head. [True.] In another land—country. There was a
little candle there you lit. [True.] You remember a red handkerchief.
Keep that. [The only relic of her father E. possesses.] He wants her to go
where his body is. He'll be with her, and tell you what she does.
Be a good friend to the one that gave you the little thing to wear
here. He's blessed the thing. (Referring to Agnus Dei mentioned in
former sitting.]
Who's Mac ? Mac—something. (His name is John.) That's the John
I told you about and you said no. I told you of two Johns. One called
Jack, and he's got a brother Mike. There's land on that side [John
Mac ] and he's going to give you that land. Wasn't I a good fellow to
you ? You'll— Take my blessing.
John will do what's right for you, but it will be through Mary. And I
tell you, friends, this lady's father and mother ate here. You're not going
to see about it. But you're going to before you leave your surroundings.
Ellen. (Yes.) Speak to your mother, quick. She's going away. She'll
come and stay with you. (How long shall I stay with this lady ?) Help her
out. See the old gentleman and lady. What's the matter with his leg !
[Father was lame. Rheumatism.]
[The notes of the remaining part of this sitting, at which Dr. and Mr3.
T. were present, besides myself, are too fragmentary to be of much use. I
talked with Phinuit for some time, and then asked him to get " Mr. E." if
possible, to control the voice, and talk into the phonograph. Shortly after
there were indications of "change of control," after which there was a long
silence while Mrs. Piper's hand pulled as though at a moustache, moved her
hair back from the forehead, and felt my face over. I said " Hallo, who's
there ? What's the matter ? Why don't you speak ? " Finally the voice
came, very different apparently from Phinuit's : "That's the funniest—I
didn't think I could get—it can't be possible I've got here at last. Well !
Well ! Well ! You've changed since I came here, tremendously. You
don't know me, do you? I'm George Pelham." (See p. 315. This incident
occurred about a fortnight after the sitting with G. P.'s father and mother.
The series of stenographically reported sittings did not begin till the
580 [part
Richard Hodgson.
following November.—R. H.) A long conversation ensued, in which one
or two obscurities in recent sittings were referred to, but dealing chiefly
with Gr. P. 's experiences immediately after death, first impressions, anxiety
to speak with friends, etc. Nearly all this was spoken into the phonograph,
and scarcely any notes were taken. Unfortunately we found later that the
phonographic record gave us only a few scattered words here and there.
Near the beginning of the conversation, as I remember, when asking G. P.
to talk into the phonograph, I said, " You know what a phonograph is 1"
"Of course I do. Why, Hodgson, you must think I've got very unintelli
gent since I came over here." The sitting ended by another conversation
with Phinuit.]
[Dr. and Mrs. Thaw sitting. A. D. taking shorthand notes.J
Phinuit : That's Florrie. I'm so glad to see you. How are you ?
Where's the doctor ? (I'm here.) Phinuit: You're here too! I'm so glad
to see you.
******
[Personal and non-evidential talk. —R.H.]
Here, speak to the baby. She has a gentleman with her. Who is—who
is—I know that gentleman just as well as can be. That is the gentleman I
told you was going to pass out of the body. That is W . That's your
brother W . [See pp. 566-7, 575.]
Well, I never! Oh, hello! B-l-r. B-l-r. B-l-r. [Dr. A. B. Thaw is usually
called by his middle name, Blair, by his relatives and intimate friends.—
R. H.] Hello, Florence, Florence. How are you 1—He speaks kind of
queer.—I want to speak to you. Come here. Well, I never ! I have seen
you a great many times since I passed out of the body, but there is one thing
I want to tell you of particularly. Listen to me. B-l-r. B-l-r. B-l-r. I
can't get that name right. You listen to it and interpret the best you can.
Look here, I want to tell you, my brother, one thing—my brother. I wish I
had my life in the body over again, I would do differently.
(In what way ?) In many ways, I assure you. Where is L ? L .
L . Well, did you think I was coming here like this ? (The Dr. told
me. W .) Why didn't you tell me ? I had no sooner got out than I
realised I lived again. But I didn't know this. Did you know this ? Why
didn't you tell me ? You wanted to surprise me. Well, I am happy. I can
say I am happy, and it is the first time I could say it in years. Believe me
that my sufferings are at an end. I have no more pain, and I want you to
think of me as being perfectly happy. I am satisfied, and I am with father
and mother. I am all right, B-l-r. Do not think of me as dead, because I
am not. I think father was glad to see me, but you know he didn't think
this any more than I did.
(What did he say about it ? Do you ever talk about coming to see me
with father ?) Father has been here before, and he knew it, and ho told me
about it. But this is the first channel that has been open to mo. . . .
Twelfth Sitting. January 16th, 1893
xsxiii.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 581
No more pain. I am glad to get out of ,it, thank the Lord ! I wouldn't
go back into the body for all the world and all there is in it.
*****
Phinuit : Give me the flowers for the baby. [Takes flowers.] [Whispering.]
(Do you like the pretty flowers ?) Phinuit : [Whispering.] Pretty, pretty.
[Many times repeated.] Happy, happy, happy. [Smoothing fur on Mrs.
T.'s shoulder some time.] Pussie ! Pussie ! Pussie ! [Ruthie used to do
so with her mother's fur coat in the last month of her life, and say, Pussie,
Pussie. This" was the first time fur was worn at a sitting.]
* # * * *
Here's H . (How are you, Doctor ?)
Phinuit : I want to speak to you. Do you know you have done so much
for me ? I am so happy here. Do you know this world is not what you
think it is 1 The world that I am in is peace and plenty. The world of
peace and plenty. That's so, he says. Do you hear what I say ? You
can't see me, can you, Doctor 'I God bless you always, for ever and for ever,
and you too, you dear little woman. Did you miss my Christmas letter ?
[Dr. H. sent us a Christmas letter every year.] (We did. We shall never
forget your Christmas letter.)
Phinuit : Did you keep it all these days ? How long is it since I was
liberated from my body ? (A year and a half.) Phinuit : A year and a half
gone in the material body, and still the little church goes on. [The
reference to the church was pertinent.—R. H.] (It is over two years.)
Phinuit : How are all my family i But they have so much trouble and so
much worry. They worry unnecessarily, I believe.
(How is your wife 1 Is she going to be better ?) Phinuit : She is going
to be' much better ? Don't you remember what I told you ? (About
what ?) Phinuit : I told you about one of his children, and how she would
get better. (She is better.)
Phinuit : And his wife is going to be better too, much better in the
material body, and will be a comfort to him yet.
(What about B ?) Phinuit : She is the one that is going to get
married. She is going to be married. (We could not get the name of the
lover.) Phinuit: Oh, couldn't you ? W . [One letter wrong.]
H wants to know about the verses he left. He wants to know if
they were printed, if the little book was printed. [A posthumous volume
of his poems was printed about that time, but I do not know whether prior
to the sitting or not.—R.H.] Have you missed me much since I came
here? (We love you so much.) Phinuit: As I go dreaming along I look
back to you with a great deal of happiness. You were my ideals, you
always will be. I see you a great many times when the body is quiet and
the soul goes on, wandering on. (Where does the soul go when we sleep ?)
Phinuit : It travels, and we can communicate with them freely. You do not
remember it, and you do not realise it. When you sleep I oftentimes go
to you and I shall never forget you. And do tell my family so. . .
[A. Dow sitting. Dr. T. taking brief notes.]
How about the machines ? They will be a grand success. I see them in
a great big building.
582 [part
Richard Hodgson.
There is a man signing a big paper. [Mr. Dow's father had signed
application for space at Chicago fair two days previously. This known only
to A. D.] [The machines were, however, not exhibited at the World's Fair
in Chicago.—R. H.]
I said I will go back into the spirit world if these things are not a
success.
(Will there be any moro machines ?)
There will be two more new styles.
You will have more calls than you can fill for them. Un, deux, trois,
quatre, cinq, six. Inside of six months your father won't want for
anything. [The machines are only now, as this Report goes to press, on
the point of being placed on the market.—R. H.]
In the business part of the machines there will be a man named Burton.
Two men. One has a sandy beard. An elderly gentleman in the West.
Who's Ben ?
I see a patent in the patent place. It's all right. (Are there to be any
new inventions ?)
No. I told you clearly about these things.
Here's Stump. You are going to be better off. Tell George, Stump
sends love to him. [See pp. 557-8.]
(Mrs. T. : How about my sister in the body ?)
She's not very well. [True.] Is there anybody named H connected
with her? [Her husband.]
Little girl. [Good advice given here in regard to their little girl.]
Their little boy is not very well. Has been having a cold. An inward
fever, in the stomach. A little cold too. Coming, perhaps. [Boy had
acute gastric disturbance five days after sitting.]
******
xxxiii.] Psychical Research in American Universities. 583
SUPPLEMENT.
i.
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH IN AMERICAN UNIVERSITIES.
By Harlow Gale.
Psychological Laboratory, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis,
Minn., U.S.A.
As a part of my own interest in psychical research, it seemed to me it
would be interesting and profitable to try to gather together some report on
the place of psychical research in our university teaching. For in any new
line of investigation there comes a time when, with the development of
methods and the accumulation of a sufficiently trustworthy mass of material,
some claim can be made to the presentation of its methods and results in
educational institutions. Psychical research seems naturally to fall under
Psychology, and so it is for instructors in psychology to decide when these
newer subjects of psychical investigation deserve a place in our university
courses.
At Harvard, Professor James gives about fifteen out of forty-five
lectures in his course in Abnormal Psychology to psychical research work.
But neither of his psychological colleagues, Royce or Munsterberg, takes at
present any active interest in the subject. In Columbia the only allusion
to the subject is by Professor Hyslop, who regrets that lack of time and a
proper psychological course only allow him to mention it. He hopes,
however, to offer some special work in this subject, and, if time and
opportunity presented itself, would give a course for the whole year. He is
"convinced that the experimentalist who ignores it and taboos it, or refuses
to understand it (it is not necessary to believe in it) is going to be left
behind, and will lose his influence ; for the time is coming in the near
future when he will be called upon to discuss a problem which he has not
equipped himself to discuss. " However, neither of those in charge of the
experimental or abnormal Psychology "pays the slightest attention to
psychical research a la the English Society." The experimentalist "taboos
it throughout, but has never even read the reports and their experiments
in telepathy."
At Pennsylvania, Professor Newbold says, " My own interest in the
matter is very keen, and I regret very much that my work leaves me no
time for original research. I do not, however, introduce it into my teaching.
In the first place I am giving no courses in which the subject would
naturally find its place, and in the second, I am by no means sure that it
is desirable, either for the sake of the cause or for the sake of the
584 [Supplement.
Harlow Gale.
students, to do so. I always, however, so far as possible, endeavour to
arouse the interest of any individual student who seems possessed of the
good sense and judgment which are so essential in one who intends to
deal with such questions." Perhaps quite naturally Professor Fullerton's
six years of work with the Seybert Commission, in which he came in contact
with fraudulent mediums only, has resulted in giving him a thorough distaste
for the whole subject. The experimental Psychologist there is an orthodox
of the pronounced type, and glories in the fact that he is not in the least
interested in " so-called psychical research." Since the same man has charge
of the work in experimental Psychology at Bryn Mawr (Women's), this
complacent superiority prevails there also ; although Professor D. S. Miller,
Associate Professor of Philosophy, gives four or five lectures of his intro
ductory course to Hypnotism and psychical research, and formerly, in an
advanced course, gave them more time.
At Brown, Professor Delabarre has a "Seminary on 'Abnormal and
Unusual States of Consciousness' during the winter term, in which the
work of the S.P.R. is referred to and criticised."
At Smith (Women's) Professor Gardner reports :—"My reference to that
work in my classes is only incidental. Some years ago I had an elective
course in which hypnotism, clairvoyance, telepathy, etc., were considered in
some detail, but I gave it up, as it seemed to me that the work was not of
that disciplinary character which I consider the main work of a college
should be."
The subject gets some attention at Chicago in connection with the
regular psychological work, but it is given no independent treatment.
A Psychologist of one of our larger Universities gives some criticism
to psychical research, but does not wish his name mentioned in this
connection.
From Cornell an Associate of the Society reports that not only is there
no psychical research work there, but that the Psychologist "will not even
have the S.P.R. Proceedings in the library lest they should inflame the
imaginations and corrupt the minds of the students. This policy recently
led to the somewhat comical result that he had to borrow the books of me,
when he needed them for polemical purposes."
The attitude at Yale, aside from indifference, is shown in the warning
"against the unjustifiable application of the term 'experiment' to hypnotic
exhibitions, to thought-transference follies, and to the so-called psychical
research experiments. These amusements are as unrelated to scientific
experiments as clairvoyant healing and faith-cure to the science of
medicine " (Scripture : Thinking, Feeling, Doing, 1895, p. 26). In his.
New Psychology, 1897, the same " New Psychologist " selects some
S.P.R. cases as a travesty contrast to the experimenting of the trained
scientist, and again sums up the detailed study thus: "The objections to
psychical research lie in its unscientific methods of experimentation and in
the air of occultism in which the whole is enveloped. If the investigator*
were trained in the psychological laboratory, we might expect interesting
discoveries in regard to mind, while at the same time the repellent mysticism
would disappear along with odic force, animal magnetism, thought-transfer
ence, and other ghosts" (pp. 62-69).
Part xxxni.] Psychical Research in American Universities. 585
At our distinctively psychological University, i.e., Clark, the position of
President Stanley Hall was shown in his review of the Proceedings and
Phantasms of the Living in the first number of his Journal of Psychology.
He then wrote in 1887 from Johns Hopkins that the formation and plan of
the S.P.R. were "such as to commend it, not only to every psychologist,
but to every true and intelligent friend of culture and religion " ; and, in
most gratifying contrast to many cases of dogmatic incredulity, he has
followed the publications of the S.P.R. in two reviews (Journal ofPsychology,
Vol. L, pp. 128-146; Vol. VII., pp. 135-142). He has made experiments
in normal and hypnotic reaction times (Mind, Vol. VIII., p. 170) in his
laboratory at Johns Hopkins. There also Drs. Jastrow and Nuttall made
their investigation "on the existence of a magnetic sense" (Proceedings of
the American S.P.R., p. 116). He himself had also up to 1887 "spent
much time and labour in repeating with many subjects nearly all the experi
ments of the English Society." Under these conditions of experience, and
along with much suggestive criticism, it is to be regretted that he then
concludes " that the crude and premature theory of telepathy . . . lacks
everything approaching proof save to amateurs and speculative psycho
logists" (Journal of Psychology, Vol. I., pp. 143 and 146). Instead of
bettering its claim during the next eight years his judgment seems more
severe. For he is profoundly convinced that " the telepathic presumption is
yet very far from being a prima facie case, is premature at best, and that it
is at present with its rank mazes of mystic guess-work a source of befuddle-
ment and obfuscation galore. To say that telepathy ' is a name given in
lieu of a theory about it,' or, with Mr. Podmore, to say it 'involves just as
little theory as Newton's conception of gravity,' seems to us almost grossly
misleading, to say the least. Telepathy began as a definition of a new mode
of psychic interconnection, and, instead of resting on the commonest facts
of sense, and proving by mathematics, it has yet to find a single fact that
can be demonstrated regularly in laboratory courses that proves or even
illustrates it with certainty. . . . The writer has diligently read the
experiments of the proceedings, and can honestly say that there is not one
in which the conditions as reported seem to him satisfactory. . . . Give
us one little fact, ever so little, that we can freely test and reproduce once a
year in our laboratory. We will cross seas to see it, will acknowledge our
mistaken scepticism, and confess telepathy, and turn the research of ono
laboratory at least in a new direction" (Journal of Psychology, Vol. VII.,
pp. 137 and 139).
On the other hand, however, Professor James gives most weighty
influence to psychical research through such reviews as those in the Psycho
logical Review, Vol. II., p. 67, and his reply to Professor Cattell, of Columbia,
in Vol. III., p 648 ; not to speak of his presidential address and papers
within the S.P.R. itself.
Here in the University of Minnesota I have given in the spring term of
my junior year course in Psychology nine weeks or thirty-six hours to
psychical research, including two weeks on Hypnotism. In the first twelve
hours the evidence on Telepathy is outlined after the plan in the Phantasms
of the Living. Mr. Podmore's Apparitions and Thought-transference makes
an invaluable book for the students in this problem, and the cases brought
586 [Supplement.
Harlow Gale.
into the lecture room are largely supplementary to those in these books.
Practical demonstrations of the methods in the experimental cases, and a
constant analysis and criticism of these and of the spontaneous cases,
stimulate some students to experiment with valuable results.
In the next sixteen hours the other more negative parts of the Society's
work are outlined. In addition to the most useful summaries on some of
the subjects given in Mr. Podmore's Studies in Psychical Research, Mr.
Myers' "Resolute Credulity," and in Professor James' Essay in his Will to
Believe, perhaps the appended note of references may be stimulating to a
further presentation of them. Upon our reference table, as well as in the
University and Public Libraries, are sets of the S.P.R. publications,
together with some of the standard works on the subjects. To these I add
something from notes of my own experiences with professional mediums, and
show a collection of alleged spirit photographs compared with ones of my
own manufacture.
Then follow the eight hours of demonstration in non-sensational psycho
logical phenomena of Hypnotism, and the following of suggestion through
its various names and phases of suggestive Therapeutics, " School of
Psychology " (Chicago), Mind and Faith Cures, Metaphysical, Magnetic and
Divine Healing, Christian Science, Miracles, etc., etc.
Coming, as this term's work does, after one term of lectures and
demonstrations in the Physiology and Psychology of Sense Perception, and
a second term on Association, Memory, Feeling, and Willing, it gives a most
valuable review of many of these phenomena, and their meaning is greatly
enlarged by the new light from these points of view. So that this term is
not only naturally more popular than the other two, but, so far as I can judge
from three years' trial, it is the most profitable of all to the students. For
few undergraduates get any serious meaning of the relation of the modern
knowledge of our wonderful nervous mechanism to our conscious life, of the
complex processes of sense perception to our real criterion of truth and
limits of knowledge, of the pleasure-pain elements on the highest develop
ments of our evolution and the ultimate basis of all conduct. But most
students are still surrounded by a bewildering maze of alleged supernatural
psychical phenomena which the ordinary psychological instruction does not
attempt to pierce. If, however, the student can gain some analytical power
in the classification of these mixed phenomena, some critical sense of what
proof has been offered and must be offered in each category, the relations of
the residuum thus gained to our already established and explained psychical
facte, such an acquirement will, I think, do vastly more than the usual
harmless psychological "discipline" towards making strong men. This so
neglected function of criticism in education accounts for the often exaspera
ting slowness with which phenomena are transferred from some modern
form of Animism to natural Science. Though I appreciate in the highest
degree, and after four years' experience of the Psychological Laboratories
of Leipzig and Berlin, the great work which experimental Psychology is
consciously or unconsciously doing in freeing Psychology from Metaphysics
and raising it to a worthy place among the Sciences, yet I deliberately
believe that for immediate practical returns in education, the S.P.R. has
more to offer than all the Psychological Laboratories. If others do not go
Part xxxin.] Psychical Research in American Universities. 587
so far, may we at least beg that one of the two groups of psychological
workers so excellently described by Mr. Myers ("Resolute Credulity,"
Proceedings, XI. , p. 233) may try to enlarge its horizon to get a fair view
of the other 1
References to Psychical Research Phenomena, aside from Telepathy.
[Roman numerals refer to Proceedings S.P.R., unless otherwise indicated.]
Phantasms of the Dead :
Mrs. Sidgwick's Report. III., 69.
Professor Sidgwick's Address. V. , 274.
Gurney and Myers. V., 403.
Podmore. VI., 229.
Myers. VI., 13 and 314 ; VIII., 170.
Premonitions :
Mrs. Sidgwick on Evidence for. V., 228.
Myers. XL, 334.
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism :
Mrs. Sidgwick's Report. IV., 45. See also article in Encyclopedia
Britannica.
Professor Barrett. IV., 25.
Massey. IV., 25.
Lewis and others. IV., 338 (on Eglinton).
Crookes. VI., 98 (on Home).
Crookes, Horsley, Bull, and Myers. III., 460 (on Husk's iron
ring).
Myers. VII., 146 and 383 ; IX., 245 ; and XL, 27 (on Moses).
Also Journal, VI., 264, 304.
Davey and Hodgson. IV., 381, and VIII., 253 (conjuring
imitation).
Wallace. Journal, VI., 33 (claiming Davey as medium).
Paladino Case. Journal, VI., 306 ; VII., 36 and 148. Pro
ceedings, IX., 218.
Hodgson. Investigation of Theosophical Society. III., 201 ;
IX., 129.
Mrs. Sidgwick. Spirit Photography. VII., 268. Journal, VIII.,
165.
Haunted Houses : I., 101 ; II., 137 ; VIII., 311.
Podmore. Poltergeists. XII., 45.
Unconscious Movement :
Sugden. Note on Muscle-reading. I., 291.
Myers. Automatic Writing. II., 217 ; HI., 1 ; IV., 209 ; V., 403.
Barkworth. Automatic Writing. VII., 23.
Hallucinations :
Gurney. III., 151.
Census of. X., 25.
Miss X. Crystal Vision. V., 486 and 505 ; VI., 358 ; XL, 114.
Lang. The Voices of Jeanne d'Arc. XL, 198.
2 Q
588 Supplement.
Harlow Gale.
Hallucinations : (Continued.)
Hyslop. Crystal Vision. XII., 259.
Marillier. Apparitions of the Virgin in Dordogne. VII., 100.
Miscellaneous :
Divining Rod. II., 73 and 79.
,, Professor Barrett. XIII., pp. 2-282.
Lodge on "Georgia Magnet." Journal V., 168.
Reichenbach Flames. L, 99 and 231 ; II., 56 ; Proceedings
American S.P.H., 116 and 127.
Hodgson. Indian Magic and Testimony of Conjurers. IX., 357.
Hypnotism :
Reports on. I., 217, 251, 283 ; II., 12.
Gurney. Stages of. II., 61, 201. Problems of. II., 265.
,, Peculiarities of certain post-hypnotic states. IV., 268.
,, Stages of Hypnotic Memory. IV., 515.
,, Recent experiments in Hypnotism. V., 3.
„ Hypnotism and Telepathy. V., 216.
,, and Myers. Some higher Aspects of Mesmerism.
III., 401.
Local Anaesthesia induced in the normal state by mesmeric
passes. III., 453.
Myers. Human Personality in the light of hypnotic suggestion.
IV., L
,, On Telepathic Hypnotism. IV., 127.
,, Multiplex Personality. IV., 496.
,, Note on certain reported cases of hypnotic Hyperses-
thesia. IV., 532.
,, (On Gurney's work in Hypnotism). V., 365.
,, French Experiments on Strata of Personality. V., 374.
Subliminal Consciousness. VII., 298 ; VIII., 333, 436 ;
IX., 3 ; XL, 334.
,, Mind Cure, Faith Cure, and Miracles of Lourdes.
IX., 160.
The connection of Hypnotism with the subjective phenomena of
Spiritualism. V., 279.
Barkworth. Duplex Personality. VI., 84.
Delbcauf. Re l'Appreciation du Temps par les Somnambules.
VIII., 414.
Fryer. The Holywell Cures. Journal, VII., 85.
Ramsay. Partial Anaesthesia. IX., 236.
Dill and Green. Dipsomania and Hypnotism. XL, 18.
Pierce and Podmore. Subliminal Consciousness or Unconscious
Cerebration. XL, 317.
Newbold. Sub-conscious Reasoning. XII., 11.
Barrows. Suggestion without Hypnotism. XII., 21.
Bramwell. James Braid : his work and writings. XII., 127.
,, Personally observed Hypnotic Phenomena. XII., 176.
„ What is Hypnotism 1 XII., 204.
Part XXXIII.] 589
Reviews.
IT.
REVIEWS.
Zur Kritik des Telepathischen Beweis Maleriels. By Edmund Parish.
Leipzig. 1897.
This pamphlet of forty-eight pages is a criticism, read before the
Psychological Society of Munich, of the evidence for telepathy afforded by
the Report on the Census of Hallucinations published in the Proceedings of
the Society for Psychical Research, Vol. X. (Part XXVI.). '
The author in his preface characterises the discussion of the subject in
this Report, as "the most important attempt yet made to prove the existence
of telepathy." This was not the view taken of it by the Committee respon
sible for the work. To them the most important evidence appeared to be,
first, the experimental evidence published at various times in the Proceedings
and in Phantasms of the Living ; and secondly, the large collection of
spontaneous cases published in Plutntasms of the Living and since added to.
Experience had already shown them that evidence equal to this, either in
quantity or quality, could not be expected from a body of seventeen thousand
persons chosen at random ; and accordingly the object in the part of the
Report which deals with telepathy was to contribute to the proof of its
existence, not so much by accumulating fresh evidence as by supplying a
more complete answer to one of the objections urged against the evidence
from spontaneous cases,—the objection that the coincidences are accidental.
Herr Parish has, however, evidently given more attention to our work
than our opponents usually vouchsafe to it. He in the main does justice to
the care with which the Committee endeavoured to carry out their task ; and
gives a good short account of their method (pp. 10-17). Nevertheless, he
dissents from their conclusion. He admits that the difficulties and objections
ho urged in his work on Hallucinations and Illusionsi against the telepathic
interpretation of certain results of-the " census," are most of them found to
have little weight in the light of the since-published full report of the
Committee. Either they are removed by facts not known to him at the
time he advanced them, or they have been considered by the Committee
themselves and shown not to affect their general conclusion (p. 17). He
still thinks, however, that certain considerations, based on the material
furnished by the census of hallucinations itself, can be shown to overthrow
i Ubtr die Trugwahmchmwtg. Leipzig, 1894. This work, published before the
Report of the Canaus ,>£ Hallucinations came out, was reviewed in Proteedings, Vol.
XI., p. 162. It has since been translated into English and published in the
Contemporary Science Series under the name of Hallucinations and Illusions: A
study of the fallacies of Perception. Most of the additional discussion contained in
the pamphlet now under review, and other matter arising out of the Census Report,
was included in the Knglish edition, where, however, it is not always worked into
the earlier matter with complete success.
2 Q 2
590 (Supplement.
Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
the evidence for telepathy afforded by it. To these arguments I shall
endeavour to reply. He deals with them in order of importance, beginning
with that to which he attaches least weight. Put briefly they are as
follows.
(1) A person who, in good faith, reports himself to have experienced
a hallucination of the senses, may very often be really suffering from an
illusion of memory,—a " retro-active hallucination " (p. 17).
(2) Given that a hallucination of the senses really occurred, it is very
questionable whether the point (e.f/., the recognition of the figure)
which chiefly connects it with the coinciding death or other event, has
not been imported into it afterwards by " memory-adaptation " (p. 18).
(3) He believes that the choice, as the object of statistical enquiry,
of waking hallucinations of persons in good health, is itself the reason
why there appear to be too many coincidences to be explained by chance
(p. 23), because (p. 25) the coincidence causes what might otherwise
be remembered only as a dream to be remembered as a waking
hallucination.
(4) The content of a hallucination may be due to association of
ideas, and if this possibility be not excluded—and it is practically
impossible to exclude it—we are not justified in attributing the
hallucination to a telepathic impact (pp. 40-45).
The first three of these objections all turn on supposed defects of
memory, and are all, by implication at least, dealt with in Chapter XII. of
the Report on the Census of Hallucinations. It is there said (pp. 210-211),
"There are two questions to ask about each case. (1) Have we good
reason to believe that the hallucination really occurred within twelve
hours of the death ? (2) Have we good reason to believe that it was
recognised before the death was known, and not merely, having been
unrecognised at the time, assumed afterwards to have represented the
decedent because of the coincidence ? " The first of these questions covers
the ground of Herr Parish's first objection, and also of his third, though
there are points in this last which we shall have to return to and consider in
more detail. The second of our questions covers the ground of Herr
Parish's second objection. The Report goes on to point out that the best
guarantee against both kinds of exaggeration is a written note of the
hallucination made before the death was known, and that confirmation may
also be afforded by evidence of the hallucination having been mentioned to
another person, or of action of some kind having been taken on it before the
death was known. And in a large number of cases we have confirmation of
this kind.
There is a curious disagreement between the writers of the Report and
Herr Parish in connection with the second question. They say that, though
the remembering of an unrecognised figure as a recognised one is an error
against which we ought to be on our gu*rd, yet it is one of which we have no
proved instances. Herr Parish on the other hand finds in the Report itself
instances of what had, he says, previously been with him mere conjecture ;
and he quotes and discusses three of these. I have carefully examined these
three again and endeavoured to see why they affect Herr Parish and the
Part XXXIII.] 591
Reviews.
Committee so differently, but I am bound to say that I fail to discover where
Herr Parish finds the proof that recognition was read into them afterwards.
It will be instructive to discuss some points in these three cases a little
more fully. Two of them—the experiences of Dr. H. C. (Proceedings,
Vol. X., p. 117) and of Dr. Jamieson (Proceedings, Vol. X., p. 265), are
frankly described as unrecognised from beginning to end, so that there
seems to be no room for memory-adaptation. Dr. H. C, it is true, says he
at one time connected the hallucination with a death that occurred some days
later, but there is no reason to suppose that he ever thought he had
recognised the figure.i Dr. Jamieson connected the figure with the death,
when he heard of the latter, because of the coincidence of time, and because
all that was discerned —a female figure of medium height—corresponded
with the appearance of the decedent, not because he imagined that he had
recognised it. In the third case, Countess Kapnist ( Proceedings, Vol. X.,
p. 284) describes herself as experiencing that kind of half recognition of the
apparition with which we are all familiar when we recognise a face but
cannot put a name to it. She felt it represented some one she knew, but
could not think who it was till the news of the death brought the person to
her mind. In dealing with a real person the genuineness of the half recogni
tion may often be verified because, when we do succeed in putting the name
and face together, we may ascertain that the person seen was really the owner
of the name. In the case of an apparition no such verification is possible,
and therefore for evidential purposes we must treat it as unrecognised.
But we may observe that Countess Kapnist's description of the phantasm
appears to have resembled the dying person with whom it was afterwards
connected, sufficiently for her sister to agree as to the resemblance.
It seems to ba only in a quasi-coincidental case that this kind of deferred
recognition strikes Herr Parish as suspiciously suggestive of, and even
proving, memory-adaptation. An instance of it given in the Report (Vol.
X., p. 143) as a case where the content of the hallucination, as afterwards
recognised, can be traced to definite associations of ideas, appears to him to
be very interesting from the latter point of view (p. 42). 2
i His word* are : " five days before the death of a lady whom I used to connect
in my mind with my vision. But I did not do this when I related my story in the
morning, nor till after the death of the lady ; and I now reject this connection as a
fanciful addendum." ThU does not justify Herr Parish's statement (p. 20) "dass die
hallucinierte Gestalt wahrend fiinf Tagen unerkannt blieb, dass aber in Folge einer
aufregenden Todei-nachricht, die GesichtstaiHchuug sich sofort adaptierte." Merely
to connect a vision and a death is a very different thing from the act of recognition,
and if an illusion of memory led a man to believe falsely that he had recognised a
figure, it is difficult to see how he could believe afterwards, without positive evidence
to the contrary, that he had not recognised it.
- In this case the percipient saw very clearly and definitely a hallucinatory figure,
and was a good deal disturbed by her inability to put a name to it. About a
week later it suddenly struck her that it had been the figure and face of a certain
Mrs. Beasant whom she had known years before. She believes that this particular
person was brought to her mind by complicated associations of ideas arising from
recent annoyance connected with another woman of the same name, a storm raging
at the time, and a tree falling on the house a little time before. Mrs. Beasant had
been killed by a falling tree.
592 [Supplement.
Mrs. H. Sidguncle
Unless I have misunderstood Herr Parish, I think that some of his
observations on these cases betray a certain confusion of thought as to the
purely subjective character of apparitions, whether veridical or not. There
is a tendency in sensory hallucinations, as is pointed out in the Report,
to take a realistic form—to look as real figures or objects would look in the
same place and the same light. Thus in a good light the hallucinatory
figure will generally look clear and distinct, and in a dim light is not unlikely
to be correspondingly incompletely seen. This is doubtless an effect of self-
suggestion. It was thus perhaps more probable than not that a hallucination
seen by Dr. Jamieson in the almost darkness of 7.30 a.m. on, the 24th of
December at Edinburgh i would be seen as he would have seen a real person
under similar circumstances, namely, as a dark figure without recognisable
features. At the same time there is no difficulty in a hallucination appearing
as a physical object could not, e.g., coloured in a faint light, as Countess
Kapnist describes hers as doing. So to describe a real figure would be a
contradiction in terms, and Herr Parish writes as though the same con
tradiction existed in the description of the hallucinatory figure and afforded
evidence of confusion due to pseudo-memory. But there is no reason to
suppose this, since a hallucination cannot be affected by the state of the
light except so far as the latter may act suggestively on the mind of the
seer.
When a hallucination is indefinite as Dr. Jamieson's was, an interesting
psychological question arises about it. Was the indefiniteness due to
vagueness in the underlying mental impression, or was it due to defective
externalisation of a definite subconscious impression ? The question seems
to Herr Parish absurd (see footnote, p. 22) but here again I think he shows
a want of complete grasp of the purely subjective character of the
hallucinatory process. According to the provisional conception that we
have formed of the process of telepathic hallucination, there are three stages
involved in it : first a subconscious mental impression of some kind, then
the externalisation of this as a hallucination, and, thirdly, the suggestion
by that hallucination of conscious ideas and judgments. Of the first
stage we have, in the case of spontaneous hallucinations, no direct
evidence ; but the supposition of it is supported by the case of post
hypnotic hallucinations where we are able to trace all the steps of the
process. A good hypnotic subject can be told that he will see a certain
person or thing at a certain hour, and though he knows nothing of this
suggestion when roused from the hypnotic trance, will punctually see the
hallucinatory form suggested. The experiment is so familiar to students of
the subject that it seems almost impertinent to give instances, but I may
perhaps refer the reader to a striking example reported in a paper by
Mr. Gurney on Recent Experiments in Hypnolism (Proceulitw, Vol. V.,
pp. 12, 13).
Granting these three stages in the hallucinatory process it seems reason
able to suppose that indefiniteness may enter into it at any of them ; i.e.,
either (1) the original mental impression may itself be vague, or (2) it may
be externalised in a vague hallucination, or (3) a clear externalisatim
i The sun rises on that day at 8.47 according to an Edinburgh almanac.
Part XXXm.] 593
Reviews.
may, as in Countess Kapnist's case, be incompletely or erroneously
mterpreted. Here, again, we can appeal to hypnotic experiments. I will
give first a case where the vagueness in the hallucination was doubtless due
to vagueness in the original idea. It is an account of an experiment made
by Mr. Myers, and is described in a paper by him on the Subliminal
Consciousness (Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 400). Mr. Myers writes :—
"Next time I suggested a hippopotamus -an animal which P. had
never seen in the flesh. On being awakened he saw on the card what he
called a rhinoceros. He complained that it was rather indistinct ; he
was not sure whether it had horns or tusks. There is a certain interest
in this as indicating that the hallucination was founded upon a mental
picture suggested by my words, rather than on the words themselves.
One might have supposed that, since my whole suggestion consisted of
the word hippopotamus, the awakened subject, however vaguely he saw
the beast, would have known that it was meant for a hippopotamus.
But the picture, vague as it was, seemed to be more communicable
from the hypnotic to the supraliminal self than the word which had
originally generated it. A picture was what had been ordered, and a
picture came."
The same series of experiments furnishes a case where the suggested
idea must have been clearly apprehended by the percipient, but where
part of it failed to externalise itself so as to be consciously recognised. Mr.
Myers told T. (hypnotised) that at Barnum's circus there was a race of
ponies with monkeys on their backs. T. was awakened and set to gaze into
a glass of water. He said, " Look, there's something going round and
round in the water . . . it's horses—they're horses going round and
round—they've got something small on their backs, not so big as those girls
who jump through hoops. It's like a circus " The idea was externalised as
a hallucination, but not clearly enough for the monkeys to be recognised as
such. In many of the experiments tried by myself and Miss Johnson and
described in the same volume of the Proceedings (Vol. VIII.), similar
indistinctness was exhibited in the initial stages of hallucinations which
afterwards became clear. Here is one (p. 505, No. 19; in which there was
initial incomplete externalisation which ultimately developed itself on wrong
lines.i I select it because it affords an example of arrested development due
to the suggestion of physical limitations - tho edge of the card—which is
analogous to what I suppose may be produced by the dim light in cases like
Dr. Jamieson's. It was intended that P. should see on a blank card a picture
of a vase with flowers. He said :—
" I see something round, like a round ring. I can see some straight
things from the round thing. I think it's a glass—it goes up. I'll tell
you what it is ; it must be a pot—a flower pot—you know, with things
growing in it. I only guessed that, because you don't see things growing
out of a glass. It's not clear at the top yet. You see something going
up and you can't see the top, because of the edge of the paper—it's cut
i There was a possible reason for this, which is pointed out in the account from
which I quote, but I omit it here as irrelevant to the present discussion.
594 (Supplement.
Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
off. I don't wonder, because it's no good wondering what Mr. Smithi
does, he does such funny things. I should fancy it might be a geranium,
but there's only sticks, so you can't tell."
Here again is an example with the same percipient in which an apparently
clear hallucination is misinterpreted. It was intended that P. should see on
his blank card a picture of a choir boy. (Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 565,
No. 18). He said :—
" Edge of card's going a dark colour. Somebody dressed up in white,
eh ? Can see something all white ; edge all black, and like a figure in
the middle. There's his hands up " (making a gesture to show the
attitude) " like a ghost or something—you couldn't mistake it for
anythmg but a ghost. It's not getting any better, it's fading—no, it's
still there. It might frighten any one."
Some more complicated and very amusing instances of misinterpretation
will be found among Mr. Myers' experiments before mentioned (Proceedings,
Vol. VIII, pp. 459-462).
Of course in a case like Dr. Jamieson's it is impossible to determine at
which of the first two stages the indefiniteness began. By hypnotising a
person who had just had an indefinite hallucination the subconscious
impression might be arrived at, but it would have to be done before
coincidence or any process of reflection had suggested an interpretation.
Let us now return to Herr Parish's third objection, his hypothesis that
coincidental cases are remembered as waking hallucinations in greater
proportion than non-coincidental cases. He is concerned first to establish
that, since sensory hallucinations occur only when the percipient is in a state
of " dissociation," there are, properly speaking, no such things as waking
hallucinations at all. This appears to me to be a mere question of words.
No one probably would maintain that while a sensory hallucination is
experienced, the brain of the percipient is working in a perfectly normal
way. We may, if we like, call its condition a condition of dissociation ; and
the question what characterises that condition besides the experiencing of a
hallucination, and whether any physiological conditions special to sleep are
always present, is an interesting one for physiologists.2 We may further
admit with Mr. Gurney the psychological identity of dreams and waking
hallucinations. "One step farther," he says, "and we realise the complete
continuity of the waking and the sleeping phenomena. Dreams are by far
the most familiar instances of the projection by the mind of images that are
mistaken for realities : indeed, it is just because they are so familiar, and
waking hallucinations comparatively so rare, that there is a danger of over
looking the psychological identity of the two classes." (Phantasms of the
Living, Vol. I., p. 484). We may even admit, as we do in Chapter IV. of
the Report, the difficulty in some cases of deciding whether they should be
i The hypnotist.
3 Herr Parish continually refers to the frequent absence of surprise or other
appropriate emotion, when an apparition is seen, as evidence of a state of " dissocia
tion." This is one of the things that suggests a close connection between apparitions
and dreams, but it does not necessarily suggest the physiological or psychological
condition of sleep.
Part XXXIII.] 595
Reviews.
classed as waking or sleeping experiences. But all this is irrelevant as
regards the present discussion. For it is not denied, even by Herr Parish,
that the percipient may not be aware, either at the time or afterwards, of
his condition of "dissociation," so that the hallucination, though it really
occurred when he was not fully awake, may leave in his recollection a kind
of waking quality (Wachqualitiit). Or, as Herr Parish shortly expresses his
view, "Dream phenomena and waking hallucinations are in recollection
quite different in character ; in reality, at the moment of their occurrence,
they are identical." (p. 24.) Now all that we are concerned with from the
statistical point of view is the percipient's classification of his experience.
He must, after it is over, and when he is in a completely wakeful and
normal state, attribute to it the waking quality, —recollect and class it as a
waking hallucination. It was in order to avoid any begging of the very
question Herr Parish raises, that, in collecting the statistics, we inquired—
not as to the fact of the percipient's being awake when the hallucination
occurred—but as to his belief about it. Of course assurance is required that
the classification was made immediately ; that the percipient believed, as soon
as he was able to reflect on the hallucination as a past experience, that he
was awake while it occurred and had not awoken from it ; and, in particular,
in coincidental cases assurance is required that the waking quality was
attributed to the experience before the coincidence was known. But this
assurance is obtained by evidence of precisely the same kind as that which
leads us to believe that the hallucination occurred at the time stated, or
represented the person stated, or anything else about it.
Herr Parish's contention is that the peculiar memory illusion involved in
believing later that an experience was a waking hallucination which
immediately after its occurrence was classed as a dream, is.specially liable to
befall a dreamer after the knowledge of a coinciding external event has
reached him. If he could establish this and if, further, he could show that
we had not taken sufficient precautions against this source of error, he would
have revealed a serious flaw in our evidence. But he has not attempted to
do so. All he has tried to show is—what, as I have already said, is really
irrelevant as regards evidence for telepathy—that almost all the accounts
given of supposed waking hallucinations suggest to some extent what he calls
"dissociation. ' For this purpose he takes, as a sample of the collection, the
death coincidences given in Chapter XII. of the Report. i I propose, at the
risk of boring the reader, to follow him through these cases, with a view to
showing what the grounds are for believing that they were classed as waking
hallucinations before the coincidence was known ; and incidentally to show
that there undoubtedly are hallucinations which occur when the percipient
is in a condition which, whatever its physiological characteristics may be,
i Herr Pariah, when he begins to discuss these cases (p. 27), rightly presents them
as, from the point of view in question, an unselected group and therefore a fair
sample of the whole. Later, at page 39, he seems less clear about this, claiming to
have proved the practical impossibility of distinguishing waking hallucinations from
dreams —not on doubtful cases on the margin (einzelue Grenzfiille und Beispiele
eines flussigen Uebergangs) but on the twenty-six best cases evidentially (best-
beglaubigten Fiille). But these twenty-six cases are those which seemed to the
Committee to be on the whole the best cases, evidentially, of death coincidences—not
the twenty-six cases exhibiting most strikingly the waking quality.
596 (Supplement.
Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
does not, from the point of view of the percipient himself or those with him,
resemble sleep or half sleep, or drowsiness.
The first case referred to is that of Mr. S. Walker Anderson (Re)>ort,
p. 211) who saw his aunt on the day of her death. Mr. Anderson was in
bed, but as he believes fully awake. He distinguishes clearly between this
experience and others in which he does not think he was awake (Report,
p. 382). The experience led Mr. Anderson to believe that his aunt was
dead and he mentioned this to his wife and they both made notes of the fact.
Is it likely that, when some time later the news of the death came, this
confirmation of the anticipated coincidence should produce a memory
illusion that what he had previously believed to be a dream was a waking
hallucination I
This percipient had another experience—not coincidental—which is
referred to by Herr Parish. While crossing a river his horse was carried
down the stream unable to swim across ; he had given himself up for lost,
when he saw his aunt standing on a floating tree. He felt the apparition to
be an indication that he was to leave the horse and seize hold of the tree,
which he did, and was carried safe to the bank (Report, p. 382). Under
such circumstances as these, could the percipient regard himself as having
been otherwise than fully awake 1
Herr Parish's next case is that of Mrs. J. P. Smith, (Report, p. 214). This
is one of those cases near the line between waking and sleeping which we
found difficult to classify. The difficulty and the line adopted are discussed
and illustrated in Chapter IV. of the Report, pp. 71, 72, where a very
similar non-veridical case (729. 17) is given. The reason for adopting Mrs.
Smith's classification of the experience as a waking hallucination is that she
got up and followed the figure out of the room. This detail is not likely to
have been introduced by a memory illusion when the coincidence became
known.
The third case discussed is Mrs. Baldwin's (Report, p. 217). Herr
Parish omits to mention that while the vision persisted Mrs. Baldwin
described it to her husband. Under these circumstances they could not
either of them be expected to regard her as otherwise than awake. Herr
Parish may suggest that there was here a further memory illusion and that
she did not describe it to her husband at the time at all. To this I can only
reply that I myself discussed the question with Mrs. Baldwin, that her
memory on the point was perfectly distinct, and that her daughter, whom I
also saw, had heard a similar account from her father, now dead.
Herr Parish's fourth case is that of Madame Obalecheff. (Report, p. 218.)
That she was at the time awake in the ordinary sense of the word, and
believed herself to have been so, is shown by her assumption that the
servant was sharing her experience and by her asking her husband to
examine the adjoining room to make sure that her brother-in-law in person
was not there.
The next experience —Miss S.R.R.'s (Report, p. 234)—is an unusual one
because of its persistency, or recurrence whenever, through the night, the
percipient looked in a particular direction. The location of the figure in
a particular part of the room, and the sense of turning round to see it,
seem to indicate a waking quality which it is gratuitous to suppose was
Part XXXin.] 597
Reviews.
imported into the experience afterwards ; especially as the conviction at the
time was clear that it meant that her sister was dead, so that the confirma
tion of this would give no shock of surprise, or new importance to the
experience. The details, I may remark, are less confused and dreamlike
than Herr Parish supposes. He has not quite understood the narrative.
There is no mention in it of a bier ("Bahre.") Professor Sidgwick questioned
the percipient as to the position, etc., of the figure seen, with a view
to ascertaining whether it was likely that the experience had been an illusion
(which is what its persistence and the dim light suggested). He ascertained
that by her bed was a long chest (real, not hallucinatory) made of cedar
wood ; that on this she first saw something white, which developed into a
figure of her sister lying dead in bed with her arm outside the bed clothes.
The chest had no covering of any kind on it which could have formed
the basis of an illusion of any ordinary kind ; the place of the bare
chest was taken by a hallucinatory bed with the sister lying in it, her face
distinctly seen.
The next nine casesi may be taken together, as the facts supporting the
view that the experience was at the time regarded as a waking one are in
each case immediate action or immediate communication to another person.
Thus Mr. Beer " was so disturbed [by the apparition] that he got up and
told a footman of it in an adjoining room." Dr. B. G. woke his wife, told
her what he had seen and asked her to look at the watch. Mrs. C. S.
"pressed her [friend's] arm and whispered the fact and hour to her as a
witness to the truth of it." Mrs. A. immediately told another woman in
the room, who was talking to her at the time, what she had just seen (her
father's hand ) ; and her impression that a misfortune awaited her was so
strong that, though she had only that day arrived, she started on the return
journey early the next morning. Mrs. Murray woke her husband, told
him whom she had seen, and he searched the room and house, to discover if
a real person had been there. In Mr. and Mrs. Sims' case the apparition is
stated to have been collective ; they must therefore have compared notes
and known at the time that they believed themselves to be awake. Mr.
Cass said to his wife at the time, " my sister Isabella is dead, I have just
seen her pass through the room." Miss J.E.L., after seeing her friend, got
out of bed and looked at the hour ; it was between 6 and 7 o'clock. Mr.
J. H. woke his brothers who were sleeping in the same room with him, but
they could not see anything.
Herr Parish then proceeds to consider a series of cases which he regards
as strongly suggestive of Crystal-vision.* This may afford evidence of
"dissociation," but from our point of view it establishes the c.tses as waking
hallucinations, for crystal-vision appears, both to the percipient and to those
with him, to be a waking experience. To these he adds cases where the
percipient was sewing or reading,3 occupations which also, as a rule, betoken
i 645 11, (p. 233); 725.6, (p. 237) ; 385.20, (p. 239) ; 579.25, (p. 211) ; 307.23,
(p. 229) ; 418. 4, (p. 230) ; 523. 12, (p. 231) ; 215. 9, (p. 224) ; 630. 5, (p. 227).
'■ Cases 571. 14, (p. 237) ; 452. 10 (second case), (p. 238) ; 328. 5, (p. 235) ; 191. 3
(P 240).
3 Cases 579. 24, (p. 223) ; 83. 21, -(p. 228) ; 730. 24, (p. 233) ; 442. 17, (p. 213).
598 (Supplement.
Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
what is ordinarily called a waking condition ; moreover in each of them the
percipient immediately spoke of the experience to a companion.
Hen- Parish thus establishes to his satisfaction reasons from internal
evidence for suspecting "dissociation" in twenty-one out of twenty-six
cases. I think that I may claim to have shown that whether there was
" dis-iociation " or uot, the percipients classed their experiences as waking
experiences, and that the ground for believing that they did this before
thd coincidence was known is in every case strong.
Herr Parish believes that the fact that there are not similar indications
of "dissociation" in the remaining five of the twenty-six cases is princi
pally due to the Committee not having specially inquired about such
indications. If they had, he thinks indications would have been brought to
light in more cases. But so far as dissociation means absence of wakefulness,
facts bearing on it were very carefully inquired into by the Committee, for
it was of extreme importance from the statistical point of view to know the
broad fact that the experiences had really the " waking quality." Evidence
about the more subtle questions in the physiology and psychology of
hallucinations must be obtained from experiments, and from critical
observations of their own experiences by intelligent observers. Many cases
published by the S.P.R., both in connection with the statistical inquiry
reported in Volume X. of the Proceedings and otherwise, afford a valuable
contribution towards material for a study of the subject ; but to hope to
elicit from informants reliable details about things to which their attention
had never beforo been drawn concerning experiences often remote, is futile.
Herr Parish practically admits this, and is all the more pleased at having
found indications of " dissociation " in so many cases. What he—rightly or
wrongly—regards as indications, however, are for the most part somewhat
marked facts about the percipient's position or occupation at the time of the
experience ; such as his having been in bed, or reading, or sewing. Facts
such as these a percipient is likely to remember in connection with a striking
experience, and an account must bo meagre indeed which failed to answer
the Committee's question, " How were you occupied at the time ? " I
refer to this now because at this point of his argument (p. 38) Herr Parish
goes out of his way to introduce, as evidence of the influence of time in
obliterating the circumstances accompanying hallucinations, a table in the
Report which is differently interpreted by the Committee ; and his criticisms
seem to call for some reply. The table is the one on p. 66 of the Report.
It shows that supposed apparitions of living persons of which the accom
panying conditions exhibit one of three specified characteristics suggesting
that the figure seen may have been a real person and not a hallucination at
all, are forgotten more rapidly than the mass of apparitions of living persons.
Herr Parish thinks that it probably is not the whole experience, but the
specified accompanying circumstances which are forgotten. I cannot agree
with him—not because I do not think that the memory of apparitions fades
and loses in definiteness like the memory of other things— but because, for
one thing, the specified circumstances seem to me such as almost must be
observed and, if the experience is remembered at all, remembered. They arei
i Rtp>rt, p. <>,».
Part XXXIII.] 599
Reviews.
(1) the seeing of the figure at some distance either out of doors or in a
public room ; (2) seeing the figure passing outside the door of the room in
which the percipient is, or seeing it inside a room as the percipient passes
the door ; (3) seeing it in a bad light, without any positive circumstances
which show that a real person could not have been there. But secondly,
the Committee does not base its conclusion that cases having these
characteristics are forgotten or ignored more than others only on their
occurrence in smaller proportion in the reports of remoter years. This
conclusion was strongly confirmed by finding that if cases having
these characteristics were omitted from among those that occurred
within the last three months, the remainder were distributed fairly evenly
over that period. So that, so far as the evidence went,i it seemed to show
that within that period almost the whole brunt of the effect of oblivion was
borne by those cases. If this were not due to the experience being forgotten
,or ignored as a whole, we should have to suppose that the very marked
specified characteristics were specially liable to be forgotten ; or rather—as
our percipients almost all describe some conditions—mis-remembered. We
should have to suppose, for instance, that a person who had within the last
three months seen a supposed apparition at some distance out of doors would
be apt to remember it as having occurred in his room.
The question is chiefly of interest as bearing on the whole number of
waking hallucinations that occur. It does not materially affect our con
clusions as to the evidence for telepathy. The argument for this may, if it is
preferred, be based on the assumption that these "suspicious" cases are as
real as others, and the number of reported cases be multiplied by six and a-
half instead of four as the correction for oblivion. (See Report, p. 247.)
I now come to what Herr Parish considers to be his chief and most
important objection to the argument from the census for the operation of
telepathy. It is, I think, fairly represented in my description of it at the
beginning of this article. The content of a hallucination may be due to
association of ideas, and if this possibility be not excluded, and it is
practically impossible to exclude it, we are not justified in attributing the
hallucination to a telepathic impact. He states his general principle in a
more comprehensive form thus : " If the content of a hallucination can be
traced to certain content-forming elements, it is not legitimate to regard the
hallucination as the outcome of another heterogeneous chain of causes"
(p. 40). He adds, however, that our Committee has endeavoured to show
that there are cases where certain content-forming factors,—e.g., anxiety and
verbal suggestion—are excluded, or can be shown to afford an insufficient
explanation. But, strange to say, they have overlooked one factor, namely,
association of ideas. He attributes this strange oversight to a want of a
clear perception of the distinction between the circumstances which produce
the condition in which a hallucination is liable to occur and the circumstances
which determine the content of the hallucination. Anxiety about a person
i If the Committee had been dealing here with a sufficient number of cases to
make it certain that the element of chance was excluded, the inference drawn would
have been an established fact. What prevents our accepting the conclusion as a
certainty is not any weakness in the reasoning, but the small number of cases to
which it is applied.
600 [Supplement.
Mrs. H. Sidg wick.
who is ill may operate both as n hallucination-favouring condition and as a
determinant of the form of a hallucination. It thus naturally attracted
attention ; while association of ideas—which cannot cause hallucinations, but
only determine the content—did not. This Herr Parish thinks the more
unfortunate, as in his view it is the content of the hallucination alone
that we are concerned with in the numerical comparison of coincidental and
non-coincidental cases.
To a member of the Committee, and I venture to think to most careful
readers of the Report, all this is very surprising. We were under the
impression that throughout Chapters VI. and X. the effect of the percipient's
ideas on the form of the hallucination was constantly urged on the attention
of the reader ; that instances of the same thing occurred and were considered
in other chapters ; and moreover that the very instances quoted by Heir
Parish to illustrate the effect of association of ideas are quoted and referred
to in the Report in the same connection.
To me it seems probable that association of ideas plays at least some part
in the construction of every hallucination. Even when there is good reason
to attribute the fundamental idea of the hallucination—the idea of the person
seen -to telepathy, the attitude and dress and the apparent position of the
figure in space seem generally to be due to association of ideas. The grounds
for thinking so seem to me to be strong—what evidence there is for reciprocal
action between agent and percipient and for telepathic clairvoyance notwith
standing- if we consider on the one hand (1) the extremely meagre amount
of information conveyed, as a rule, to the percipient by a telepathic
hallucination, and (2) the way the hallucination fits into his ordinary
surroundings ; and on the other hand the role obviously played in hypnotic
hallucinations by association of ideas working on the ideas originally put into
the percipient's mind by the hypnotiser.
But interesting and important as is the effect of association of ideas on
hallucinations, it has no bearing on the question whether the coincidence
of apparitions with the death of the person seen can be attributed to chance
or whether, on the contrary, there is a causal connection between the
death and the hallucination. In the first place we are not concerned only
with the content of the hallucination ; we are concerned with the hallucma
tion and its content. In the second place Herr Parish's general principle
cannot be maintained. The known existence of one series of causes leading
up to an event does not exclude the operation of another series of causes,
unless the first series can be shown to be absolutely necessary and sufficient
under all conditions. The fact that we caught a catarrh by sitting in a
draught does not prevent the catarrh being due to a microbe. If we can
show that a certain microbe is capable under favourable conditions of
producing catarrh, and that when catarrh occurs the microbe is always
present in the organism, then the connection of microbe and catarrh is
established, and a strong presumption that the microbe is necessary to the
catarrh. If we can further show that sitting in a draught is followed by
catarrh much more often than would happen by chance, it follows that there
must be a causal connection between sitting in a draught and a catarrh. It
is not necessary, in order to prove this, that sitting in a draught should always
be followed by catarrh, nor that a catarrh should invariably be preceded by
Part XXXra.] 601
Reviews.
the sitting in a draught ; nor is it necessary that we should know how the
draught tends to produce the catarrh. Moreover, if the draught is a vera
can&a of the catarrh in certain cases, it follows that, unless the draught
introduces the microbe into the organism, the microbe is not by itself and
unconditionally a sufficient cause of the catarrh. It must have favourable
conditions, and the draught is one way among others in which the favourable
conditions are brought about. Similarly if visual hallucinations coincide
with the death of the person seen much more often than would happen1 by
chance, there must be some causal connection between the two events. This
is all that the statistical inquiry attempts to prove ; and this conclusion is
not affected by any number of other conditions which may be found necessary
or favourable to the production of visual hallucinations representing recog
nised human beings.
But I need not reiterate this. Herr Parish does not in fact deny it,
though in some of his reasoning he seems to do so. On page 45 he
gives us his real conclusion, which is that, as it is not legitimate to
assume a causal connection between the death and the hallucination, we
must turn the statistical argument round. We must assume that if, as the
Committee concluded after allowing for selection and exaggeration,i thirty
death coincidences occurred among the experiences of 17.0002 informants,
then, gince 1 in 19000 is the number of such coincidences that chance would
produce, the real number of apparitions of living persons seen must have
been 19000 x 30 or 570000. As therefore, they report only 350, 569650, or
1627 out of every 1628, must have been forgotten or ignored. This, it will
be observed, involves the almost immediate forgetting of a large proportion
of the waking hallucinations that occur. The experiences are distributed
over thirty years, so that in Herr Parish's view they occurred at the rate of
19,000 per annum, and of 19000 divided by 26, or approximately 730, per
fortnight. Now the number of visual hallucinations of all kinds (not only
apparitions of living persons) reported byv our informants as having occurred
to them within the most recent fortnight is twelve ; 3 they must therefore,
on Herr Parish's supposition, have forgotten or ignored at least 718, —or
more than 98 percent, of those which had occurred to them a fortnight or
less before they were asked if they had ever experienced one !
If Herr Parish finds himself able to adopt so extravagant a conclusion
there is no more to be said. But why did he take the trouble to write this
long and elaborate criticism ?
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick.
i The number reported was 62. Herr Parish on p. 15 of his pamphlet attributes
the Committee's reduction of sixty-two death coincidences to thirty to allowance for
selection by the collectors. The Committee, however, for reasons given by them,
regard eight as an ample allowance for this possible source of error, and allow
twenty two, also for reasons given, for possible exaggeration by the percipients as to
the closeness of the coincidence, etc. (See Report, pp. 242-3).
2 Herr Parish prefers to operate at this point of his argument with round numbers
—20,000 informants, 50 coincidences, 500 apparitions of the living—but I have thought
it more convenient to adhere to the actual numbers.
2 See Report, p. 63.
602 William Romaine Newbold. [Supplement.
Demon Possession and Allied Themes. By John L. Nbvius, D.D. Edited by
Henry W. Rankin. Second Edition, F. H. Revell Co., 1896, pp. 520.
Dr. Nevius was for forty years a missionary in China. Early in his
ministry he found that demon possession is a common occurrence among the
Chinese and although he was able to observe in person one case only, he
succeeded in collecting a large amount of information about the phenomena
and the construction put upon them by the natives. This material forms
the basis of the book in hand.
A few illustrations will serve to give a conception of its general
character. The second case is that of a mountaineer, Kwo by name, who
gives an account of his own experiences. He had been arranging for the
household worship of the Goddess Wang-Muniang, when one night he
dreamed that the goddess appeared to him and announced that she had
taken up her abode in his house. This was followed after the lapse of a
few days by a feeling of restlessness coupled with an irrational impulse
to gamble ; his mind became confused, memory was impaired. He was
then seized by an epileptiform attack, to which succeeded mania with
homicidal impulses. The "demon" proclaimed its presence, demanded
worship. Upon compliance with its demands it departed. For some
months the "demon" reappeared at intervals, promised to heal disease.
Kwo notes that " many diseases were not under its control, and it seemed as
if it could perfectly cure only such as were inflicted by spirits "—a significant
remark. When the sufferer became a Christian, the " demon " disappeared
saying "This is no place for me."
Case 3 is narrated by a native Christian. He described the patient as
"sitting up, her eyes closed, with a fluttering motion of the eyelids, her
countenance like one weeping and the fingers of both hands tightly clenched.
She would allow no one to straighten her closed fingers. I then, hardly
expecting an answer, as the woman had hitherto been speechless, said to the
demon : ' Have you no fear of God ? Why do you come here to afflict this
woman 1 ' To this I received instantly the following reply :
' Tien-pu Yia-su puh Kwan an,
Wo tsai che-li tsih pa nian,
Ni iao nien wo, nan shang nan,
Pi iao keh wo pa-shin ngan.'
(Translation)
' God and Christ will not interfere. I have been here seven or eight years :
and I claim this as my resting place. You cannot get rid of me.'" This
patient was relieved by prayer.
In several instances the " demon " claims identity with the spirit of some
deceased human being. Thus in case 24 a bride on her wedding night was
seized by what purported to be the spirit of a girl to whom her husband had
been engaged, and who had drowned herself on account of the ill-treatment
of her future mother-in-law. In other cases the " demon " claims to be one
of the lower animals—e.g. in one which occurred in Japan,—page 105—it
professed itself a fox.
The entire collection gives a most interesting glimpse of Chinese spiritism.
We find the cult of spirits a recognised institution. " Physical phenomena "
Part XXXIII ] C03
Reviews.
are alleged to be matters of daily occurrence. Every village has its
"medium." The "developing stance" has its counterpart (page 07). The
medium sometimes goes into "quiet trance," and sometimes communication
with the unseen world is effected by means of an instrument essentially
identical with planchette (pages 48, 69).
Evidence of this sort is not without its value as going to show that
spiritism is a growth indigenous to many countries, that it i3 a plausible
interpretation of phenomena which occur spontaneously among all races and
is not merely a mass of imposturo based upon the " Rochester knockings "
and peculiar to the last half of the nineteenth century. No one who believes
that the natural basis of such a belief deserves thorough investigation will
refuse to Dr. Nevius and his friend and editor, Mr. Henry \V. Rankin, the
gratitude due them for having put a mass of new information within reach.
But if one goes further and asks what Dr. Nevius has done towards
vindicating the popular interpretation of these phenomena, the reply cannot
but be unfavourable.
Every page bears witness to the author's desire to be exact in description,
unbiassed in interpretation, and just in criticism ; it is rather his misfortune
than his fault that he has fallen so far short of the mark in all three respects.
Practically all his material rests upon the evidence of native—Chinese or
Mongolian—witnesses. All are fully convinced of the diabolical origin of
the phenomena, and without in the least impugning their good faith, we can
scarcely accept their accounts as literally true and uncoloured by precon
ceptions. Such evidence can scarcely do more than supply illustrations of
facts already independently established.
Of alleged supernormal phenomena the book is almost barren. One case
of a " Poltergeist" rests solely upon the evidence of Mongolians, whom the
missionary transmitting the account stigmatises as "so imbued, one and all,
with the spirit of lying that I have found it useless to repeat what the most
respectable say." In a few other cases it is claimed that the demoniac was
possessed of supernormal knowledge and of the gift of healing, but no
definite facts are given. It is consequently somewhat surprising to find
Dr. Nevius claiming (page 190) that the possession of supernormal knowledge,
and especially of the power of speaking languages unknown to the patient,
is a differentiating mark of demon-possession as distinguished from hystero-
epileptic disorders.
Dr. Nevius's interpretation cf the facts is what might be expected of a
man of his antecedents. His creed already required of him a belief in the
person and work of devils, and his experiences in China seem to have done
no more than bring this intellectual assent to events of the past down into
the realm of vivid conviction as to the happenings of the present. That once
done his credulity is almost unlimited. He assents to the view of the early
fathers that pagan divinities are but devils in disguise. Mohammed was a
demoniac. The " bewitched " of Western Europe were demoniacs, inspired
by the devil to utter false accusations against the innocent. " All his
(Satan's) attributes as a deceiver, a liar, a murderer, and a false accuser,
l oappear conspicuously in this one transaction " (page 309). So of modern
"Spiritualism," the marvels of which he seems to accept without serious
question. Its Satanic origin is sufficiently proved by its anti-Christian
2 R
604 (Supplement.
Andrew Lang.
tendencies. The negative results of such an investigation as that of the
Seybert Commission of the University of Pennsylvania are to be explained
upon the hypothesis that " it is hardly reasonable to suppose that these
demons would voluntarily, gratuitously and without restraint, submit them
selves to an examination which might only serve to disclose their actual
character" (page 317).
Dr. Nevius's criticism of other theories brings his limitations even more
clearly to light. He refuses to group possession with the hystero-epilepsies
on the ground that in possession we have secondary personalities and super
normal knowledge, whereas in merely pathological disorders we never find
either. He does not seem to have understood the attempts to explain the
phenomena upon psychological principles and, after giving a few quotations
from James, Myers, Ribot, and Moll, contents himself with remarking, in
effect, that these authorities do not agree and their explanations do not
explain. Of the epoch-making work of Pierre Janet, Binet and their
co-workers he says nothing, and seems ignorant of the phenomena of
suggestion, especially of the psychical contagion that springs from collective
or mass-suggestion. This is the line of work which has brought to light the
graded series of phenomena between those of normal life and those of
possession, amoking and the like.
Dr. Xevius failed to see that the evidence which is sufficient to bring a
mass of phenomena under an accepted category may be wholly insufficient
to establish the category. The evidence which he has collected may be
subsumed under several categories with equal ease, but there is nothing in
the evidence to determine us to the choice of the spiritistic rather than of
another. That must be done by the more complex considerations that fix
for each man his attitude towards the Universe.
William Romaine Newbold.
[November Ulh, 1896.]
Studies in Psychical Research. By Frank Podmore, M.A. London : Kegan
Paul, Trench, Triibner, & Co. New York : G. P. Putnam's Sons.
1897. pp. 458.
Mr. Podmore is, of course, responsible for his own conclusions in his
work on the results attained, so far, by the Society for Psychical Research.
He shines therefore with no borrowed light in "explanations." While
sympathising with his determined efforts to keep things at their lowest level,
to make the largest allowances for the mythopoeic element in our fallen
nature, I think that Mr. Podmore is too mythopoeic himself. All our
theories of all obscure processes or facts are essentially myths, stories
which we tell ourselves in our attempt to account for the world. But we
know that our theories are myths, till they are verified, and, if we are not
spiritists, we keep the animistic element out of our explanations. Now
Mr. Podmore's explanations of a number of alleged facts, or rather his
explanation of "how such stories came to be told," do seem to me to be
myths not verified, and, I fancy, perhaps not verifiable. He is none the
less mythopoeic because his inventions coincide in character with those of
Part XXXIII.] 605
Meviews.
irresponsible common sense. Examples will be given when we come to the
chapters on Home, and on the Poltergeist. There Mr. Podmore seems to
me to be sacrificing to common sense, which wants an explanation, and a
normal explanation, and does not care whether it is verifiable, or even
plausible or not. Why did we Researchers come forth from the world to
hunt dark corners, if we are to carry the superstitions of the world into our
researches 1 Our attitude, I think, should be that of pure agnosticism in
cases where all is obscure. There are the stories of marvels filed for
reference. If we meet with modern instances, we can compare them with
the records ; meanwhile, we can only explain the tales by unverifiable
guesses, whether "psychical," "spiritual," or "sensible." It is much
better, surely, not to fashion such etiological myths, not to "pay ourselves
with words."
Meanwhile I offer some jottings on Mr. Podmore's chapters. I believe
(p. 1) that " hospitality to the marvellous" is more, not less, general than
"in Dr. Johnson's day." The mere existence of the Society is a proof of
that. The general mass of the "educated public" is "hospitable," and
always has been, in regard to stories of experiences. But the general public
has no inkling whatever of the trend of such stories in regard to philosophy.
Men of physical science, as a rule, merely refuse to examine alleged facts,
first, because, in the nature of the case, experiments in human faculty are
incapable of constant and exact repetition in experiment ; secondly, because
an affirmative conclusion would upset a number of theories which are
regarded with an almost theological jealousy. Moreover there are one or
two awful examples of the debasing effect which psychical research produces
in scientific minds, whether the controversialists take the affirmative or
negative side. But this ought only to teach scientific men the imperative
duty of cultivating logic, accuracy, and self-restraint. Meanwhile we
Researchers are a little flock, engaged in quite novel work. In the last, and
early in the present century, Kant, Hegel, Schelling, and, I think, Fichte,
" went into these things a good deal." But Kant turned away with a sneer
and a sigh, while Hegel calmly swallowed the whole mass of " facts " (except
perhaps phantasms of the dead, and volatile furniture) and digested them
by aid of his vast boa-constrictor of an universal philosophy. He was
reckless of exact evidence, being convinced in his own mind. Our
object of course, is to get the facts fit to go to a jury, before we
philosophise. Nevertheless Mr. Myers's "subliminal self" deserves com
parison with Hegel's fnhlende Seele, both in its points of resemblance and of
difference.
Mr. Podmore has easy sport with popular spiritualism, about which
nothing need be said here. The movement, at best, produced examples of
psychological anomalies, which were naturally ascribed to " spirits," and it in
cidentally encouraged the art of detecting imposture. Gasparin's experiments
hiissent a ddsirer in accuracy, Mr. Podmore thinks, and then we come to Home,
Lord Crawford, and Sir W. Crookes. I have no theory of Home, but
Mr. Podmore "explains" by dint of what I call myths. He is "not
prepared with any cheap and ready solution of the problem," yet he offers
solutions marvellously inexpensive. " The witnesses wero to some extent
hallucinated." Why all in the same way ? By communicated " suggestions,"
2 k 2
CO6 Supplement.
Andrew Lang.
I presume. There is, (1) Home's fire tricks. He " really took live coals
out of the fire, and possibly on some occasions held them in his hand,
protected by some non-conducting substance." This "substance" is a
myth of Queen Entelechy ! What substance ? We might as well posit a
spirit as talk of a "substance" unknown to science. Sir W. Crookes
analysed the handkerchief which did not burn (much) when Home put a hot
coal on it, and found no "non-conducting substance." He knows of no
such substance in rentm natura. (Proceedings VI., 103). Perhaps
Home "palmed" another handkerchief? Then he had been thoughtful
enough to provide the substituted fogle with three similar, and
similarly situated, slight marks of burning. Certainly, were I Sir W.
Crookes, I could not swallow Mr. Podmoro's explanation. Then how did
Home get his non-conducting substance on to the hands of Lord Crawford
and others, who could usually, but not always, take the coals with impunity
from Home ? An acquaintance of mine retains the mark of the blister.
Was he so hallucinated that fancy produced a blister ; a beautiful case
for MM. Binet and Fér6? Till Mr. Podmore exhibits his "non-conducting
substance," he ranges in pure mythology. As for the fire trick, the
Fijians did it publicly, in September, 1897, before a crowd of spectators
from New Zealand. I may here refer to a mass of evidence in the chapter
on " The Fire Walk " in my Modern Mythology. But I fear nobody will
take the trouble to look at it ; one is as a vox clamanti* in eremo. (2) "When
levitated, Home at least thrust his head and shoulders out of the window."
(p. 121.) If he did, the three spectators could not see him do so through a
brick wall ! Home was in the next room, and returned to that where the
spectators were by way of the window, seventy feet from the ground,
(p. 52.) He then went out and in again, in the next room, to which the
spectators had adjourned. Mr. Podmore has to imagine that three men of
sense, Lord Crawford, Lord Adare, and Captain Wynne, were so "excited"
that, when Home thrust his head out of window A, (which was to them
invisible,) they all three believed they saw his whole body outside of window
B, and that they then went to window B, in the next room, and fancied
they saw Home emerge longitudinally, and re-enter. There is no use in
citing here the illusions of " hypnotised boys ; " these gentlemen had not
been hypnotised. Their " strained expectation " could not see through a
brick wall, and enable them to infer, in all cases, the same hallucinatory
conclusions from what they saw. And if one of the three spectators was
capable, as is alleged, of hallucinatory experiences, how did he communicate
them to his friends ? Of course you may say "suggestion," or " chimera
hombinans. " Obviously it should be proved, by experiment, that precisely
this sort of suggestion is possible in persons not subjected definitely to
hypnotism. Mr. Podmore's explanations (tentative of course) seem to me
myths, and I must keep asking him to produce that "non-conducting
substance." When Home was " levitated " or did fire tricks, " the light in
the room was lessened." The light in the fire trick was given by a candle on
the table, and one on the chimney piece, and by the fire. That is enough
light whereby to see a man standing not a foot from you, with a red hot
coal in his hands. Home also " passed his fingers several times through the
candle flame so slowly that they must have been severely burnt under
PartXXXHL] G07
Reviews.
ordinary circumstances." He anticipated Bernadette and the Miracle de
Cierge. A candle would give light enough to see that by ! Again, " when
the gas was turned up," objects moved, while Home was "at a distance and
his hands held." Alteration of weights was registered by a mechanical
apparatus on smoked glass.
There are two other points to be urged against Mr. Podmore's theory
that observers of Home were hallucinated. The Society's records contain
plenty of "collective, so-called telepathic hallucinations." But surely these
hallucinations offered visionary figures of persons and things not present in
fact. Has Mr. Podmore one case, except Home's, of a collective hallucination
in which a person actually present is the hallucination ; floats in air, holds
red-hot coals, and so forth,—appears outside of the window, for instance,
when ho is inside the room ? Of course where conjuring is barred. Again,
Home's marvels are attested by witnesses violently prejudiced against him,
and (far from being attentively expectant) most anxious to detect and
expose him. Mr. Hamilton Aidé is an example. Mr. Podmore's theories
do not give to himself much "mental satisfaction." They are not calculated
to do so. It would be better to leave such explanations to popular
science, and to admit that we are confronted by an enigma which we
have no present means of answering. The performances of Mr. Moses are
different. These things were "done in a corner." The "alleged spirit
messages" of Mr. Moses, under Mr. Podmore's criticism, are seen to have
no evidential cogency. The sprites rap out a story which has been in the
Daily Telegraph, or in an old Annual Register ! This makes one entertain
the most lurid opinions about Mr. Moses's " physical phenomena." Perhaps
he was only a humbug in a subliminal sense, when not quite himself. I am
acquainted with a parallel case of combined imposture and self-belief in
quite a different field,—I am not speaking of politics. The thing can exist,
and that Mr. Moses was an example of the double mood is less incredible
than that his miracles were genuine. Believing this, why do I remain
agnostic in Home's case ? Merely because Home's marvels were infinitely
better observed and recorded than those of Mr. Moses.
As to the Poltergeist, Mr. Podmore's explanation of his first case seems
to me on a level with his "non-conducting substance." The reader should
compare Mr. Podmore's original version in Proceedings. There he abandons
the hypothesis of " mechanical means." And if the "agent" was "a half
witted child of an imbecile mother," how could she do what could not be
done by mechanical means ? Is Mr. Podmore sure that the child was
half-witted ? And, if so, would that explain the first abnormal occurrence,
when the child had not yet been received into the house ? The child was
aged eighteen. The thing began on February 20. or 21, and became a pest
on March 1. Mr. Podmore was not on the spot till April 7. But he does
not print the contemporary newspaper accounts, so that we may compare
them with evidence collected on April 7. I have compared them, and very
curious they are. The discrepancies in testimony at that date are exactly
such as occur in all human evidence in the most ordinary affairs of life.
Were they absent, we might be certain that the witnesses were in a concerted
effort to deceive. If a policeman attests that he saw a bowl wobble slowly
up into the air (as in this case), my judicial powers remain at a standstill.
608 [Supplement.
Andrew Lang.
But when this peculiar kind of movement is described by a consensus of
independent evidence in many lands and ages, I cannot fly to "hallucina
tion " for a theory, like Mr. Podmore, or to "sensory illusion, conditioned
by tho excited state of the percipient. " If he is right, we have a new law of
perception, "Podmore's Law," " percipients in an excited condition will see
inanimate objects meandering with a mazy motion through air." Let me add
that they will also feel and hear the objects descend softly and gently on
themselves, or on the floor. How does " excitement " here, and now, and
in the seventeenth century, in America, Germany, Russia, France, or in
Galloway, produce this unanimity of hallucinated perception? It affects
Sir W. Crookes and his friends, as it affected Mr. Telfer, of Rerrick, or
William Morse, of New England, in 1680-90, or every one at Cideville,
in 1851, exactly as it affected Policeman Higgs. White calls in that active
and intelligent officer ; " Here's a jolly turn up in my house," says he.
Thereon tho excited Higgs, with everybody present, is hallucinated exactly
like our historical friends, or Sir W. Urookes, or Mr. Bristow when examining
with a good deal of care, during six weeks, some odd phenomena in a
carponter's shop (Proceedings VII., 383-394). All these witnesses were un
acquainted with the reports by Telfer, Glanvil, Cotton, and the rest. Their
coincidence of testimony, to which I may add some given to myself by a person
who was in no state of excitement at all, seems, prima facie, rather evidence
to facts than proof of Mr. Podmore's Law. I allude here to the testimony of
a man who employed Esther Teed, the "'Amherst Mystery," and who, while
engaged in his normal stable and thinking of no such matter, beheld the
phenomena attributed by Mr. Podmore to "a sensory illusion conditioned by
an excited state." This explanation wins its way to the mythical. Every
one must agree that the Poltergeist kind of occurrence is often the result of
trickery, but cases like that at Worksop remain, I think, to be pigeon
holed for reference. Perhaps the most interesting point is the coincidence
of testimony as to the peculiar flight of objects. It either attests a fact of
observation ; or proves that " excitement " is wonderfully uniform in its
production of sensory illusions. The discovery of this psychological law
would alone deserve high consideration for Mr. Podmore's book. But we
cannot test the law till the S.P.R. succeeds in catching a poltergeist in active
business, and does not arrive the day after the fair. Indeed I regard this
secular uniformity of evidence to the non-natural movements of objects as
the best ground for supposing that something odd has really sometimes
occurred. The idea of expectant " excitement " must be dismissed in cases of
hostile witnesses, like Alphonse Karr and Mr. Aide. Excitement could not
last through six weeks' experience of floating bits of wood, in Mr. Bristowe's
case. My informant in whose family Esther Teed was a servant was not
excited or expectant. "Suggestion," as producing identity of collective
hallucination, is excluded when the witnesses are of different lands and
ages, all unaware of the same evidence previously given by others to the
same set of facts. The Marquis de St. Victor never heard, we may be sure,
of the Rev. Alexander Telfer, and probably Sir W. Crookes was not
consciously in the same tale with William Morse. The idea that the members
of Sir W. Crookes's party unconsciously adapted their memories into
uniformity is checked by the notes made during the seance ; and Morse, in
Part XXXIII.l 609
Reviews.
New England, cannot have fitted his story to match Telfer's in Galloway.
Therefore, either the events occurred as described, or fits of crazy percep
tion, uniform in character, beset mankind whether excited or not excited.
Mr. Podmore is reduced, by facts, to the last form of explanation. It is
calculated to stagger common sense.
Omitting Madame Blavatsky as exploded, we come to Experimental
Thought-transference, and transference of sensation, as in Hegel's work
already cited. The examples here given are familiar to readers of the
Proceeding, as are the "Telepathic Hallucinations." Mr. Podmore seems
rather to hanker after an explanation involving ether and the nervous
system. Mr. Podmore's Theory of Ghosts is already well known. It
draws heavily on any balance which Telepathy may have at the bank,
and Mr. Myers's reply seems telling. But the subject is obscure, and
a larger collection of facts is necessary. As to "haunted houses" and
"expectancy," expectancy is too often a failure, alas, and ghosts "come
not by observation." For the present Mr. Podmore "can but regard"
premonitions "as the sports of chance." I could add a good deal, and
may do so later, to his evidenco for clairvoyance, but the facts would
be set down to Telepathy. Mrs. Piper has a faint kind of charm for
Mr. Podmore. But as we know that her Dr. Phinuit tries to cheat (how
ever honest Mrs. Piper may be in her normal state), I put no trust in his
revelations.
I have dwelt on my differences from Mr. Podmore, which amount to
little more than a distaste for " explanations" like those which he tentatively
offers. To take a case apart from his work :—A. made certain arrangements
deeply affecting the common interests of himself and B. B. had a surmise,
accidentally caused, that some arrangements had been made. A. died ; B.
dreamed a vision of a mass of details, all unknown to him, some of which
were, while others could not possibly be known to A. The dream was
accurate. These facts a philosopher of my acquaintance explains by saying
that A. had told B. the details, but B. had not listened. The fact that the
details were of the highest interest to B., (who did not listen to them), and
that the essential details were unknown to any one not omniscient,—lying, as
they did, in the future,—makes no difference to my friend. His explanation
pleases him vastly. We shall not make much progress while philosophers
insist on explanations, and are satisfied with their own conjectures.
My friend, to assist my comprehension of his hypothesis (sub-conscious
knowledge brought to consciousness in a dream), told me the old yarn of the
servant girl who talked Hebrew. I asked for the evidence to the fact.
There was no evidence ; but then, said my friend, "philosophy had only to
explain facts." There is not much use in explaining a fact which probably
never occurred. There are times when one despairs of human reason, for if
these things are done by professors of philosophy, what must we expect
from the educated public ? The real use of psychical research is its value in
enabling us to understand the system of paying ourselves with words. We
may discover no " psychical " laws, but we are compelled to tear up a world
of prevalent logical fallacies.
Andrew Lano.
610 [Supplement.
James H. Rydop.
Telepathy and the Subliminal Self. By R. Osoood Mason, A.M., M.D.,
Fellow of the New York Academy of Medicine, 8vo, pp. 343. New
York : Henry Holt and Company, 1897.
Psychical research still continues to have its advocates, and they come
from a source that is not unworthy of the cause. Dr. Mason represents
the medical profession, and thus an interest that might be more widely
cultivated among his compeers could individuals declare their independence
of certain scientific superstitions in the matter. Physicians are specially
well situated to study exceptional phenomena, —I shall not say abnormal, —
like those classified for psychical research, because they are presumably
connected with the conditions and opportunities for their occurrence.
Perhaps this implies that they are abnormal and thus unworthy of any
other attention than to be prevented by therapeutics. This I would not
grant of all of them, even if it be true of any or a small portion of them.
But suppose that they are to be labelled with the suspicion of being
pathological, what difference does this make I Are they to be discarded on
that account, or to pass under the insinuation that they have no such value
as is claimed for them simply because they are associated with pathological
conditions ? This can be denied, and a most effective case made out for the
claim that many, if not the most, of the phenomena sheltered under the
name of psychical research are connected with as normal conditions as our
customary thoughts and experiences and not more impugnable than they on
the ground 0f pathology. But Dr. Mason does not discuss this question,
though it would be open to a physician, if not obligatory in his situation, to
thresh out this subject for the satisfaction of those who see that no regard is
paid to the principles involved in such a contention when the diagnosis of
pathological cases depends upon the testimony of pathological cases, and for
the discomfiture of those who would make psychiatry impossible by their
assumptions. I should like to have seen a physician like Dr. Mason handle
this subject as it needs and deserves to be. But he has chosen to discuss
the general phenomena and problems of psychical research, as data for
profounder theories of psychology than those depending solely upon the
more universal events of experience.
Dr. Mason has covered the whole field of psychical research in his
discussion, and in a much more scientific way than most of the popular
treatises on such phenomena in the past, though I shall have occasion, before
concluding, to point out some defects which the thorough scientific mind
would remark in his treatment. But he has gone briefly over the topics of
telepathy or thought-transference, hypnotism, clairvoyance, duplex person
ality, natural somnambulism, and dreams, automatism, planchette, automatic
drawing and writing, crystal gazing, and phantasms. These constitute
a rather large subject for so small a book, though the matter illustrating
them is admirably abbreviated ; a fault for science but not for the general
reader who is interested in conclusions and not in evidential details. Most
of the facts or alleged facts are taken from the Proceedings of the Societyfor
Psychicnl Research, but some are from Dr. Mason's own experience and
investigations, and have also been put on record in a completer form with
the Society. The style of treatment is fair and judicious, and governed by
the consciousness of what has to be met in converting scientific minds to an
Part XXXIII. 611
Reviews.
interest in the subject, even when the author does not supply the conditions
for securing that conversion. There is sobriety in the discussion and balance
of judgment, as all must admit even when they do not agree with the author
in the speculative value attaching to the alleged facts. Dr. Mason does not
commit himself to any theory of these phenomena except that of telepathy,
if that be called a theory, and possibly that of clairvoyance, though the
distinction between cases that can be explained by telepathy and those which
cannot, but which require clairvoyance, is not as clearly stated as might be.
Dr. Mason also makes a wide use of automatism to explain cases which many
persons bring under the class of spiritualistic phenomena. Dr. Mason is
loth to admit that there are any evidences of spiritualism which absolutely
demand the abandonment of either telepathy, clairvoyance or automatism to
explain them. He does not deny the possibility of that doctrine ; on the
contrary, in the preface to the second edition of the book, which we are glad
to see has been issued, he mentions with some gratification that some persons
have felt that the facts discussed furnish much evidence for survival after
death, though he protests that this was not the intention of the work. No
one could ask for more caution in the annunciation and defence of theories.
The work is largely a narrative of phenomena alleged to be facts, with a
bearing upon the problem of supernormal human faculty.
When it comes to critical remarks upon Dr. Mason's book, it is proper to
say that, in tho mind of the present reviewer, the work is much superior to
Hudson's Lam of Psychic Phenomena. Dr. Mason is far more judicious and
discriminative in the selection of cases for illustration and proof. He has
had a definite regard to cases that are both more pertinent to his problem
and more evidential in their origin, though it must be confessed that the
evidence for their genuineness is not presented here in its fulness. But in
spite of this omission, which was a concession to the popular reader, the
selection of reported and original cases has some reference to the problem of
evidence, which is not even raised in Hudson's book. The only fault that
can be found is that, on the one hand, this evidential feature is not so fully
considered as science demands, and on the other, tho problems of mal-
observation, illusions of memory, and coincidental experiences have not
been discussed, as they require to be in this connection.
For this defect there is no doubt some excuse in the fact that the
objections which tell against one case often have no weight against another.
This is to say that, even if one case like another is defectivo in evidence,
though still possibly a fact, the satisfaction of this demand by tho second
instance may have the retroactive effect of proving the credibility of the
other, and hence it is not enough to discredit a particular case. The whole
collective bunch of them has to be broken. When Dr. Mason tells one
story that is borrowed from the narrative of some one we do not know, we
may be justified for a sceptical attitude of mind, but then he tells us one or
more of his own experiences, perhaps more striking than the questioned
case, and knowing Dr. Mason, we wonder whether after all scepticism is
anything more than an excuse to remain in respectable compuny, or at least
in the good opinion of those who pass for that. Dr. Mason's book is thus
not without its interest and weight, though we wish that it had been gauged
to meet the severest tests of scientific method. James H Hyslop
612 •[Supplement.
F. W. H. Myers.
Lettersfrom Julia ; or. Light from the Borderland. Edited by W. T. Stead.
London : Grant Richards, 1897, pp. 188.
Mr. W. T. Stead, the well-known editor of the Review of Reviews, and.
until October last, of Borderland, a magazine which has now ceased t,>
appear, has collected under tho above title a series of letters purporting to
have been written automatically through his hand by a deceased lady, and
dealing mainly with religious matters and with the conditions of the life after
death. This is of course a very far-reaching claim, and it will be summarily
put aside by most persons. Our Society, however, is bound not to put
such claims aside without examination ; and inasmuch as I have dealt much
with similar claims in the cases of the late Mr. Stainton Moses, and of Mrs.
Piper,—and have also (in Proceedings IX., pp. 52-61) discussed certain
previous evidence offered by Mr. Stead himself, it may be convenient that 1 •
should say a few words as to this volume. In order to make my criticism as
little personal as possible, I will begin with some considerations applicable
to all this class of religious literature, claiming to bo automatically produced,
of which there are now a good many examples.
There are three separate points to be considered in analysing any work of
this kind.
(1) Is the book really automatic ? That is to say, is the alleged automatist
sincere and accurate in his claim to have written it without knowing what he
was writing 1
(2) If so, does the book contain what we may call moral evidence,—
evidence of style and general content,—which convinces us, without going
further, that it does not come from some region of the automatist's own
mind ?
(3) Or, failing this, is there definite, objective evidence (as the
occurrence in the writing of facts presumably unknown to the writer, &c.,)
which obliges us to connect the book, or any part of it, with some
other mind ?
The first two questions can in this case be answered easily.
(1) I, for my part, fully believe in Mr. Stead's sincerity. I take it on his
word that the book was written automatically, and that he believes ex animo
that it comes from a disembodied spirit, and contains important truths.
(2) But, on the other hand, the general style and contents of the book
convey for me no real indication of origin external to Mr. Stead's mind.
They appear to me to bear about the same relation to the style and matter,
say, of Mrs. Oliphant's "Little Pilgrim of the Unseen" as Mr. Stead's
literary output in general bears to Mrs. Oliphant's. When Mr. Stead says,
"I only wish my conscious self could write so well," I think that he pays
either too low a compliment to his conscious self or too high a compliment to
" Julia."
The contents of almost all these automatic utterances,—through Stainton
Moses, Mrs. Piper, &c., and also of almost all the best romances on such
subjects,—Mrs. Oliphant's stories, Balzac's Séraphita, &c, appear to me to
be more or less,—not necessarily directly derived from Swedenborg, but—
analogous to Swedenborg. It is, of course, possible that Swedenborg's
utterances convey much of inspired truth, and that spirit-communicators
Vart XXXIII.] 613
Reviews.
and romancers alike give much the same messages simply because the spirits
know them to be true, and the romancers guess them to be true. It is also
possible that SweJenborg's own mind anticipated ideas which, though in his
time scouted as bizarre or impious, have in our time become a constant
element in serious thought. In neither case can the mere repetition of
similar ideas claim inspiration on moral or internal grounds alone.
(3) The third point, then, —the objective evidence to authorship other
than Mr. Stead's, —becomes here of high importance. My readers may,
perhaps, recall some narratives which I quoted in our Proceedings (Inc. cit.)
which seemed to offer goodprimdfacie evidence of a telepathic communication
between Mr. Stead's and other incarnate minds. " Mr. Stead's experiments,
indeed " (I wrote, Proceedings IX., p. 60), "are so precisely confirmatory of
the existence of a continuously active subliminal consciousness in all man
kind that I almost shrink from pressing cases which look as though they had
been constructed (although they most certainly were not) to bolster up my
own hypotheses." I concluded with the hope of being "aide to report further
on Mr. Stead's writings at no distant date " ;—a hope in which I was
encouraged by some expressions of his willingness to submit further evidence
to the S.P.R. Until that evidence should come, I deferred any notice of
"Julia." Mr. Stead was, in fact, good enough to show me some evidence as
to another alleged spirit communicator, but that evidence was not convincing
to me ;—nor quite so, I fancy, to Mr. Stead himself. When, therefore, this
new volume appeared, I looked at once for evidence re Julia's identity ;—
hoping to sec some matter thereanent which had appeared in Bordeiland
reprinted, and much addition made thereto. I was disappointed to find that
such evidence was given only with a brevity such as that of the following
assertions, which Mr. Stead " states as facts. " (1) " That strangers who have
never heard of her existence have described her as standing near me when
my automatic hand was writing." (2) " That several of these have not only
described her, but have given her name" (i.e., "Julia," as the next sentence
shows). (3) That one here and one in " her native land have also given her
surname, which I have refrained from publishing, and which I have equally
in vain endeavoured to telepath to the minds of other mediums."
Now, considering the details given in Mr. Stead's first account of "Julia,"
and the publicity of that lady's career, both before and after physical
dissolution, I feel that the only inference which we are entitled to draw from
the above facts is that the mediums to whom Mr. Stead "in vain endeavoured
to telepath " her surname, must have been, on that occasion at any rate,
perfectly honest persons.
Mr. Stead, however, it is fair to say, does not rely on these heads of
evidence alone. The headings (2), (3), and (4) on page xi. of his Preface in
dicate lines of proof which might have a real cogency if set forth at length and
properly substantiated. The automatic production of an affectionate private
sobriquet not known to Mr. Stead ; —of a definite incident also unknown to
him ;—of various names of friends, also unknown to him ;—these are just
the kind of facts which we should like to see given in full, and multiplied by
continued inquiries from the "control." Mr. Stead says, indeed, "It is
not necessary for me to enter into a detailed statement of the evidence
which has led me to the conclusion that these 'Letters from Julia,' are
614 [Supplement.
Frank Podmore.
really what they profess to be." But I cannot see the grounds for this
abstinence ; 1 cordially invite him to set forth his evidence—whether
for publication or not—in a more complete form. I make no doubt whatever
that he has acted in his manner of publication of this book with sincere
conscientiousness. But there exists another point of view. There are some
men who would shrink from the responsibility of laying before the public a
series of assertions which, if true, are so momentous as those made by
" Julia," without at the same time giving with the utmost care and complete
ness the evidence which has led the earthly editor to accept them as
authentic and veritable messages from a lady who has been privileged to
meet and speak with Jesus Christ in the spiritual world.
F. W. H. Myers.
The Subconscious Self and its Relation to Education and llculth. By Louis
Waldstein, M.D. (London : Grant Richards, 1897, pp. 171.)
This is not an easy book to analyse, or even to read. It has no index nor
table of contents, and the chapters, of which there are four, have neither
heading nor summary. Carlyle once said of Coleridge's talk, that it was of
excellent quality, but that it atarted from no premises and arrived at no
conclusion. It would not be quite fair to apply this to Dr. Waldstein's
essay, for his statement of premises and conclusion is fairly definite. But it
is by no means easy to trace the intermediate steps of the argument.
Part of this obscurity is no doubt duo to the difficulties of a language to
which Dr. Waldstein may be presumed to be a foreigner. But it may be
doubted whether in any other tongue his reasoning would be found either
lucid or cogent. His argument, summed up in his own words, runs as
follows :—
"I have endeavoured to show in this short sketch that our mental
personality is represented by the sum of all the impressions which have been
deposited in our memory during our lifetime, impressions which depend
primarily, as has been indicated at the outset, upon peculiarities of organic
structure preformed in us. The nature of all these impressions, however,
differs, as has been seen, in two well-defined manners. The conscious
impressions, towards which we learn gradually to direct our attention, form in
their aggregate a conscious self, which directs in its turn our attention and
our acts as they affect principally our relation to the outer world. Through
the conscious self we also control that other part of our self from which
emanate impulses and moods, the consuming desire to live our own life, to
realise our ideals irrespective of the relations which surround us. Hence it
comes that a dualism exists in the life of every one of us, more or less
accentuated according to the difference between our conscious and our
subconscious self."
From these premises Dr. Waldstein draws a practical deduction that the
due training and subordination of tho subconscious self in early life is a matter
of the highest importance, and he makes certain suggestions for effecting
this end. The practical part of the book contains some matter of value,
Part XXXIII ] 615
Reviews.
supplied by the author's experience as a physician. But his theoretical
conclusions are imperfectly worked out and insufficiently supported. He
draws too absolute a line between what is conscious and what is subconscious.
Moreover, he does not apparently realise that the content of the subconscious
is largely made up of ideas which have lapsed from the conscious field. Nor
is he at all clear as to what constitutes a conscious impression. He asserts
repeatedly that the child's impressions aro wholly of an unconscious kind
"until comparatively late in life " (see, e.g., p. 44), and yet writes elsewhere
that "the eye of the hawk, the ear of the horse, even the antennae of insects
must convey definite conscious impressions to the animal " (p. 159). What
manner of thing is this "consciousness" which is granted to the ant or
the beetle, but denied to the pupils of a kindergarten 1 Again, in support of
the highly controvertible statement that ' ' in whatever degree or manner
these impressions (conscious or unconscious) are received thoy are registered
permanently," he thinks it enough to say "that countless instances of the
reappearance of most feeble impressions, coming up again after many years,
should make further proof unnecessary " (p. 3). It would be as logical to
claim the recent discover}' of the Words of Jesus as a proof that no ancient
MSS. have ever been lost or destroyed. A subsidiary argument for his
position is even less calculated to convince. " Impressions that have been
registered in early childhood reappear involuntarily, thus showing their
original tenacity at a period of life when ?io selection process, or reasons for
remembering orforgetting, can possibly have been at imrk." Even if we grant
his postulate that there is no conscious selection at an early age, this statement
is surely very wide of the mark. The state of the child's health, the cerebral
state at the moment, the competition of other impressions, the likeness or
unlikeness of the particular impression to others, all that is comprehended
under the term "association of ideas " and many other factors must operate
subconsciously to select and differentiate impressions.
In brief the book reads like a rough assortment of ill-digested memoranda ;
it is an organism held together by connective tissue, in default of a solid, well-
articulated skeleton. There are a fair number of interesting illustrations,
and some few acute observations, and if Dr. Waldstein had taken the trouble
to arrange and digest his material, he might have contributed something of
solid value to our knowledge of the Subconscious Self. If he fails in his
present work for the most part either to impress or convince us, it is from no
lack of impressive, even ostentatious, conviction on his own part. Throughout
the book "I hold," "I maintain," "I venture to assert" are made to do
duty for argument and illustration. He hints, indeed, vaguely at vast stores
of observation and experiment ; but the few instances he quotes are quite
insufficient for his purpose. And when he says "it is clear" we feel that
"it is probable" would have been a wiser and a juster claim. For instance :—
" The hysterical condition . . . need not necessarily include any feebleness of
the faculties for observation or judgment ; they are, indeed, in many cases
uncommonly strong, but here the subconscious memory has been unduly
developed. Such subjects are highly impressionable, and are governed by
their vague and powerful emotional moods, so that the mental reflexes are
set going upon the slightest stimulation, while the inhibiting power of the
will, however much it may be exerted, remains ineffectual. It is clear,
616 [Supplement.
J. G. Smith.
therefore, that the first causes of hysteria must be looked for in the habits
which the mind was allowed to form in early youth " (p. 107).
Is this really "clear" to anyone but Dr. Waldstein ? are the arguments
adduced such as to make the deduction "clear,"—i.e., beyond dispute 1
One more illustration of the author's reasoning may be quoted. This is
how he refers to the subject of telepathy :—
" The experience of one person in a given moment might very well be
identical to that of another, for we are to-day subject, even at great distances,
to a multitude of similar impressions, mostly induced by vague sensations.
The direct effect of modern journalism and the telegraph must necessarily be
to set in motion mental activity of precisely the same nature all over the
globe, and call up much the same interests and emotions. The uniformity
of daily habits, fashious, food, and the like, will serve to awaken numberless
subconscious moods, which might suggest, in their turn, the same course of
ideas. May we not explain in this way the origin of some of the phenomena
which have been ascribed to tele1mthic influences ?" (pp. 83-4).
This is a forcible statement of the considerations which render telepathy
a dubious explanation of simultaneous dreams and other commonplace
impressions. But, so far as I know, no one has professed to found a belief in
telepathy on such occurrences. And even the association of ideas is limited
in its operation ; it could scarcely, for instance, be supposed to affect the
drawing of a card, or operate to produce the death of the agent in sub
conscious correspondence to a hallucination on the part of the percipient.
Frank Podmore.
The Book of Dreams and Ghosts. By Andrew Lano. Longmans, Green,
and Co., 1897.
Mr. Lang has certainly succeeded in attaining the object which he
sought in writing The Book of Dreams and Ghosts, namely, " to entertain
people interested in the kind of narratives here collected." The stories
.tre written with admirable clearness and brevity, and the titles of some of
the tales are alone sufficient to make the readers' flesh creep :— "The Weird
Moon," "The Lady in Black," "The Old Family Coach," "The Assyrian
Priest," "The Foul Fords; or. The Longformacus Farrier," "The Black
Dog and the Thumbless Hand," and "The Ghost that Bit." The simple
sensation-loving reader will perhaps regret that the series was not published
in a magazine, with gruesome illustrations to accompany the toxt. The
author has to a great extent relied on well-known stories like Lord Lyttelton's
Ghost, Mr. Williams's dream of the murder of Spencer Perceval, etc., and
especially on narratives published in the Proceedings of the Society for
Psychical Research. He gives, however, some veridical dreams, and some
cases of crystal-vision which have not appeared before. Of the latter, one
has been printed in the Journal S. P.It. : the others are given in greater
detail than here in Mr. Lang's paper on " Crystal-Vision," which was read
at the meeting of the Society on January 28th, 1808. Besides these, there
is a case of apparently veridical waking hallucination (p. 45), told to the
Part XXXIII.] 617
Reviews.
writer by his old headmaster, the Rev. Dr. Hodson, brother of Hodson, of
Hodson's Horse, " a person whom I never heard make any other allusion
to such topics ; " and also a " collective " case, which we give in Mr.
Lang's words.
" The following story was told to myself, a few months after the curious
event, by the three witnesses in the case. They were connections of my
own, the father was a clergyman of the Anglican Church ; he, his wife, and
their daughter, a girl of twenty, were the percipients. All are cheerful,
sagacious people, and all, though they absolutely agreed as to the facts in
their experience, professed an utter disbelief in ' ghosts,' which the
occurrence has not affected in any way. They usually reside in a foreign
city, where there is a good deal of English society. Ono day they left
the town to lunch with a young fellow-countryman, who lived in a villa in
the neighbourhood. . . . His house was kept by his sister, who was
present, of course, at the little luncheon party. During the meal some ques
tion was asked, or some remark was made, to which the clerical guest replied
in English by a reference to 'the maidservant in pink.' 'There is no maid
in pink,' said the host, and he asked both his other guests to corroborate
him. Both ladies, mother and daughter, were obliged to say that, unless
their eyes deceived them, they certainly had seen a girl in pink attending on
them, or, as least, moving about in the room. To this their entertainers
earnestly replied that no such person was in their establishment, that they
had no woman servant but the elderly cook and housekeeper, then present,
who was neither a girl nor in pink. After luncheon the guests were taken
all over the house to convince them of the absence of the young woman
whom they had seen, and assuredly there was no trace of her. On returning
to the town where they reside, they casually mentioned the circumstance as
a curious illusion. The person to whom they spoke said, with some interest,
' Don't you know that a girl is said to have been murdered in that house
before your friends took it, and that she is reported to be occasionally seen,
dressed in pink ? ' They had heard of no such matter, but the story
seemed to be pretty generally known, though naturally disliked by the occu
pant of the house. As for the percipients, they each and all remain firm
in the belief that, till convinced of the impossibility of her presence, they
were certain they had seen a girl in pink, and rather a pretty girl, whose
appearance suggested nothing out of the common."
Moreover, in several well-known historical cases, Mr. Lang has carefully
investigated the different versions, and gives evidence for their various
degrees of authenticity. In one case, —that of the foretelling of the death
of the Duke of Buckingham by the apparition of his father,—the narrative
of a Mr. Wyndham, who had the story direct from the percipient, a kinsman
of his own, is given ; this has never before been published.
Mr. Lang has also discovered a curious fact in connection with the
murder of Mr. Perceval, about which Mr. Williams had his well-known
premonitory dream in 1812, namely that there was a report of the murder in
Bude Kirk, a village near Annan, on Sunday, May 10th, the day before the
crime was committed. " This was stated in the Dumfries and Galiov-ay
Courier, and copied in the Times of May 25th. On May 28th, the Perth
Courier quotes the Dumfries paper, and adds that ' the Rev. Mr. Yorstoun,
618 [Supplement.
0. Smith,
minister of Hoddam (ob. 1833), has visited Bude Kirk and has obtained the
most satisfactory proof of the rumour having existed ' on May 10th, but the
rumour cannot be traced to its source."
Mr. Lang does not profess a severely scientific treatment of the subject,
but several of his remarks on evidence are instructive, and he gives some
quotations from Professor William James' Principles of Psychology for the
purpose of explaining the meaning of "hallucination" in its technical
sense. His only system of tacking the stories together is by classing them
"in different grades, as they advance from the normal and familiar to the
undeniably startling ; " and this plan does not seem to be very strictly
adhered to ; since to the last story of all, " The Ghost that Bit," a footnote
is appended to explain that "this story should come under the head of
1 Common Death-Bed Wraiths,' but it is such an uncommon one ! "
To some members of our Society the book will probably appear to be
written in a frivolous and dilettante spirit. And no doubt the journalist,
the ordinary reader, the man in the street, when he finds story after story
quoted from the publications of the S.P.R. , will take occasion to have his
usual laugh at the expense of a Society which amuses itself with collecting
blood-curdling ghost stories, and expects to be taken seriously. But unless
he is a very dull journalist, or a very careless reader, he will perceive that
Mr. Lang's levity is at any rate impartial and comprehensive, and that he
intends the laugh to go round, holding that fun may be as legitimately
derived from the "fallacies which impose on the credulity of common-sense,"
as from the rash conclusions of dreamers and ghost-hunters. In the preface
he says : "This book does not pretend to be a convincing, but merely an
illustrative collection of evidence. It may, or may not, suggest to some
readers the desirableness of further inquiry ; and the author does not hope
to do more, if as much." Let us hope that this modest aspiration will be
realised.
J. G. Smith.
Edmund Gurney Library. 619
EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
SUPPLEMENTARY CATALOGUE, 1897.
Additions since the list in "Proceedings," Vol. XII.
Dailey (Abram H.), Mollie Fancher, the Brooklyn Enigma. An
Authentic Statement of Facts in the Life of Mary J. Fancher.
Brooklyn, 1894
Deb (Dr. John), On Spirits. With a Preface by M. Casaubon, D.D.
London, 1659
James (William), The Will to Believe, and other Essays in Popular
Philosophy New York, 1897
Mason (R. Osgood, M.D.), Telepathy and the Subliminal Self
London, 1897
Parish (Edmund), Hallucinations and Illusions. A Study of the
Fallacies of Perception London, 1897
Podmore (Frank, M.A.), Studies in Psychical Research London, 1897
Raymond (Rossiter, W.), The Divining Rod. (Transaction* of the
American Institute of Mining Engineers, 1888) 1883
Scripture (E. W., Ph.D.), The New Psychology London, 1897
Waldstein (Louis, M.D.), The Sub-conscious Self and its Relation
to Education and Health London, 1897
Woods (John F., M.D.), The Treatment by Suggestion, with and
without Hypnosis. (Reprinted from the Journal of Mental
Science, April 1897.)..... London, 1897
Carrie (L'Abbé), Hydroscopographie et Métalloscopographie, ou l'art
de decouvrir les eaux souterraines Saintes, 1863
Chauvin (Dr.), [The Original Report on Jacques Aymar.] Le
Journal des Sea-vans, January, 1693 Paris, 1693
Fiouier (Louis), Histoire du Marveilleux. 4 Vols Pari*, 1881-89
Laurent (Dr. L.), Des Etats Seconds, Variations Pathologiques du
Champ de la Conscience Paris, 1892
Lebrun (Lo Pere, S.J.), Lettres qui decouvrent ('Illusion des
Philosophes sur la Baguette Paris, 1693
Histoire Critique des Pratiques Superstitieuses Paris, 1702
Paramelle (L'AbW), L'Art de decouvrir les Sources. [New Edition.]
Paris, 1890
Essay on Hydroscopie (about l'Abbé Paramelle), Journal
d'Agriculture Pratique, April, 1845 Paris, 1845
2 S
ti20 Edmund Gumey Library.
Thouvenel (Dr.), Memoire Physique et Medicinal . . . de la
Baguette Divinatoire Paris. 1781
Vallemont (L'Abbé de), La Physique Occulta, ou Traite de la
Baguette Divinatoire Amsterdam, 1693
Albinus (Theophilus), Das entlarvete Idolum der Wünschel-ruthe
Dresden, 1704
Benedikt (Prof. Dr. Moritz), Hypnotismus und Suggestion...Leipzig, 1894
Du Prel (Carl), Die Wünschel-ruthe circ. 1890
Hansen (F. C. C. und A. Lehmann), Ueber unwillkürliche
Flüstern ; eine kritische und experimentalische Untersuchung
der Sogenannten Gedanken-uebertragung. (Reprinted from
Wundt's Philosophische Studien, XL, 4.) Leipzig, 1897
Willen (Matthew), Die Wünschel-ruthe. Together with a German
translation of Abbe de Vallemont's Physica Occulta. Illustrated
Nuremberg, 1694
Sementini (L.), Pensieri e Sperimenti sulla Baccheta Divinatoria
Naples, 1810
Viroula Metallica (De), Mescellania Curiosa. Academia; Csesaro-
Leopoldinaä Frankfort, 1697
A full Catalogue of the books in the Edmund Gumey Library was printed
at the end of Vol. V. of the Proceedings. Supplementary Catalogues were
printed at the end of Vols. VI., VII., VIII., IX., X., XI., and XII.
Separate copies of these Catalogues are still on hand, and can be obtained
from the Secretary.
Officers and Council for 1898. G21
FORMER PRESIDENTS.
Professor H. Sidgwick ------ 1882-1884.
Professor Balfour Stewart, F.R.S. - - - 1885-1887.
Professor H. Sidgwick 1888-1892.
Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S. - - 1893.
Professor William James (Harvard, U.S.A.) - 1894-1895.
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S. 1896-1897.
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1898.
PRESIDENT.
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour,
M.P., F.R.S.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.K.S.E.
The Marquis of Bute, K.T.
Professor William James, Har
vard, U.S. A.
Professor S. P. Langley, Smithson
ian Institution,Washington, U.S.A.
Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S.
The Right Rev. the Bishop ok
Ripon.
Professor Henry Sidgwick.
council.
The Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour, M.P.
A. W. Barrett, M.B.
Professor W. F. Barrett.
J. Milne Bramwell, M.B.
The Earl of Crawford and Bal-
carres, K.T., F.R.S.
St. George Lane Fox.
Lieut. -Col. J. Hartley.
Richard Hodgson, LL.D.
Mr. Registrar Hood.
Walter Leaf, Litt.D.
Professor Oliver J. Lodge, F.R.S.
ProfessorMacalister.M.D.,F. R.S.
Frederic AV. H. Myers.
Frank Podmore.
Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S.
George F. Rogers, M.D.
Sydney C. Scott.
Professor Hf.nry Sidgwick.
H. Arthur Smith.
H. Barington Smith, C.S.I.
R. Pearsall Smith.
Sir Augustus K. Stephenson,
K.C.B., Q.C.
Professor J. J. Thomson, F.R.S.
Charles Lloyd Tuckey, M.D.
J. A'enn, D. Sc., F.R.S.
Abraham Wallace, M.D.
HON. TREASURER.
H. Arthur Smith, Queen's Mansions, Brook Green, London, AV.'
HON. SECRETARY.
Frederic AAt. H. Myers, Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
ACTING-SECRETARY FOR THE UNITED STATES.
Miss Edmunds, 5, Boylston Place, Boston, Mass.
ASSISTANT-SECRETARY.
Edward T. Bennett, 19, Buckingham Street, Adelphi, London, AV.C.
2 s 2
G22 List of Members and Associates.
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
(February, 1898.)
PRESIDENT.
Sir William Cbookes, F.R.S.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S., 4, Carlton-gardens, S.W.
Professor W. F. Barrett, Royal College of Science, Dublin.
The Marquis of Bute, K.T., Mount Stuart, Rothesay, Isle of Bute.
Professor William James, Harvard, U.S.A.
ProfessorS. P. Langley, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, U.S.A.
Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S., Terling Place, Witham, Essex.
The Right Rev. the Bishop of Ripon, The Palace, Ripon.
Professor Hesry Sidgwick, Newnham College, Cambridge.
HONORARY MEMBERS.
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S.,7, Kensington Park-gardens, London, W.
The Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone, Hawarden Castle, Chester.
John Ruskin, LL.D., D.C.L., Brantwood, Coniston, Lancashire.
Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.S., Corfe View, Parkstone, Dorset.
G. F. Watts, R.A., Little Holland House, London, W.
CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
Alexander N. Aksakof, 6, Nevsky Prospect, St. Petersburg.
Professor A. Alexander, Caixa, 906, Rio Janeiro.
Prof. H. Beaunis, Villa Josephine, Boute d'Antibes, Cannes, France.
Professor Berniieim, HApital Civil, Nancy.
Professor H. P. Bowditch, M.D., Harvard Medical School, Cambridge,
Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Nicholas M. Butler, Columbia College, New York, U.S.A.
Dr. Dariex, 6, Rue du Bellay, Paris.
Dr. Max Dessoir, 27, Kothener Strasse, Berlin, W.
Dr. Fere, 37, Boulevard St. Michel, Paris.
Professor Stanley Hall, Clark University, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Dr. Eduard von Hartmann", Gross-Lichterfelde, Germany.
Professor Pierre Janet, 22, Rue de Bellechasse, Paris.
Dr. A. A. Liebeault, Nancy, France.
Professor J. Liegeois, Nancy, France.
Professor C. Lombroso, 43, Corso Oporto, Turin, Italy.
List of Members and Associates. C23
Professor E. C. Pickering, The Observatory, Cambridge, Mass.,U.S.A.
Th. Ribot, Office of the Revue Philosophique, Paris.
Professor Charles Richet, 15, Rue de 1'University Paris.
Professor Sabatier, Montpellier, France.
Dr. Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing, 2, Max Joseph Strasse, Munich.
Dr. H. de Varigny, 7, Rue de Sfax, Paris.
Professor N. Wagner, Imperial University, St. Petersburg.
Dr. Otto G. Wetterstrand, Stockholm.
Dr. G. C Wittig, 22, Kornerstrasse, Leipzig.
MEMBERS, HONORARY ASSOCIATES, AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Honorary Associates are prefixed by an Asterisk.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Adair, Desmond, Bank of England, Plymouth.
Adams, Mrs., 4, Brookside, Cambridge.
Adamson, Rev. Henry, Heathcote, Christchurch, New Zealand.
Alexander, S., M.A., The Owens College, Manchester.
Allen, Rev. W. O. B., M.A., 83, St. George's-road, London, S.W.
Amkry, W. C, 34a, Corporation-street, Birmingham.
Argles, Miss Edi th M , The Deanery, Peterborough.
Arnott, T. Davidson, Port of Sp:tin, Trinidad, B.W.I.
Ashburton, The Lady, Kent House, Knightsbridge, London, S.W.
Astley, Miss, 3, Halkin-place, Belgrave-square, London, S.W.
Bacchus, Mrs., The Manor House, Lillington, near Leamington.
Bacle, E., 57, Rue de Chateaudun, Paris.
Badelier, Emile, Rangoon, British Burmah.
Baggally, Wortley W., 23, Lower Phillimore-place, Kensington, W.
Baines, Miss W., Kames Cottage, Port Bannatyne, Bute, N.B.
Baker, Mrs. Charles, 47, Russell-road, West Kensington, W,
Baker, Edmund G, High View, Shooters-hill, Kent.
Baker, Miss Morrant, Boston Lodge, Harvard-rd., Gunnersbury, S.W.
Balfour, The Right Hon.A. J.,M.P.,F.R.S., 4,Carlton-gdns.,S. W.
Balfour, The Right Hon. G.W., M.P., 24, Addison-road, London,W.
Balfour, Miss, 4, Carlton-gardens, London, S.W.
Ballard, Rev. F., M.A, B.Sc, Morschach, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Bannerman, Colonel P. W., 8, Somers-place, Hyde Park, London, W.
Barclay, Rev. Chas.W., M. A.,TheVicarage, Hertford Heath, Hertford.
Barkly, Mrs., Hampton Court Palace, near London.
Barkworth, Thomas, J. P., West Hatch, Chigwell, Essex.
Barlow, Miss Jane, The Cottage, Raheny, co. Dublin.
624 List of Members and Associates.
Barlow, Colonel W. R., 56, Penywern-road, London, S.W.
Barrett, Ashley W., M.B., 7, Cavendish-place, Cavendish-square,W.
Barrett, Professor W. F., F.R.S.E., Kingstown, co. Dublin.
Barrington, Hon. Eric, 62, Cadogan-place, London, S.W.
Bartholomew, Colonel, Bantry Lodge, Glengaritf, co. Cork.
Bates, Colonel C. E., c/o London and County Bank, 1, Connaught-
street, London, W.
Bates, Miss, c/o London and County Bank, Maidstone.
Battersea, The Lady, Aston Clinton, Tring.
Bayfield, Rev. Matthew A., M.A., The College, Eastbourne.
Beatty, Octavius, Fairholt, Merton-hall-road, Wimbledon, Surrey.
Beazley, Lieutenant-Colonel George G., 74, Redcliffe-sq., S.W.
Bective, The Countess of, Barnacre Lodge, Garstang.
Beer, Mrs., 7, Chesterfield-gardens, London, W.
Bell, Charles W., J. P., D.L., Yewhurst, East Grinstead, Sussex.
Bell, Major Wm. Morrison, Thor, Birchington, Thanet, Kent.
Bellasis, Major G. M., c/o H. S. King and Co., 45, Pall Mall, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T, Devonshire House, Richmond, near London.
Bennett, Ernest N., M.A., Hertford College, Oxford.
Benson, Mrs., 9, St. Thomas-street, Winchester.
Benson, Miss Annette M., M.D., Cama Hospital, Bombay.
Berens, Rev. Randolph, M.A., 14, Prince's-gardens, London, S.W.
Bergen, Axel von, Harewood Hill. Darlington.
Bergen, Dr. Carl von, 32, Karlavagen, Stockholm.
Bernard, John, Captain, R.M.L.I., H.M.S. " Nelson," Portsmouth.
Berry.Mrs. F. M. Dickinson,M.D.,60,Welbeck-st.,Cavendish-sq.,W.
Bkvan, Miss N. H., Chalet Passiflora, Cannes, France.
Bevan, Hon. Mrs. R. Yorke, 9, Rutland-gate, London, W.
Bevan, Mrs. Robert, 131, Gloucester-road, London, S.W.
Beveridge, Erskine, St. Leonard's Hill, Dunfermline, N.B.
Bickford-Smitii, R.A.H., B.A., 19, Endymion-road, Brixton Rise, S.W.
Bicknell, Rev. Clarence, M.A., Villa Rose, Bordighera, Italy.
Bidder, Mrs., Ravensbury Park, Mitcham, Surrey.
Bidder, George P., Ravensbury Park, Mitcharn, Surrey.
Biddulph, The Lady Elizabeth P., 19, Ennismore-gardens, S W.
Bielby, Horace C. V., 67, LoixUstreet, Liverpool, W.
Bigg, Miss Louisa, Lyndhurst, Luton.
Birks, Rev. Edward B., M.A., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Birrell, Mrs., Placilla, Lansdowne-road, Worthmg.
Blackburn, Ernest M., 38, Egerton-gardens, London, S.W.
Blackwell, Elizabeth, M.D., Rock House, Hastings.
Blackwood, Mrs., Norton Court, Sittingbourne, Kent.
Blakelock, Rev. R., M.A., Horbury Bridge Vicarage, Wakefield.
Blatcii, Miss Alice, 34, Blandford-road, Bedford Park, W.
List of Members and Associates. 625
Bois, Henry Gokdon, c/o J. M. Robertson and Co., Colombo, Ceylon.
Bois, Herbert G., 4, Clarendon-place, Hyde Park-square, W.
Boldero, Lieut.-General G. N., 20, Westbourne-gardens, Folkestone.
Bolland, Mrs., 7, Cranbury-terrace, Southampton.
Bolton, Miss A. J., B.A. (N.Z.), Hillside, Bourton-road, Buckingham.
Boornk, Herbert H., 9a, Sackville street, Piccadilly, London, W.
Bosanquet, Mrs. O. V., 52, Queen's-gate, London, S.W.
Boscq de Beaumont, G. du, Airel (Manche), France.
Boswell-Stone, Miss E. L, Dayrells, 47, Wickham-road, Beckenham.
Boucher, Mrs., c/o Miss Lutley, West-street, Wiveliscombe, Somerset.
Boulnois, H. Percy, M.Inst.C.E., 7, Devonshire-road, Liverpool.
Bowden-Smith, Mrs., at Carey's, Brockenhurst.
Bowell, Ernest W. W., Sissinghurst Vicarage, Cranbrook, Kent.
Bowness, William Wilson, 26,Campden-gr6ve, Kensington, London.W.
Boyd, C. W., 7, Abbotsford-crescent, St. Andrews, N.B.
Bramston, Miss A. R., Witham-close, Winchester.
Bramston, Miss M., Suntrap, Radcliffe-road, Croydon.
Bramwell, John M., M.B.,2, Henrietta-street, Cavendish-square,W.
Brandreth, Henry S., Fairholme, Weybridge.
BRAYshAW, John L., Settle, Yorkshire.
Brewster, Mrs. F., 21, Park-valley, Nottingham.
Briggs, Mrs., Welbury Drive, Bradford.
Brill, Alice B., M.D., New York, U.S.A.
Britten, James, F.L.S., 126, Kennington Park-road, London, S.E.
Brooke, Lady, Ranee of Sarawak, Villa Raffo Bogliasco, near
Genoa.
Brooke, Col. C. K., Army and Navy Club, Pall Mall, London, S.W.
Brqoke, Rev. Stopford A , M.A., 1, Manchester-square, London, W.
Brown, Miss Johnson, 26, Carisbrooke-road, St. Leonards-on-Sea.
Browne, Edward G., M.A., M.B., Pembroke College, Cambridge.
Browne, Mrs. Walter P., Bidston, Alleyn-road, West Dulwich, S.E.
Browning, Oscar, M.A., King's College, Cambridge.
Bruhns, Theodore, Simferopol, Russia.
Bryant, A. C, B.A., 2, Langham-road, West Green, London, N.
Bryant, Captain G. E., R.A., c/o J. M. Edwards, The Elms, Ramsgate.
Bryce, J. P., J. P., Bystock, near Exmouth, Devon.
Bryce, Miss Kathleen, 15, Campden Hill-square, W.
Buchanan, H. B. M., B.A., 9, Upper Beulah Hill, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Buckler, W. H, Trinity College, Cambridge.
Bulley, Mrs. Arthur, West Kirby, near Birkenhead.
Bullock, Mrs., St. Margaret's, Mitcham, Surrey.
Bulmer, Mrs., Field House, Sleights, R.S.O., York.
BunShAW,N.F.,Med. Off., B.G.J.P. Railway,Ghadechi,Kathiawar, India.
Burton, Mrs., 1, Iddesleigh Mansions, Victoria-street, S.W.
626 List of Members and Associates.
Burton, Mrs., Logner Hall, Shrewsbury.
Bury, Mrs. Henry, Mayfield House, Farnham, Surrey.
Bushell, Rev. W. D., M.A., Harrow-on-the-Hill.
Bute, The Marquis of, K.T., Mount Stuart, Rothesay, Isle of Bute.
Butt, Lady, 17, Viale Pssa- Margherita, Florence, Italy.
Buttemer, Robert William, St. Mary's, Godalming.
Caillard, Sir Vincent, Constantinople.
Caillard, Miss, Wingfield House, near Trowbridge, Wiltshire.
Caldecott, Rev. Professor Alfred, M.A., Lopham Rectory, Thetford.
Callaway, Charles, D.Sc., M.A., Nortonbury House, Tewkesbury.
Cameron, George Fenton, M.D., J.P., .'i4, Guilford-st., London, W.C.
Campbell, Mrs. Burnley, Ormidale, Colintraive, Argyllshire, N. B.
Campbell, Colin E., B.A., 22, Market Hill, Cambridge.
Campbell, Mrs. Napier,- 81, Ashley-gardens, London, S.W.
Candler, H. A. W., 37, Commercial-road East, London, E.
Cannon, Mrs., Hillcot, Sharpies, near Bolton.
Carbery, William E., 21, Eldon-road, Kensington, W.
Carleton, Hon. Mrs. Leir, Greywell Hill, Winchfield.
*Carlile, W. A., 101, Whitehead-road, Aston, Birmingham.
Carnarvon, The Earl of, 13, Berkeley-square, London, W.
Carnegie, Lady Helena, Kinnaird Castle, Brechin, N.B.
Carter, Mrs. L. Brudenell, Kenilworth, Clapham Common, S.W.
Cathels, Rev. David, M.A., The Manse, Hawick, N.B.
Cave, Charles, J. P., Binsted, Cambridge.
Cave-Browne-Cave, Mrs. T., Burnage, Streatham Common, S.W.
Cazalet, Mrs., Grenehurst, Dorking.
Cecil, Lady Francis, Slocken Hall, Stretton, Oakham.
Chase, Capt. W. St. L., V.C., care of Messrs. William Watson and
Co., 28, Apollo-street, Bombay.
Chattock, Professor Arthur P., University College, Bristol.
Chiciiele-Plowden, Trevor, C.S.I., The Residency, Hyderabad,
Deccan, India.
Chichester, Miss May, Wotton Rectory, Dorking.
Childers, Miss F. I., 46, Gunter's-grove, London, S.W.
Clark, W. W., Denehurst, Dorking.
Clark, Miss, Sunield Park, Cromer.
Clarke, Francis, 17, Hornsey Rise Gardens, London, N.
Clarke, J. F. Howard, M.D.,M.R.C.S.,(Eng.) 105, Wardour-street, W.
Clarke, John Henry, M.D., 30, Clarges-street, London, W.
Clarke, Robert H., M.A., M.B., M.R.C S., Clarence Lodge, Redhill.
Clarke, The Rev. Father R. F., S.J., 40, St. Giles, Oxford.
Clarke, Rev. W. J., 186, Bristol-road, Birmingham.
Clayton, Charles E., 152, North-street, Brighton.
Clemens, S. L., Hartford, Conn., U.S.A.
List of Members and Associates. 627
Cleveland, The Duchess of, 18, Grosvenor-place, London, S.W.
Clissold, Edward M., Fawley Lodge, Lansdown-road, Cheltenham.
Clive, The Hon. Henrietta Windsor, Oakly Park, Bromfield, Salop.
Close, Rev. Maxwell H., M.A., University Club, Dublin.
Coates, Andrew, Pitcullen House, Perth, N.B.
Coffin, Walter H., F..L.S., 94, Cornwall gardens, London, S.W.
Coghill, Colo.vel Kendal, C.B., Cosheen, Castle Townshend, co. Cork.
Colhgrane, Mrs. E , Bracebridge, Norwood, S.E.
Coleridge, Miss Christabel R., Cheyne, Torquay.
Collingwood, Miss A. M., 5, Addisou-mansions, West Kensington, W.
Collins, Sir Robert H., K.CB., Broom Hill, Claretnout, Esher.
Collison, Mrs. Henry C, 17b, Great Cumberland-place, London, W.
Colthurst, Lady, 47, Hill-street, Berkeley square, London, W.
Colvile, Colonel Henry E., C.B., 24, Chapel-st., Belgrave-square, S.W.
Compton, Lady Alwyne, 7, Balfour-place, London, W.
Cooney, Rev. Stewart E., M. A., 28, Donegall-passage, Belfast.
Cope, Rev. C. H., M.A., Churchills, Caterham Valley, Surrey.
Cotterell, James, 140, Earlsfield-road, Wandsworth Common, S.W.
Cort van der Linden, Professor P. W.A.,6, Swimame-st., The Hague.
Cousens, Charles H., Star Chambers, 30, Moorgate-st., London, E.C.
Cousens, John S., Wanstead, Essex.
Cowan, William H., 11, Malborough-road, Bournemouth.
Cowper, The Hon. Mrs. Spencer, Grosvenor Hotel, London, S.W.
Crackantiiorpe, Mrs., 65, Rutland-gate, London, W.
Crawford and Balcarres, The Earl of, K.T., F.R.S., 2, Caven
dish-square, London, W.
Crawford, F. Marion,Villa Crawford, Sant'Agnellodi Sorrento, Italy.
Crawford, W. C, 1, Lockharton-gardens, Colinton-road, Edinburgh.
Crawley, Mrs. Chas., 97, Cheyne Walk, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Crawshay, Robert, 16, Berkeley-square, London, W.
Crespo, J. Charters, Rua 24 do Jullio, No. 12, Lisbon, Portugal.
Crewdson, Miss Gwendolen, The Barons, Reigate.
Crommelin, Miss Constance de la C, 29, Sussex-square, Brighton.
Crooks, Miss, Kensington, South Australia.
Crowe, W. Leaditam, 10, Jeffrey's-square, St. Mary Axe, London, E.C.
Cruise, Sin F. R., M.D., 93, Merrion-square, W., Dublin.
Crump, Harold E., M.A., The Chestnuts, St. Margaret's, Twickenham.
Cunningham, G.,D.M.D. (Harvard, U.S. A.), 2, King's-parade,Cambridge.
Currie, Andrew S., M.D., 81, Queen's Road, Finsbury Park, N.
Currie, Mrs., Warders, Tonbridge, Kent.
CUshInG, Mrs. F. W., 4, Rue Chalgrin, Paris.
D'Abbadie, Antoise, 120 Rue de Bac, Paris.
Dakyns, Henry Graham, M.A.,Higher Coombe, Haslemere, Surrey.
Dallas, Miss H. S. A., 116, King Henry's-rd., South Hampstead, N.W.
628 List of Members and Associates.
Damania, Surgeon-Major, P. J., National Liberal Club, London.
Danvers, Mrs., 4, Cranley Mansion, Gloucester-road, S.W.
Darell-Brown, Mrs , 1, Douro-villas, Cheltenham.
Darley, Lady, Quambi, Woollohra, New South Wales.
Dartnell, George E , Abbottsfield, Stratford-road, Salisbury.
Darwin, Mrs. Francis, Wychfield, Huntingdon-road, Cambridge.
Davidson, J. Mackenzie, M.B.C.M. (Aberdeen), 76, Portland-place, W.
Davies, Benjamin, 26, Moscow Drive, Liverpool.
Davis, A. E., F.R.C.S. (Ed.), L.R.C.P.I., 20, Great George-sq., Liverpool.
Davis, Joseph T., Holly Bush, Snaresbrook, Essex.
Davis, Thomas Henry, Gatefield, Clarendon-road, Lewisham, S.E.
Davison, Miss Annie, 1, Stanford-road, Kensington, W.
De Grey, The Countess, 1, Carlton-gardens, London, S.W.
Delouest, Edward, Ocala, Florida, U.S.A.
Dem, John, Walsingham, Chislehurst.
*Despard, Miss, 77, Chesterton-road, North Kensington, London. W.
De Trafford, Mrs. Galfrid, 67, Cadogan-gardens, London, S.W.
Dewar, Rev. Peter, M.A., The Manse, North Bute, Rothesay, N.B.
Dicksee, Frank, A.R.A., 80, Peel-street, Campden Hill, London, W.
Dill, J. F. Gordon, M.A., M.B., 6, Brunswick-place, Brighton.
Dixon, Edward T., 4, Uranmer-road, Cambridge.
Dixon, Hugh N., M.A., F.L.S., East Park Parade, Northampton.
Dixon, Prof. W. Macneilk, M.A., LL.B., Litt. D., Mason College,
Birmingham.
Dodbie, A. W., Gawler place, Adelaide, South Australia.
Dodge, Miss Mary M. H., 39, Brompton-square, London, S.W.
Donnelly, Mrs., Kendall-street, Cowra, New South Wales.
Dougall, Miss Lily, 463, Elm-avenue, Westmount, Montreal, Canada.
Douglas, Rev. Dr. G. W., 239,Whitney-avenue, Newhaven,Conn.,U.S.A.
Doveton, F. B., Eastcliffe, Babbacombe, South Devon.
Dowson, Mrs., L.K.Q.C.P., L.R.C.S.I., 91, Cheyne walk, Chelsea, S.W.
Doyle, A. Conan, M.D., Haslemere, Surrey.
Duke, Thomas, M.A., M.R.C.S., 33, Bilton-road, Rugby.
Dulley, Rev. B., M.A., St. Peter's Clergy House, London Docks, E.
Duncan, Mrs., Earlston, Epsom-road, Guildford.
Dunham, Miss Helen, 11, Half-Moon-street, Piccadilly, London, W.
Dutt, R. C, C I.E., Burdwan, Bengal, India.
Dyce, Captain Cecil, (Retired) Bengal Staff Corps, 11, Chepstow-villas,
Bayswater, London, W.
Eagle, Frederick, Devonia, St. Andrew's-road, Henley-on-Thames.
Eardley, Lady, 4, Lancaster-street, Hyde Park, London, W.
Earle, Mrs. C. W., 5, Bryanston-square, London, W.
Edelsten, John A., 31, Bold-street, Warrington.
Egerton, Miss Mary L., Alma Lodge, The Mount, York.
List of Members and Associates.
Elder, Frederick, 21, Cleveland-gardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Elder, Mrs., 38, Hyde Park Gardens, London, W.
Elliot, Gilbert, 10, Hanover-square, London, W.
Elliot, Mrs. Minto, 7, George-street, Hanover-square, W.
Elliot, Miss, Sandecotes, Parkstone, Dorset.
Elliott, Sir Charles Alfred, K.C.S.I., LL.D., Calcutta.
Elliott, Rev. W. A., 54, Kirkgate, Shipley, Yorkshire.
Ellis, Mrs. Robert, 4, Rylett-road, Ravenscourt Park, W.
Ellison, Rev. John H., M.A., The Vicarage, Windsor.
Elvey, Miss Mary M., 3, Palace Mansions, Addison Bridge, W.
Elworthy, Arthur K., Foxdown, Wellington, Somerset.
Encombe, Viscount, Bachelor's Club, 8, Hamilton-place, London, W.
Eno, J. C, Wood Hall, Dulwich, London, S.E.
Ermacora, Dr. G. B., Padua, Italy.
Ermen, Walter F. A., Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
Esteriiazy, Count Michael, Cseklesz, Pressburg County, Hungary.
Evans, Kirkham, Adelaide, South Australia.
Faran, Mrs. L. M., 48, Tavistock-square, London, W\C.
Falcke, Dudley C, 5, Pump-court, Temple, London, E.C.
Falcomer, Professor M. T., Regio Instituto Tecnik. Alessandria.
Farrer, The Lady, Abinger Hall, Dorking.
Fawssett Thomas, 97,Philbeach-gardens, Earl's-court, London, S.W.
Feilding, Hon. Everard, 5, John-street, Mayfair, London, W.
Feilding, The Lady Louisa, Broome Park, Betchworth, Surrey.
Field, Allan B., St. John's College, Cambridge.
Fi eld, E. M., M A., Cotswold, Bishopswood-road, Ilighgate, N.
FinCh,H.WYnnE,JunR.,M.A.,TheManoiHouse,Stokesley,R.S.O.,Yorks.
*Finzi, Dr. George, 11, Monte di Pietn, Milan.
Fisher,- Mrs. A. B., 24, Duke's avenue, Chiswiok, near London.
Fisher, Rev. J. Hartman, Nassau, N.P., Bahamas.
FitzG erald, Desmond G., M.S.T.E.,94, Loughborough-rd., Brixton, S.W.
Fletcher, Mrs. K. R., The Orchard, Buckland, near Betchworth,Surrey.
Florence, Ernest B., 33, RedclitFe square, South Kensington, S.W.
Flournoy, Professor Th., The University, Geneva.
Ford, Mrs. Gerard, 7, Mandeville-place, London, W.
Forrester, Mrs., Gavell House, Kilsyth, N.B.
Fox, St. George Lane, Traveller's Club, Pall Mall, London, S.W.
Fraseu, Col. A. T., R.E., Bellary, Madras Presidency.
Freeman, Miss Adelaide C , Belgrave Mansions, Grosvenor-gdns., S.W.
Freemann, Rev. H. B., M.A., 1, Soho-square, London, W.
Fry, Lewis George, Limpsfield, Surrey.
Fry, Oliver A., M.A., 41, Portsdown road, Maida-vale, London, W.
Fry, R. E., B.A., 11, Palace Houses, Bayswater Hill, London, W.
♦Fryer, Rev. A. T., 13, Dumfries-place, Cardiff.
630 List of Members and Associates.
Furnivall, Percy, 34, Adelaide-road, Loudon, N.W.
Galloway, The Countess of, 17, Upper Grosvenor-street, W.
Gardiner, Rev. Edward R., M.A., Long Wittenham, Abingdon.
Gardner, Mrs. Ernest, c/o Miss Wilson, 33, Ladbroke-square, W.
Garet-Ciiarles, Georges, The Nook, Titchfield-rd., Regent's-pk., N.W.
Garner, Edwin T., Glendale, Alexandra-road, Selhurst, Surrey.
Garth, Henry, M.B., CM. (Edin.), 4, Harrington-street, Calcutta.
Gernet, Miss Nina, Basseynaya, 33, Lodg.4, St. Petersburg.
Ghose, N. N., the Indian Nation Office, 43, Bancharaui Unkoor's-lane,
Calcutta.
Gittermann, Rudolph C, Odessa, Russia.
*Glardon, Rev. Auguste, Tour de Peilz, Vaud, Switzerland.
Glover, John J. T., 124, Stephen's Green, W., Dublin.
Godfrey, Mrs., c/o Col. CW. Godfrey, Bombay StaffCorps, Poona, India.
Goodhart, Rev. Charles A., M.A., Lainbourne Rectory, Romford.
Goodier, Miss B. M., Seighford House, Hardwick-square, Buxton.
*Goodrich-Freer, Miss, 27, Cleveland-gardens, Hyde Park, W.
Goring, Lady, Strettington, Chichester.
Gover, John M., LL.D., 5, New-square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
Govett, The Ven. Archdeacon, M.A., Gibraltar.
Govett, F. Molyneux, Veytaux, Canton de Vaud. Switzerland.
Gow, William, 184, Earl's Court-road, London, S.W.
Graham, Henry R., 8, Marble Arch, London, W.
Graham, J. W., B.A., Dalton Hall, Victoria Park, Manchester.
Graham, William W., 4, Elm-court, Temple, London, E.G.
GRAY,EdWARdW.,SurGEOn-CAPtain,c/oMessrs. Holt, 17,Whitehall,S.W.
Green, C. T., M.R.C.S., L.R.C P. (Lond.), 33, Grange-mt., Birkenhead.
Green, Miss Marian, The High School, Spring Mount, Blackburn.
Greener, W. O., 2, Kent Villas, Ealing.
Greio, Rev. David, M.A., Cottenham Rectory, Cambridge.
Greville, Miss C. C, 9, Queen's Gate-place, London, S.W.
Griffith, Mrs. Robert W., The Old House, Llandaff.
Griffiths, Joseph, M.D., F.R.C.S., 4, Kings' parade, Cambridge.
Grignon, Rev. William S., M.A., Essendon, Hatfield, Herts.
Groom, Ernest, Dothill Park, Wellington, Salop.
*Grubb, Edward, M.A., 5, 22, Crosby-road, Birkdale, Southport.
Grubbe, Hubert H., Shallow, Ongar, Essex.
Grlnbaum, O. F. F., B.A., B.Sc, Trinity College, Cambridge.
Gudgeon, James, Stowmarket.
Gunton, Rev. Charles F., M.A., Farlam Vicarage, Milton, Carlisle.
Gunton. Rkv. F., M.A., Magdalene College, Cambridge.
Gumey, Rev. Alfred, M.A., St. Barnabas' Parsonage, Pimlico, S.W.
Guknky, Rev. F., M.A., St. John's Cottage, BoveyTracey, Newton Abbot.
Hackett, James T, B.A., 71, King William-street, Adelaide, Australia.
List of Members and Associates. 63 L
Haggard, John G., H.B.M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
Haig, Mrs. C. E., Orchardwood, Ascot Heath, Berks.
Hailey, Alfred J., 26, Bruce-road, Willesden, N.W.
Halkett, Miss Katherine E., 3, Pitt-street, Campden Hill, W.
Hall, Wilfred, Dilston Hall, Corbridge-on-Tyne.
Hall, Mrs., 3, St. Alban's-road, Kensington, London, W.
Hall, Mrs. M. H., Blenheim Lodge, Surbiton.
Hamilton, Colonel G. Rowan, Killyleagh Castle, co. Down, Ireland.
Hamilton, W. Stirling, "Woodgaters, Horsham.
Hannah, Robert, 82, Addison-road, Kensington, W.
Hansford, Charles. 3, Alexandra-terrace, Dorchester.
Harding, G. Palmer, Trouville, France.
Hargrave, Joseph G., The Larches, Heaton Mersey, Manchester.
Hargreaves, Miss, 69, Alexandra-road, Southport.
Harpur, Rev. George, B.A., Clifton Vicarage, Newark.
Harris, REV.ChAS.,M.A.,The Institute, Munsfield-st., Haggerston, N.E.
Harris, Capt. C. S., Hanover House, St. Peter's-road, Bournemouth.
Harris, Mrs. Leverton, 4, Green-street, Park-lane, London, W.
Hartley, Lieut.-Colonel J., LL.D., D.L., The Old Downs, Hartley,
near Longfield, Kent.
Hartshorn, Miss C, c/o Messrs. Brown, Shipley and Co., London, E.C.
Harvey, Alfred S., Hurstbourne, Bishopswood-road, Highgate, N.
*Haslam, Prof. F. W., M.A., Canterbury College, Christchurch, New
Zealand.
Hastie, Miss, 11, Ashburn-place, Cromwell-road, S.W.
Haweis, Miss, 127, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Hay, The Hon. Mrs. Alistair, 8, Upper Belgrave-street, London, S.W.
Hayes, Frederick W., 12, Westeroft-square, Ravenscourt Park, W.
Hayward, Miss Grace G.. 25, St. George's Road, Kilburn, N.W.
Heard, Richard, 37, York-place, Portman-square, London, W.
Heath, Mrs. Cuthbert, 47, Portman-square, London, W.
Hebert, P. Z, M.D., L.R.C.P., 16a, Old Cavendish-st.,Cavendish-sq.,W.
Heiiner, Mrs. Otto, Woodside House, Woodside, South Norwood, S.E.
Henley, Hon. Ernest, Watford Court, Rugby.
Henniker-Major, The Hon. Mary, 4, Berkeley-street, Piccadilly, W.
Henry, Miss Eva, 1, Argyll villas, Cheltenham.
Herbert. Hon. Auberon, M.A., Burley, Ringwood, Hants.
Herringham, Mrs., 22, Bedford-square, London, W.C.
Hewetson,H.Bendelack, F.L.S.,M.R.C.S.,ll,Hanover-sq.,Leeds.
Higford, Miss Katharine, 23, Eaton-place, London, S.W.
Hichens, Rev. Thomas S., Guilsborough Vicarage, Northampton.
Hildyard, F. W.,The Shuttleworth Club,Fye Foot-lane, Queen Victoria-
street, E.C.
Hill, Clement Hcgh, 63, Church-road, St. Leonards-on-Sea.
632 List of Members and Associates
Hill, W. Scott, 47, Manor-place, Edinburgh.
Hill-Tout, Chakles, Trinity College, Vancouver, B.C
Hine, Thomas C, 25, Regent-street, Nottingham.
Hoddino, Miss, Selwood House, Barnard's Cross. Salisbury.
Hodgson, Richard, LL.D., 36, Great Ormond-street, London, W.C.
Hogg, Henry R., M.A., Melbourne CluV), Melbourne, Australia.
Hole, Rev. Donald, A.K.C., 2, Busby-place, Camden-road, N.W.
Holland, Hon. Lionel R, M.P., B.A., 58, Conduit-street, W.
Holland, Mrs., Villa Eliva, Bogliasco, Riviera di Levante.
Holland, Miss, Niddry Lodge, Campden Hill, London, W.
Hollander, Bernard, L.R.C.P., 61, Chancery-lane, London, W.C.
Hollins, Mrs. A. E., 77, Park-road, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Hollond, John R., M.A., Wonham, Dampton, Devon.
Holstein, Madame Alexandra de, 29, Avenue de Wagram, Paris.
Hood, H. J., M.A., 115, St. George's-road, London, S.W.
Hood, Mrs., 115, St. George's-road, London, S.W.
Hooper, Gordon, L.D.S.R.O.S., 21, New Cavendish-st., Harley-st., W.
Hooper, Mrs. Pitman, 5, Endsleigh-street, Tavistock-square, W.C
Hopkinson, Prop.Alfred,M.A.,B.C.L., The Lodge, 32, Herne Hill, S.E.
Hopps, John Page, Oak Tree House, South Norwood Hill, Loudon, S.E.
Horne, Alderson B., Ditton-place, Balcombe, Sussex.
Horrack, Philip J. de, 4, Rue du General Foy, Paris.
Howard, The Lady Mabel, Greystoke Castle, Penrith.
Howe, E. R. J. Gambier, 7, New-square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
Howell, Alexander, 109, High-street, Portsmouth.
Huddleston, Mrs., Llwynderw, Welshpool, Montgomeryshire.
Hudson, Norman W., B.A., Pebble Hill, Limpsfield, Surrey.
Hughes, Major H. M., F.R.G.S., Rose Bank, Marden Park, Caterham
Valley, Surrey.
Hume-Rothery, J. H., B.Sc. (Lond.), The Pines,Worcester Pk.,Surrey.
Humprey, Miss L. R., 8, Hyde Park Mansions, London, W.
Hunter, Thomas, Elmhurst, Hillmorton-road, Rugby.
Hutchins, D. E., Conservator of Forests, Cape Town
Hutchinson, F. W. H., M.A., Brooklands House, Avenue, Cambridge.
Hutchinson, William B., C.E., F.R.A.S, &c., Southport, Lancashire.
Hyslop, Dr., Bethlem Hospital, London, S.E.
Infield, H. I., 130, North-street, Brighton.
Ingham, Charles B., Moira House, Eastbourne.
Ingham, Percy B., Moira House, Eastbourne.
Innes, Lady, Winslow, Darling Point, Sydney, New South Wales.
Ireland, Wm. W., M.D. (Edin.), Mavisbush, Polton, Midlothian, N.B.
Isaachsen, Rev. Thorveld E., 44, Boompjes, Rotterdam.
Jackson, Rev. F., The Vicarage, Newton-upon-Rawcliffe, Pickering.
Jackson, William H., M.A., F.L.S., Pen Wartha, Weston-super-Mare.
List of Members and Associates. 633
Jackson, Miss E. R., S. Hilda's School, Clifton-road, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Jameson, F., 6, Westbourne Park-villas, London, W.
Jeaffreson, Rev. H. H., M.A., Villa degli Angoli Fiesole, Florence.
Jebb, Rev. H. Gladwyn, M.A, Firbeck Hall, Rotherham.
Jebb, Mrs., Springfield, Newnham, Cambridge.
Jebb, Miss S. G., Overton, Lansdowne-road, Bournemouth.
Jeffreys, Mrs., Glandyfi Castle, Glandovey, R.S.O., North Wales.
*Jenkins, E. Vaughan, Energlyn, 38, St. Margaret's-road, Oxford.
Jevons, F. B., Litt. D., Hatfield Hall, Durham.
Jessup, A. E.,Villa St. Dominiiiue, Valescure, St. Raphael, ( Var), France.
Jeune, Lady, 37, Wimpole-street, London, W.
Johnes, Mrs., Dolaucothy, Llanwrda R.S.O., South Wales.
Johnson, Miss Alice, Llandaff House, Cambridge.
Johnson, Rev. Wayland, LL. D.,Fredon, Sussex Co., NewJersey, U.S.A.
Johnston, Miss M. F., The Writer's Club, Hastings House, Norfolk-
street, Strand, W.C.
Jones, Captain Henry Michael, V.C., H.B.M. Legation, Lima, Peru.
Jones, Sir Lawrence J., Bart., Cranmer Hall, Fakenham, Norfolk.
Jones, Miss Constance, Girton College, Cambridge.
Jones, Professor P., 64, Via Sta- Lucia, Naples.
Joyce, Samuel, Latchford House, Greenheys-lane, Manchester.
Kane, J. G. Auriol, Sloperton Lodge, Kingstown, co. Dublin.
Kay, H. A., 71, Maida-vale, London, W.
Kearne, Percy, 37, Avonmore-gardens, West Kensington, W.
Keep, A. P. Perceval, M.A., 26, Vanbrugh-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Kelso, Commander R.N., Horkesley Park, Colchester.
Kenmare, The Countess of, Killarney House, Killarney.
Ker, C. B., M.D., Hadley House, Cheltenham.
Kerr, George, M.A, M.B., 6, St. Colme-street, Edinburgh.
*Keulemans, J. G., 13, York-terrace, Brewery-road, Southend.
King, Miss, 50, Gloucester-gardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Kinsgbury, George C, M.D., 3, Brighton-parade, Blackpool.
Kingston, H. D. R., M.B., Stormont Lodge, Willesden, N.W.
*Kirk, Joseph, 35, Ripon road, Plumstead, Kent.
Knight, Charles N., M.A., 31, Holland-park, London, W.
Knowles, Ernest, Inglehurst Park-road, Bolton-le-Moors.
Knox, Nathaniel, Adelaide Club, Adelaide, South Australia.
Knutsford, The Lady, 75, Eaton-square, London, S.W.
Kothen, Baron Axel von, 27, Mikealsgatan, Helsingfors, Finland.
Lach-Szyrma, Rev.W.S., M.A., F.R.H.S.,Barkingside Vicarage, Ilford.
Lafone, A. W., M.P., Springfield, Oatlands Park, Walton-on-Thames.
Laing, R.M.,M.A.,B.Sc.,Boys'High School, Christchurch,New Zealand.
Lamplugh, Rev. David, M.A., Rokeby Rectory, Barnard Castle.
Lancaster, Ernest Le C, M. B., Winchester House, Swansea.
634, List of Members and Associates.
Laurie, Prof. H., LL.D., Melbourne, South Australia.
Leadam, Isaac S., 1, The Cloisters, Temple, London, E.C.
Leaf, Arthur H., 9, St. Paul's Churchyard, London, E.C.
Leaf, Mrs., The Green, Marlborough.
Leaf, Walter, Litt. D., 6, Sussex-place, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Leaf, Mrs. Walter, 6, Sussex-place, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Lee, Rev. W. T., 4, Fdith-terrace, Mount Gold-road, Plymouth.
Legge, The Lady Frances, Woodsome, Huddersfield.
Leigh, W. Austen, M.A., 2, Norfolk-crescent, Hyde Park, London, W.
Levy, Mrs., 16, Campden House-road, Campden Hill, London, W.
Lewis, C. W. Mansel, Stradey Castle, Llanelly, Carmarthenshire.
Leycester, Mrs., 6, Cheyne-walk, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Librarian (Hon.) of the Constitutional Club, Northumberland-av.,W.C.
Librarian, Giosvenor Library, Buffalo, New York, U.S.A.
Librarian, Guildhall Library, London, E.C.
Librarian, Leeds Library, Commercial-street, Leeds.
Librarian, New York Public Library, New York, U.S.A.
Librarian of the Public Library, Adelaide, South Australia.
Librarian of the Public Library, Melbourne, Australia.
Librarian, School of Arts, Brisbane, Queensland.
Limond, Miss Catherine, 15, Eaton-terrace, London, S.W.
Linden, Miss Olga, 3, Versailles Road, Anerley, S.E.
Lindsay, Miss Beatrice, Bohemia, Port St. Mary, Isle of Man.
Lindsay, R.,L.R.C.S.,M.B.,c/o Messrs.Holt&Co.,Whitehall-place,S.W.
Lloyd, Major Francis, 22, Cadogan-square, London, S.W.
Lloyd, Otho Holland, 6, Place d'Armes, Canton Neuehatel, Switzerland.
Lloyd, Thos. Edward, J.P., Coedmore, Cardigan.
Lodge, Professor O. J., D.Sc, F.R.S., 2, Grove-park, Liverpool.
Lodge, Robert, Laurie Lodge, Meads, Eastbourne.
Loewe, Hugo L., 3, Southampton-street London, W.C.
Lovell, Reginald H., 449, Collins-street, Melbourne.
Lucas, Henry, "Thirlmere," Anderton Park-rd., Moseley, Birmingham.
Ludlow, Col. William, Army Building, New York, U.S.A.
Lunn, Charles, 24, Avonmore-road, West Kensington, W.
Luxmoore, Miss, Bryn Asaph, St. Asaph, North Wales.
Lyall, Miss Frances E., Fetcham, near Leatherhead.
Lyttelton, Hon. Mrs. Arthur, The Vicarage, Eccles, Manchester.
Lyttelton, Sybella Lady, 9, Bryanston-square, London, W.
Macalister, Professor A., M.D., F.R.S., Torrisdale, Cambridge.
MacColl, Rev. Canon Malcolm, M.A., Devonshire Club, St.
James's, S.W.
♦Macdonald, Rev, J. A., Broadstairs, Kent.
Macintyre, Miss G. C, 145, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Macintyre, John, M.B., F.R.S.E., 179, Bath-street, Glasgow.
List of Members and Associates. 635
Mackay, George D., Inveralmond, Cramond, Midlothian, N.B.
Macky, Dr., 4, Curzon-street, Mayfair, W.
Malden, William E. P., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Manders, H., F.R.C.S., Agincourt House, Yorktown, Farnborough.
*Mangin, Marcet, 102, Rue Erlanger, Paris.
Mann, Rev. Frederic, M.A., Grange House, Chigwell, Essex.
Mantell, Miss Bertha, 6, Shalston Villas, Ewell-road, Surbiton Hill.
Marjoribanks, Lady, Tillmouth Park, Cornhill-on-Tweed, Northumber
land.
Marsh, Edward H., B.A., 30, Bruton-st., Berkeley-sq., London, W.
Marshall, Arthur, 13, Belsize-avenue, London, N.W.
Marshall, William Cecil, M.A., 28, Bedford-square, London, W.C.
Marten, Miss A. R., 78, Vanbrugh-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Martin, Miss A. E., 34, Elvaston-place, Queen's Gate, S.W.
Martin, Miss Florence R., 65, Cornwall-gardens, London, S.W.
Martin, Mrs. J. Biddulph, 17, Hyde Park Gate, London, S.W.
Martinez, Mrs., 16b, Hyde Park-mansions, London, W.
Martineau, Alfred Edward, Chief Court, Lahore, India.
Mason, Miss \T. H., Morton Hall, Retford, Notts.
Massey, Charles C, 124, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Masterman, Charles F. G., B.A., Christ's College, Cambridge.
Matoews, G.B. , B.A. , 9, Menai View-terrace,Upper Bangor,North Wales.
Matthews, Frank H., 22, Wentworth-street, Bolton, Lancashire.
Matthews, Mrs., 15, Stanley-gardens, London, W.
Maud, Miss Constance, Sanderstead Rectory, near Croydon.
Maxwell, Sir John Stirling, Bart, M.P., 48, Belgrave-square,
London, S.W.
Maxwell, Joseph, 37, Rue Thiac, Bordeaux, France.
Mayo, Ernest S. G., 5, Castle-arcade, Cardiff.
Mayor, R. G., King's College, Cambridge.
McAlpine, Mrs., Dalnottar, Kirkpatrick, Dumbartonshire.
McClure, Henry, M.D., Cromer, Norfolk.
McC0NnEL,H.W.,M.A.,M.B.,M.R,C.S.,ManorHouse,Ryburgh,Norfolk.
McHugh, P. A., M.P., Sligo.
McKerlie, Miss Helen G., Monkstown, co. Dublin.
McLachlan, David B., Grosvenor House, Ridgway, Wimbledon.
McLaren, Mrs. C, 45, Harrington-gardens, London, S.W.
McLaughlin, E. N., Trinity Villa, Spanish Town, Jamaica.
McNeily, A. J. W., Q.C., Supreme Court, St. John's, Newfoundland.
Meath, The Most Rev. the Bishop of, Navan, Co. Meath.
Medeiros e Albuquerque, Jose de, Rua S. Christovam, 36, Rio
Janeiro, Brazil.
Mellor, Miss Emily, The Cottage Hospital, Wellington, Somerset.
Merrilees, J. F., M.D., Auburn, Victoria.
2 T
636 List of Members and Associates
Metcalf, Francis W. R., Southborough, Tunbridge Wells.
Micklethwait, Richard K., Ardsley House, Barnsley.
Miles, Miss, Woodhill, Gerrards Cross, Bucks.
Milford, The Lady, 16, Hill-street, Berkeley-square, W.
Miller, Mrs. W. Pitt, Merlewood, Grange-over-Sands, Lancashire.
Mills, Thomas E., Cabra Parade, Dublin.
Mitchell, Mrs. C. W., 195, Queen's Gate, London, S.W.
Mitchiner, J. H., Acacias, Barham Road, South Croydon.
Molesworth, Sir Guilford L., K.C.I.E., Simla, India.
Money, Colonel Gerard Noel, C.B., F.R.G.S.
Money-CouttS, Francis Burdett,Walsingham House, Piccadilly, W.
Montagu,The Lady Cecil Scott, The Lodge, Beaulieu, Southampton.
Monteagle, The Lord, K.P., Mount Trenchard, Foynes, co. Limerick.
Montgomery, Mrs., 9, Hartley-road, Exmouth.
MoNTMORENCY,J.E.G.de,B.A.,L.L.B.,20,Old-bldngs.,Lincoln'sInn,W.C.
Moore, Lieut.-General Montgomery, Bellevue, Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Morgan, Rev. Edward, B.A., Penmark Vicarage, Cowbridge.
Morison, Mrs. Miller, 3, Douglas-crescent, Edinburgh.
Morison, Theodore, M.A., Aligarh, N.W.P., India.
Moul, Mrs., 3, Prince's Mansions, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Moulton, Mrs. F. A., 659, Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
Mount-Temple, The Lady, Babbacombe Cliff, Torquay.
Moynihan, B. G. A., M.B. (Loud.), The General Infirmary, Leeds.
Munro, H. A., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Lulworth, Bushey Green, Catford.
Murray Donald, M-A., Sydney Morning Herald Office, Sydney,
N.S.W.
Murray, Professor Geo. G. AiMe,B.A.,The University, Glasgow, N.B.
Murray, Mrs. G. A., 10, Hyde Park Mansions, London, N.W.
Murray, Colonel Hugh H., R.A., 28, Gower-street, London, W.C.
Murray, R.M..M. A.,M.B.,M.R.O.P.(Edin.), ll,Chester-st., Edinburgh.
Murray, Sydney J., 70, Cecile-park, Crouch Hill, London, N.
Murray, T. Douglas. 29, Alberuarle-street, London, W.
Murray-Aynsley, Mrs., 43, Cromwell-houses, Queen's-gate, S.W.
Myers, Frederic W. H., M.A., Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
Myers, Mrs. F. W. H., Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
Mylne, Mrs., 83, Gloucester-terrace, Hyde Park, London. W.
Neate, P. J., F.G.S., M.T.M.E., Belsize, Watts-avenue, Rochester.
Nelson, Rev. George, LL.D., St. Michael's Vicarage, Bromley, Poplar, E.
Nelson, Mrs. H. A., Redbourne, East Molesey Park, Surrey.
Newbold, Miss A., 4, Artillery-buildings, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Newmann, Oscar P., 84, Newman-street, London, W.
Newton, Rev. R. Heher, East Hampton, Suffolk Co.,NewYork,U.S.A.
Nicholl, Iltyd B., The Ham, Cowbridge, South Wales.
NichoLLs, Rev. T. B., M.A., St. Oswald's College, Tynemouth.
List of Members and Associates. 637
Nicholson, Sir Charles, Bart., D.C.L., LL.D., M.D., The Grange,
Totteridge, Herts.
NichoLSOn, Mrs. R. W., 32, Cadogan-square, London, S.W.
Nicolson, Sir A., K.C.I.E., C.M.G., British Legation, Tangier, Morocco.
♦Nisbet, E. T., 17, Latimer-street, Tynemouth.
Noblk, James B., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 167, Kennington Park-road, S.E.
Noel-Cox, H. L. N., Southville, Lewin-rd., Streatham-common, S.W.
Norman, Mrs. Herbert G. H., 5, Southwell-gdus, S.Kensington, S.W.
Norris, Professor Richard, M.D., F.R.S.E., Birchfield, Aston,
Birmingham.
Norris, William Alfred, Holmwood Lodge, Liton-road, Hastings.
Northcote, Hon. Hugh Oliver, The Hyde, Luton.
Nutter, Mrs., Fairseat, Wrotham, Kent.
Oates, F. Edward, St. Peter's Presbytery, Gloucester.
*Ochorowicz, Dr. J., 23, Rue Vladimir, Warsaw.
Ogilvy, Mrs. N. Hamilton, Biel, Prestonkirk, East Lothian, N.B.
Ogilvie,Mrs.,c/o Dr. Ogilvio.H.M.Chief Inspeotorof Schools, Edinburgh.
Oman, Charles W. C., M.A., All Souls' College, Oxford.
O'Neill, Gregory L.,M.B.,291,Elizabeth-st.,Sydney,NewSouth Wales.
Opie, Edward A. D., J.P., Pirie-street, Adelaide, South Australia.
Orr, Mrs. Sutherland, 1 1, Kensington-park-gardens, London, W.
Pack-Beresford, Denis R., Fenagh House, Bagnalstown, Co. Carlow.
Pagan, Miss C, Marston Lodge, Harrow.
Paget, Lady, Villa Bellosguardo, Florence.
Palmer, Miss, 3, Carlisle-place, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Panton, D. Morrieson, 84, Park-street, Grosvenor-square, London, W.
Passingham, Mrs., Fermoyle, Castle Gregory, Co. Kerry.
Pedley, Charles Herbert, Winterley House, near Crewe.
Pennington, Mrs., c/o William Watson & Co., 28, Apollo-st., Bombay.
Percival, Mrs., 2, Southwick Place, London, W.
Perez, Dr. Jorge, Puerto de Orotava, Teneriffe, Canary Islands.
Perry, E. C, M. D., M.A., Superintendent's House, Guy's Hospital, S.E.
Pethybridge, Walter, 3, Rhodesia-road, Clapham Rise, S.W.
Petrovo-Solovovo, Michael, 38, Serghievskaia, St. Petersburg.
Phillips, Rev. J. T., 147, Beaufort-hill, Beaufort, Mon.
Phipps, Miss, Knebworth House, Stevenage, Herts.
Pickering, James R., A.I.E.E., 5, Carew-road, Thornton Heath.
Pilcher, Giles T., 29, Dawson-place, London, W.
Playford, Louis L., P.O. Box, 377, Johannesburg, Transvaal, S. Africa.
Plenderleith, William, 126, Stroud Green-road, Finsbury Park, N.
Podmore, Frank, M.A., 32, Well-walk, Hampstead, N.W.
Pollock, Miss, 50, Weymouth-street, London, W.
Ponsonhy, Hon. Mrs., 2, Wilton-terrace, Belgrave-square, S.W.
Ponsonby, Miss, Rye Vale, Leixlip, co. Kildare.
2 t 2
638 List of Members and Associates.
Pontifex, Miss, 72, Cornwall-gardens, London, S. W".
Pope, George H., M A., B.C.L., Merchants' Hall, Bristol.
Porter, Mrs., Sydney House, Westcliffe-road, Bournemouth.
♦Porter, Miss, 16, Russell-square, London, W.C.
Portsmouth, The Countess of, 2, Abbey-gardens, Westminster, S.W.
Powell, Miss Constance M., 5, Campden Hill-square, London, W.
Powell, George Thompson, Rotherwood, Sydenham Hill, S.E.
Powles, Lewis Charles, M.A., 9, Queen's Gate-place, London, S.W.
Powys, Hon. Mrs. Fox, 29, Albion-street, Hyde Park, London, W.
Praed, Mrs. Campbell, 16, Talbot-square, Hyde Park, London, W.
Prescott, Miss Frances E., 152, Cromwell-road, London, S.W.
Pribitkop, V., 67, Nevsky Prospect, St. Petersburg.
Pullen, Miss, Milton View, Elsecar, Barnsley, Yorkshire.
Pumphrey, Mrs., Derwent-hill, Ebchester, co. Durham.
Purdie, Mrs., 27, Palace-court, London, W.
Pym, Mrs. Angela, Bankside, Lunham-road, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Radnor, The Countess of, 52, Grosvenor-street, London, W.
Ramsay, Professor William, Ph.D., F.R.S., 12, Arundel-gardens, W.
Ramsay, Lady, 23, Drayeot-place, Cadogan-gardens, London, S.W.
Ramsden, Miss Bulstrode, Gerrard's Cross, Bucks.
Raper, R. W., M.A., Trinity College, Oxford.
Raupert, Rev. J. G. F., 30, Belsize-square, London, N.W.
Rayleigh, Clara Lady, 90, Onslow-gardens, London, S.W.
Reade, Herbert V., 6, Scarsdale Villas, Kensington, London, W.
Reichel, Principal H. R., M.A., University College, Bangor.
Rensburg, Miss Netta L., 37, Croxteth-road, Sefton Park, Liverpool.
Reynolds, Colonel H. C, Thorncliffe, Cheltenham.
Reynolds, Mrs., Millington House, Thelwall, near Warrington.
Richardson, Frederic William, F.C.S., 2, Farcliffe-place, Bradford.
Richardson, Miss J., 72, Hamilton terrace, London, N.W.
Riddiford, Mrs. W. H., Chalfont, Barnwood, near Gloucester.
Ridley, Henry N., M.A., F.L.S., Singapore.
Ridley, Miss, Stagshaw, Daleham-gardens, London, N.W.
Robb, Mrs., 46, Rutland Gate, London, S.W.
Roberts, William Johnson, 146, Pembroke-road, Dublin.
Roberts, Rev. W. W., 39, Addison-gardens, Kensington, W.
Robertson, George M., M.B., Royal Asylum, Morningside, Edinburgh.
Robertson, Mrs., Nether Scale Hall, Ashby-de-la-Zouch.
Robertson, Miss N., Alfriston House, Alfriston, Sussex.
Robin, Percv A., B.A., Goorge-street, Parkside, Adelaide, Australia.
Robinson, Edward, C.E., F.R.A.S., 4, Castelnau-gardens, Barnes, S.W.
Robinson, Lady, 4, Belgrave-place, London, S.W.
Robinson, Dr. William Newman, Kadina, South Australia.
Rodewald, Alfred E., The Albany, Liverpool.
List of Members and Associates. 639
♦Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose Villa, Church End, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Rev. E. H., M.A., Foxley Lodge, West Worthing, Sussex.
Rogers, George F., M.A., M.D., 4, King's Parade, Cambridge.
Rogers, R. S., M.C., Flinders-street, Adelaide, South Australia.
Roome, Henry A., J. P., Oudenarde, Victoria-road, Southsea.
Rothschild, Mrs. Leopold de, 5, Hamilton-place, London, W.
Roxburgh, R., M.B., F.R.C.S.E., 1, Victoria-bdgs., Weston-super-Mare.
Riicker, Professor A. W., F.R.S., 19, Gladhow-gardens, S.W.
Rushton, C. H., 7, Queen Elizabeth's-walk, Stoke Newington, N.
Russell, Mrs. Campbell, Golden Mead, Chislehurst.
Russell, John, B.A., Cripplegate, Woking.
Rylands,T.G.,F.L.S.,F.G.S.,Highne.lds, Thelwall, nearWarrington.
Sajous,CharlesE.deM., M.D.,2,043, Walnut-street, Philadelphia, U.S. A.
Salmond, Percy N., Captain 3rd Royal Scots, 1, Easby Drive, Ilkley.
Samaldas, Lalubhai, Chief Revenue Officer, Bhavnager, Bombay
Presidency, India.
Sampson, Colonel Dudley, Buxshalls, Lindfield, Hayward's Heath.
Sams, Rev. George F., M.A., Emberton Rectory, Newport Pagnell.
Sanderson, J. Murray, B.A., London Hospital, London, E.
Sanger, Charles Percy, Trinity College, Cambridge.
Saunders, Latimer Henry, Trevone House, Padstow.
Schiller, F.C.S., M.A., Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
Schram, Miss Lilian M.E., 178, Earl's Court-road, London, S. W.
Schreiber, Major, 27, Fopstone-road, Earl's Court, London, S.W.
Schuster, Miss, 22, Old Queen-street, Westminster, S.W.
Schwabe, Mrs. G. S., c/o Major-General Schwabe, G.O.C. Mauritius.
Scott, Sydney C, Hatherleigh, 28, The Avenue, Gipsy Hill, London.
Scripps, T. Cecil, 4, Drapers'-gardens, London, E.C.
*Scudamore, Mrs., 3, Tollington-park, Holloway, London, N.
Scull, Mrs., The Pines, 2, Langland-gardens, Hampstead, N.W.
Seilern, Count Charles, 23, Wolmersley-road, Stroud Green, N.
Sellin, Professor C. W., 5, Wrangelstrasse, Hoheluft, Hamburg.
Selous, Edmund, Wamil Hall, Mildenhall, Suffolk.
Seymour, Captain Edward H., R.N., 9, Ovington-square, S.W.
Shadwell, Miss Blanche, Trewollack, Bodmin.
Shand, Alexander F., 1, Edwardes-place, Kensington, W.
Sharpe, J. W., M.A., Woodroffe, Portarlington-road, Bournemouth.
Shaw, Rev. Charles J. M., The Orchard, Swanley, Kent.
Shaw, Mrs. W. N., Emmanuel House, Cambridge.
Sheavyn, Robert F., Long-street, Atherstone.
Sheldon, Mrs. L. V., 52, Qu"een's-rd., Marlborough-rd., London, N.W.
♦Shield, Mrs., Bowers Gifford Rectory, Essex.
Shove, Miss E., K.Q.C.P.I.,M.B., 25, St. Mark's-cres., Regent'sPk., N.W.
*Shufeldt, Dr. R.W.,Smithsonian Institution,Washington, D.C.,U.S.A.
040 List of Members and Associates.
Sidgwick, Arthur, M.A., 64, Woodstock-road, Oxford.
Sidgwick, Mrs. Edward, 25, Collingham-road, S.W.
Sidgwick, Professor Henry, Newnham College, Cambridge.
Sidgwick, Mrs. H., Newnham College, Cambridge.
Sims, F. Manley, F.R.C.S., 12, Hertford-street, Mayfair, W.
Sisley, Richard, M.B., Park-row, Knightsbridge, London, W.
Skeffington, Joseph B., M.A., LL.D., Downpatrick, co. Down, Ireland.
Skene, Miss P. M. F., 13, New Inn Hall-street, Oxford.
Sloman, Samuel George, 39, West-street, Farnham.
Smith, Mrs. Apsley, Flore House, Weedon, Northamptonshire.
Smith, Miss Beatrice E., Lea, Grange-over-Sands, Lancashire.
Smith, G. Albert, St. Ann's Well, Brighton.
Smith, George M., Custom House, Amble, Northumberland.
Smith, Henry Arthur, Queen's Mansions, Brook Green, London, W.
Smith, H. Babington, B.A., C.S.I., Government House, Calcutta.
Smith, John George, 87, Sloane-street, London, S.W.
Smith, Miss J. M., Hyde Park Court, Albert Gate, London, W.
Smith, Martyn, Abberton Hall, Pershore.
Smith, Philip Sherwood, 46, Johnson Park, Jiuffalo, N.Y., U.S.A.
Smith, Reginald A., B.A., 78, Cranwich-rd., Amhurst-park, London, N.
Smith, R. Pearsall, 44, Grosvenor-road, London, S.W.
Smith, Mrs., Barnes Hall, Sheffield.
Snape, Mrs., Markland Hill, Heaton, Bolton.
Snow, Chester A., 712, Eighth-street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Somerset, The Lady Henry, Eastnor Castle, near Ledbury.
Speer, Mrs. Stanhope, Fairholme, Ventnor, Isle of Wight.
Speer, Charlton T., Glenhurst, The Common, Sutton, Surrey.
Spencer, Miss Georgiana M., 25, York-street, Portman-square, W.
Sperling, Arthur, J.P., Lattenbury Hill, St. Ives, Hunts.
Spinks, Judge, Vernon, British Columbia.
Squarey, Andrew T., J.P., Gorsey Hey, Bebington, Birkenhead.
St. George, Mrs., 2, Jervis-place, Clonmel, Ireland.
Stainforth, Miss Emily, 1 Matheson-road, West Kensington, W.
Stanley, Henry M.,M. P., D C.LMLL.D.,2,Richmond-terrace,S.W.
Stansfeld, J B. Evelytt, M.A., Junior Carlton Club, Pall Mall, S.W.
Stapley, Richard, 33, Bloomsbury-square, London, W.C.
Stapley, Mrs., 33, Bloomsbury-s-quare, London, W.C.
Stead, William T., Cambridge House, Wimbledon, S.W.
Stearn, H. T., M.A., King's College, Cambridge.
Stephenson,SirAugustusK.,K.CB.,Q.C.,46,Ennismore-gdns,S.W.
Stepney, Hon. Lady, 3, Chesham-street, London, S.W.
Stevenson, Andrew, M.A., 16, Warrender Park Crescent, Edinburgh.
Stevenson, George, c/o Messrs. Grindlay & Co., Hastings-st., Calcutta.
Stewart, Mrs. Charlotte A., Largham, Coupar Angus, N.B.
List of Members and Associates. 641
Stewart, Miss Susan, 89, Philbeach-gardens, London, S.W.
Stirling, J. M. Morribs, Gogar House, Stirling, N.B.
Stone, Mrs. C. H, 5,562, Clemens-avenue, St. Louis, Mo.
Stopp, Paul, c/o Dresdner Bank, Dresden, Germany.
Stout, George F., M.A,, St. John's College, Cambridge.
Strachey, John StXoe,^/^,ratorOffice,l,\Vellington-st.,Strand,W.C.
Sturges, Mrs William, 32, Charles-street, Berkeley-sq., London, W.
Sturgis, Julian, M.A., 2, Gloucaster-place, Portmau-sq., London, W.
*Suoden, Rev. E. H, B.A., B.Sc, Bradford, Yorkshire.
Sullivan, W. R. Washington, Purleybury, Purley, Surrey.
Summerson, Samuel J., West House, Darlington.
Swan, C. A., 10, Delamere street, London, S.W.
Swanwick, Miss Anna. 23, Cumberland-terrace, London, N.W.
Sweeney, Hubert J. P., 17, Quay-street, Sligo.
Sweeting, Richard, D.H., B.A., D.P.H., 6, Hereford Mansions, Here
ford-road, Bayswater, W.
Swire, Commander Herbert, R.N.,H.M. Coastguard,Berwick-on-Tweed.
Symons, Miss Jessie H., 91, Wigmore-street, London, W.
Synge, Rev. F., M.A., 1, Daleham-gardens, South Hampstead, N.W.
Szentirmay de Darvasto, Bela Maria Joseph de, AustroHun-
garian Consulate, Alexandria, Egypt.
Tait, Mrs. W. J., 131, Ashley-gardens, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Talbot, The Lady Edmund, 26, Curzon-street, Mayfair, London, W.
Tanner, Ernest, Hazlehurst, Penarth.
Tanner, Slingsby, 104b, Mount-street, Berkeley-square, W.
Tattersall, James Granville, Hanover-square Club, London, \V.
Tattersall, Robert W., 31, New Inn Hall-street, Oxford.
Tattersall, Wm., 90, High-street, Oxford.
Taunton, Mrs. R. H., Brook Vale, Witton, near Birmingham.
Taylor, Rev. Arnold D., B. A., Churchstanton Rectory,Honiton, Devon.
Taylor, Rev. Charles J., M.A., The Larches, Banstead, Surrey.
Taylor, Miss Edith, 9, Milner-square, London, W.
Taylor, Lieut.-Col. G. L. Le M., 6, College-lawn, Cheltenham.
Tebb, A. E., M.D., 9, Langland-place, Finchley-road, Hampstead, N.W.
Tebb, Mrs., Rede Hall, near Burstow, by Horley, Surrey.
Temple, Reginald W., Ashley House, Shaftesbury-avenue, W.C.
Terrill, George Morton, M.D., 336, Post-street, San Francisco,
California, U.S.A., (President of the California Psychical Society).
Thackeray, Mrs. W. G., 32, Kidbrooke Park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, 62, Granville-park, Lewisham, S.E.
Thomas, A. C, Korumburra, Gippsland, Victoria, Australia.
Thomas, J. W., F.I.C., F.C.S., 2, Hampstead Hill Mansions, N.W.
Thompson, I. C, F.L.S., F.R.M.S., 53, Croxteth road, Liverpool.
Thomson, Edward John, Glen Tower, Great Western-road, Glasgow.
642 List of Members and Associates.
Thomson, Prof. J. J., M.A., F.R.S., Trinity College, Cambridge,
Thurn and Taxis, H.I.H. The Princess Alexander of, Lautschin,
Nimburg, Bohemia, Austria.
TtiUrStan, F. W., M.A., 17, Buckingham Gate Mansions, James-street.
Buckingham Gate, S.W.
Tooth, Rev. Arthur, M.A., Woodside, Croydon.
Trench, J. Townsend, J.P., Kemuare, Ireland.
Trevor, Rev. Thomas Warren, M.A., Penmon Vicarage, Beaumaris.
Tuckey, C. Lloyd, M.D., 88, Park-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Tuker, Miss Mildred A.R., 4, Oxford and Cambridge Mansions, N.W.
Tweedale, Mrs., Sunnyside, Maidenhead Bridge.
Tweedie, David M., Adelaide, South Australia.
Tyrer, Mrs. W., Woodleigh, Prescot.
Vacher, William H., 54, Addison Mansions, Kensington, S.W.
Vailati, Professor Giovanni, Crema, Italy.
Van Eeden, Frederick, M.D., Bussum, Holland.
Van Gruisen, Mrs. A. H., Alcira, Bidston-road, Oxton, Cheshire.
Van Renterghem, A. W., M.D., 251, Keisersgracht, Amsterdam.
Venn, J., D.Sc., F. R.S., Caius College, Cambridge.
Verrall, Mrs., Selwyn-gardens, Cambridge.
Verrall, Miss M. E., 26, Gloucester-place, Brighton.
Vian-Williams, Rev. H., 3, Waterloo-place, North Shields.
Vickers, Mrs., 26, Queen's Gate-gardens, London, S.W.
Villamarina, The Marchesa di, Palazza Reale, Quirinale, Rome.
Vincent, Maria Lady, Villa Flora, Cannes, France.
Wade, Rev. William, 19, St. Charles'-square, North Kensington, W
Walford, Col. Neville L., R.A., 1, Ashburn place, London, S.W.
Walker, Mrs. Emma, Priors Barton, Winchester.
Walker, Mrs. Stewart, 51, Elgin-crescent, Notting Hill, S.W.
Wall, Miss M. M., 49, Lambert-road, Brixton Hill, S.W.
Wallace, Abraham, M.D., 39, Harley-street, London, W.
Wallop, Rev. Edward, Missionary Coll., Burgh le Marsh, R.S.O., Line.
Warburton, Rev. W. T., M A., St. James's Vicarage, Congleton.
Ward, Wilfrid, Molescroft, Eastbourne.
Ward, The Hon. Miss, Castle Ward, Downpatrick.
Wardrop, Mrs., 10, Lower Belgrave-street, Eaton-square, S.W.
Warrender, Miss Margaret, 87, Eaton-square, London, S.W.
Warter, Mrs. Tatham, Longden Manor, Pontesford, Salop.
Wassell, H. A., F.R.A.S.,Addenbrook Villa,01d Swinford,Stourbridge.
Watson, Mrs. W. C. Colworth, Bedford.
Way, William R., Hillside, Upminster, Essex.
Webber-Smith, Colonel James, 27, Shaftesbury-avenue, London, W.
Webb, Godfrey, 167, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Wedd, N., M.A., King's College, Cambridge.
Welldon, Rev. J. E. C, M.A, Harrow-on-the-Hill, Middlesex.
List of Members and Associates. 64»
Wells, Edmund P., C.E., 26, Cambridge-gardens, N. Kensington, W.
Westcott,WilliamWynn,M.B.,D.P.H.,396, Camden-road, London, N.
Westlake, Ernest, F.G.S., Vale Lodge, Hampstead Heath, N.W.
Westlake, Mrs Ernest, Vale Lodge, Hampstead Heath, N.W.
Wherry, G. E., F.R.C.S., Corpus-buildings, Cambridge.
Whishaw, Mrs. Berniiard, 173, Maida Vale, London, W.
Whitaker, Joseph J. S., Villa Malfitano, Palermo, Sicily.
White Leedham, D.L., F.C.S., 16, Wetherby-gdns., London, S.W.
Whitear, Rev. W., B.A., 5, St. Andrew's road, Enfield.
Whitehead, Miss Mercia D., Mostyn House, Cambridge.
Whiting, J. Markby, 58, Tedworth-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Wigan, W. L., Clare Cottage, East Mailing, Maidstone.
Wiggleswortii, Alfred, 157, Fenehurch-street, London, E.C.
Wilberforce, Rev. Canon Basil, M.A., 20, Dean's Yard, London.
Wilkins, Silvanus, 15, Victoria-street, Westminster, S.W.
Willan, Miss F. M., Mayfield House, Old Ford-rd., Bethnal Green, E.
Willard, Miss Frances E., Rest Cottage, Evanston, Chicago, U.S.A.
Willett, Mrs., Bedales, Lindfield, near Haywards Heath, Sussex.
Williams, A. C. Redshawe, 9, Upper Beulah-hill, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Williams, J. Leon, D.D.S., L.D.S., 30, George-street, Hanover-sq., W.
Williams, Rev. Nelson G.,M. A., Ketteringham,Wymondham, Norfolk.
Williams, Miss S., The Reservoir, Edgbaston, near Birmingham
Willmott, Miss R., Warley Place, Great Warley, Essex.
Wilson, Miss, 7, Cromwell-terrace, Scarborough.
Wilson, David H., M.A., 8, Jasper-road, Gipsy Hill, London, S.E.
Wilson, Robert, M.I.C.E., 7, St. Andrew's Place, Regent's Park, N.W.
Wingfield, H. E., M.A., 58, Tedworth-square, Chelsea, S.W.
♦Wingfield, Mrs., Belvidere Place, Church-road, Wimbledon.
Wisden, Lieut. Thomas F. M., Broadwater, near Worthing.
Witiierby, Arthur George, B.A., 8, Kensington Palace gardens, S.W.
Withers, J. J.,B.A., 2, Museum Chambers, Bury-st., Bloomsbury, W.C.
Woeikow, Alexis, 9 Moika, St. Petersburg.
Woodd, Mrs. Basil, Leckby, Hollington Park, St. Leonard's-on-Sea.
Woodhouse, G. H., Heath Bank, Bolton.
Woods, John F., M.D., Hoxton House Asylum, London, N.
Wright, Mrs. Almrotii E., Ingleside, Netley, Hants.
Wyld, George, M.D., Fieldhead, Wimbledon Park, S.W.
Wyndham, Hon. Percy, 44, Belgrave-square, London, S.W.
Yearsley, P. Macleod, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Chalk-hill House, Kings-
bury-Neasden, N.W.
Yorke, Hon. Alexander, 32a, Orchard-street, London, W.
Young, Prof. W. H., 883, East Main-street, Columbus, Ohio, U.S.A.
N.B. —Members and Associates are requested to send information of any
change of address to the Assistant-Secretary, 19, Buckingham Street,
Adelphi, London, W.C.
List of Members and Associates.
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
(February, 1898.)
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Honorary Associates are prefixed by an Asterisk.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
All Addresses are " U.S.A." except when another Country is named.
Abbott, Henry W., 11, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Abbott, Lawrence R, 13, Astor-place, New York, N.Y.
Ageslesto,M.,c/o Nusbaum Book &. News Co.,274, Main-st.,Norfolk,Va.
Albery, Mrs. H. M., Colusa, Colusa Co., Cal.
Albree, John, Junr., Swumpscott, Mass
Albree, Joseph, 20, Market-street, Allegheny, Pa.
Alden, F. E., Vandergrift Building, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Alden, Henry M., Metuchen, New Jersey.
Alexander, Don, 253, Fourth-avenue, Louisville, Ky.
*Alexander, Mrs. Kezia E., Birmingham, Mich.
Alexander, W. L., Canton, Ohio.
Ames, Miss Evelyn, e/o Messrs. Baring Bros., London.
Anderson, Professor A. \V., Macalester College, St. Paul, Minn.
Anderson, Richard G., Deadwood, South Dakota.
Arguelles, Don Pedro, Collector of Customs, N. Laredo, Mexico.
Arnold, Miss Fannie, 323, North 17th-street, Omaha, Neb.
Atwood, Dr. G. Wilson, 17, Tremont-street, Boston, Mass.
Ayer, J. C, M.D., Bellevue Hospital, New York, N.Y.
Baker, Alfred L, 2641, Prairie-Avenue, Chicago, 11l.
Baldwin, Elbert F., 13, Astor-place, New York, N.Y.
Bancroft, Mrs. John C, 61, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Barber, Rev. George E., Marlborough, N.Y.
Barker, Mrs. C. F., Ellis-ave. and Oakwood-boulevard, Chicago, 11l.
Barker, Miss Jenny M., 479, 4th-street, Manistee, Mich.
Barrows, C. M., The Aspinwall, 465, Washington-st., Brookline,Mass.
Bartlett, James W., 211, Central-avenue, Dover, N.H.
Bates, Charles F., 2,642, Euclid-avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.
Beale, Rev. Chas. H., 33, Waverly-strcet, Roxbury, Boston, Mass.
Beam, Mrs. John V., Jr., 10, West 30th-street, New York, N.Y.
List of Members and Associates. 645
Belden, Mrs. Amanda W., 4,722, Woodlawn-avenue, Chicago, 11l.
Berryhill, Mrs. James G., Des Moines, Iowa.
Bigelow, Dr. W. S., 60, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Blodgett, C, M.D., 238, Maple-street, Holyoke, Mass.
Blodoett. Mrs., 238, Maple-street, Holyoke, Mass.
Boardman, Hon. W. F., Department of the Interior, Ottawa, Canada.
Boon, Mrs. E. G., Molino di Sopra, Alassio, Liguria, Italy.
Booth, Mrs. Lucy C, Great Barrington, Mass.
Both-Hendriksen, Miss Louise, 166, Macon street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Bowditch, C. P., 28, State-street, Boston, Mass.
Bowditcii, Professor H. P., Jamaica Plain, Mass.
Boyd, Mrs. Ella F., Hyde Park, Mass.
Bradley, Miss A. A., Hingham, Mass.
Brimmer, Mrs. Martin, 47, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Bromberg, Frederick G., Mobile, Alabama.
Brooks, Henry, 115, Milk-street, Boston, Mass.
Brown, Alfred S., 195, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Brown, Edmond C, 132, Nassau-street, New York, N.Y.
Brown, Henry T., Hillcrest, Winchester, Mass.
Brown, Mrs. H. T., Hillcrest, Winchester, Mass.
Brown, Rev. Howard N., 9, Louisburg-square, Boston, Mass.
Browne, G. H., 16, Garden-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Bruguiere, Emile A., Junr., 1,800, Franklin-st., San Francisco, Cal.
Bryan, W., Houston, Texas.
Buffet, Dr. E. P., 520, Bergen-avenue, Jersey City Heights, N. J.
Bullard, Dr. W. N., 89, Marlborough-strent, Boston, Mass.
Bulley, R. H., Canton, Ohio.
Bundy, Mrs. John C, 624, Sheridan-square, Evanston, 11l.
Butler, Miss Virginia, 31, East 69th-strcet, New York, N.Y.
Cabot, Caroline A., M.D., 126, West-48th St., New York City, N.Y.
Carey, A. A., 29, Fairfield-street, Boston, Mass.
Carey, Mrs. Arthur A., 29, Fairfield-street, Boston, Mass.
Carnochan, Gouverneur M., 46, Exchange-place, New York, N.Y.
Carpenter, Franklin R., M. A., Ph.D., Deadwood, South Dakota.
Carpenter, Mrs. Franklin R , Deadwood, South Dakota.
Carpenter, W. O., 517, Adams-street, Chicago, 11l.
Carr, Lucien, 163, Brattle street, Cambridge, Mass.
Carr, Robert S., Hamilton, Ohio.
Casey, Theodore B., 169, Park-street, Newton, Mass.
Caulkins, Silas, 310, Requena-street, Los Angeles, California.
Chard, Thomas S., 534, North State-street, Chicago, 11l.
Chase, G. N. (Lieut. U.S. Army, Rtd.), Box 198, Santa Barbara, Cal.
Chase, Harvey S., 12, Newbury-street, Boston, Mass.
Cheney, Dr. Frederick E., 120, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
646 List of Members and Associates.
Chick, Frank W., Mudrid, Franklin Co., Maine.
Claypole, Professor E. W., 603, Buchtel-avenue, Akron, Ohio.
Clough, Albert L., Box 114, Manchester, N.H.
Clough, H. W., Nashville, Tenn.
Cockerill, Mrs. R. D., Glasgow, Mo.
Coe, Mrs. Andrew J., P.O. Drawer, 101, New Haven, Conn.
Coffin, Abraham B., Winchester, Mass.
Coleman, Miss Anne C, Lebanon, Pennsylvania.
*Coleman, William E.mmette, Chief Quartermaster's Office, Phoenix
Building, San Francisco, Cal.
Conner,Mrs.E. A., c/o Miss Edmunds, 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass.
Cope, Porter F., The Bertram, 33rd & Chestnut-sts , Philadelphia, Pa.
Cooke, Dr. Joseph B., 269, West 138th-street, New York, N.Y.
Coryell, V. M., 310, Sixth-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Crafts, Prof. James M., 59, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Crosby, Mrs. Eleanor F., Gardner-road, Brookline, Mass.
Crosby, Professor W. O., Institute of Technology, Boston, Mass.
Crothers, Dr. T. D., Walnut Lodge, Hartford, Conn.
Curran, Richard L., 60, Oneida-street, Utica, N.Y.
Curtis, W. E., 30, Broad-street, New York, N.Y.
Cushing, Miss Eleanor P., 76, Elm-street, Northampton, Mass.
Dawson, Miles M., 136, Liberty-street, New York, N.Y.
Delabarre, Prof. E. B., 9, Arlington-avenue, Providence, R.I.
Derby', Captain George McC, 3,232, Prytania-st., New Orleans, La.
Dewing, O. M., M.D., State Hospital, King's Park, Long Island, N.Y.
Dexter, Mrs. George, Egmont-street, Brookline, Mass.
Dickerman, Rev. W. F., 276, Orange street, New Haven, Conn.
Dickey, Calvin, M.A., Room 22, 94, Washington-street, Chicago, 11l.
Dike, Miss Florence R, 156, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Dillard, Prof. J. H., Tulane University, New Orleans, Louisiana.
Dimmock, George, 38, Grant-street, Springfield, Mass.
Dixon, George E., 82, West Jackson-street, Chicago, 11l.
Doane, Mrs. W. E., Stockbridge, Mass.
Dodge, Joseph T., 346, West Washington-avenue, Madison, Wis.
Dorr, Mrs. C. H., 18, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Dorr, George B., 18, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Dow, Alexander, 1, West 83rd-street, New York, N.Y.
Dyer, Walter H., Knightsville, Maine.
Easton, Prof. Morton W., M.D., Ph.D., 224, South 43rd-st., Phila., Pa.
Edmunds, Miss L., 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass.
Edwards, Mrs. Mary H., 161, Main-street, Keene, N.H.
Eldridge, Prof. E. H., The Temple College, Broad & Berks-streets,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Ellis, Miss Lucy, 480, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
List of Members and Associates. 647
Est?, Professor William G, Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.
Etheridge, Miss Fanny S., 1,634, Michigan-avenue, Chicago, 11l.
Evans, Miss Ella K., 186, North-street, Buffalo, N.Y.
Evans, Mrs. Glendower, 12, Otis-place, Boston, Mass.
Everett, Professor C. C, 53, Garden-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Parmer, Miss Sarah J., Eliot, Maine.
Felton, Thomas C, Hotel Ludlow, Boston, Mass.
Fillebrown, Thos., M.D., D.M.D., 157, Newbury-street, Boston, Mass.
Finnigan, John, 61, Beekman-street, New York, N.Y.
Fletcher, Horace, 323, Baronne-street, New Orleans, Louisiana.
Flchrer, Rev. Charles, D.D., 95, Main-street, Albion, N.Y.
Forman, G. A., 824, Delaware-avenue, Buffalo, N.Y.
Forman, Lawrence C, 25, Dunster Hall, Cambridge, Mass.
Frankland, Frederick W., 346, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Frost, Jon. B., 75, Peachtree-street, Atlanta, Ga.
Fuller, S. C, M.D., Insane Hospital, Westborough, Mass.
Ftlllerton, C. W., 94, Dearborn-street, Chicago, 11l.
Fullerton, Professor G. S., Univ. of Penn., West Philadelphia, Pa.
Gage, Hon. Lyman J., 1715, Massachusetts-ave, Washington, D.C.
Gale, Prof. Harlow S., Univ. of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota.
Gardiner, Dr. Edward G, 131, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Gardiner, Professor H. N., 23, Craft's Avenue, Northampton, Mass.
Gardiner, J. Hays, Grays, 18, Harvard Univ., Cambridge, Mass.
Gardner, Mrs. John L., 152, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Gay, Walter, 73, Rue Ampere, Paris, France.
Gehring, Albert, 626, Pearl-street, Cleveland, Ohio.
Gerrish, Dr. F. H., 675, Congress-street, Portland, Maine.
Goddard, George A., 1, Mount Vernon-place, Boston, Mass.
Goodale, Henry Sterling, 400, West 57th-street, New York, N.Y.
Goodnow, H. R., 95, Riverside Drive, New York.
Gorton, Dr. D. A., 174, Clinton-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Gray, Mrs. John C, 176, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Greene, Bertram, 6, Louisburg-square, Boston, Mass.
Greer, W. R., c/o S. C. Loan and Trust Company, Charleston, S.C.
Gridley, J. N., Virginia, 11l.
Griffin, Mrs. Josephine, 547, Dearborn-avenue, Chicago, 11l.
Griffin, Rev. R. A., P.O. Box 6, South Billerica, Mass.
Griffing, Mrs. J. R., 196, Lexington Avenue, New York, N.Y.
Gross, Mrs. S. E., 48, Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, 11l.
Grower, George G, Ansonia Brass and Copper Co., Ansonia, Conn.
Hall, A. D., M. A., Morgan Hall, 1,7 1 3, Nicollet-ave., Minneapolis, Minn.
Hall, Professor James, Room 32, State Hall, Albany, N.Y.
Hall, James P., 6, Poplar-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Hall, Dr. T. P., Tabor, Fremont Co., Iowa.
648 List of Members and Associates.
Hamilton', C. M., M.D., 45, Court-street, Binghampton, N.Y.
Hapgood, Mrs. Chari.es H., Alton, 11l.
Hardaway, W. A., M.D., 2,922, Locust-street, St. Louis, Mo.
Harden, Judge William D., Savannah, Georgia.
Harris, William T., LL.D., 1,303, P.-street, N.W. Washington, D.C.
Hartsiiorne, ChArLES H., 57, Bentley-avenue, Jersey City, N.Y.
Hartzell, F. S., 96, North Walnut-street, Canton, Ohio.
Harvey, Anson B., M.A., HO, North 16th-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Haworth, George D., Decatur, 11l.
Haynes, Henry W., 239, Beacon street, Boston, Mass.
Hayward, Alvinza, 532, Market-street, San Francisco, Cal.
Heilner, Rev. S. A., D.D., 1,410, Christian-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Hemenway, Augustus, Readville, Mass.
Heywood, Charles, Gardner, Mass.
Hicks, Benj. D., Old Westbury, Queen's Co., N.Y.
Higbee, Col. George H., Burlington, Iowa.
Hill, Mrs. A. S., c/o Messrs. Baring Bros., London, E.C.
Hodgson, Richard, LL.D., 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass.
Hodgson, Dr. Thomas, Gertrude street, Fitzroy, Melbourne, Australia.
Holbrook, Levi, P. O. Box 536, New York, N.Y.
Holbrook, Dr. M. L, 46, East 21st-street, New York, N.Y.
Holladay', Prof. Waller, 120, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Holmes, Mrs. Julia Sadler, 28, West 120th-st., New York, N.Y.
Holmes, Rev. S. V. V., Westminster Church, Buffalo, N.Y.
Holt, Henry, 29, West 23rd-street, New York, N.Y.
Hooper, Miss E. R., 141, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Hoskin, John, 4,100, Locust-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Householder, Frank, Kansas City Stock Yards, Kansas City, Mo.
Howland, Miss B. M., cor. Carver and Museum-sts., Cambridge, Mass.
Hudson, Thomson Jay, 10, Ninth-street, S.E., Washington, D.C.
Hull, Miss P. C., 22, John-street, Providence, R.I.
Huse, Wm., Ponca, Dixon Co., Nebraska.
Hutchinson, Miss Mart S., 2,006, De Lancey-place, Philadelphia, Pa.
Hyslop, Professor J. H., Columbia College, New York, N.Y.
Jackson, Mrs. Louisa S., 16, Rue Auguste Vaoqueria, Paris, France.
James, Dr. H. F., 2,627, Olive street, St. Louis, Mo.
James, Professor William, 95, Irving-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Jefferson, J., Buzzard's Bay, Mass.
Jenks, Mrs. P. A., 250, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Johnson, Charles R., Box 492, 405, Main-street, Worcester, Mass.
Johnson, Professor Roger B. C., Miami University, Oxford, Ohio.
Joline, Mrs. Adrian H., 1, West 72nd-street, New York, N.Y.
Jones, Miss Alice, Santa Monica, Los Angeles Co., Cal.
Jones, George H., 561, Madison-avenue, New York, N.Y.
List of Members and Associates.
Kennedy, Miss Leila M., 715, Fonnan-park, Syracuse, N.Y.
Kidd, G. W., 853, Fifth avenue, New York, N.Y.
Kimball, Dr. F. H., Rookford, 11l.
Kimball, Miss Hannah P., 325, Common wealth-ave., Boston, Mass.
Kinney, Thomas W., 220, East Third street, Portsmouth, Ohio.
Knowles, Rev. Edward R., LL.U., Look Box 15, Oxford, Mass.
Kopta, Madame Flora P., Gut Podmok in Podmok, Post Shiitten-
hofen, Bohemia, Europe.
Krebs, Rev. Stanley L., Reading, Pa.
Kuhn, Hamilton, 36, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Lamont, Robert G., 68, St. James's-place, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Lane, Mrs. Charles D., Angels Camp, Calaveras County, California.
Langley, Professor S. P., Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.
Lawrence, A. E., Junr., 53, Devonshire-st, Room 15, Boston, Mass.
Lawton, Miss Elizabeth, 1 16, West 103rd-street, New York, N.Y.
Ledyard, Mrs. R. F. H, Cazenovia, New York, N.Y.
Leonard, Thomas, 628, 22nd-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Librarian, Bowdoin College Library, Brunswick, Maine.
Librarian, Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania.
Librarian, Cambridge Public Library, Cambridge, Mass.
Librarian, Cassadaga Lake Library Association, Lily Dale, N.Y.
Librarian, Cazenovia Public Library, Cazenovia, N.Y.
Librarian, City Library Association, Springfield, Mass.
Librarian, Enoch Pratt Free Library of Baltimore City, Baltimore
Librarian, Hackley Public Library, Muskegon, Mich.
Librarian, Haverhill Public Library, Haverhill, Mass.
Librarian, Lowell City Library, Lowell, Mass.
Librarian, Maiden Public Library, Maiden, Mass.
Librarian, Michigan State Library, Lansing, Mich.
Librarian, Peoria Public Library, Peoria, 11l.
Librarian, Public Library, Minneapolis, Minn.
Librarian, Theological Seminary, Rochester, N.Y.
Librarian, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.
Librarian, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Nebraska.
Lippitt, General Francis J., 1412, Hopkins-street, Washington, D.C.
Llewellyn, F. T., B.A., CE., 1,012, Hennen-bldg., New Orleans, La.
Lockwood, Colonel J. S., 146, Franklin-street, Boston, Mass.
Logan, W. S., 58, William-street, New York, N.Y.
Lombardi, C, 1,314, Rusk-avenue, Houston, Texas.
Long, George E., Box D., Jersey City, N.J.
Lounsberry, C. A., c/o 7'/te Record, Fargo, North Dakota.
Low, Clarence F., Common and Carondelet-sts.,New Orleans, Louisiana.
MacDonough, Thomas B., 1,227, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Main, \AA F., cor. College and Dubuque-streets, Iowa City, Iowa.
<550 List of Members and Associates.
Marchand, G. L., 112, Clark street, Room 516, Chicago, 11l.
Martin, Miss Emma H., 71, Scio-street, Rochester, N.Y.
Marvin, Walter T., 6, West 130th-street, New York, N.Y.
Mason, Miss Ellen F., 1, Walnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Mason, Miss Ida M., 1, Walnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Mason, R. Osgood, M.D., 348, West 58th-street, New York, N.Y
McClellan, Mrs. Clara D., Galena, 11l.
McEwen, Alfred, 512, La Salle-avenue, Chicago, 11l.
McEwen, Mrs. D. C, 160, Stirling-place, Brooklyn, New York, N.Y.
McGee, W. J., Bureau of Amer. Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D.C.
McHenry, Miss J. Howard, 200, E. Biddle-st., Baltimore, Maryland.
McManama, M. G., 504, Rialto-building, St. Louis, Mo.
Meaciier, William, M.D., Portage, Wisconsin.
Mendenhall, Mrs E. R., 1,804, Green-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Millet, Josiaii B., 150, Charles-street, Boston, Mass.
Morgan, W. E., M.D., 2,909, Groveland Park, Chicago, 11l.
Montgomery, Chas. A., Box 2,444, New York, N.Y.
Murlin, Rev. L. H., President Baker University, Baldwin, Kansas.
Murphy, Hon. Franklyn, 1,027, Broad-street, Newark, N.J.
Murphy, M. J., 614, Center-avenue, Bay City, Mich.
Myers, W. H , M.D., 157, West Wayne-street, Fort Wayne, Ind.
♦Newbold, Wm. Romaine, Ph.D., Univ. of Penna, Philadelphia, Pa.
Newton, Rev. R. Heber, 781, Madison-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Newton, Mrs. Mary B., 1,811, Capitol-avenue, Omaha, Neb.
Noble, Raymond G., South Windsor, Conn.
Norbury, Miss Mary, 206, West 71st-street, New York, N.Y.
Norbury, Mrs. J. F.,5th-avenue Hotel, Madison-sq., New York, N.Y.
Norris, Hon. C. H, Marion, Marion Co., Ohio.
Norton, Mrs. F. L., 30, Gloucester-street, Boston, Mass.
Nunn, Dr. Richard J., 1 19J, York-street, Savannah, Georgia
O'Hara, Dr. R. G., Bedford City, Va.
Olcott, Miss Edith, 4, East 53rd-street, New York, N.Y.
Oldham, F. F., Blymyer Building, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Oliver, George S. J., Santa Barbara, Cal.
OitRicK, N. C, M.D., Canton, Mississippi.
Osborn, General F. A., 236, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Osborne, A. E, M.D., Ph.D., Eldridge, P.O., Sonoma Co., Cal.
Park, Dr. Roswell, 510, Delaware-avenue, Buffalo, N.Y.
Parker, William L., 339, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Parsons, A. J., 1,818, N-street, Washington, D.C.
Parsons, John E., M.D., 6, Grove-street, Ayer, Mass.
Peabody, Mrs. A. P., 47, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Peckham, Orville, First National Bank, Chicago, 11l.
List of Members and Associates. 051
Pellew, Mrs. Henry E., 1,637, Massachusetts-ave., Washington, D.C.
Perkins, Franklin R., 294, Linwood-avenue, Buffalo, N.Y.
Perry, John G., M.D., 48, East 34th-street, New York, N.Y.
Perry, Thos. S., 312, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Perry, Mrs. T. S., 312, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Peters, Mrs. F. A., 541, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Phillips, Mrs. J. C, Junr., 299, Berkeley-street, Boston, Mass.
Philpott, A. J., c/o lioston Globe, Boston, Mass.
Platt, J. C, 333-335, Fourth-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Post, C. \V., Battle Creek, Michigan.
Powers, Mrs. Ellen F., Townsend, Mass.
Pratt, Frederick H., 53, West-street, Worcester, Mass.
Prescott, Miss, 78, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Prince, Dr. Morton, 458, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, Dr. Charles P., 63, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, Miss Annie C, 63, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, George, 50, State-street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, Dr. James J., 106, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Quinby, Rev. John W., East Bridgewater, Mass.
Quincy, Josiah P., 82, Charles-street, Boston, Mass.
Quirk, Charles H., M.D., c/o Fred. H. Quirk, Casilla Correo, 825,
Buenos Ayres, South America.
Radcliffe-Whitehead, Ralph, Santa Barbara, Cal.
Rand, Mrs. J. L., 49, Kirklaud-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Ransom, Frank H., 130, Main-street, Buffalo, N.Y.
Raymond, Mrs. Henry E., Corey-road, Brookline, Mass.
Rayson, Miss Amy, B.A., 176, West 75th-street, New York, N.Y.
Rees,Mrs. Janet E. Ruutz, Studio 864, Carnegie Hall, New York, N.Y.
Reininger, E. E., M.D., 353, South Oakley-avenue, Chicago, 11l.
Rice, Mrs. David Hall, 2, Wellington-terrace, Brookline, Mass.
Richardson, M. T., Ridgewood, New Jersey.
Rinn, J. F., 178, Reade-street, New York, N.Y.
Robbins, Miss A. M., 29, Pemberton-square, Boston, Mass.
Rolfe, Alfred G., The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.
Ropes, John C, 99, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Royce, Professor Josiah, 103, Irving-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Ruddiman, J. C, 247, 27th-avenue, North, Minneapolis, Minn.
Russell, Arthur J., Minn. Journal, Minneapolis, Minn.
Russell, Mrs. Henry E., 6, Mercer Circle, Cambridge, Mass.
Salter, William M., Silver Lake, N.H.
Savage, Rev. M. J., Church of the Messiah Study, 34th-street and
Park-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Scribner, H. D , 1,008, Central-avenue, Alameda, Cal.
Shaw, Miss Emma U., 34, Linwood-street, Roxbury, .Mass.
2 v
G52 List of Members and Associates.
Shaw, Mrs. G. H., 23, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Shed, Z., Room 3, Masonic Temple, Denver, Colorado.
Sheets, John C, College Hill, Station, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Sherman, Mrs. B. W., Riverside, Cook County, 11l.
*Shupeldt, Dr. R. W., Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.
Smith, Bolton, 405, Washington-street, Memphis, Tenn.
Smith, Francis, Muskegon, Mich.
Smith, J. Herer, M.D., 279, Dartmouth-street, Boston, Moss,
Smith, Philip Sherwood, 46, Johnson Park, Buffalo, N.Y.
Smith, W. Lincoln, Inst, of Technology, Boston, Mass.
Smith, Winfield, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Somerville, Rev. T. E., 709, West Adams-street, Chicago, 11l.
Sparkhawk, Dr. Samuel, Burlington, Vermont.
Springle, Jeffrey, H., D.D.S., L.D.S., 2,430, St. Catherine-street,
Montreal, Canada.
Steeoman, J. G. W., A.M., M.D., 2,803, Pine-street, St. Louis, Mo.
Stephens, Miss Mary, 2,713, Prairie-avenue, Chicago, 11l.
Sterling, Mrs. E. C, 22, Westmoreland-place, St. Louis, Mo.
Stillman, Mrs. W. O., 287, State-street, Albany, N.Y.
Stokes, J. N. P., 30, Rue St. Dominique, Paris, France.
Stone, Charles W., 08, Chestnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Stone, Mrs. Richard, Junr., 18, Chestnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Street, Edgar L., 13, West 102nd-street, New York, N.Y.
Street, Miss Ida M., 703, Euclid-avenue, Des Moines, Iowa.
Strong, Charles A., Box 208, Lakewood, N.J.
Sturgis, Chas. Russell, 63, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Sumnkr, Dr. A. M., 336, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Sutherland, J. G., 135, B-street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
*Sutton, Mrs. Katharine P., The Highlands, Athol Centre, Mass.
Sweetser, L. H., Yale, Idaho.
Swenson, J. H., 811, 25th-avenue, N., Minneapolis, Minn.
Swift, William H., Wilmington, Delaware.
Symonds, Brandreth, M.D., 128, W. 59-street, New York, N.Y.
Tappan, Miss M. A., 73, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Taylor, Fredk., 121, School-street, Lowell, Mass.
Temple, Rev. H. W., 400, Locust st,, Washington, Pa.
Thaw, A. Blair, M.D., Montecito, Santa Barbara Co., Cal.
Thaw, Mrs. A. Blair, Montecito, Santa Barbara Co, Cal.
Thomson, Dr. W., 1,426, Walnut-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Thorndike, S. Lothrop, 19, Pemberton-square, Boston, Mass.
Tighe, Judge J. G., 337, Fulton-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Totten, Mrs. Enoch, 1,708, I-street,Washington, D.C.
Tracey, Dr. Paul H., 469, West 152nd-street, New York, N.Y.
Turnbull, Miss K. E., 113, East 39th-street, New York, N.Y.
List of Members and Associates. 653
Tweedy, Edmund, Newport, Rhode Island.
Twitchell, H. E., M.D., 24, S. '1 B."-st., Hamilton, Ohio.
Tyler, Mrs. Moses Coit, 5, East-avenue, Ithaca, N.Y.
Tyson, Mits. George, 314, Dartmouth-street, Boston, Mass.
Van Norden, Rev. C, D.D., LL.D., 1,827, H-st., Sacramento, Cal.
Wait, Marshall, 5,144, Madison-avenue, Hyde Park, Chicago, 11l.
Wake, C. Staniland, 411, East 45th-street, Chicago, 11l.
Ward, Rev. Duren J. H., Ph.D., 20"), Central-avenue, Dover, N.H
Ward, Dr. J. X., Auburn, California.
Ward, Mrs. L. A. Coonley, 620, Division-street, Chicago, 11l.
Ward, W. E., Port Chester, N.Y.
Washbdrn, Oscar F., Reading, Mass.
Waterman, L. E , 265, Macon-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Watson, Professor William, 107, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Watts, H. M., "The Press," Philadelphia, Pa.
Webb, Mrs. W. G., 34, Chestnut-street, Salem, Mass.
Wells, David W., M.D,, 391, Boylston-street, Boston, Mass.
Wheeler, Mrs. Stephen, 504, Sixth-avenue, Fort Smith, Ark.
Wheeler, William, Concord, Mass.
Whipple, L. Ev 326, Madison-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Whipple, Mrs. Sherman L., Warren-street, Brookline, Mass.
Whiteside, Miss H, c/o A. A. Carey, 29, Fairfield-st., Boston, Mass.
Whiting, Miss Lilian, The Brunswick, Back Bay, Boston, Mass.
Whitman, Mrs. Henry, 77, Mount Veraon-street, Boston, Mass.
WHiTOn,REv.J.M.,Ph.D.,c/oOutlookCo.,13,xVstor-place,NewYork,N.Y.
Whittaker, Thomas, 71, East 66th-street, New York, N.Y.
Wilkins, Miss M. L., cor. Carver and Museum-sts., Cambridge, Miss.
Williams, Marshall S. P., 1,372, Beacon-street, Brookline, Mass.
Wilmarth, Mrs. Mary H., The Auditorium, Chicago, 111,
Wilson, Miss Martha, 564, Dearborn-avenue, Chicago, 11l.
*Wiltse, Dit. A. S., Lancing, Morgan Co., Tenn.
Wing, Isaac H., Bayfield, Wisconsin.
Wolcott, Mrs. Roger, 173, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Woodbridge, Professor F. J. E., Univ. of Minn., Minneapolis, Minn.
Woodman, Walter, M.D., Hubbard-park, Cambridge, Mass.
Wright, Major-General H.G., 1,203, N.-st, N.W., Washington, D.C.
Wright, Miss Henrietta C, Old Bridge, New Jersey.
Wyatt, Melvin H., Sparkill, Rockland County, N.Y.
Wyllys, Miss R., 18, Louisburg-square, Boston, Mass.
Wynne, Mrs. M. Y., 63, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Zug, C., P.O. Box 1,053, Sable Iron Works, Pittsburgh, Pa.
X.B. —Members and Associates are requested to send information of any
change of address to The Secretary, 5, 1!oylston Place, Boston, Mass.
2 u 2
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
INDEX TO VOLUME XIII.
(PARTS XXXII-XXXIII.)
1897-98.
American Branch of the Society for Psychical Research, List of
Members .. . ... 644
American Universities and Psychical Research, Professor Harlow Gale on 583
Anderson, S. W. , Case recorded by 596
Animals, Sensitiveness of 250
Automatic Writing 291, 612
Autoscopes 10-12. 271
Baldwin, Mrs., Case recorded by 596
Baldwin, Professor J. M., Seance with Mrs. Piper 534
Barrett, Professor W. F., On the So-called Divining Rod, or Virgula
Divina 2-282
Bourget, M. and Mme. Paul, Seances with Mrs. Piper ... 310, 375, 494, 495
Bousser, Aleck 319, 334, 372
Briggs, L. Vernon, Seance with Mrs. Piper 337, 480
C, Mr 380, 514
C, A. A., Seance with Mrs. Piper 321, 325, 483
C.,T. B., „ „ 383,472
C, W. B., „ „ 529
Carpenter, Professor J. Estlin, Seance with Mrs. Piper . . ... ... 528
Close, Rev. Maxwell, Case contributed by 78
Demon Possession and Allied Themes, by Dr. J. L. Kevins—Review of 602
11 Index t) Volume XIII.
Discovery, by Divining Rod, of Artesian Springs 147-148, 165, 170, 171, 217
Coins 17, 29, 30, 64, 78, 84, 85, 94, 148-149
,, Dry Ground ... 96
Metals 164, 176, 247
,, Mineral Lodes 17, 201-202, 225, 242
,, Minerals 38,50
,, Mineral Water 206-208
Miscellaneous Objects 13, 30, 38, 51, 164, 213. 242-243
,, Oil Springs 19
,, Seltzer-water Spring ... 89
,, Sulphur Springs 206-208
„ Water ... 3-280
,, in large quantity ... 72,91,99,108,148,151,171, 172
Divination, Works on 9
Divining Hod, or Virgula Dioina, Professor W. F. Barrett on 2-282
(Sec aim under title*—Discovery, Dowsers, Dowsing,
Failures, Geologists, Localities, Materials, Movements,
Water)
How Held ... 6, 7, 18, 20, 34, 54, 80, 110, 113, 133, 266-271
,, Literature and Nomenclature ... 13,256,266
,, Sensations Described by Dowsers 7, 22, 24, 27, 38, 40, 41, 48,
57, 58, 59, 64, 69, 71, 90, 92, 95, 124, 138, 161-162,
164, 177, 178, 196, 197, 200, 201, 202, 206, 209, 226,
244, 245, 272-277
,, ,, not Felt by Dowsers 26
,, ,, Different for Water and Metals 164
,, „ ,, for Fresh and Mineral Water 207, 208
,, Surveys and Analysis of Evidence 24, 237, 252-255
Table of Contents 281-2
,, Theoretical Conclusions 243
,, Experiments with, described by :—
Adcock, Pacey and Co., Messrs., 182; Aldworth, Col. R. W., 31; Alexander,
R. L., 217; Allen, E. G., 88-89 ; Anglo- Bavarian Brewery Co., 49-50 ; Anthony,
R., 156-157 ; Arthur's Hill Brewery Co., 125 ; Ashburner, Dr. J., 274 ; Ashwell,
Rev. S., 38-39: Ashworth, H. A, 179-180 ; Barber, W., 58, 64, 98-99; Barlow,
Capt. A. K., 90 ; Barrett, W. F., 174-170 ; Bastable. F., 86 ; Bath Chrmick, 90,
185-186 ; Baxendale, S., 198-200, 227 ; Bayley, E. K., 99; Bean, W., 98 ; Beamish
and Crawford, Messrs., 99; Beaven, E. W., 157-158; Belfast Brewery Co,
185-180; Bicknell, Rev. C, 39; Birch, W. de H , 183 184; Bird, W., 138, 139;
Blake. G.. 215 ; Blake, J. H., 231 ; Blyth, F. W., 200, 227 ; Booker, Rev. G.,
154-155; Bradley, J., 173-174 ; Bradney, J., 54-55; Brand, Capt. T. S., 153;
Bristol Times and Mirror, 49, 71, 93; Brown, \V. J , 94-95; Bnice, S., and
W. R., 83-85; Buck, General L., 231 232; Budd, J., 110-112; Burton, Lord,
103-104; Burton, Mrs. C. I., 92-93; Bury Times, 168; Caffrey, T. R., 180;
Carmichael, J., 137; Christie-Miller, \V., and Mrs. M. E., 76 77, 106; Clark,
F. J., 31-33; Clifford, J., 50; Clive, P. A., 35, 122; Cocks, Col., 220; Codrington,
Major A. E., 127-129 ; Coles, S. H. C, 149 ; Cousins, D. C, 101 ; Crawshay, C,
150-151 ; Cree, 201 ; Crisp, H. J., 67-08 ; Crook, T. C. M., 61-62; Crosse, R. S.,
100-101; Crump, W., 81-82; Curtis, Rev. F., 34 ; Daily News, 28; DaUy Telegraph,
28 ; Dendy, A., 54 ; Denny, E. H. M., 123 ; Dimbleby, F. W., 191-195 ; Dowling,
V., 46-47; Dublin Daily Express, 00; Durfec, A. B., 218; Eastes, J. P., 155-156;
Eddleston, J., 168-170; Egerton, Miss M. L., 30; Elworthy, F. T., 6-7, 100;
Emerson, Rev. R., 44-45 ; Enys, J. D., 7 ; Essex. Herald, 28 ; Essex Times, 104 ;
Evans and Owen, Messrs., (Ely Paper Works), 72 ; Finch-Hatton, Hon. M. E. G.,
Index to Volume XIII. iii
Divining Rod, Experiments with, described by (continued) : —
, 97 ; Fryer, Rev. A. T., 211-212 ; Fuller, 0., 216-218 ; Gataker, L., 179, 230; Gatty,
8., 29; Geake, J., 180-181 ; Gibbons, S. C., 87-88; Golf, Major C., 55, 220 ;
Golding, H. \V., 28 ; Grantham, Col. E. M., 126 ; Grantham, Miss E. L., 25 2(! ;
Graphic, 202; Green, J. S., 102-103; Greene, R., 123 ; Gregory, Sir Welby, 96-97;
Haggas and Co., Messrs., 141-1-12; Hake, W., 218; Hancock, G., 90; Harbcn,
Sir Henry, 85-86, 117-121, 227, 279; Headley Bros., Messrs., 100; Hellier, W. G.,
50-52; Henley, J. J., 91-92; Herbert, W. J. M., 211 ; Herts and Essex Observer,
200; Hickes, T. J., 87 ; Higginbottom, A. H, 125; Hird, J. R., 173; Hobbs,
Capt. J. C, 101-102; Hodgson, W., 144; Holloway, Mrs. A., 180; Hudson, 196;
Hughes, .T., 152 ; Hutton, Dr. C, 41-43, 223 ; Irvine, Mrs. M . A. F., 168 ; Isham,
Sir C, 39-40 ; Isle of Wight Express, 60 ; Jackson, Sir H. M., 103 ; James, A. A.,
210-211 ; Jenkins, Rev. J. G., 213; Jenkins, Vaughan, 4, 33, 35-37, 40 ; Kinahan,
G. H., 108-109; King, E. H, 47; Knapp, Rev. M. R., 37-38; Lambert, G. F.,
162; Lang, S., 72; Lawrence, W. S., 66-07; Lee. Rev. A. C, 34-35; Letts, J.
165-167 ; Light, 219, 220, 245 ; Lincolnshire Chronicle, 89 ; Lindsay, Rev. W. J. C,
151-152; Lipscomb, C, 184-185; Little, C. W., 46; Little, W. D., 90, 91 ;
Liverpool Daily Post, 142; Llangattock, Lor.i, 184 ; Lloyd, P., 206-208; Lodge,
Prof. O. J., 142 ; Long, Col., 52-53 ; Lyddon, E. T., 209 ; , Maggs, C, 140-148 ;
Mantell, Dr. A. A., 180-187; Marden, E., 152153; Marriner, G. T., 135-136;
Marshall, J. G., 48; Martin, G., 187; Mayo, Dr. H., 274-275; Mayo, Rev. C. H,
55, 63; McKay, J., 129-130; Mereweather, W., 69, 73-74 ; Milbanke, Lady,
41-42, 223 ; Miles, Rev. C. O., 74 ; Morgan, Rev. J. B., 131 ; Morning Post, 131 ;
Mott, F. T., 97; Muirhead, G., 167-168; Munn, Rev. G. S.,83; Muspratt, S. K.,
142 ; Napier, H. B., 148-149 ; Nevill, Lady U., 70 ; Newcastle Daily Leader, 138 ;
Newcastle Laundry Co., 139 ; Newton, F. W., 72 ; Noble, J. E., 171-172 ; Pacey,
Messrs., 182 ; Palmer, G. W. and W. J., 231, 232 ; Pease, E. R., 221 ; Peirce,
W. G., 193, 194; Perrins, W., 122; Peterborough Express, 170, 171; Phippen, F.,
47-49; Picard, T. W., 154 ; Poole and Son, Messrs. J. R., 182; Pope, G. H.,
52, 67 ; Prince, C. L., 80-81 ; Front, Miss K, 71 ; Ramsay, Rev. H. F., 99-100 ;
Reid, H. I., 53, 226 ; Renton, W., 86 ; Richardson and Co., Messrs., 107-108 ;
Richardson, Miss A. W., 172; Richardson, W., 107, 109-110; Richardson, G. S.,
214 : Richmond, G. 8., 214 ; Richmond Times, 188, 189, 192 ; Riddle, R., 143 ;
Riddle, W., 218; Robertson, R. W., 215; Roles and Son, Messrs. W., 33;
Rolfe, E. N., 45; Seymour, R. S., 214; Shaw, H., 68; Shirley, S. E., 127;
Skrine, H. D., 95 ; Smith and Marshall, Messrs., 146 ; Smith, Capt. H., 96 ;
Smith, J. C, 190-198, 227; Smith, W., 170; Spiers, Kev. W., 164; Spillers
and Bakers, Messrs., 213; Spink, Judge, 27; Stacey, 212; Standard, 191;
Stansfeld, J., 185; Stanton, A., 140-141; Stebbins, G. B., 215-210; Stone,
W., 49; Stone, W., 124-137; Sussex Daily News, 121; Taylor, Col., 103;
Taylor, W., 131-132 ; Thames Valle,j Times, 190, 194 ; Thimbleby, T. W., 138 ;
Thompson, Mrs. General, 28; Thompson, J. W., 29; Thouvenel, Dr. P., 272-275;
Times, 190, 219 ; Tooth, F., 135; Towgood and Sons, Messrs. A., 171 ; Tregelles,
G. F., 178 ; Vint, W., 141-112 ; Vizard, T., 71 ; Wainwright, A. H., 101 ; Waring,
Col. T., 30-31, 78-80; Warner, R. C, 100; Warrington Gazette, 102, Watney,
239; Wedderburn, Sir W., 50-58; Western Gazette, 33; Western Mercury, 01;
Westlake, E., 278-279; Westminster Gazette, 27-28; Whitelaw, 59; Wigram,
A. M., 104, 227 ; Winchilsea, Earl of, 97 ; Winn, J. C, 203 ; Winwood, Rev.
H. H, 53; Wisbech Standard, 01; Wood, G., 34, 35; Woolley, R. and T. C. S.,
241-242 ; Young, J. F., 40-41, 49, 270 ; Young, Miss, 275-276.
" Dowse " and " Dowser," The Words 6-7, 256-261
Dowsers, Names of [amateurs in italic].
A'Barrow, R., 54-55 ; Adams, 47, 48, 49, 105, 220; Aldworth, Col. R. W., 31;
Amoretti's relatives, 22 ; Anfossi, 22 ; Anthony, R., 156-157 ; Ashwell, Miss,
38-39 ; Aymar, J., 23, 271, 272 ; Bacon, H., 190-200, 227 ; Builey, J., 00 ; Bcn-joujh,
Mrs., 39; Beutler, C, 274; Blake, J., 50 52; Blanchard, 01; Bleton, 20-22, 43,
IV Index to Volume XIII.
Dowsers, Names of [amutenrs in italic] continued :—
244, 271-276 : Blunt, Rev. J. R., 25-27 ; Briegger, A. M., 274 ; Brown, J. .t/., 6O;
Campetti, 22; Carrie, Abb/,, 23; Chestcrman, H., 200-201; Child, 219: CuthWrt,
212; Day, T., 52-53 ; Baric, Rev., 95; Ed-jcU, 39; Elmorthy, Misl, 6-7; Bnyt,
J. D., 7; Fuller, C, 62, 215-219; Gataker, L., 173, 177-194, 230, 239; Holding,
H. IT., 28, 29; Griffin, 60; Hares, T., 50-52; Harwood, 78; Heighway, T., 59,
206-208, 276 ; Hill. W. U., 61 ; Hitchins, 46, 47 ; Jenkins, Rev. J. G., 213 ;
Kingston, 49, 56 ; Latimer, C, 19-20, 59. 247 ; Lawrence, \V. 8., 50, 65-72, 210;
Loclnnann, Prof., 245 ; Lockyer, G., 36 ; Mapstone, 47 ; Hellish, 05 ; Mereweathcr.
W., 09, 72-74; Milbanke, Lady, 4, 41-43, 223; Mitchell, W. J., 64 ; Mortillet, 23 ;
Mullins, J., 34, 35, 60, 75-97, 106-123, 145, 242, 270, 279 ; Mullins, W. H., 89,
98-105, 122, 189-195, 232, 230 ; Munn, Miss. 83 ; P., Misl Douglas, 29, 30 :
Paranguc, 22, 274; Passworth, 47 ; Pearson, 6i ; Pennet, 20, 21 ; Roltertson, R.,
18-19, 40-41, 278; Robertson, R. W., 214-215; Rodwell. F., 201-205; Rothwell,
R., 209-213; Russell, A., 64; Sewell, 45-46; Seymour, 8., 32; Sims, C, 49-50;
Skrinc, H. D. {tons of), 96; Smart, H., 33; Stears, J., 31-32, 164-176; Steel, Rev.,
44-45 ; Stokes, W., 18, 53, 226, 260 ; Stone, W., 124-145, 1%-197, 270 ; Tompkins,
B., 145-163, 270; Towers, J. (Sir Welby's gardener), 97; Tristan, Count dc, 22,
43 ; WaUon, 60 ; Webster, F., 95 ; Willis, T., 56-58 ; Wills. 173 ; Wood, Miss .1/.,
33-35 ; IVy'>urn, W., 32. 33 ; Young, J. P., 18-19, 40-41, 270 ; Young, R., 40, 275 ;
Young, T., 52, 220, 239.
Dowsers, Percentage of 49, 246
Training of 6,188,190,201,225
Dowsing, Health in Relation to 70, 164, 167, 168
„ Heredity in 30, 36, 40, 41, 66, 73, 76, 98, 110, 124, 201, 206, 214, 246
,, Hypnosis in 245, 274
,, Intention, or " set " of mind, in 41,244-24.1,240,276
„ Loss of Power 3d, S3, 164
Without a Rod 38, 41, 177, 1"iS, 190, 202
Dowsing, Phenomena of (see Divining Rod) 2
Dreams and Ghosts, A Book of, by A. Lang—Review ... 616
FAILUreS by Divining Rod to Find Coins 30, 48
„ ,, Find Water 63-65, 92, 97, 121-123, 143, 145,
162-163, 172-174, 187-188, 193-
195, 200, 212, 213, 236, 238-239
,, ,, Distinguish Kinds of Water 53
„ Proportion to Successes 123, 188,238
„ ,, ,, (of Engineers) 235
Folk-lore of Divining Rod 15
" Frederic*, Mdme.," Seances with Mrs. Piper ... 335,471
Gai.B, PrOFESSOR Harlow, Psychical Research in American Universities 583
Geologists, Opinions on Divining Rod—
Blake, J. H , 230-233 ; Cole, Prof., 25, 80 ; De Kance, C. E., 233-235 ; Enys, J. D.,
7 ; Fisher, Rev. O , 3 ; Holmes, T. V., 221-230 ; Hunt, R., 17 ; Jacquet, Abbe,
23; Kilroe, J. R, 106, 114-117; Kinahan, G. H., 108-109, 114; Paramelle,
Abbe, 23 ; Phillips, W., 17 ; Sollas, Prof. W. J. , 18, 07, 220-221 ; Tawney, E. B.,
17 ; Whitaker, H. W., 69, U,3.
Gurney, Edmund, Memorial Library Catalogue 619
H., Dr. and Mrs. L. E., Seance with Mrs. Piper 462, 514
Hart, John ,, ,, 296-9,353-7
Index to Volume XIII. v
Hartshorn, Miss C, Seance with Mrs. Finer 442
Heywood, C, ,, ,, ... 331), 351, 501
Hodgson, R., LL. II., A Further Record of Certain Phenomena of Trance
284-58-2
,, Case contributed by 215
Howard, Mr. and Mrs., Seances with Mrs. Piper ... 300-335, 413, 484, 489
Hydro-geologists 264, 205
Hydroscopes ... ... ... 22
Hydroscopists 23, 265
Hypnotism, Miscellaneous Phenomena 592-594
Hyslop, Professor J. H., Review of Dr. Osgood Mason's " Telepathy and
the Subliminal Self " ... ... ... 610
IngitAhAM, Dr. Lena, Report on the Physical Condition of Mrs. Piper 479
J., Mrs 381, 383
Johnson, Miss Mattie 309, 312
Jowsers and Jowsing ... 7,10,250,257
Juanita 11
K., Dr. F. H., Seances with Mrs. Piper 351, 383, 527
L.VnG, Andrew, " A Book of Dreams and Ghosts,'' by—Review of ... 616
,, „ Case recorded by ... 017
,, ,, Divining Rod, on the 15
,, ,, Review of " Studies in Psychical Research by Frank
Podmore - 604
" Letters from Julia," by W. T. Stead, Review of 612
Localities, Divining Rod, Used in
Abergavenny, 150-152, 163; Aboynea, 67; Acreland Farm, 140-141; Almondsbury,
74; Ampthill, 236, 241 ; Appleton In Moors, 173; Armadroughall, 30; Arreton,
130, 131; Atherby, 170; Avonmouth, 73; Aysgarth, 203; Back Creek, 47;
Backwell House, 73; Bagendon, 03; Barcombe, 25-26; Bardney, 173; Barnwell
Castle, 141; Bathampton, 180; Bcdminster, 74; Belfast Brewery, 185; Berry
Wood Asylum, 122; Bicester, 91; Birtle, 160; Bishops Nympton, 100; Blackburn,
tU ; Blackrock, 83 ; Blyth, 137 ; Bodenham, 170 ; Bourton, 73 ; Bower House,
104, 227; Box, 94; Bradenstoke Abbey, 148; Braiklay, 167, 168; Braintree,
28, 00, 223; Brazil, 165; Bridgewater, 182; Bridge Hall, 62; Bristol, 39, 50, 72, 73;
British Columbia, 27; Burghfield, 231; Burnett, 72; Burton Latimer, 141;
Burton-on-Trent, 103; Burtonwood, 101; Cabra Towers, 120430; Calga, N.S.W.,
47; Campden, 84; Canada, 218; Cape Colony, 160; Cardiff, 72, 210, 212, 213;
Catley Abbey, 80 ; Chardon, 92 ; Charnwood Forest, 07 ; Chatsworth, 187 ;
Chelboro', 33 ; Chelmsford, 70, 223 ; Cheltenham, 163 ; Chepstow, 210; Chippen
ham, 145; Christiania, 245 ; Cirencester, 163; Claverton, 96; Cleveland, 59;
Coddington, 34 ; Congresbury, 52-53 ; Conkwell, 95 ; Coreena, 45 ; Cork, 99, 123 ;
Cornwall, 7, 13, 180 ; Corsham, 06; Cressing, 27 ; Crickhowell, 140; Crowborough,
80-81 ; Croxton, 157 ; Dakota, 219 ; Darling Downs, 40 ; Dauphir.y, 20, 172 ? ;
Donnington, 53 ; Down, County, 129 ; Drum Castle, 07, 168 ; Dunninald, 185 ;
East Moors, 210; Easton Court, 149; Emu Hills Park, 47; Esse Centre, 218;
Ettington Bark, 127 ; Evercreeoh, 33 ; Fiddington, 51 ; Flamborough, 174 ;
Folkingham, 06 ; Frampton-on-Severn, 71 ; France, 20-23, (South of) 172 ;
Germany, 13; Glynde, 153-154; Goodig, 214; Grantham, 96; Great Hallingbury,
197 ; Grintou Mine, 201-202 ; Guernsey, 64-65 ; Hale Park, 55, 226 ; Hampton
vi Index to Volume XIII.
Localities, Divining Rod, Used in (continued)
Court Estate, 179; Hareby, 133, 135; Harz Mountains, 13; Hastings, 121-122;
Haverholme Priory, 97 ; Havering, 104 ; Hedgecocks, 86 ; Helpstone, 171-173 ;
Henbury, 67-68 ; Henham, 198 ; Hereford, 157 ; Hill House near Wells, 48 ;
Holmer, 157 ; Holmwood, 99 ; Holnet, 56, 63-6* ; Holywell, 142 ; Horbling, 96 :
Horsham, 85, 86, 117-121, 227-230, 278-279; Houghton Station, 1&3; Hudson,
Mich., 216, 217; Ilfracombe, 178 ; Ireland, 30, 31, 60, 76 78, 83, 99, 10U-117, 123,
129-130, 172, 174-176, 185 ; Italy, 21, 220. 246 ; Jersey, 219 ; Jersey Bore, 47 ;
Keighley, 141 ; Kemble Estate, 163; Ketton, 98; Kiml,olton, 42; Kingsley, 102;
Kingstown, 174-170 ; Kircassock, 76, 77 ; Knighton, 161; Knocknaboley, 60;
Lambourn, 231 ; Lamport 39 ; Launceston, 180-181 ; Ledbury, 34 ; Le Hendre,
184; Lindfield, 87-88; Livonia, Mich , 217; Llanelly, 215,276; Llanvair, 150-152;
Locking, 18, 50-52, 220; Lochnagar, 40, 47; Lucerne, 220; Lue, N.S.W., 46-47;
Lugwardine, 34 ; Lurgan, 76 ; Lynden Wood, 90 ; Lynton, 99, 101; Madresfiuld,
81-83; Malton, 170; Malvern, 81-82; Marston Magna, 152-153; Mayfield, 70-71 ;
Melksham, 146 148 ; Melton-Mowbray, 182; Mendip Hills, 16-17, 48-51, 86, 256;
Meredith, 56; Metheringham, 88 ; Michigan, 217 ; Middleton Park, 91 ; Mid
somer Norton, 73 ; Millways, 180-181 ; Monkton Farleigh, 95 ; Monmouth, 184 ;
Montrose, 185 ; Newcastle-on-Tyne, 125, 138-139 ; New Hampshire, 44 ; New
House Farm, 94; Newmarket, Cork, 31; Newport, Mon., 35-37; New South
Wales, 46-47; Newton, 168; Northville, Mich., 219; North Wootton, 37-38;
Norwich, 219 ; Oaksey, 160 ; Oare, 99, 101 ; Otterburn, 144 ; Oundle, 61 ; Over,
74 ; Oxford, 91-92 ; Parnacott, 161 ; Pembrey, 214 ; Penprisk, 149 : Penymaes,
142 ; Plymouth, Mich., 216 218 ; Porthcawl, 162, 236 ; Prieska, 160 ; Provence,
41 ; Queensland, 45-47 ; Rangemore, 103 ; Richmond, 188-195 ; Rillington,
165-166 ; Ross, .58 ; Rudf..rd, 56 ; Ryde, 131 ; Rylstone, N.S.W., 46-47 ; Sainles-
bury, 62 ; Sandford Green, 51-52 ; Shanklin, 60 ; Shepton Mallet, 49, 50, 86-87 ;
Shotover Hill, 92 ; Sodbury, 48 ; Somersetshire, 6-7, 16-17, 18, 31-33, 37-38, 47-55,
65,73,86-87, 182, 186, 236; South Africa, 158-100; Southampton, 43; South
Down, 130; Spain, 5, 250; Spilsby, 125-126, 133, 135, 137-138; St. Briavel's, 211;
Stradney Castle, 215 ; Street, 31-32 ; Stroud, 180 ; Sturminster Newton, 275 ;
Switzerland,220; Teddington, 39; Tenbury, 149; Tcnnesse, 247 ; Threenhill Priory
196-198; Tinahley, 60; Toy Farm, 154 ; Trainton, 173; Uggeshall, 39 ; United
States, 19-20, 44, 59, 215-219, 247, 250; Uppingham, 127; Valley City, 219; Vaynor,
213; Walkeringham,242; Walton le-dale, 183; WarhiRstown,78; Warnham Lodge,
85, 117-121, 227-230, 278-279; Warrington, 101; Waterford, 77, 106-117, 123;
Wayne, 219; Weir Hill Farm, 92; Wells, 38; West Indies, 172; Whitfield,
33-34 ; Wick, 211 ; Wimbledon, 203-206, 239 ; Wincanton, 54-55 ; Winscombe,
51-52; Winterbuurne, 66 ; Wisbech Market, 61; Woolhope, 154-155 ; Woolw'ch
Common, 42, 223 ; Wotton, Isle of Wight, 130-134 ; Worcestershire, 39 ; World's
End, 61 ; Wrigley Cirr, 168-169 ; Wrington, 16, 17 ; Yelling, 155-157 ; Yorkshire
Wolds, 164.
M., Mrs., Seances with Mrs. Piper 341-9
MacDonough, Mr. and Mrs., Sdance with Mrs. Piper 340, 473
Macleod, Miss G. E., ,, ,, 351,447
Mannors, Madame Elisa ... 310, 335-6, 37S, 471
Maite, Robert 318-320, 419-422, 428 9
Mason, Dr. Osgood, "Telepathy and the Subliminal Self," by—Review of 610
Materials of Divining Rod, Kinds of Wood Used 218
,, Metallic Wires or Springs 19, 39, 43, 50, 56, 58, 66-71, 73, 74, 143,
177, 200, 220, 270
,, Miscellaneous 58
Meetings of the Society 1,283
Members, Associates, and Hon. Members of the S.P.R., List of... ... 622
American Branch ... ... 644
Index to Volume XIII.
Mineral Lodes, Surface Indications of ... .. 234, 250
Miners, Opinions on Divining Rod 5, 17
Mitchell, J., Seances with Mrs. Piper 351, 378, 383, 517, 519
Mitchell, Dr. S. Weir, Seances with Mrs. Piper 482
Moses, \V. Stainton 408
Movements of Divining Rod, Breaking 7, 24, 26, 28, 30, 35, 38, 41, 42, 53, 57,
69, 74, 79-80, 92, 106, 110, 124,
133, 146, 156, 169, 171, 243-244
Inability to P.estrain 23, 28, 36, 38, 48, 57, 60, 73, 97, 151-152, 161
„ Not Due to Muscular Action ... 43, 74, 80, 83, 164, 243-244
Stopped by Water or by Similar Metals... 164-165, 211, 212, 269
,, Stopped by Dissimilar Metals 247, 269
„ When Held by TongH or Pincers 86, 97
„ When Holder s Wrists Held by Dowser 35, 78-79, 81, 87, 103,
185, 201, 242, 244
Myers, F. W. H., Review of " Letters from Julia," by W. T. Stead ... 614
Nevius, Dr. J. L., " Demon Possession and Allied Themes," by-
Review of 602
Newbold, Professor W. Romaine, Review of " Demon Possession and
Allied Themes," by Dr. J. L. Nevius 602
Nichols, P,ofessor H., Seance with Mrs. Piper 374, 534
Norton, Professor 0. E., Seances „ „ 296, 333-4,525
Obalecheff, Mme., Case recorded by ...
Officers and Council, List of (1898)
Oil-Smellers
... 596
... 621
... 250
P. " G. P." Communications. (See George Pelham)
P., Mrs. M. E., Seance with Mrs. Piper 499
Parish, Herr Edmund, " Zur Kritik des Telepathischen Beweis Materiels,"
by—Review of 589
Parker, Mr. and Mrs. W. L., Seairces with Mrs. Piper 337-8, 419, 452, 455
Pease, E. R., First Report of the S.P.R. on the Phenomena of the
Divining Rod 4
Peirce, Professor J. M., Seance with Mrs. Piper 296, 305, 460
Pelham, George, History of the " G. P." Communications
286,287,290,291,295-335
Pendnle Explorateur 10-11, 19, 248
Piper, Mis., Trance Phenomena of 284-582
Podmore, Frank, Review of " The Subconscious Se'f and its Relation to
Education and Health," by Dr. L. Waldstein ... 614
,, ,, " Studies in Psychical Research," by—Review of ... 604
R., Mrs. J. E. R., Seance with Mrs. Piper 383, 510
R., Louis 337-9
R, Miss S. R., Case recorded by 596
Rankin, H. W., Dr. Nevius' "Demon Possession and Allied Themes,"
Edited by 602
Reviews 589, 602, 604, 610, 612, 614, 616
Rhabdomancy 9, 16
v iii Index to Volumd XIII.
Savage, Rev. Minot J ./. / ... ,.. 295,326,327
Shaler, Professor, and Mrs. N. S. , Scanqe with Mrs. Piper 524
Sidgwick, Mrs., Review of "Zur KritHt des Telepathischen Beweis
Materiels," by Herr E. Parish -- 5S9
Smith, J. G., Review of " A Book of Dreams and Ghosts," by A. Lang 616
Smith, J. P., Case recorded by 596
Sourciers 20
Spirit Identity, Facts Pointing to (.sec Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper)
Stead, W. T., " Letters from Julia," by—Review of 612
Subconscious Self and its Relation to Education and Health, Dr. L.
Waldstein on ... 614
Subliminal Self, Telepathy and the, Dr. O. Mason on 610
Sutton Rev. W. S., and Mrs. Paine, Seances with Mrs. Piper ... 386-9, 484
Tklepathy, Recent Books on 589,610
Thaw, Dr. A. B., Seances with Mrs. Piper 351-2,384-5,536-58-2
Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper, A Further Record, by R. Hodgson,
LL.D 284-582
,, Automatic Writing Developed .. ... 291
" G. P." Communications, History of 286, 287, 290, 291, 295
,, Other Communicators, Account of 335
,, " Spirit " Hypothesis, and Telepathic ... ... 357-370
,, Recent Changes in the Trance 407
,, Reports of Sittings 413
Trowbridge, Professor J. , Stance with Mrs. Piper 526
Vance, Mr., Seances with Mrs. Piper 300, 381-2, 457
Vance, Miss ... 374, 434
Waldstein, Dr. L., "The Subconscious Self in its Relation to Educa
tion and Health, ' by— Review of 614
Warner, Mrs 318, 324
Warner, Miss 324-5, 350
Water-smeller 62, 220
Water-witch 20, 62
Water, Depth of, How Found by Dowser 59, 209
„ Distribution of Underground 3, 222-225, 239, 262-265
„ Surface Indications of 234, 24S-249, 250, 277
Welsh Dowsers 206
Zaheries 5, 250
