{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1962__bacher___studies_in_astrology____v1.pdf","mytitle":"Studies In Astrology","mylang":"de"}
Studies in Astrology
VOLUME I
THE ROSICRUCIAN
FELLOWSHIP
MT. Ecct.ESt.A
Ot:earnride, Calif<Yrni,a., U.S.A.
Studies in Astrology
BY
ELMAN BACHER
VOLUME I
FIRST EDITION
THE .ROSICRUCIAN FEJ;LOWSHIP
Mt. Ecclesia
Oceanside, CALIFORNIA, U.S.A.
·'
-l!
COPYRIGHT, 1962
BY
THE RosloBUOIAN ·FELLowsHIP
! . : ' .•
.4.ll tights, including that of translation reserved
Permission to copy or translate may be gwen upon
application
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY
THE BOSIORUCIAN FELLOWSBlP
OCEANSIDE, CALIFORNIA, tJ.S.A..
FOREWORD
So much favorable comment has come to us con-
cerning the astrological articles by Elman Bacher
which appeared in our Rays from the Rose Cross
dul'ing past yea.rs that we feel sure this volume will
be cordially welcomed by all students of spiritual
astrolcgy.
Mr. Bacher's profound knowledge of and devO··
tion to the stellar science, along with an uncam1y
understaanding of human nature, made it possible
:!'or him to p"!'esent material which und'Oubtedly placeil
him among the best of modern esoterie astrologers.
As the truth and value of BBtrology become more
and more generally accepted, his presentations will
serve increasingly to help people know themselves
and fulfill their highest destiny.
Before his passing in 1953, Mr. Bacher expressed
a keen desire to have us publish his articles in book
form, 11nd although we deeply regret that he is not
here tu see the culmination of his desire, we are
happy in knowing that his wish is now being fulfilled.
CONTENTS
.F'nreword iii
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • . vu
Chapt::r 1
Tho Accuracy of Astrology
Chapter 2
9
Astro-Dynamica ••. ••. . . . . . . . . . . . •. •. . . • 11
Chapter 3
Planets Are People . . . . . . . •. . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Ghapt.er 4
The Sun: Principle of Power . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Chapter 5
The Moon : Principle of Motherhood . . . . •. 50
Chapter 6
Venus : Principle of Perfected Manifestation 65
Chapter 7
The Planet Mercury .. .. .. . . • . • .. . .. . . . . 75
"'!·
. k.
/..
'·
., .. • ' ·• • ... • .. ~ ' •• ·~ ... •• 11 •• ·' • .. ' .. ·... i ~ .
INTRODUCTION
To the R<isicrucian student astroJogy is a phase
·of religion, basically a ·spiritual science. More than
any other study it reveals· man to himself. No other
science is so sublime, so profound, and so all-embrac-
ing. It portrays the relation'between God, the' n:iaero-
cosm, and man, the microcosm, showing them to be
fuuJamentally one.
Occult science, investigating the subtler forces
that imping<> upon man, the Spirit, and his vehicles,
has charted their effects with no less definiteness
than lias academic seienc the reactions of sea and
soil, plant und animal to the solar and lunar rays.
With this knowledge we may determine the as-
trological pattern of eooh individual and know the
relative strength and weakness of the various forces
operating in each life. To the· degree that we are in
posses'!ion of such knowledge we can begin i;ys-
tematic, scientific character building--and character
is desfny! We note times and seasons cosmically
advantageous to unfolding undeveloped qualities,
correcting fauJty traits, and eliminating d'estructive
propensities.
'rhe divine science of astrology reveals the hidden
causes at work in our lives. It counsels the adult in
regard to vocation, the parent in the guidance of
children, the teacher in management of pupils, the
8
physieian in diagnosing disease, thus lending aid
to each ood all in whatever position they may find
themselves.
No other subject within the range of human
knowleclge appears· to hold for this day and age the
possibilities open to astrologers for helping people
to their own dignity as gods-in-the-making, to a
greater gra<;p of universal law, and to a realization
that we are eternally secure within the caressing
fold of Infinite Life and Boundless Being.
· Chapter I
THE ACCURACY OF ASTROLOGY
Millions of words, both prmted and verbal, have
been used in argument as to whether or not astrology
is "accurate" and "scientific." The anti-astrology
group (the non-students, the unlnformed, the exe>ter-
ically religious and mentally linadventurous). hold
forth with arguments that serve, in the long run,
only as disparaging reflections on the personal abil-
ities of those who ''read horoscopes.'' They argue
that, if astrology is scienrtifically accurate, it should
be proved so. by the perfect agreement of all astrol-
ogers on any given point of the subject. All such
argument is spurious and a waste of time since it
does not pertain to the basic es~ence of the subject
11.t all.
(A brief pause to inquire. of these "a.ntis" if all
Christians agree as to the meaning of their Teacher's·
message; all mrusicians as to the "correct" interpre-
tation of a Brahms symphony; all doctors as to the
"right" treatment of infantile paralysis; all parents
as to the ''perfect'' way of raising children.)
Every protagonist of astrology varies in ability
to interpret a horoscope from f!Very other astrologer.
Each differs from his colleagues in ''approach,'' in
ability to comprehend symbology, in exactitude of
mathematical caJ.culation, in ability to sense the dy-
10 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
namic essence of the horoscope, in ability to under-
stand the psychological problems represented anJ
their potentials for solution. This is the ''human
variant.''
Astrology is an exact science because: Every
factor in a correctl;y calculated horoscope is a sym-
bolic representatio1i of an exact and impMtial effect
of a specific cause. It represents the cosmic and im-
mutable law of cause and effect operating in the
conditions and experiences of a h1tman being on hi&
evolutionary prog.ress of many ·incarnations.
Nothing in a correctly calcuiated horoscope i~
there by chance, accident, heredity, or whim of blind
fate. Every planetary position and aspect is one fac-
tor of the subject's soul body, one phase of his con-
sciousness, one milestone on his spiritual path.
To the degree that the astrologer identifies his
horoscopical findings with the law of ''as ye sow, so
i:;hall ye reap" will he be able to synthesize correctly
the chart in its entirety, will he be able to deduce
past causes of present conditions, will he be able
t.o determine the potential solutions of difficulties.
1l
Chapter II ·
ASTR.0 -DYNAMICS
The term astro-clynamics is used to indicate the
study of a horoscope from the standpoint of foe
planetary influences being diminished or intem;ified
by the native 's reactions to his experiences during
a given incarnation. The cydic · functions of life
forces create a periodic emphasis on each planetary
influence and aspect and to the degree that each
emphasis is utilized constructively is the alchemical
transmutation made. To the degree .that the neg-
atives are expressed will the positives be depleted
and made less effectual for growth. This is easily
understood when we ·consider that no human being is
ever ''cut off'' from any part of ·his ·horoscope.
There is no such thing as a ''stoppage'' of planetary
influence. Even the inhibitive and restrictive ray of
a heavily afflicted Saturn is still '' expr·essing'' in the
consciousness of the person who is expiating such
a form of karma.
A practical application of astro-dynamics may be
stated thus: any person who consults an astro-
psychologist does so because he is ''in trouble.''
He is in trouble because he has been "living with
his negatives.'' Without a dynamic approach to in-
terpretation, the reader can easily fall into confusion
if he interprets the trines and sextiles of his client '11
l~ STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
ehart as ''statically good.'' A trine or sextile is
''good'' only if it is put into concrete expression as
a counteractive to ~t wl;Uch is destructive or re-
trogressive in the person's nature. Poverty, siclmess,
unfulfilled or distorted love-impulses, fears, and the
like are evidences that the client has not applied
the urge to fulfill the promises of his sextiles or the
benefits of his trines, but has expressed his energies
in terms of hl~ squares and oppositions, thus deplet-
ing· his possibilities for good as life goes on. A con-
tinual expression of negatives will result in depletion
of the regenerative ttrges and a tighter bondage to
the Wheel of Life is created.
In musical p&l:'lance, the term ''modulation'' is
used to indicate a chord or passage which serves as
a bridge from one section to another in a different
key or tonality. This term may also be used, in the
astro-dynamic terminology, to describe the purposes
of the sextile 81Il.d opp-OSition aspects. These aspects,
in a given cha.rt, may be considered the ''points of
transmutation" when the two planets of an opposi-
tion receive the trine and sextile from a third planet,
and when one plan.et of a sextile is squared by a third
planet. In either of these cases, the planet making
the good aspect to the affliction represents the agency
by which the person finds his ''redemption from
evil.'' Thus, through the exercise of that planetary
energy transmutation is made and the power of the
square and opposition to express discord is di-
minished and neutralized.
The aspects described above represent the ''eas-
iest'' form of alchemy. However, others must be
considered!: In all. probability, the transmutation of
ASTRO-DYNAMICS 13
an unreli€ved square is more difficult than any other
experience in life. This term indicates two planets
in square aspect to each other with no trines or sex-
tiles to other planets. Superficially it represents an
aspect of ' 'heavy karma,'' indicative of a serious
problem through which the native must learn a much
needed lesson. Since each of the two planets con-
cerned will be activated from time to time by favor-
able aspects of lunations and progressed Moon, etc.,
there is a certain amount of '~assistance" assured.
But, because such an aspect indicates the possibility
oi great sorrow or difficulty, the native must be in-
structed as to the basic, positive qualities of both
planets. When the aspect is activated recognizably,
the native must do his utmost to express, to some
degree at lea1St, the positive expression of the two
planets, or at least the one that is most directly be-
ing expressed. Since the two planets of the square are
continually "hand-in-hand" they are constantly ad:-
fecting each other-the negatives of one intensify
the negatives of the other, and the resultant evil
breeds more evil in the future. However, if, by spir-
itual discipline and/or corrective psychology the
native allows only a constructive vibration of each
planet to be expressed, then the good of each stim-
ulates the other, transmutation. is made a.nd, in time,
destiny is transcended.
Mueh the same approach can be made to the un-
relieved opposition, with the exception that the func-
tion of fusing the two at once would apply more
practically and more possibly than in the case of the
square. There is such an element of "'800Saw" about
the opposition aspect that if one plan:et is emphasized
14 STUDIES IN. ASTROLOGY
at the expense of the· other, a condition of lop-sided-
ness could result-hardly a manifestation of har-
mony or WanooI In other words, the alchemical
transmutation·· ·demanded by this type of aspect is
"expressing the affairs of·ea.oo in terms of the other"
or "in cooperation with the other."
The most important thing for the astro-psychol-
ogist to bea.r in mind with r.eference to. adult clients
is that, in most cases, negative aspects have been
expressed· ·and experienced for many years of life,
and that many people a.re not really aware of the
best good that .they are capable .of expressing and
realizing. Rmnanity '.becomes so accustomed to its
troubles, fears, bad habits,. frustrations, arid sordid-
ness that the. .majority become reconciled to ·the
a.ttitude, "Tha:t.'s the way I am and I can't do any-
tlii.ng aoou:t it.'' ·All of· whfoh is Vfil'Y foolish and
wrong. · There· is· :a. solµtion to be found for every
human problem,.. in. so far as a· ''problem'' is only
the restilt of sO.me form .of misdirected energy. But,
With the horoscope a& the way-shower, the agencies
of solution can be .found. inJall of the benefic aspects
of the chart. · ·
The dyiJ.ami.e. approach .to astrological interpreta-
tion finds its master-work as· a guide for childrffil,.
.The ne-vrly ·incarnated Ego, boy or girl, comes to
·parents who have undertaken the sacred resp~m:Sibil­
-ity of. gQ:id4Ilce. They; niay have preconceived ide&i
.of what .they would like their child to be, but if they
.wish to b~ real .parents, they will guide that child
·:along the)ine_s that. are _best for him. Such guidance
::includeli!, mµch' :tn~te .than vocational guidance, im-
;p.ortlµl~ •!,l$ .th~t· .Js-;. l.t..;nieans that .they themeselvcs
ASTRO-DYN.AMIOS 15
must act as· neutralizing agencies for the negatives
indicated in the child's chart. No woman whose child
has Mars afflicting Moon should allow herself to in-
dulge in "temper" in the child's pl"eSeil.ee. Why!
Beoom.se every time she does, she emphasizes that
discordant vibration in the ehild's subconscions, his
instinctive irritability becomes intensified, and a
"picture of cruelty" is etched more deeply into the
child's vibration-pattern. However, becatise a little
child reacts to everything that goes on around it,
every manifestation of calmness, poise, kindnes;;, and
consideration neutralizes, to a sm.aJl degree, the ha.:rsh
impulse of Mars square Moon and makes it possible
for the child to deal with those impulses much more
easily as he grows up. In other words, the mother,
in right conduct, emphasizes something that is har-
monious and constructive in the child. She then
represents something that is good, not evil, in its
chart-and in its life.
This material is presented for the consideration of
advanced students and astrological practitioners. It
correlates the dyriamic factors of alchemical trans-
mutation with the mathematical calculaiion and
tabulation of progressed aspects.
The title derives from the approach that at 110
time does a horoscope "stop functioning." Nature,
they tell·us, abhors a·vaeuum; there is no such thing
as ''nothing'' in·· m.anifestatiOri. Correspondii:tgly,
there is no such thing as "nothing," "emptiness,"
or ''cessation of activity'' in a horoscope. There ·are,
to be sure, periods of apparent quiescence, routine
activity, and a general smoothness or monotony of
function. These, however, irn their own good time,
16 STUDIES· IN ASTROLOGY
build to p~aks of climax, intense experience, drastic
change ful:fillwents, and/or seeming descents.
It is the purpose of the astro-dynamic approach
to study the progressed aspects, or cycles, from the
standpoint of their representing a stimulation of
not ,just one planet at a time, but of an entire
''area'' of the horoscope.
The nature of planetary vibration allows a '':field
of extension" which we call the "orb." This ex-
tension -of either side of a planet's exact position
·allows it to ''reach out and take hands'' with the
other planets that it aspect<S. Thus, the ''life'' of the
horosoope is activated.
Ordinarily, in the preparation of an astro-analysis,
we list the progressed aspects in order for the cur-
rent year or two for the purpose of determining the
principal sources .of experience in the person's life
at the present time. In astro-dynamics we do the
same, except that we list the. progressed aspects by
"groups" or "areas." Jt is this approach which
most clearly indicates the possibilities for alchemical
processes. We contrast the positives and the neg-
atives that are b'eing stimulated simultaneously or
in sequencu and thereby determine which factors are
available for regeneration of emotion and redirec-
tion of reactions.
Whatever extra mathematical calculations may
be involved for this kind of ''horoscopical treat-
ment" is more than compensated for in the vivid
and 'Vitalized presentation of the progressed aspects
concerned. The whole horoscope takes on added
"''dimension"~from a picture on a flat piece of
ASTRO-DYNAMICS 17
paper it becomes a galvanic representation of a living
thing. Attention!
A man requests your assistance concerning a
marital problem. You calculate both his and his
wife's charts, tabulate the aspects pertaining to eaeh
and pay particular attention to the mutual conjunc-
tions. These mutual conjunctions form the basis for
your problem-analysis.
In his chart you find Pisces on the Ascendant;
Mercury, ruler of the seventh, is in nine of Aquarius,
in the eleventh house. Mars is in twelve of Scorpio,
eighth house, square Mercury. You find one mutual
conjunction uniting the two charts. Her Ma;rs is in
ten of AquariUS>-Conjunct his Mercury-square
Moon in Taurus, which is opposition his Mars in
Scorpio. The conjunction of her Mars to his seventh
house ruler is the key to a difficult marital situation,
characterized by the vibration of unregenerate Mars.
His alchemical agency is his unafflicted Venus sextile
to Mercury. (Get the picture by putting these posi-
t.ions on a blank chart.)
In tabufating his current progressions, you :find
that from the previous Adjusted Calculation Date
to the next Adjusted Calculation Date the Moon
travels thirteen degrees and thirty-eight minutes.
By division of twelve the monthly travel of the
progressed Moon is shown to be one degree .and eight
minutes. The ACD is the fifteenth of the month.
There are thirty-four minutes of Moon-travel each
half month.
Tabulating the monthly positions of the prog-
ressed Moon for this year-period-from the fifteenth
of each month-reveals. that d'nring the last two
\
\
18 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
weeks of March, 1947, the progressed Moon makes
the exact eonjunction of his Mercury. In early June
~t makes the exact square of his Mars. In early
August it makes the exact sextile of his Venus. (On
the outside of your practise chart indicate these
Moon positions. 'Tabulate these aspects and dates,
at the bottom of the page. Bracket them so as to
impress your mind with the fact that you are dealing
with a "field of stimulation.")
The Mercury-Mars square shows that from late
March to early June the marital problem is going
to be stimulated in a very decided way. (Since yon
are, in this hypothetical case, dealing only with the
man, it is not particularly necessary to concentrate
further on the wife's chart. It is his reactions that
you are concerned with. Whatever the wife may do
during those months will tie in with his aspect.)
However, with the conjunction to Mercury, the sex-
1ile to Venus begins to vibrate simultaneously with
the square to Mars, becaa~e Venus is in orb of sextile
in the native chart. Therefore, Venus is the alchem-
ical agency for this man to use during this period of
a little over four months. He must counteract the
Mars vibration (which in Scorpio is y,ery strong)
with the principle of the Venus vibration. It is his
panacea at this time. Using it persistently during
this troublesome time will result in great soul growth.
and as his marital experience progresses he will be
much better able to direct his part constructively.
A short elaboration on the above: Suppose that
both the man and his wife consult you jointly. Both
are eager to learn more clearly hO'W to harmonize their
a1arriage experience. Yoy. th.en combine the factors
'
ASTRO-DYNAMICS .. 19'
of both charts and find that she has Saturn unaf-
flicted in Gemini, trine to her Aquarius Mars and
sextile to his unaffifoted Venus. In this case, tabulate
her progressed aspects-'.-by ''~rea'' for the same
months. Ea,ch person provides a negative stimula-
tion of Mars for the other. But each one has an
alchemical agency to work with. In mutual under-
standing that each must use a certain constructive
vibration to neutralize and harmonize discord they
then can face the coming period with greater as-
surance of mutual help and consequently greater
marital happiness. She must counteract a violent dis-
position (J\fars square Moon) with the patience and
poise of Saturn in Gemini. He must transmute ·the
tendency to mental discord through ever deepening
affection and outpouring of love. Eacli has his own
pattern to deal with, but, since they are, together,
a partnership, mUJtuality of growth and alf'.hemy
can be achieved.
The :above is a very simp1e, direct illustration
of this approach. However, the procedure is the same
for any complexity of progressed aspects. The prin-
ciple:S of alchemy and transmutation demand that we
look for the solution of the problem, but if we con-
sider each progressed aspect as "a thing in itself"
the solutions may not be so evident. Tie up the mrea.s
in your. tabulations and causes. Effects and solu-
tions will be so much more "livinglv" ·manifested.
20
Chapter III
PIJANETS ARE PBOPLE
The identity of relationships through the study
of a horoscope is one of the most subtle and difficult
problems with which the psychological astrologer has
to dieal. The difficulty lies in the fact that the reality
of a relationship between two people is not a thing
of flesh or man-made law, but of the essence of feel-
ing of the two people for each other. This "essence
of mutual feeling", in the cases of intenre attrac-
tions or enmities, is a hold-over from contacts made
in past incarnations and can manifest distinctly re-
gardless of age, sex, or worldly relationship. The
occultist knows that a deep bond between two people
cannot spring into being at the very first contact
of the persous coneerned. The first conta.ct was made
in the past, and the relationship, whether of love or
hatred, is being continued in this life as though
there had never been an interruption.
'l'here is only one possible end for any relation-
ship between two people-and that is fUlfillment.
No bond of hatred is ever left ''hanging in the
wind.'' Such a thing would refute the Law of Love.
Hatred is "love in reverse "-it is consciousness of
contact with the universe, through another person,
turned in on ''self.'' Until the consciousness rein-
terpret.s that expression of energy in terms of the
PLANETS ARE PEOPLE 21
higher self, it can only express that which is nega-
tive, destructive, a:nd unredeemed.
The following are some hypothetical examples
of relationships and experiences, which from a kar-
mic standpoint represent sources <>f hatred, fear,. and
envy. They are found in the lives of men and women
the world over and in all ages.
The creative original individualist, in any field of
endeavor, represents a threat to the ccystaJlized or-
thodox person. These prototypes may be described as,
or symbolized by, Uranus and Saturn, respectively.
Uranus may fear and hate Saturn because the latter
stifles and frustrates his freedom; Saturn may fear
Uranus as a threat t<> undermine the "status quo."
Hatred results when Uranus loses freedom, or whe.n
the security <>f Saturn is destroyed. Until each can
learn something of value from the other the conflict
remains.
The iOOnflicting phaae$ of feminine nature are
illustrated by the ''maternal woman'' and the
''sweetheart woman.'' The age-old tug of war, with
the male of the species aa the harried and bewildered
object of conquest! Mrs. Moon-Jupiter-Saturn de-
velops an implacable hatred for that hussy, Miss
Venus-Uranus, and sees in her a threat to the peace
of home and respecitable living. The latter regards
her hardworking, dowdy sister as a pitiful fuddy-
duddy who has forgotten the meaning of romance.
A tragic problem---and there are many such-is
represented by parental interference. A person who,
in the past, neglected his opportunities may be kar-
mfoally drawn to a parent who is very egoistic a11d
possessive. 'rhe parent, with no regard for the child's
22 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
intrinsic urges, seeks to make him over into a replica
of an admired relativ~r himself. The child's
)Vhole life-experience then becomes a distortion which
results in frustration. This, in turn, results in bitter
hatred and resentment toward the parent. The pos-
sessive egoism of the parent feeds on himself to the
degree that the child becomes enslaved; the parent's
life becomes more and more "fixated" on its vicar-
ious fulfillment through the child. Other sources of
experience are ignored, friendships become more and
more meaningle8s; spiritual, mental, and psycholog-
foal atrophy result. Affection, companionship, and
mutual understanding are neglected, and what could
have been a source of inspiration, warmth, and ful-
fillment turns into a. deadly horror. Both are wrong.
The child is wrong in permitting another to live .his
life for him. The parent is wrong in using power
with the urge to domination as the chief motive. As
the negative and painful emotions take more and
more hold of these people, they incapacitate them~
selves for good in every other expression in life. And
~what they take with them into their next experi-
ence had better· be left Un.said.
In .so far as the validity, reality, or importance
of an experience depends on the reartions to the event
9f ·the person concerned, and since our experiences
come .to us ·as objectifications of what is indicated
in our horoscopes, through our ''interchange'' with
91;her people, is it not logical to interpret the aspects
of.the Chart as people? In the soul-vibration of an-
other. person is found a correspondence with some-
thing in· your own nature which is indicated in your
chart. , ·
PLANETS ARE PEOPLE 23
If the aspect should: be a negative <>ne (square
or oppositon), your contact with that person stirs
into being a negative or destructive reaction. You
call that reaction "fear" or "jealousy" or ''hatred."
You say, "I fear that man," or ''I enyY that man,"
or "I hate that man." That is what you say, but
in the light of astrology, that is not what you really
mean. What you mean actually is: "That man
served to rem.ind me of something negative in my
nature. I feel that he might do a wrong to me that
I remember having done to another. My feeling is
fear. I know that he has achieved something that
I should have achieved, but did not. My feeling is
envy. His wrong to another reminds me of my own
past wrong-doing. My feeling is hatred.''
The man or woman you describe as your worst
enemy is the person whose horoscope, in some way,
corresponds with your worst aspect. That person
might be anyone: father, mother, sister, brother,
child, husband, wife, lover, or employer. As one tun-
ing fork causes another of the same pitch to vibrate
with it, so the negative state of your ''enemy'' stim-
ulates your negative and brings it into your con-
sciousness with pain. Use that r>ainful reaction as a
barometer of your own spiritual state. It is indicating
to you a very importamt lesson. It serves to point
out the need for you to undertake a very impO'l'tant
step in development. Your "enemy" is not your
l'nemy. He or she is your teacher. Learn through
that person, of yourself.
But don't stop there. In identifying your
''enemies'' by means of your reactions toward and
experiences with them, you attain a detached per"
24 STUDIES IN .ASTROLOGY
spective of yourself as a factor in your cirde of re-
lationships and see how you make of yourself an
"enemy" to others by the expre~sion of your own
negatives. The nex!t step is to make of yourself a
''friend'' to all people. As you, to a greater and
greater degree express the positive possibilities in-
dicated in your chart, you make of yourself a magnet
to draw into expression the good that is latent in
others.
.As you cause, by your constant efforts toward
regeneration, the stimulation of the good in others
they are automatically made aware of their own good.
They like you. They admire you. They are com-
fortable and happy· when in your company. They
feel at their best: more courteous, more considerate,
more courageous, stronger. They say that they love
you, that you are their friend. That doesn't quite
convey what they really mean. What they mean is
that their higher self is brought to their conscious-
ess through 1their contact with you. They do not
really "love you". 'rhey are simply made more
aware of their own God-Self, through which they ex-
press harmonious and constructive reactions.
Your reactions to any person constitute the only
factor that determines your relationship with him.
Use your ''positives,'' transmute your ''negatives,''
and defeat yiour ''enemies'' by eliminating the
"enemy" within yourself.
The artist in man has, for ages past, sought to
interpret in verse, songs, and pictures, his concept
of life as a Great Battle. Every scripture has told
the story, in symbol and allegory, of the onslaughts
of the Forces of Darkness against the Stronghold. of
PLANETS ARE PEOPLE 25
Light, the contention of the Devil with God for the
soul of man, the ceaseless friction between Evil and
Good, the Tempter eternally seeking to undermine
that which is aspiring in the human heart.
Sorties, skirmishes, and battles-to-the-death-all
phases of this Conflict-are shown in each horoscope.
The aspirant contains within himself the :field upon
which the claims of destiny contend with, everything
in his nature thait urges him forward and upward.
He must, if he would triumph, attain as clear an uu-
derstanding as possible of the nature of the enemy
that abides in his subconscious. This enemy has aides-
de-camp in the form of the squares and oppositions,
but his headquarters is the 12th house. It is there
that the plans are made, the traps are set, the shackles
are forged and the nets of illusion are woven. The
light of day seldom penetrates to this cave, for the
enemy and his minions prefer darkness for their
labors. The aspirant can dispel the shadow only
with the light of "self-knowledge." .
Since each experience represents a triumph or
(temporary) defeat in the battle, and since each ex-
perience is brought about by contact with another
person-or persons, those people whose planetary
energies serve to stimulate the afflicted ruler or oc-
. cupant of the aspirant's 12th house mu.st be viewed
and studied by him with the attitude that they ob-
jectify his innermost possibilities for self-defeat. And
-those people can be anyone; a parent, a child, a
friend, a lover, wife, or husband can fulfill that pat-
tern. The aspirant is such because he has taken steps
toward the Impersonal, and in using his horoscope
as a "map" on the Path of Life it behooves him to
26 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
understand that he must study his relationships
from the standpoint of his suboonscious reaction to
them, not from. the worldly name they have. As he
transmutes his reactions, so he improves the quality
of his relationship.
The following method is suggested : The aspirant
makes a dletailed study of his twelfth house condi-
tions from the standpoint of malefic conjunctions,
squaires and oppositons. He then relates as far as
possible the charts of those persons who have had
a deleterious influence in his life. He studies par-
ticularly those charts which have a'fll]J planet or as-
cendant conjunct the afflicted ru.ler or occupant of
his twelfth house; he makes a mental summary of
11is experiences with these persons and thereby
makes himself aware of the negatives in his na-
ture which were stimulated by contact with them.
Regardless of the severity and painfulness of the
experiences, he will release all hatred. He will realize
that each and every one of these persons served to
objectify a phase of his own negative subconscious
and he will no longer think of them as "perpetrators
of evil'' against him, but as object lessons for his
instruction and enlightenment.
.Afflicted Sun rules 12th : power is the key to this
karmic lesson. The aspirant has misused power in
the past, and in this incarnation he suffers abuse and
injustice from those in authority. He has used hi'I
position and influence to enslave another, in some
degree, and he must learn that power must be ex-
pressed in terms of justice and mercy. The father,
or an older brother, may be the instrument used
during the aspirant's ehild}J.ood to reflect the past
PLANETS ARE PEOPJJE 27
wrong. In later life the employers, since they exer-
cise authority over him, may bring to his attention
this needed lesson. Power as it expresses in physical
vitality may be indicated, in reverse, in a weak and
ineffectual body, karmically attracted to a father who
is much subject to illness and physical debility.
Afflicted Moon rules the 12th: womanhood is the
key to this karmic problem. It represents for this
incarnation, a time for adjusting all unredeiemed
destiny that originated when the aspirant used a
female body, unredeemed destiny, that concerns
domestic experience, the opportlinity to develop,
through feelings, an increased faculty of sympathy
and tenderness. The Moon symbolizes the fem-
inine polarity of the human psyche, and whether
the aspirant is male or female, this karmic aspect,
indicates disorders and insufficiencies of this faculty.
"Trouble through the mother" is the classic inter-
pretation of a:fffictions to the Moon. In this sense, the
aspirant's mother is seen as his "enemy." Such
being the case, he will realize that her influence on
his life parallels his own· on someone else-in a past
life. His heayy responsibility to her in this incarna-
tion fulfills what he left undone-in the past. His
affeetion for her is never adequately returned and
he learns what the withholding of love means. He is
tied to home conditions now, for he sought to escape
them-in the past. Women baf!Ie him, he never seems
to gain a clear 1lnderstanding of them. -He never
tried to be a "real woman"-in the past. Or he
treated women with indifference--in the past. 'l'he
aspirant will realize that women are. not his ''en-
emies.'' He must, however, cultivate a deeper under-
28 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
standing of and sympathy for the basic elements
of "woman-nature" if he is to redeem this karmic
state.
Aftlic:ted Saturn rules the 12th : The karma is
repression. The "enemy" is crystallization. Persons
who represent this position are a seeming blight on
the life of the aspirant. They stimulate his feelings
of insecurity; they lead him into paths of suppres-
sion and denia,l; they (apparently) block up the flow
of Life. Through his relationships with them he re-
ceives his severest disciplining; through them he ful-
fills his deepest and longest-overdue responsibilities.
They serve to remind him of everything in his na-
tnre that is impractcal; they hold him to earth while
he yearns for freedom.
He is an individualist while they are hidleboun<l ;
he is mystic.ally inclined, they are orthodox and
observant of forms; he attaches no particular sig-
nificance ;to money, they interpret everything in life
in :financial terms. His instinctive tendency aind de-
sire is to free himself from them and escape the fet-
ters of their influence. The tendency will remain
until he realizes that he cannot escape his rightful
responsibilities; that he must 1earn to utilize intel-
ligently the things of earth; that money, though it
has no power of its own, still is a medium of ex-
change among people, and he must learn its proper
use. The philosophical a.<ipirant will realize that he
fa not tied to difficult and disappointing relation-
ships that al"e not of his own making, but will seek
to give of his best to these conditions and learn
whatever there is for him to loom from the others
involvea with him.
PLANETS ARE PEOPLE 29
Afflicted Neptune rules the 12th: The Enemy is
deception. This ''enemy,'' becau.se of its subtlety, is
a difficult one to defeat. Treachery, betrayal, mental
confusion, and perversion, constitute its armor. The
opponents of the aspirant who has this position are
underhanded and sneaky-they "don't play fair."
Well, the aspirant himself didn't play fair in the
past, and now he must learn what it means to be
the recipient of such treatnient. He professed one
thing and did! another; he solicited the trust of
others and betrayed that trust; he used spirituality
-or a claim of it-a8 a smoke screen for power or
gain; he trafficked-not wi~ely but too well-with
astral forces ; he misrepresented and misled. The
aspects made to this afflicted Neptune represent the
types of people through whom tihiS karmic return
will be made. One per8on may illfluence him into a
destructive habit ; another may share a wrong-doing
with him-and leave h:i:in ''holding the sack;'' his
faith and deepest love may be expressed toward
someone who proves unworthy of anyone's high re-
gard. The aspirant's tw-0 best weapons in dealing
with this particular "enemy" are fO;i,tk in spiritual
principles and knowledge. With knowledge he can
bring himself into a more perfect hlignment with
spiritual honesty-the finest corrective for that form
of subconscious conditidning which results in illusion
and deception.
So it is with the other planets: Uranus (un-
balance), Jupiter (extravagance and greed), Venus
(possession), Mercury (thought), and Mars (man-
hood and sex.) Each one, as afflicted ruler or oc-
cupant of the twelfth, indicates acertain group of
30 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
people who serve, however unconsciously, as one's
most valued teachers.
The mechanics o:f relationship provide the occult
student with a perfect ''field of research'' for the
study of alchemy. The interchange of reactions of
two people who are "close to ·each other" is the
pabulum which either one, or both, may utilize in
the ''weaving of the golden wedding garment.''
From the base metal of a subconscious mixture of
attractions ,and repulsions, each person may distill,
by his own transmutations, the essence which is
called love. The Great Teacher has instructed us:
''Love your enemies, and do good to those who per-
secute you.'' Why TBecause He knew that a reaction
of hatred or vengeance creates a bond between the
recipient and the perpetrator of an evil deed, and
only when that ,reaction is neutralzed by good will
the bondage be dissolved.
· How true it is that we so often, though unwit-
tingly, cause pain to those we profess to love, mislead
those we would help, and injure those toward whom
we have the ''best intentions!'' There are so many
relationships in which we can just as easily express
our negative aspects as we can our positives. 'I'he
relationships are, generally, our most intimate ones
-those in which other people contact and stimulate
various phases. of our natures. The comparison-
study of the horoscopes of two persons who are ''close
to each other" will reveal the significance of the
relationship to each of the persons concerned-the
mutual harmonies, the mutual problems, and the
mutual agencies for alchemical transmutation. In
this application the stellar science indeed offers a
PLANETS ARE PEOPLE 31
key for the ·unravelling of mysteries. No phase of
life is more illusionary than relationship; nowhere
is the keen eye of detachment more needed to "see
through'' the fogs of desire, fear, enmity, and
conflict.
In attaining a detached and impersonal viewpoint
of a relationship, we realize that terms such as "hus-
band-wife," "parent-child," "brother-sister," and
"lover-beloved" are as garments to be worn for
identification on the physical plane. The essence of
these relationships is found superphysically, on the
mental, emotional, and spiritual planes.
This essence, its purpose, and its reality are found
in the mutual conjunct.ions of the two horosc.opes.
Two ageneies of Spirit find their expression through
the same degree (approximately) and the horoscopes
are thereby riveted together like two boardS--each
mutual conjunction being a nail. A perfect, classical
example of ''alchemy through relationship'' is found
when each planet so involved has one square and
one sextile. Each person stimulates a latant dishar-
mony in the other, but each person contains within
himself the meains o.f trainsnmting that disharrnon;y.
The house in whleh the conjunction falls in each
chart will indicate, of course, the department of that
person's life through which the relationship will be
expressed and which will be most directly affected by
it. The complete "picture of disharmony" is found
by combining the square aspects in each chart with
their position in the other person's chart. Then the
effect of each person, for evil or unhappiness, on the
other is seen in completion.
The "alchemical picture" is f-0und in the same
32 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
way, with reference to the planets making the sex-
tile aspects in each chart, and the position and effect
in the chart of the other. When the sextile is ''used,''
the square in each chart is transmuted to a degree,
the sextile in the other chart is sympathetically stim-
ulated, the houses involved are favorably stimulated;
the relationship, as a whole, is improved in quality
and the possibilities for mutual harm are thereby
lessened. By continual application of this process,
the relationship becomes, more and more, one of love
-since each person concCTil.ed assists the other in
attaining awareness of his Higher Self.
An astro-alchemical function of a more difficult
and intense nature is created when only one of the ·
two persons ''uses his sex.tile.'' 'Vhen this happens,
the "evil" that is continually expressed by the other,
under stimulation of the mutual conjunction, is "met
constructively" by the alchemist in his expression
of his sextile aspect. The " evil-doer" intensifies
his negative tendency by the repeated expression of
his square aspect and! the result is depletion of the
capooity to do good. To paraphrase a medical term,
this condition might be described as ''sextilic-
anemia." A tragiedy--no less. It is tragic for the
evil-doer and doom for the relationship. There will
come a time when the negative person can no longer
respond to his sextile possibilities and the relation-
ship, as an exchange ·between two p·ersonst can live
no longer. The relationship is dissolved, each comes
to a parting of the ways. The alchemist goes on to
an upward expl"ession of living-the other must face
the l"esults of his wrong-doing.
To the degree that· a relationship is complicated
PLANETS ARE PEOPLE 33
by a variety of mutual aspects will it be complicated
in its expres.sions. There may be two or three mutual
conjunctions, one of which may be afflicted, one
benefic and one mixed. It is such relationships as these
that go on for years and years--or lives and lives.
Further, since no life contains only one significant
relationship, each one of these aspects in one chart
represents relationships with yet other people. The
person who has to deal with a complex relationship
with one person may, for greater understanding,
study his "exchange" with the other people repre-
sented by his various aspects. He can learn from
every one of them-and should-if he would make
that one relationship a thing of fulfilled harmony.
The people represented by benefic mutual conjunc"
tions are those through whom he ''tunes in'' on his
best self, and through them he understands more
and more clearly what he can contribute to the rela-
tionship that contains. many mixed conditions. His
trines symbolize expressions of his Higher Self-the
people who reflect his trinet'I show him his best con-
tribution to any relatiO'nship.
It is interesting to note that the odd-numbered
houses of the horoscope, culminating in the eleventh,
are designated as the ''houses of relationships,'' and
the eleventh itself as the ''house of friends.'' From
t.he ifirst house through the ninth we ex:press ·the
''personal,'' ''fraternal,'' ''parental,'' ''marital,''
and ''pedagogic'' relationships. Then the cultivated,
distilled essence of all relationships is shown by our
capacities through expression of the eleventh.
Itove without passion, affection without posses-
siveness, intimacy without smothering, assistance and
34 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
encouragement without over-indulgence, cooperation
without domination and subservience, fruitful joJB
with<>ut pleasure-madness, sympathy without nega-
tive sentimentality, mutual exchange without any
I~ of mutual freedom of thought and action--such
are the attributes of all harmoniously fulfilled rela-
tionships. The essence of these attributes we call
Friendship, the urge towaird universal Brotherhood.
Because the eloeventh house represents our most
highly spiritualized impulses in reference to rela-
tionship, it may be studied as one of the ''spiritual
barometers'' of the horoscope. To the degree that
the eleventh house is "benefic" may every other re-
lationship problem be assisted. Every brother-sister,
parent-child, and husband-wife problem can be
''unknotted, '' to a degree, by application of the
harmoniously expressed urges of the eleventh house.
Friendship, then, may be said to be the panacea
for the "wounds of relationship."
These "wounds" are the frustrations of those
essential qualities that. are peculiar to each type of
relationship. The fraternal, or brother-sister, rela-
tionship is experienced during childhood and the
formative years, and represents the first step toward
the fulfillments of the eleventh house. In the intimacy
of home life under the guidance of parents, boys and
girls learn cooperation, sharing, and the enjoyment
of group pleasures. The reactions of brothers and
sisters to each other and to their parents constitute
the basic elements of their relationship tendencies.
Naturally, when the fraternal relationship is fraught
with discord, fear, :and hatred, the later fulfillments
in mature life are often inhibited and distorted,
PLANETS ARE PEOPLE 35
Many a man or woman has experienced misery
and inharmony in niarri3i:,o-e due to si1bconscious
negatives that are traceable to the fraternal relation-
ships in childhood. Competition for the parents'
favor, rivalry in talents and accomplishments, aver-
sions, and resentments, and all other forms of con-
flict, if untransmuted, can very easily be, and usually
are carried over into the marital and parental pat-
terns and cause relationship-defeat in later life.
Of course conditions vary as charts vary. A man
may have a "difficult third house" and a "fortunate
seventh house." In other words, his experiences in
early life with brothers and/or sisters may contain
much that is unhappy, and his marriage-partner
may be the greatest blessing of his life. However, to
the degree that he carries his dark reactions, into
his marriage, later on, will he be unresponsive to
the assistance that his wife can give to him.
Another man may have companionship of the
most harmonious and fruitful kind with his brothers
and sisters and yet, through marriage, face his
greatest tests. Nevertheless, booause of the harmo-
nious relationships during his childhood, he knows
much more of the meaning of living. His relation-
ship-pictures are painted with Joyfulness, Com-
panionship, Give-and-Take, Mutual Trust, and the
like, and through the expression of these spiritual
powers he can deal with his marital problems.
No student of astrology need endure pain and
suffering for years and years because of an unhappy
relationship with a brother or sister. The unhappi-
ness is the result of only one thing--continual ex-
pression of a negative phase of the third house. .As
36 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
that negative phas~ is trammuted the relationship
is im.proved andi the pain neutralized. The fraternal
relatiom:hip is, of all relationships, the one that can
most directly be redirected into Friendship. Since it
usually does not involve the possessive elements of
paranthood, and never involves the sexual exchange
of marriage, it contains much more of the element of
freedom.
. In one respect, the fraternal relationship is par-
ticularly important, from a psychological standpoint.
That is in reference to illi experience of karmic re-
sponsibility of a person for a younger, or less-evolved,
brother or sister. In .this instance, on the inner planes
the relationship becomes that of parent and child,
and the negative reactions of the older person may
be transmuted more effectively through the expres-
sion of his, or her, parental urges--rather than those
of the eleventh house. In other words, the parental
impulses constitute the ''way of transcendence,'' or
the ''redemption of karma.'' A serious lesson in
parenthood is indicated by such a condition-its
fulfillment will free the person to a much more suc-
cessful expression of actual parenthood. Because of
its subtle a.nd illusionary quality, this kind of '' kar-
mic parenthood'' usually contains much that is pain-
ful in its working out, but its fulfillment brings a
rich reward in wisdom and spiritual strength-all
of which is to the person's advantage 'in ills relation-
ship with his own children.
The downfall and failure of parent-child rela-
tionships, either actual or esoteric, is due more to
the parent's egoism and possessiveness than to any-
thing else, and in no relationship in life is the imper-
PLANET'S ARE PEOPLE 37
son.al viewpoint more vitally necessary. No mother or
father can be a "good parent"-in the spiritual sense
-unless the attributes of friendship are expressed
in the relationship. There must be recognition of the
child's intrinsic worth and tendencies. There must
be discipline and guidance-but in terms of the
child's requirements. No mother or father is a good
parent who makes the child's life a vicarious ful-
fillment of her or his own frustrations. The parent
who is a friend guides his child into the best ex-
pression of the child's own pattern of life.
(.. Look to your eleventh house and find your
'Friendship-key." This is the planet which is either
the unafflieted ruler of the eleventh-or the planet
that makes the best aspect to' the ruler. Planets in
the eleventh indicate conditions that aire interpreted
through friendship, but the ruler is the key to the
expression of friendship and brotherhood.
The ruler of the eleventh house may have several
aspects, both harmonious and otherwise. However,
· if an unafilicted planet makes a bene:fic aspect · to
the ruler in this case, that planet represents a pure
channel of "relationship-transmutation." It is the
planet that can, if applied, unloose the snags ancl
snarls of any relationship problem. It represents
the best you have to offer in your spiritual exchange
with other people.
Combine the vibrati-0n of this planet with that of
the sign on the eleventh house cusp and the vibration
of the ruler itself. This is the foundation of yoi1r
''house of Friendship.'' It shows a composite· of how
you love your friends, what you wish to do for them,
38 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
what you can do for them, and the best that they
see in you.
Persons who are identified, by mutual aspects,
with the trines in your eleventh house conditions
are those who stimulate your deepest capacity for
loving. It is through them that you contact your own
best self and express your finest for all relationships.
It is through them that you find your clearest recog-
nition of Universal Brotherhood.
Persons who are identified, by mutual aspects,
with ithe squa.Tt'IS to the eleventh house ruler are
''enemies of utmost importance.'' They externalize
or objectify your reactions that defeat or dlestroy
friendship. Because of the transcendent urges of the
eleventh house, the malefic aspects (representing
frustrations -and difficulties) can manifest as deep
hatreds, fears, and conflicts. Every relationship in
your life is tainted or warped to the degree that these
afflictions remain untransmuted. No occult or as-
trological student can afford to ignore these "warn-
ings'' in the horoscope.
In conclusfon, here is presented an example
that illustrates the inter-relationship of Astro-
dynamics with "Planets Are People." For clarity's
sake, this example is in a simple form.
Two persons meet in the mature years of life, -
and friendship is immediate, deep, and happy.
Each has one square and one sextile to the ruler of
the eleventh, and the contact is represented by pro-
gre.ssed Moon trine one person's eleventh house ruler,
whfoh is conjunct any one planet in the other per-
son's eleventh house ''pattern.'' In other words, the
relationship "flowers undler the best of conditions."
PLANETS ARE PEOPLE 39
Each person has reacted, over a period of many
years, to every phase of his eleventh house pattern,
and the comparative strength, a;t that time of life,
of the sextile and square influences have, in this
friendship, a perfect testing. To the degree that the
negative of one is expressed, will the other be given
an opportunity to transmute; to the degree that
both respond to the square, will the friendship be
spoiled and disrupted; to the degree that each person
transmutes, will· the other be ''lifted'' spiritually.
This type of relationship represents a perfect
opportunity for the practice of alchemy. That which
is negatively inclined in the relationship can be
neutralized by the highest expressions of both persons
who are lovingly united.
What more perfect expression of friendship ia
there!
40
Chapter Iv·
THE SUN-PRINCIPLE OF POWER
Considering the simplicity of the structure of a
horoscope we cannot fail to be impressed by the pro-
fundity of its symbolism. A center, twelve radiations
bounded· bl- a circle-that's all. And yet it serves
as a picture of Cosmos. Nothing in symbology rep-
resents s0 much, by such economy of means.
The structure of a horoscope symbolizes the basis
of manifestation of any thing--a human being, an
event, a nation, or a solar system. Bvery objectifica-
tion has its own pattern or vibratory rate, and the
simp1e drawing of a circle with radiations from its
center can be used to represent the "body" of this
objectification.
Let us consider a solar system: we are to]d that
the l;ogos, having selected. a spherical area of space
&t the dawn of manifestation pours its energies into
the center, thus objectifying a Sun-or center of
m.anifestation. The Will of the Logos interpenetrates
this immense sphere in every part. From the center-
or Sun-various fields for evolutionary activity are
radiated. Th<'se "fields" we call the planets and each
one provides a home for the development of various
types of beings. E·ach planet stands in much the
same relationship to the Creator as each color stands
in relationshp to the Principle of Light, or each tone
THE SUN: PRINCIPLE OF POWER 41
to the Principle of Sound. The Sun, as central body,
is the Logoic Will objectified, and the bodies . of
the system are the expressions of that Will in
manifestation.
The horoscope, as a map of the heavens, should
actually show the Sun in the center. However, in
relationship to the Earth, which is our field of evolu-
tion, and for astrological purposes, we include the
Sun in the family of planets for this reason: in hu-
man terms, the expression of Will is yet to be de-
veloped by evolutionary processes. Humanity, for the
most part, lives in its negatives, its feelings, fears,
and desires. Consequently, domination from experi-
0nce is inevitable. Living in the "Sun consciousness"
would imply a complete identity with the Source,
complete detachment from the claims of feeling, com-
plete control and direction .of all faculties expressed
by a human being. This, in our terms, is Mastership.
In other words, a Master, even in the flesh, deter-
mines his experiences by radiaton from his own cen-
ter, not by response to "the urges and drives of his
planets. He then, as far as is possible, is truly a cre-
ator,-he lives in his·Sun consciousness.
From the standpoint of even the most mundane
approach to astrology, the same drawing is used.
The birthplace is the center from which radiates the
variety of life experiences, in terms of people, places,
and things. The same drawng is used to represent the
"objectified Ego"; the Higher Self-or "God-po-
tential'' is the center of the circle, and the varying
~tates, or expressions, of that potential are the plane-
tary positions and aspects. The horoscope is thus seen,
42 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
in whatever application, as the symbol of a manifes-
tation of God.
Since the Sun represents the highest state of con-
sciousness known to man, the principle implied is
that of Power-the first Logoic aspect. ·we, as astro-
analysts, must give very eareful attention to lthe
Sun aspects in the horoscope because these represent
the '' degrees of God consciousness'' that the person
has thus far attained in his present cycle of de11elop-
m.ent.(Every beuefic Sun aspect, indicating a har-
monious or constructive, application of the Power
principle, is a. redemptio~JlJvecy malefic is thus seen
to be a biudrance or perversion of Power. The Sun is
the synthesis of all the planets, and any planet iden-
tified with the Sun by aspect, dispositorship, etc.,
gains thereby in power and scope -of expression, both
1>1Jiritually aud mundanelY.}Planets, particularly the
dynllJlllic ones, placed in Leo, indicate that their con-
structive expression must be based on the right use
of power; affiictions indicate the tendency to pervert
it.
(An interesting study is to be found in the charts
having the Sun unaspected. Such a pattern tells us
that, on this cycle, the person concerned is initiating
his power consciousness] Sign position of the Sun
tells us the spiritual or esoteric path of this develop-
ment. House position tells us where, in this incarna-
tion, he makes his start. Planets in Leo, and their
aspects, tell us through which agencies he is seeking
to express thP Prnciple of Power, and by them
thvough which channels his Power consciousness will
express in the future. The Sun, however aspected,
placed in the fourth house, shows the possibilities of
THE SUN: PRINCIPLE OF POWER 43
power e'\.pr<'ssion in the maturity of life. The negative
aspects to this position show the people or experiences
and reactions that will threaten this fulfillment dur-
ing years of growth.
aet us impress on our minds the thought that
afflicted aspects involving the Sun are serious. prob-
lemslThe other planets may be in con.fliet with each
other and many problems result thereby, but when
the C'Oasc·iousness of power and purpose is stunted,
the ability of the person to deal with his planetary
difficulties is greatly limited. Solutions are thus much
harder to find and apply. In other wordS, the entire
horoscope is weakened to the degree that the Sun
consciouness is inhibited or depleted. And, conse-
quently, the dynamic afflictions in the chart have
just that much more power to "afflict dynamically."
Force, or energy of any kind, must, in the final
analysis, be controlled by power radiating from the
center. Clarify this thought by imagining the Sun
positi011 as the center of activity in the chart, radiat-
ing its energies in all directions. The squares and
oppositions to the Sun will th11s be seen as lines of
force from the planets intersecting, or interrupting,
these radiations at right angles or head-on from the
opposite side of the circle.
.~asically, the house With Leo on the cusp shows
wliich department of life contains your source of
Power experience or "lesson of Power.:::J'Whatever
afflicted conditions are indicated in that house-and
there may be many-express your power and author-
ity in the affairs of that house to the best of your
ability. The planets there show what you want to
express, but Leo on the cusp shows how you can
STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
best expre3s ihme urge3. Where. the Sun is placed
shows where we seek to dominate directly and rule
our condiLions. It is, then, our "center" for this in-
carnation. A great variety of "Sun conditions" are,
of co:.:rse, possible. However, any planet in favorable
aspect to the Sun-thus integrated to a degree with
power-may be utilized as a counteractive to nega-
tives in other parts of the chart. Any such planet
is automatically viery influential in the chart and may
assist in the working out of disharmonies. .
A consideration of the negative a.~ects to the
. Sun: .charge the afflicted planet with power, read it
negatively; thus is found the essence of such aspects.
Sun-Mal'.s: Power-Desire: Power is expressed
through conflict, competition, domination, sex con-
quest, ruthlessness, and cruelty. Mars is basie, or
primitive, self-expression, and when power is abused
through it, its vibration releases tremendous energy
that tends to result in some form of destruction, pain
to others, or ''domination at all costs.'' Power is here
seen to express as egotism. This aspect is symbolic
of the unregenerate masculine polarity. To a degree,
the Sun, afflicted in Aries or Scorpio, carries much
the same coloring; also, any affliction to the Sun con-
junct Mars, in any sign. Since this aspecrt is so ba-
sically masculine in quality, its redemption may be
found in some constructive application of the fem-
inme polarity: Moon, Venus, or Neptune.
Sun-Jupiter: Power-Pride: In this aspect, power
is expressed in various forms of negative, or false
self-approval. These forms of ''patting oneself on
the back' ' mav be traced to the kind of consciousne.ss
which gives 'undue value to financial abundance,
'rHE SUN: PRINCIPLE OF POWER 45
i:;ocial or professional position, family background,
egotistical reference to talents and abilities, and the
kind of benevolence which is usually expressed with
an eye to recognition or aJOOlaim, An aspect of ''false
aristocracy,'' symbol of snobbery and pretension. The
person so conditioned tends to exaggerate that which
he deems worthy in his own nature and conditions,
and reacts with anger or hurt at any implication
that he is not all he pretends to be. Open, frank
criticism-and he closes his ears and consciousness
to retire into his ivory tower of lofty, offended dig"
nity; but let him hear, indirectly, that certain fine
things are expected of him and he will bend over
backwards to uphold the fine opinion which he
values. In other words, he will "pour his power;'
into improvement if he feels it is worth the effort,
but, in reverse, he will pour the same streams of
power into his pride if he is belittled. He must main-
ta.in his good opinion of himself! Such a person could
do nothing better to harmonize his inner disbar~
monies tha.n to crea.te a regular pattern of benevolent
deeds-and not talk about them.
Sun-Saturn: Power-Unfulfillment: This is, per-
haps, the most "painful" of ·all the affiictions to the
Sun. An area of experience is thus shown to be so
lacking in fulfillment that the energies of the very
Center itself are needed to redeem karma. In a horo~
scope that is predominately dynamic, this aspect
throws a heayy emphasis on ambition and achieve~
ment in some form. The "urge to climb" is intensely
£eilt, and power is utilized to a large degree in oiver"
coming obstacles. It would appear that this pattern
represents a past in which opportunities for develop·
46 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
ment were neglected or wasted. In this incarnation
lost time must be redeemed. In a predominately pas-
sive chart, this aspect is heavily gravitational in ef-
fect; the requirements of Saturn hold the person to
Earth. In such a case, check carefully for any dy-
namic urge in the chart which may provide a possible
release of power into channels of growth. The person
represented by Saturn in this aspect are those who
tend to repress or inhibit the person concerned. They
threaten his very individlUality, and though he may
have to redeem a much needed experience of respon-
sibility, he must, for the sake of his own constructive
and healthy living, not allow himself to become so
in:flue_nced by other people that he becomes subject
to despair, depletion of self-confidc>nce, or other pos-
sible psychlogical negatives.
Sun-Uranus: Power-Lawlessness: This is the as-
pect of the anarchist. Because of the nature and
purpose of Uranus, its square to the Sun, or conjunc-
tion afflicted, is a potential for terrific destruction in
some :form. So great arc the possibilities of energy
release indicated by this combination that every
agency of control must be found and carefully anal-
yzed. A heavy tendency to crystallization in some
form is automatically implied as an accompanying
factor to this aspect-check the Saturn conditions
carefully and thereby determine in which part of
his experience the person tends to rebel with such
intensity-and possibly even violence. An aspect of
potential genius is indicated by any aspect of Uranus
to Sun, but the square or opposition seems to indicate
the possibility of considerable destruction attending
its expression. If ''harnessed,'' this aspect pours into
THE SUN: PRINCIPLE OF POWER 47
the other planets involved tremendous magnetic and
dynamic charges, and, consequently, when direeted
constructively, it can make for great achievements
and abilities.
Sun-Neptune: Power-Illusion: This is a very
subtle and difficult aspect. The power to visualize-
and dream-is intense, but sinoo this aspect indicates
the perpetraition of illusion in the past, it shows a
pattern of disillusionment in the present incarnation.
The dramatic instinct is pronounced; in fact, so much
so that at times the person lives in his dream of
"things as they might be" rather than realizing
things as they are.
In an artistic person, particularly those arts ruled
by Neptune-music and drazna.-this is a very in-
spirational aspect; but it is inspiration without con-
trol. When stimulated, the person can, with no effort,
''tune in'' on subtle influences and become, him.'!elf
an instrument. However, the price that is paid for
too much of this ''tuning in' ' is physic.al, psychical,
and nervous depletion-loss of power, vitality, and
health generally. The people represented by Neptune .
in this pattern-in it.s negative phases-are those who
may lead him into weakening habits, and thus de-
plete his retention of purpose.
If the chart is mainly paasive in quality with
little source of stimulus or "urge," this aspect, if
strongly marked may indicate a person whose life
fa dreamed away to no purpose or fulfillm.ent. · He
muat, sooner or later, come to grips with reality,
and unite his efforts, to some degree, with the chan-
nels of constructive living. When his dreams shatter
into bits and his ivory tower crashes, and those he
48 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
loved and admired turn out to be the greatest source
of his pain, then he must meet these experiences
with a constructive application of Neptune-faith,
spiritual lmowledge, purified love, and above all,
learn from his disillusioner.~. 'rhey only reflected
that which has been false in him in the past. This
aspect shows an attunement with higher forces, or
at least un.i;;een forces, which in negative expression
brings the person experiences with the lower astral
ray. He mu.st, to reconstruct his pattern, purify and
cleanse his ''inner pictures'' through constructive
meditation or prayer-and put his inspirations and
dreams into reality by some form of work or toward
the fulfillment of self-directed purposes of realizing
truly high ideals;
Sun-Moon: Power-Feeling: The astrologically in-
clined parents of a child with Sun and Moon in eon-
flict must try to adopt an impersonal attitude toward
it. This aspect shows that its subconscious mind is
very easily impressed and ' 'pictures'' of negative
feelings taken in childhood may obscure its self-
awareness and create confusion for the rest of its
life. A study of such a child's chart will reveal to the
parentS the directions it will want to go, but, if in,
their over-concern for every moment of its existence
they impress it with their worries, fears, and anxie-
ties, they will render it a great harm-that of cloud-
ing its sub-conscious with their own negative states
and insure its inability to "carve its own course"
as it grows up. A child with this aspect should
be gui1.P.d constructively to make its own decisions,
never forced against its will. This applies, of course,
to relatively unimportant things. Naturally a child
THE SUN: PRINCIPLE OF POWER 49
cannot just run wild, but those little things that are
of personal concern to it should be let alone by others
so that it can establish, to a degree at least, its aware-
ness of its little world. It has been found that some
influence in childhood, impinged upon the sub-con-.
scious of the child, has resulted in an inner eonfl.ict
that resulted in disharmony and failure in adult
life. When a child learns to know its oum power
without undue, or negative, influences on its snb-
oonscious it is so much better able to foresee, plau,
create, and fulfill its purposes. After all is said and
done, the Sun does represent the flowering of per~
sonality and ability, and the awareness of self as a
creator of good can best be stimulated right in the
beginning. If an adult person with Sun square or
opposition the Moon, consult for a solution to a dis-
integrative tendency in his life, do what can be done
to urge him to psychoanalyze in some form and bring
to the surface of his conscious mind the compulsions
which may have been impressed on him when he
was little. He must get them iip and out in order
to clear his channels for a more constructive expres~
siori of life.
Chapter V
THE MOON-PRINCIPLE OF MO'rHER.HOOD
In the study of the sign positions and aspects
of the Moon in a horoscope we deal with one of the
fundamentals of life-expression: the basis of fem-
inine polarity. The Moon is one of the cornerstones
of a chart; she is the root from which springs all
the other variations of the pas.5ive, receptive, and
emotional phases of the personality. The fullest sig-
nificance of the Moon vibration can be comprehended
only when every human being is understood to con-
tain within himself, OT' herself, the essences of both
polarities; every chart has Sun-Mars as well a.8
Moon-Venus, in some pattern or other.
Physical sex, in the world of forms, is a special-
ized emphasis of either polarity for the purposes
of perpetuation. But, on the inner planes of sub-
conscious impressions, feelings, karmic memories,
and racial patterns, the Moon influence prevails.
Fulfillment of evolutionary proc.esses is thus seen
to be made in the physical aspects of both polarities,
usually alternating, and since physical sex is at-
tended by a specialization of experience, everyone
must know the life of male as well as female. This
"specialization" is not only of expression but, auto-
matically, of karma; thus certain lessons can be
learned only through incarnation as female. In thia
THE MOON: PRINCIPLE OF MOTHERHOOD 51
connection, much in the karma of males may be
traceable, by cause and effect, to unfulfillments and
misdirections of the feminine urges in past embodi-.
ments, and the Moon, in male charts, is the key to
these karmic patterns. The karma that a man ex-
perienc.cs through women is merely the objectification
0£ his own unregenerate feminine polarity ; he is
mainifesting as male, but, by reflection through his
contacts and exchanges with ''the women in his life,''
these inner disorders are manifested.
Mars, dynamic and vitalizing, is the function of
impregnation, the essence of male sex; the Moon is
that which receives this energizing and nurtures the
dormant seed into form. Thus, the Moon is the link
between Ego and family race. She is the agency
through which man as male projects himself into
the streams of life.
Thus, the Moon is seen as the Principle of Mother-
hood and, in mundane or objective astrology, this is
primary signification. Through experience as mother,
mall.kind receives lessons that are second to none in
scope, depth, and importance. It is as mother that
the potentials of Mars selfishness, Mars egotism, Mars
domination, and Mars destructiveness receive their
first alchemicalized transmutations through the in-
itiation of self-sacrifice demanded by the functions
of motherhood.
· Much has been sajd, £or ages past, about the sa- '
credness of motherhood; how few people realize that
the same urge which moves a primitive, animal-like
woman to lend her body to pain in order that the
stream of life may be perpetuated is, in microcosm,
the same uge by which a. MWlter, through highly
52 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
developed forms · of transmutation and alchemy,
"nurtures" the spiritual life of the race. The primi-
tive woman responds instinctively to the urges of
blood and desire; the Master fulfills his transcendent
aspirations in impersonal love. When the nurture of
the life of another-or others-is concerned, the
motherhood principle is expressed. (Astrologically,
of course, the woman in the above example is Moon-
Mars; the Master, as an expression of spiritual
Light synthesizes the planetary spectrum. In his case.
the Moon is cosmically expressed as Neptune and
Mars is expressed as Uranus).
How, might be asked, can each child in a large
family have the Moon in a different sign, since all
have the same mother? Because of the quality of
experience involved in maternity, and the changes
of ''capacity,'' psychological and emotional levels,
and in domestic situations which may occur during
the years of fruition, a woman is not quite the same
person at the birth of her sixth child as she was as
a mother of one. Each child in a family group has
an individual pattern, and his, or her, Moon reflects
or indicates an individual ''mother picture.'' Hence,
though the mother is the same individual she is
"seen" differently, according to the consciousness
or subconsciouness, by each child. And-and this is
very important-she may have a different kind of
karmic bond-some expression of basic attraction
or repulsion-with each child. Thus, each child's
Moon indicates a different pattern of reacticms and
feelings in his relationship with the motheT.
The sign position of the Moon in the chart of
a girl-a potential mother-shows, basically, what
THE MOON: PRINCIPLE OF MOTHERHOOD 53
kind of a mother she will, or can be ; the Moon as-
pects describe her basic motherhood experiences. In
a boy's chart, by reflection, the Moon describes the
general trend of his domestic experiences and the
essence of his attitudes toward women generally.
There is an important point to be made in th.is con-
nection : because of the transition of the mother of
a family, the father may, in his children's life, have
to take her place; his Moon is indicative of his ability
to fulfill this responsibility. In other words, he, then,
must be mother as well as father and not only his
Sun-Mars but his Moon as well are all given direct
expression. The reverse holds true: a woman's Sun-
Mars indicates her ability to exercise the power and
initiative to make a living for her family if the father
passes. Both polarity patterns are then synthesized
through the Uranus vibration for the transcending
of relationship responsibilities and family karma.
The Moon as a mental factor : The Moon sym-
bolizes the processes of the subconscious ''mind of
feeling,'' not of detached, impersonal thought. She
is opinion, based on family or racial patterns which
may, or which may not, have much referenee to
actuality. In other words, she is ''thought that is
motivated by feeling response.'' Here the Moon is
seen as "personal viewpoint " which is certain to
make itself evident when a person discusses anyone
or any thing while in a state of emotional disturb-
ance. .As the basic factor of the mental triad-Moon,
Mercury, Neptune-the Moon finds her regeneration
through the processes of emotional discipline and
control and the development of personal detachment.
We are connected to people and things only to the
54 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
degree-and in the kind of degree-that we have feel-
ing about them. It is our feelings that make for
''reality'' as far as personal reference is concerned.
It is only when feeling has been eliminated, preju-
dice removed, parental and family influences tran-
scended, and inner poise developed that ''things
are seen''-through Mercury-'' as they are in
themselves.''
Thus Mercury says: ''This hat is blue.'' An im-
perrnnal fact. The Moon might say: ''I. think this
,bat is lovely-the color is just like my baby's eyes."
Personal feeling. These are, of course, trite examples,
but they serve to indicate how personal feelings can
influence our interpretations of facts.
. This trick of the Moon to disorder our percep-
tions, by feeJ.ing, can manifest in larger ways to pro-
duce tragic results. A young woman is ''jilted'' by
her sweetheart; she reacts, in feeling, with intense
resentment and suffers for years with the (subcon-
scious) conviction that '' a11 men are e:heats and
liars.'' (We can just see her tense face and hear the
shrill words). She is not thinking with her intel-
ligence but with her feelings of disappointment, out-
raged p-ridle, and loneliness. A man suffers some un-
kindness or injlli!tice at the hands of another man
of different race or nationality. He reacts with bitter-
ness that spills out on his children. One of his sons
''takes in'' this unhappy impression, and, because
one person gave his father a "bad time" he, the son,
is from then on prejudiced against the people of that
nationality and he feels the strong urge to condemn
Lhem all, without reservation, to perdition. In this
example, a weakness in the son's make up is revealed.
THE MOON: PRINCIPLE OF MOTHERHOOD 55
He was not using his own ability to think, but left
him.self wide open to the negative impulses of the
father's disturbed emotions. And, until he strength-
ens his power to discriminate and think-conscious-
ly-he will continually victimize himself, through
his uncontrolled! feelings, in his attitudes about that
particular nationality.
This retention of subconscious patterns, through
feeling, represents on a large scale that which is
known as ''race memory,'' and in this connection
the Moon, as "mother," stands· for identification of
the individual with his nationality or race. Mars
urges us to fight for our country, but through the
Moon we love our country as a child loves its mother.
The symbolism is paralleled, exactly. As long as race
consciousness pertains to the subconscious patterns
of a person, he is in the srum.e kind of bondage to his
"feeling of nationality" as a child is "in bondage
to his mother'' when he sees, in the protective secur-
ity of her love, the be-all and end-all o.f his living.
These states of mind are, in essence, identical; one
is infantilism with reference to an individual, the
other is infantilism in reference to a race pattern.
When emotionality is matured, all mothers are ]\foth-
er, persons of whatever nationality are Brother and
Sister, and any-or all-naitions can be Home. How-
ever, in the scale of things, each ra.ce pattern pro-
vides a "nurturing mold"--or home-for specific
and evolutionary purpose. Each is ''good in its own
time and for its own purpose,'' just as each mother
is, "the right mother for each child. "
Since the Moon, as a mental factor, pertains to
the interpretation of the horoscope for a psycholog-
56 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
ical or psychiatric standpoint and so cannot be dealt
with in detail here, we offer a few points of basic
interpretation of the Moon, as Maternity, in com-
bination with the other planets.
The degree or intensity of maternal capacity is
indicated by the sign position of the Moon, ''ex-
perience-patterns," by the aspects made to the Moon
by the other planetary bodies. In the sign Cancer
the Moon is at her most mothedy position ; the urge
. to nurture is here the most marked. The next two
- best signs -for maternal capacity are Taurus and
Pisces. In Leo, the Sun sign, she glows with warmth
and power, but with a positive quality that contrasts
with her basic passivity of nature. In Libra, she
blends beautifully with the Venusian vibration of
the partnership jlign wh_ich ~_!Q_~_
__§eventh_
house irn ulses. In Gemini-and Aquarius she is at --..I
her most purely niental, and in Aquarius the Moon
1 is as impersonal as she 'can get-detached, scientific,
l and friendly rather than purely motherly in feeling.
In Capricorn she blends with the form side of life
through the Saturn vibration ; here she is practical,
capable, dependable, but somewhat lacking in the
responsiveness and sympathy that mark the maternal
urge. In Scorpio she is intensely emotional and gen-
erative, but the watery Mars vibration emphasizes
force and severity. This position is considered un-
favorable for the Moon from a physiological stand-
point. In a man's chart it d!oes not reflect a partic-
ularly harmonious or happy ''picture of women.'' In
Aries, the 'Moon is most definitely "un-herself."
Here she expresses with a dynamic, egoistic, and
lll(8Sculine_ quality that is the antithesis of her fem.-
THE MOON: PRINCIPLE OF MOTHERHOOD 57
inine nature--the keyword is ''self-assertion.''
It must be emphasized that the Moon focuses the
maternal urge, but there are several kinds of "varia-
tion of experience·.'' These are indicated by planets
which are found in the sign Cancer, ruled by the
Moon; these planets are said to be disposited by the
Mo()n. Also, planets in the fourth house-regardless
of sign-indicate, to a large degree, the objective
.. side of the ''home-consciousness ;'' it is through
1'home experienee" that these planets :find their chief
-· channel of expression and highest potential for
fulfillment.
The faculty of instinct is one of the keywords
of the Moon function. In this connection, the Moon
symbolizes a "race urge," a "biologieal compul-
sion.'' She represents the most deeply rooted expres-
sion of the drive of the feminine polarity. Though
passive and receptive in nature, the Moon finds her
rulership and detriment in Cancer and Capricorn,
both cardinal signs; thus a certain dynamic or gen-
.. erating faculty is seen in the Moon functioning.
· To the degree that the Moon is allied with signs
that are congenial to her, she expresses with strong
-drive, deep fulfillment needs; when she is allied
to uncongenial signs, she must express her urges
through qualities that are not congenial to her basic
keynote; to the degree that she is well-aspected, she
' promises fulfillments, harmony of give-and-take in ex-
perience, and health; to the degree that she is afflicted,
she indicates ''feminine karma,'' both objectively
and subjective1y, the needs for transmutation and
regeneration of feeling, physical disharmonies-par-
ticularly in women- i and the indications of trans-
58 STUDIES IN ASTROLOLY
muting the feminine expression are shown by any
affliction to the Moon in the charts of men as well
as of women.
The following interpretative notes must, of neces-
sity, remain basic and simple, for clarity's sake. Re-
member that the Moon rules the function of the
subconscious mind, and any afflicted aspect repre-
sents a negative "picture" which brought over from
the past is ' 'close to the surface of consciousness,''
and will manifest, definitely in childhood. The trans-
mutation of a horoscope starts with the transmuta-
tion of afflicted Moon aspects.
Moon-Sun: The maternal impulse is here iden-
tified, in some way with Power. .Affiicted, feeling
and purpose are in conflict-either one tending to
predominate ; excess of the Moon influence tends to
deterioration of inner strength; with excess of Sun
influence, maternity is expressed in terms of domina-
tion ood tyranny. This is a disintegrative aspect
because the person, through "feeling about herself,"
is not fully aware of inner capacities, therefore, self-
assurance is lacking; to regenerate this aspect, p-0w-
er, in domestic experience, must be redirected for
Moon fulfillments, not expressed just for its own
sake. Benefic feeling and purpose are harmonized;
maternal experience is expressed and fulfilled with
eapability; a certain "positiveness" is found, thus
indicating the possibility that the mother may be
the "leader" in the familyfil\foon in good aspect to
the Sun, is a redemption in any chart because it
shows an integration of basic polar~
THE lVIOON: PRINCIPLE OF MOTHERHOOD 59
Moon-Mercury: Afflicted, feeling and maternal
<>oncern conflict with thought; the mother with this
aspect nee-do mental disciplining because she tends
to ''interpret'' according to her feelings at the mo-
ment, and not in line with actuality. She should
watch her words carefully and not give way to over-
much talking while she is emotionally disturbed
because she is apt to commit herself to untruths and
injustices. ''Take time to think'' is a good policy for
redirecting ihis impulse, and, when this aspect is
found in the chart of a child, the mother will recog-
nize that the child is very impressionabe to her
words-she must not inflict on his mind her negative
impulses and thoughts. Many people who have this
aspect have been, karmically, impressed! with the
negative expressions of their mothers' emotions, and
have lived for many years with unhappiness because
of the ''pictures'' which were impressed on their sub-
conscious minds in childhood. In either case, mother
or child, mental discipline and emotional poise, are
of prime importance to creating happiness and S'll.C-
cess. Establish the habit .of ''finding out the facts,''
(Mercury) and by acting in accordance with them,
feeling can be controlled.
Moon-Venus: These two form the basis of the
fulfilled feminine polarity in the sense that they
indicate woman's emotions as mother and as mate.
Since Venus is ''cultivation and refinement,'' her
inharmonious patterns with the Moon indicates a
lack of sympathetic feeling ; depending on which of
the two is the more strongly emphasized in the chart,
the maternal urge will obscure the "response to the
·other fellow,'' or the esthetic or partnership urge
60 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
will .obscure the needs for motherhood. This is an
aspect symbolizing an inharmonious relationship
with the mother, as far as emotion is concerned. And,
in the chart of either a man or a woman, it represents
a need to balance and complete the feminine patterns.
This process may be done by (for the Moon) taking
advantage of opportunities to express the urge to
nurture and (for Venus) development of courtesy,
cooperation, ''thinking in terms of the other fellow''
which after all, is the basis of all civilized (Ve-
nusian) living. Bene:fic aspects between Moon and
Venus mdicate a basic cultivation of the emotional
nature. Refinement and charm, courtesey and good
taste have been built in; these qualities may be re-
flected, physically, as beauty and grace. Harmonious
relationships with the mother, or women generally,
are promised. Cultivation of esthetic faculties are
also indicated, since the subconscious mind has been
strongly impressed by the redeeming factor of
''thinking and acting in terms of harmony.''
Moon-Mars: This, in whatever form is a touchy
aspect, since the two form the basis of ''primitive
emotion.'' Intensity of subconscious impressionability
is indicated and the maternal feelings are highly
charged. If negative, particularly the square, this
is "hot-temper,'' irritability, jealousy, and resent-
ment. The urge to dominate is strong and such moth-
ers tend to ''lead their children by the nose.'' This
aspect indicates the possibility that ambition and
the "urge-to-achieve" is stimulated by the experience
of motherhood-such women feel the urge to ":fight
for their children.'' With the negative aspwts, this
urge is expressed with great force; the "law of fang
THE MOON: PRINCIPLE OF MOTHERHOOD 61
and claw" is much in evidence. Potentialities of
hatreds and enmities are strongly evidenced by Mars
afflicting Moon, since the subconscious mind is keenly
impressed by the ''urge to defend and defeat.'' Har-
monious patterns of 1\lfars-Moon indicate the pos-
sibilities of much more constructive action-energy
is expressed through the urge to achieve rather than
the impulse to destroy. This is a courageous mother,
intrepid and valiant, who is capable of living her
maternal experiences in terms of positiveness and
hard work. A good Saturn, Venus, and/or Jupiter
aspect to the Moon-patience, harmony, and/or be-
nevolence-are good correctives for Mars-Moon
afflictions.
Moon-Jupiter: The maternal urge is expressed
through benevolence and abundance. Afflicted, the
mother may be inclined to over-indulgence-she seeks
to ''overprotect'' her childrn; a superabundance of
maternal concern is indicated, and though the motives
may be utterly sincere and unselfish, the mother with
Moon afflicted by Jupiter in lacking in judgment-
her feelings obscure her sensible evaluations and she
tends to weaken her children by making things ''ioo
easy for them. '' She must discipline herself by, to
some degree, disciplining her children. She must
allow them the privilige of dleveloping through the
exercise of their own initiative and in fulfillment of
responsibilities. In thus "freeing herself" from them
she, to a de,,,ooree, gains in perspective and emotional
control. Benefic aspects between Moon and Jupiter
form a very beautiful pattern of amplitude, gen-
erosity, sincerity, and balanced judgment. Such a
mother expresses herself abundantly and healthily.
62 STUDIES IN .ASTROLOGY
She is a radiation of warmth and comfort, a source
of well-being for her family, both physically and
psychologically. This aspect is an astrological por-
trait of Ling Sao, the mother in Pearl Buck's Book,
Dragon Seed.
Moon-Saturn: Here the maternal experience is
identified with the form side of life through Respon-
sibility. The conjunction of Saturn with the Moon
makes the maternal experience something of a cruci-
fixion-even beyond the ordinary meaning of the
word. Maternity, in this instance, "nails" a woman
to the exigencies of life, and through domestic ex-
periences, she must fulfill herself through many ob-
stacles which may be actual, but which also may be
because of her subconscious viewpoint. This is a pat-
tern of "na.rro-wi.ng"-much has to be done through a
limitation of scope. .Affiicting Venus and/or Jupiter,
Moon conjunct Saturn presents a rather sad picture
-a domestic experience lived rather joylessly and
in tnms of limitation of means. Afflicting Saturn
and/or Mars, the vitality and "thrust" are depleted
-achievement is made against the counteractives of
restraints and inhibitions. Saturn square or opposition
Moon steadies the temperament and may prove a
necessary counter-active to dynamic affliction, but the
Saturn influence will be felt as impediment, restri-
tion, or inhibition. The position of Saturn will show a
channel through which the maternal urge will express
for the fulfillment of responsibility. The benefic as-
pects between Moon and Saturn indicate control of
feeling and integration of practical abilities. This is
the strong, competent mother who lives in an orderly,
methodical manner. She is a pillar of dependability
THE MON: PRINCIPLE OF MOTHERHOOD 63
and, whether or not she is particularly emotional o.r
loving, she still is reliable and able to put the domes-
tic side of her life on a sound, practical basis. Per-
haps somewhat lacking in ''expressiveness,'' she is
a loyal and devoted mother who expresses her ma-
ternal love in her desire to protect and stabilize.
Moon-Uranus, Moon-Neptune: In these patterns,
an indication is shown whereby the basic maternal
urge may be redirected into impersonal, spiritual,
universal, or creative channels. In contact with Ura-
nus and Neptune, the indic.ations of the Moon take
on a scope that she does not have with the lesser
planets. The subconscious mind is sensitized and
vitalized by attunement to what might be called
"cosmic patterns"- intuition and the psychic fac-
ulties may be unfolded. Moon-Uranus is much more
dynamic and creative; Moon-Neptune is more sen-
sitive, emotional, receptive, and compassionate. How-
ever, the interpretative approaches to these aspects
must be made from a comparison with the Moon's
aspects to the lesser planets-since they form the
"first steps on the ladder;" Moon trine Uranus,
squaire Mars is not as easy as when Moon is sextile
or trine Mars. In this example1 much control and di-
rection is required of Mars before the Uranus
trine can express constructively. Otherwise, Uranus
backed by a disorderly Mars, may express destruc-
tively. Moon trine Neptune, square Sun is a very
sensitive Moon, impressionable, psychic; but with
disorder between Purpose and Feeling, or depleted
vitality; the sensivity of Neptune may result in some
form of negative psychisms and mental confusions.
Study the l\foon-Uranus aspects by synthesizing the
64 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
l\foon with the other dynamic planets that she may
aspect; Moon-Neptune-compare her patterns with
Venus and Saturn. We must know how the subcon-
scious mind is aligned to either the masculine or the
feminine polarities-this gives us a key to the basic
subconscious quality. Moon in aspect to either Uranus
or Neptune is a clue to ''latent universality,'' since
these aspects show the direction by which the prim-
itive, basic, ''flesh and blood'' urges of the Moon
will in time, be expressed in terms of impersonal,
or cosmic, fulfillments.
Chapter VI
VENUS: PRINCIPLE OF PERFECTED
MANIFESTATION
65
Venus, feminine and magnetic, is the conscious-
ness of harmony resulting from the alchemy of emo-
tional transmutations.
Harmony may be defined as the ''consciousness
of fulfilled union"- the antithesis of Ego-separate-
ness. Through primitive Mars, as individuals, we
live in, and for, self; Mars, regenerate, is that ex-
pression of self which is based on the courage of
individual integrity. .A human being cannot ''give
to. others'' if he has not established an awareness of
what and who he is within, an awareness of his po-
tentialities and the determination to fulfill them.
This Mars urge toward self-maintenance is the neces-
sary stage by which the Ego identifies itself with
the streams of life through ''projection'' and the
resultant karma. Each of us has one soul body to
create; we cannot create it for another and no one
can create it for us. Every one of us has-in each
incarnation-at least one phase of the soul body to
fulfill; we cannot fulfill another's and no one can
fulfill o-urs. That, in essence is the purpo-se of the
Mars' vibration-awareness of individuality.
However, we :find that experiences are the objecti-
fications of our own inner states which are ''ig-
nited" by our contacts with other people, When the
66 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
Mars vibration tends to predominate, we are urged
to use cmr self-awareness to interfere in another's
life, to prush him around, to subjugate him for our
own purposes. This is Mars as a disrupter of rela-
tionship; fulfilled relationship is self-expression that
contributes to another's good at the same time. The
Venus vibration is our capacity to act-to draw to
ourselves-in terms of harmonious interchange with
other people, in cooperation and assistance, with
good will and constructive purposes. In this way our
projections are fruitful and mutuality of development
is assured. The streams of expe6ence are fed and
progressively sustained.
The title-word "manifestation" may be con-
sidered from two approaches. Saturn is Manifesta-
tion as physiool form, the objectification of Spirit.
Jn relationship processes, Saturn is seen to be "re-
sponsibility.'' There is a heavy, earth-bound, con-
densed quality about responsibility that perfectly
reflects Saturn's essential nature.
It has been o~erved, and psychologically proved,
that the impulse of love provides the most satisfac-
tory basis for the fulfillments of obligations and re-
sponsibilities. When we love, we find resources of
greater courage and deeper faith, the expressions
which tend to "lighten the burden." Moreover, ful-
fillment is made much more completely and satisfac-
torily when a loving, happy, and enthusiastic at-
titude forms the basis of effort. Thus, we derive our
title-the Venusian consciousness as the basis of
perfecting the body of re"lationship. Saturn's exalta-
tion in Venus' sign, Libra, is the astrological cor-
relative. Further, the experience of relationship
VENUS: PERFECTED MANIFESTATION 67
(Venus) automatically implies the responsibility
(Saturn) of fulfillment.
We are told that "Uranus is the higher octav:e
of Venus.'' The emotional triad is comprised of
Mars, Venus, and Uranus. While Mars is the indi-
vidualistic, male projection, and Venus symbolizes
his transmutation and refinement through relation-
ship, Uranus is the "fusion" of the two within the
individual. Thus the higher vibratory frequency of
Uranus is the blend of masculine and feminine po-
larities which is known as the ''hermetic marriage,''
and the creative expression of this vibration man-
ifests its fulfillment without the necessity of a part-
ner. We can see, from the study of this process, that
Uranus represents the expression of supreme u'Yllion
which is not dependent upon the illusions of emo-
tional relationships; for in relationship, the crisscross
of male-female interchange is always evident. The
polarities, fused, permit the person to create from
his own center, on a higher level of emotional con-
sciousness than either Mars or Venus can achieve
singly, or in interchange with each other through
two different people. Venus in Uranus' sign, Aquar-
ius, is a transcendent expression of love based on
detachment and freedom.
Venus is in its fall in the sign Virgo. Virgo is
mental, analytical, and critical. When you analyze,
you pull a thing to pieces to observe the separate
parts. This, in the sphere of Venus experience, makes
for emphasis on things. Affection is expressed in
terms of ''right and wrong,'' ''duty,'' and ''fitness,''
in the superficial sense. Venus in Virgo is seen to· be
love as ''something to be don~" ;r;:i.ther than as a
68 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
source of life-giving and enriching experience which
refreshes the heart and illuminates the mind.
An extended expression of Venus in Virgo may
be described as love of one's work, but in lesser
phases , or in domestic experience generally, it seems
to show as a preoccupation with the practical matters
of daily living: a c1ean, well-ordered home, a talent
for good cooking, and the making of lovely things.
'!'he redemption of Venus in Virgo will be found in
the establishment of harmonious (beautiful) atti-
tud~ toward other people. A critical talent is con-
veyed by Virgo, but Venus urges the expression of
tact and courtesy; sympathetic understanding must
take the place of spotting-and exposing-the other
fellow's faults. A clean, orderly home is a fine and
wonderful thing, but a home that also contains a
joyous, comfortable, and livable vibration is rep-
resentative of fulfilled heart experience, the cultiva-
tion of Venus.
Venus, in any horoscope, is the symbol of the
esthetic faculty as well as of the love potential.
Rhythm, balance, proportion, and taste are just as
evident in cultivated relationships as they are in the
qualities of things which we call beautiful.
Venus is the instinctive esthetic response-the
result of inner refinement following processes of
emotional transmutations. She is thus seen to be our
innate ability to perceive and appreciate color; line,
modulation, and proportion. She is ciiltiva.ted taste
-the discriminating evaluation.
Neptune, on the other hand, is our response to
contrived boouty-in other words, our capacity for
art response. Many people have a keen response
VENUS: PERFECTED MANIFESTATION 69
to the beauties of Nature and of other people,
but, lacking Neptune, they cannot respond to
the abstract or symbolic expressions of art forms.
Then, there are those who possess a high degree of
development-a great talent or perhaps even genius
-along the lines of some particular'art who are un-
appreciative of beauty in other forms and may dem-
onstrate their "lack of Venus" by uncouthness of
personal appearance, unsociability, and deficiency of
emotional development and relationship• cultivation.
~-
· · Ven.us gives the lovely complexion, or the grace-
ful, well-proportioned body, or the expressive voice
that people are born with-they are naturally beauti-
ful. Neptune is the clever use of cosmetics which
creates the illusion of beauty; the dancing and sing-
ing lessons by which people contrive a greater degree
of beauty than they posses..<i naturally. Venus is the
instinctive good taste by which a woman adorns her-
self according to her own personal requirements; the
selection of clothes which, by design and color,
unify her appearance-she and her clothes are one
harmonious thing. Neptune is fashion, vogue, and
artifice by which people of rm-individual taste fol-
low a contrived, artificial pattern. Being fashionable
may be-but often isn't-synonymous with being in
good taste.
Neptune is art-in whatever form, the contriv-
ance of a symbol to express an esthetic idea or ideal.
Of all the forms of art, instrumental music and
drama are particularly-and peculiarly-Neptunian.
The special qualities of Venus are evidenced in the
arts of Dance and Song. This statement is made in
reference to the "natural basis" of these two arts;
70 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
both are highly cultivated manifestations of re-
markably developed bodily functions. Neptune and
Venus, in some combination -0r relationship, arc
necessary for the astrological indications of artistic
talent. Another planet may indicate a special qual-
ification, but these two form the '' esthetic basis.''
In the two signs Libra and Pisces, Venus finds
the purest expressions -0f her essential nature; Libra,
the seventh house sign, is the symbol of relationship,
and Pisces is the essence of spiritualized love. In
'raurus, Venus finds a strong expression of her emo-
tional potentiality, but in more earthy terms. In
Gemini and Aquarius she blends with the relation.ship
urge'! of fraternal and friend(ship 1oV'e. In Sagittarius,
combining with the Jupiter-ninth-house quality, she
is considered very favorable, since an ''overtone'' of
spirituality and idealism is implied. In Cancer she
is home loving and motherly, keenly responsive to
the needs of loved ones. In Leo she glows warmly
and dramatically-Venus in Leo is the arch symbol
of romantic love. In Scorpio she is intensely mag-
netic, the l\fars vibration is indicative of love as sex
expression. However, this position of Venus is con-
sidered unfavorable-for her-because ''partnership
is threatened by personal desire,'' and from a physio-
logical standpoint, in refernce to the feminine phys-
ical organism, afflictions to Venus in Scorpio can
threaten fulfillments in sex exchange. However, in
higher types, this position of Venus can promise the
potential for great transmutations of emotion through
consecrated devotion-it can be very spiritual. In
Capricorn, as in Virgo, material or practical con-
siderations seem to predominate. An afflicted Venus
VENUS: PERFECTED MANIFESTATION 71
in Capricorn is relationship--0r love, or its pretense
-as a furtherance of ambition and position. This
d-epletion of Venus is indicative of consummate self-
ishness-in the eold, calculating sense of the word.
In Aries, Venus is "love as self-expression"-carry-
ing out the egoistic, dynamic influence of Mars..
The scope of Venus potential in a chart will be
found by determining the harmonious aspects a.~
well as the planets disposited by Venus. The latter
phrase is important because Venus herself may be
UD111Spected or weak by position or afflicted by as-
pect; but planets in Taurus and/or Libra are ''ex-
pressing through Venus'' and extend her influence
into the chart. Since Venus is plU!Sive-the result of
transmutative processes-- she is afflicted-she does
not afflict another planet. Squares and oppositions
to Venus-or malefic conjunctions, represent (1)
the possibilities of frustration of the urge to union
and the expression of love; (2) states of conscious-
ness that are inhibitive to the development of the
esthetie and social urges. Venus sextiling an otherwise
afflicted planet shows the need for using Venus as an
alchemical agency to redleem the other planet from
its affliction. Trines to V:enm represent flowerings of
the soul, the cultivation of inner graces of mind
and emotion, the capacities for beauti£ul and joyous
living.
When Venus is unaspected, we must regard her
house position as the focal point of the social urge;
her sign position indicates the esoteric potential of
the love nature. We can interpret this pattern as
representing an incarnation in which alchemical
preparation is being made for the future. Though
72 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
\-(;nus, in this case, gives little promise of "reward"
in this life, yet if reaction patterns are established by
which self-isolative impulses are transmuted into giv-
ing, or devotion to an ideal or work or the cultiva-
tion of sympathetic understanding, the process will
build in a Venus return in the future. The person
with an unaspected Venus may possess a disposition
that is not particularly happy or sociable, but if he
does something, now and then, to make someone else
happy or encouraged, he then expresses energy in
terms of Venus-an emanation of good-will which
must, inevitably, reap its reward.
Venus strong by influence but affiicted by aspects
is ''urge without cultivation;'' the gregarious man
who can't distinguish friends from acquaintances;
the woman who just loves beautiful colors-she
wears a red hat, a purple coat, a yellow dress, and
pink shoes ; the ''artist'' who will sing at the slightest
. provocation-his voice distresses all who hear him;
the woman who is addicted to collecting "nice
things' '-her home is a jungle of incoherent bric-a-
brac. These are cartoon-like examples of Venus being
spilled out all over the place. These persons display
a decided lack of discriminative selection or a sense
of the fitness of things. Venus is always the ''nicest
way of doing anything.''
Planetary aspects to Venus are being discussed
in other parts of this series, but at this time we sug-
gest a synthesis of Venus with the three "primitives"
-lVIars, Moon, and Saturn. These three form the
foundations of experience on the emotional, mental,
and physical planes and their relationship with Ve-
nus gives us the how and why of her scope and i.p_-
VENUS: PERFECTED MANIFESTATION 73
fiuence in the chart.
Mars-Venus : This is the pattern of "desire love;"
the sex impulse and its refinement through union ;
the assertiveness of self and its completion through
relationship ; the projection of dynamic urge and its
perfeeted fulfillment; in marital experience-fulfilled
matehood through the integration of male and female
polarities. Regardless of the physical sex of the per-
son, the predominance of either Mars or Venus in
the chart indicates the predominant polarity tend-
ency. If both are deficient the emotional potentials
are low, sexuality lacks fire, and the purely mental
or the purely physical expressions of life will pre-
dominate in the person's experience. If Mars afflicts
Venus, it is necessary to compare carefully the scope
of each. Mars strong, Venus weak: predominance of
masculinity, dynamic and self-assertive urges and
sex desires; Mars weak, Venus strong: femininity
predominates, the personality lacks thrust and zest;
esthetic response may be highly developed but there
is little urge toward work or effort; this pattern is
not favorable for men, since the feminine element pre-
do,Illinates over the masculine. Mars sextile or trine
Venus: promise of sexual mutuality and fulfilled
love impulses; a healthy, integrated emotional na-
ture; capacity to enjoy activity and to work co-
operatively ; in the charts of either men or women
this aspect is favorable, since it promises mutuality
between the masculine and feminine phases of pe·r-
sonality and relationship.
Moon-Venus: This is the feminine basis of the
horoscope! Woman as mother and as mate ; the latent
feminine polarity in men, indicative of their rela-
74 STUDIES IN .ASTROLOGY
tionships and experiences with women, generally.
Affiiction.s between Moon and Venru; in a woman's
chart are indic.ative of physiological inharmonies,
possible frustrations of maternal and wifely im-
pulses; unfulfillments of the affectional capacities.
In a man's chart, Moon afflicting Venus is indicative
of his feminine karma, inharmonies of relationship
with mother, wife and/or female associates. This is
the man who is unlearned in the ways of woman-kind
-his feminine patterns are in disorder, unregenerate,
and promising of disappointment and friction;
through ''heart ignorance'' he makes painful karma
for the future. This man needs to cultivate under-
standing and sympathy; until he does, his conscious-
ness remains, to a degree, brute-like, particularly if
his Mars and Saturn are strong, regardlecss of aspects.
Saturn-Venus: Inharmoniously, this is joy sac-
rificed to responsibility, love dominated by duty, or
love depleted by introversion, ignorance, or fear;
enforced discipline of the esthetic or love impulses
as a karmic return from past excesses; Venus other-
wise well-aspected and strong, the square from Sat-
urn may indicate limitation of scope for the perfec-
tion of quality. Harmoniously aspected, Saturn-Ve-
nus is expression of love through responsibility; ful-
fillment of respoDBibilities is a channel of flowering of
the love capacities; love is here seen to be an anchor,
an agency of beneficial restraint and direction o.F
energy and work. This is "love which must be made
manifest"-the dream must be actually lived. Con-
stancy and fidelity are keywords of this aspect-
love goes deep and lasts long. Union serves t.o stim-
ulate practical talents and the experience of loving
forms a solid basis for constructive, well-rounded-
out living.
75
Chapter VII
THE PLANET MERCURY
To the planet Mercury is symbolically ascribed
the faculty of Intellect by which we interpret, inden-
tify, classify, analyze, and evaluate the things of
Earth. As the Principle of Idienti:fication it represents
"name-giving," "word-creating," and the objectifi-
cation of thoughts in spoken and written words. It is
the symbol of conscious communication and percep-
tion. It is our awareness when we are unencum-
bered by our emotional congestion or sub-conscious-
feeling disturbances.
The substance we call Mercury is heavy, yet its
quality is liquescent; our thoughts, when unorgan-
ized or unfocused, are also liquescent, :fleeting,
quickly merging from one impression to another,
''up-and-down,'' ''yes-and-no,'' ''now-hot-now-cold.''
However, when our thought-patterns are organized
we have the faculty of deciding definitely and em-
bodying them in some sort of concrete crefinite out-
picturing in single words or in their extensions into
sentences. This out-picturing is what we call "lan-
guage"-the universal faculty of embodiment of
thought. The liquescence of Mercury is seen in the
many ways by which a specific thing can be iden-
tified; its definiteness is seen in the "solidity" with
which it is id!entified rin a specific word or sentence.
76 STUDIES IN .ASTROLOGY
Mercury identifies the abstract as well as the oon-
crete. It is through Mercury that we understand the
concrete, but it is through other planetary faculties
that we understand the abstract. Mercury, however,
is the basic root of our understanding-unfoldm.ents,
from the most literal of concreteness to the most in-
tangible of abstractness. Let us analyze the planetary
symbol: a cross (matter, manifestation, structure,
concreteness, incarnation) surmounted by a circle
(perfection, completeness) which in turn is sur-
mounted by an upturned semi-circle (instrumenta-
tion, receptivity of instruction or inspiration). Syn-
thesizing these symbolic factors, we see that by the
exercise of the Mercury-faculty we learn about life
principles through their expression in the chemical
region of the universe. This symbol might be called
"Venus with the horns of Wisdom," and Mercury's
air-dignity, Gemini, is the ninth-house sign (Wisdom
octave) of Venus' Libra. We are told that the Lords
of Venus and Mercury were the Masters who in-
structed infant Humanity in the principles of lan-
guage, the crafts, arts, and sciences by which Hu-
manity learned to function with ever-increasing ef-
ficiency in the material world. In short, Mercury is
the link (messenger) between the gods (principles)
and mankind. It is through Mercury that we learn,
first, the objective nature and quality of things, and
thru the awareness of principles opens our conscious-
ness to the subjective reality; on botlh octaves we are
learning but on the first we integrate through iden·
ti:fication; on the second we know through experience
which yields Understanding.
Since the symbol of Venus is included in the sym-
THE PLANET MERCURY 77
bol of Mercury it may be surmised that all of man-
kind's artistic expressions were founded through the
desire to communicate. The up-turned semi-circle
which Mercury has in common with Neptnne
represents a microcosmic form of the instrumen-
tation which is one of Neptune's principal mean-
ings. Primitively, man draws a little picture of
something to communicate his thought about it to
another person. From that level he evolv·es a sys-
tem of symbols to communicate his ''thought-
pictures' '-ideographs, letters and their combination
into words, thence to sentences. The expression
th111t mankind gives of his concepts, realizations,
dreams, and aspirations-distilled from evolutionary
experience-is what we call the FINE ARTS;
they are all, regardless of maJterials or techniques,
the Mercury-faculty extended by Venus-Neptune
as symbolic communications from the' resources
of consciousness. Not everyone understands a
pi'Citure, a piece of music, a poem, or a sculpture;
those who do are sympathetically at-tuned to the
ccmsciousness of the artist. However, everyone who
possesses a normal degree of mentation can under-
stand the relatively ''literal symbolism'' of language
and expiress himself-at least in speech-by it. To
learn speech is something we have all done in every
incarnation since the beginning; we do it-:-and learn
it-instinctively. This instinct is symbolized by the
mental realm of the Moon-vibration-that which we
know or learn through subconscious-memory faculty,
Thus speech is seen to be as instinctively natural as
walking or sleeping. Reading and writing, howevel',
are extensions of Moon through Mercury. The con-
78 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
scious mind must be trained to understand the sym-
bol-technique represented by the particular language
to which one is born. You learned English in your
childhood, but you may not have known English in
any ·previous incarnation. You learned to speak in
English by instinctive imitation of those around you
as a recapitulation of a faculty you have exercised in
every incarnation; but it may be that only within the
scope of the relatively recent past that you acquired
a fluency with the written word and it may be that
English, your birth-language, is the only one that
you now have any ability to read or write. An out-
standing ilJ.ustration of the ''adulthood'' of Mercury
is seien in~he natural talent of learning to speak,
read, and write in other languages. The possession
of this talent is evidence that the person has exer-
cised his Mercury-potentials for many incarnatiorui>
his mind has acquired a receptivity by which he can
comprehend a variety of symbol-techniques; compre-
hension of vocabulary, grammar, etc., have become
a specialized faculty that is integrated in conscious-
ness. The "mercurialness" of Mercury is nowhere
better illustrated than in the ''magic'' that takes
place in a person's consciousness toward other people
when he learns to communicate in their l,anguage-
OR when they communicate with him in his. The
''psychological space'' that tends to exist between
people who are foreigners to each other is thereby, to
a degree, disintegrated and a sense of mutual ''to-
getherness" takes itc.; place. From "Mercury as
words" we graduate to ''numbers," then to abstract
symbols. In these three stages, the conscious mind' is
exercised on three specific levels, the first two being
THE PLANET MERCURY 79
the more concrete and direct channels for learning.
It is true that each planet has its special effect
on the mental faculties, but, in addition to Mercury,
three others specifically refer to "mental octaves."
These are Moon, Neptune, and Jupiter. The Moon,
ruler of Cancer, is the "instinctive" mind; by this
octave we think by ''inherited patterns,'' we ''think
as the !tribe thlnks," we think through feeling, fear,
desire, prejudice and instinctive security-patterns.
Mercury is our "indlividual choice and seleetion,u
''thought free of congestions of feeling or subcon-
sciOus negatives.'' Neptune is the psychie mind, the
telepathic mind and that part of menta.tion by which
we become instruments. Jupiter is the "mind of
morality,'' it is ''thought raised to the level of con-
cept, '' decision that is based not just on expediency
but on understanding of principle. Through Mer-
cury we learn by study and observation-through
Jupiter we learn from experience from which we
distill improvement and growth. All four of these
planetary symbols involve the semi-circle which is
the symbol of the Moon; Jupiter is ''the Moon sur-
mounting the cross of incarnation;'' Mercury and
Neptune have the semi-circle up-turned but Nep-
tune's symbol does not use the cross---it is the pure
symbol of "1ebalice," "perfect intake," "receptivity
that is founded on faith'' and it is the symbol of the
upper-octave faculty which we call instrumentation.
We ascribe to Mercury the rulership of two mut-
able signs: Gemini and Virgo, Air and Earth re-
spectively. As ruler of Gemini, Mercury is exalted
(matured) in Virgo because knowledge is matured
in being put to use; knowledge, as such, remains in its
80. STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
''childhood'' if it is not projected or expressed for
the ongoing of incarnation. Only through knowledge
can service be fulfilled and material affairs be im-
proved. Anything that is ''rightly known'' can be
"rightly used;" ignorance is the path to "wrong
use" and corruption of service.
Mercury is the most plastic of all planetary vi-
brations. By this is meant that ''he'' is most easily
affected by-or qualified by-the sign which he is
in. Both of the 1signs of his dignity are mutable signs;
one (Gemini) .is female-masculine, the other (Virgo)
is male-feminine. Mercury, as intellect, is un-emo-
tional or neuter as far as gender is concerned. By
sign-rulership he is the root of fraternal relationship-
patterns and the androgynity of his nature is clearly
revealed in the nature of Uranus, ruler of Gemini's
ninth-house sign, which is the symbol of creative bi-
polarity. The intellect is also a bi-polar faculty since
it is one which both sexes must exercise in every in-
carnation. It, as far as "generic quality" is con-
cerned, is neither masculine nor feminine, but it is
not peculiar to either one or the other. One of the
evidences of polarity-fusion is the devP.lopment and
exercise of intellect by human beings incarnated as
Eemales; just as cultivation of the sympathies repre-
sents a "rounding-out" of the nature of males. The
mind must be trained to co-ordinate the conditions
of, and give expression to, the powers of emotion,
feeling and desire on all evolutionary octaves.
As the faculty of reason, Mercury represents the
root-in-consciousness by which the Law of Cause and
Effect is learned. The conscious mind observes the
material world, hence an awareness of the out-pie-
'!'HE PLANET MERCURY 81
turing of inner causes is evolved. In mythology, the
wing-footed Mercury was the messenger of the gods
to mankind. ''The gods'' is simply a symbolic way of
referring to life principles. When mankind emerges
from a purely feeling-reaction toward life and ex-
perience he clears the way to unfolding his aware-
ness of the material world and the principles which
it expresses and by which it functions. Man learns
about an action when he perceives its effect; from
that, he learns about his own consciousness as the
source of all his actions and expressions. The un-
reasonable person-if one could be entirely so-is
so because he refuses to open his consciousness to the
voice of Mercury. He does not study himself in rela-
tionship to the effects which he has caused. He does
not study things and other people as manifestations
of law, therefore he does not integrate himself in
form. He remains in an unfocused swirling of feel-
ing-reaction; no control, no pattern, no directive.
Planetary squares to Mercury represent the person's
potential for being un-reason-able. Bear this in mind
when you analyze a chart-it is very important.
Mercury is the way by which we learn how to dis-
integrate congestions filld fulfill ideals.
A psychological point that may be of interest:
when Mercury's Virgo is on the Ascendant, his other
dignity is (usually) on the Mid-heaven. The intro-
version that is so often ascribed to Virgo-Ascendant
is here pictured: Self-development is the focus of am-
bition fulfillment. Personality complexities of Virgo-
Ascendant and Pisces-Ascndant (Virgo and Pisces
are the last of the signs of the lower and upper
semi-circles) are represented by the polarity of
82 STUDIES IN .ASTROLOGY
Capricorn-Cancer synchronizing with the fifth and
eleventh houses-the houses of creative love. When-
ever Capricorn-Cancer are focused in the fifth house,
we sm• the love potential mixed up with parentage-
consciousness and these persons are most likely to
have emotional complexes of a karmic nature in re-
lationships with their parents.
Mercury, variable and impressionable, is at the
mercy of "too much action, "too muc:h fixity" and
"too much adjustability." Since this planet rules
the two basic mutable signs, its potential for inte-
gration is largely qualified by the relative dynamic-
ness or static-ness of the chart, as a whole. Gemini
and Virgo each initiate a zodiacal quadrant, there-
fore they initiate a quadrant of houses totaling to-
gether an entire semi-circle of houses or one complete
diameter of the wheel. Therefore any congested or
frictional aspect to Mercury has the direct effect
of impeding the person's ability to learn from the
experiences represented by those two quadrants-
wherever they are placed in the chart. The particular
placement of Mercury, as ''focalizer'' of the Gemini-
Virgo vibrations, shows the department of e:x;perience
that provides exercise of the mental faculties toward
the ''rehabilitation'' of disharmonies and co-ordina-
tion of· mind with feeling. The sign in which Mer-
cury is placed identifies this particular ''generic
coloring' '-dynamic/expressive or absorptive/reflec-
tive. .A most important factor in the analysis of Mer-
cury patterns is found in the planet which rules
Mercury's sign placement. This planet is Mercury's
dispositor and has much to say about the way that
the person develops-or fails to develop-his ''rea-
THE PLANET MERCURY · 83
Still-able''· faculty.
,.;: ''Mind against emotion" is pictured by an Un·
congested Mercury disposited by a congested planet.
The congestioTIB involving the dispositor represent-
of oourse--prohlems which are ignited by emotional
reactions of a negative kind-toward other people,
evertt& or whatnot. The clarity of Mercury, uncon-
gci;ted;· makes it relatively ea.Sy for the· person to
learn from his experience and to exercise reason-able
control of his emotions and feeling-reactions. You
can be sure of one thin.g if Mercury and its dispositor
are uncongested : no matter what other difficulties
may be pictured in the chart, the person has a nat-
ural ability and urge to be practical about learning
how tu realize his ideals and fulfill his deepest urges,
regardess of what the ideals are or what he, in con-
sciousness, terms "fulfillment" or "success." His
ideal may be financial abundance, it may be popular-
ity and admiration, it may be professional fulfill-
ment of a talent, it may be power over other people;
it may be one of a hundred other things, but the
clarity of uncongested Mercury-both by aspect and
vibration-makes it possible for him to see his way
clearly toward realizing his dream.
A congested Mercury with an uncongested dis-
positor promises disintegration of a mental conges-
tion if the principle of the dispositor is exercised in
relationship to the Mercury problems. The "virtues"
of the planetary dispositor are the ''alchemical
agencies'' by which that particular generic quality
of the Mercury may he ''purified'' and the mental
qualities harmonized and organized. Any planetary
aspect to Mercury is better than no aspect at all,
84 STUDIES IN .ASTROLOGY
because every aspect is a "channelling" for the
training of the Mercury faculties. Mercury, cairdinal,
fixed, or mutable must be synthesized with the -cross
that is most strongly emphasized in the ch.art, be-
cause, for example, a cardinal or mutable Mercury
may serve as a very effective counteractive to many
planets in fixed signs-and so forth. Cardinal Mer-
cury emphasizes expression, fixed Mercury empha-
sizes retention, and mutable Mercury emphasizes
adjustability.
THE PLANET MERCURY 85
Part 2
For the pursuance of this material we will use
a QOJ?Y of the Great Mandala-a twelve-housed wheel
with the zodiacal signs in seq_uence starting with
Aries a.S the Ascendant; place the pianetary s:Ymbols.
in the sign& and houses of tli.eir. digruty. Emphasize
the third ·and sixth cusps because they pertain to
Mercury's dignity in Gemini and Virgo.
The androgynous (bi-polar) nature of Mercury is
seen in his attributes of "in-take-ness" (learning
and "out-put-ness" (expression of thought). To learn
everything and express nothing is to use only half
of the Mercury faculty; conversely people who are
mentally unorganized display only ''half of Mer-
cury" when they express continually without con-
centration, reflection, or mental intake. As expression,
Mercury cannot put out anything that is valid if the
intake is not the result of a concentration and! clar-
ification of mental powers. We express ourselves to
the world according to our mental picture of the
world; viewpoiillts that are based primarily on con-
gestions of feeling and desire do not-and cannot-
((see" the world with clarity or give expression of
thought with truth or judgment.
A square or opposition aspect from a planet to
Mercury may act as a stimulus to expression, but
the expression itself will tend to outpicture a nega-
86t - STUDIES .IN ASTROLOGY
tive in oonsciousness. This is what is meant by con-
gestions to Mercury. States of subconscious feeling
based on ignorance, disharmony, and so forth divert
the Mercury faculties from true perception; con-
sequently what is expressed -through Mercury will
be a "false messenger" to other people. With ref-
erence to the Great Ma.ndalii, let us see .how. Mer-
cury's pofentials can be thwarted an!! corrupted ..br
D).isinteri)retatlon of other planetary prin~iples. Mi~T
i:r,tterpr~tation .simply mean~ false . knowhig:tJ;Lere-
fpre. -~11-J~e ui:t4erst_fW.4iiiig. . . ., . . _
· _ .
, ''rhe' '~()riininality" that is' traditionally ascribed
to Mars-square-Mercury is due to a mental coloring
of: negative egotism. ''Me first'' is the keyword of
this ·combination. The Great Mandala tells us that
"I-AM" (the awareness -of individualized Being). is
the keyword of Man!' rulership of Aries. The con·
~esting mixture of the Aries vibration with Mercury,
as ruler of Gemil!i, is a picture of ''I think in terms
of what is expedient for me-first and last.'' A erim-
fo.al is such because he is unaware of, and has no
respect for, the "I AM" of the other fellow. So-his
Mercury functions accordingly; he ''figures the
angles," "works the tricks, " and "plays the game?J
according to his limited! Un.derstanding of "I AM
and I· Want.'' This negative preoccupation with ''I
AM" with.out con,sideration of "You Are" does cre-
ate congestions in thought be~ause we are here to
learn how to use the resources of the first three signs
for evolutionary expression. The anti-social criminal
in.ind is not very aware of- the principle of the sixth
sign, -virgo, the Earth-dignity of Mercury, because
Virgo is the application of mental powers toward the
Ma f
THE PLANET MERCURY 87
fulfillment of service-patterns. In turn, service (Vir-
go) emanates from the heart-center of Leo, and Leo
is the :first trine (Love-aspec.t) of the :fi.re-trine
initiated by Mars' Aries. The harmonious aspects of
Mars-Mercury picture a p•ractical integration in
thought. The person can project his thoughts into
form and give them objectivity. This is one of the
best patterns of picturing the ability to ''get things
done'' because thought is integrated with aetion and
physical expression generally. This pattern empha-
sizes the masculine areas of consciousness because it
adds the dynamic coloring to the thought-processes.
Venus and Mercury can make only the conjunc-
tion, semi-sextile, and sextile aspects to each other.
The Venusian vibration, by the sextile, acts as a
refining alchemicaJ.ization for any· congestion of Mer-
cury by other planets. Since Mercury's Gemini and
Venus' Libra are trine to each other this planetary
aspect points unquestionably to a vibratory resource
by which relationship-disharmonies may be adjusted
into constructive exchange and mutual good. The
sextile from Venus indicates that artistic expres-
sion is also an alchemicalization for the harmoniz-
ing of mental powers. Venus-Mercury, by conjunction
or sextile, adds a touch of refinement to the en-
tire personality which can increase with spiritual
maturity. Since Mercury's Virgo is Libra's twelfth
house-sign, this aspect between the two planets
indicates the improvement of relationship-experiences
when service is reindered and the consciousness
of fraternity is one of the most significant ''ad-
justers'' to all kinds of relationship-congestion
~r difficulty. This aspect clearly indicates that·
88 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
when the person seeks to learn (Gemini) from
relationship he unfolds a sure-fire potential for
hairmonizing relationship, through the alchemical-
ization of mutuality. Venus conjunct Mercury
squared by a third planet is like a birdling in a
nest of thorns. The delicacy and refinement of the
conjunction is-to a degree-congested in expression
by the third planet ; that planet may represent an
environment factor or a relationship-factor, but the
aspect. itself indicates that the person must refine
his consciousne$'.S toward that situation or relationship
and redeem it by expression through Venus. The
principle represented by the ''squaring planet''
must be unfolded into conscious levels by the alchemy
of exercising Mercury-Venus.
Moon square Mercury most certainly activates the
mental faculties but the great need shown is con-
centration. This is the aspect of ''scatterbrained-
ness.'' Reference to the Great Mandala is very il-
luminating: Gemini is Cancer's twelfth house-sign,
therefore knowledge and mental organization is the
"redemption" of the "instinctive feelings" of Can-
cer. A chart having this aspect tells us that the Prin-,
ciple of Maternity is one of the important "studies"
for the person in this incarnation ; the disorganized
quality of Mercury in this pattern is due to a weak-
ness in the psychological base of subconscious feeling,
and the need is shown to learn the lesson of disciplin-
ing the mind against the onslaughts of negatives in
subconscious feeling. The mother of this person may
have a very pronounced effect on the mind and-since
the Moon is the arch-symbol of basic feminine polar-
ity-the aspect pictures a form of negative thinking
f
THE PLANET MERCURY 89
and expression on the part of the person in a previous
female incarnation. So--now, whether male OT fe-
male, with this aspect the native is susceptible to the
mental influences of either the actual mother or to
persons who take a mother's place in the life. The
Moon is also the "public mind"-the collective in-
stinctive mind of masses of people who are mag-
netized together through the common denominators
of nationality, religion, emotional vibration or mutual
activity. The person with Moon square Mercury who
seeks to express in public ways must organize his
thoughts to be effective. The "mass-mentality" is
affected-for good or ill--0nly by concentration of
power. To fulfill such a work-pattern the discipline
required for planning, organizing, etc., is the means
by which the person is induced to correct the disin-
tegration or '' scatteredness'' of the square aspect.
Mercury's Virgo is third house-sign from Cancer;
since Virgo is Earth-and therefore a more concrete
expression of Mercury's potentials-the experience-
chapter represented by the placement of Virgo in
the natal chart may be the most objective channeling
for correcting the Mercury square. If Gemini is
knowledge, then Virgo is knowledlge put to work in
practical ways. The instincts represented by the
Moon must be trimmed down and focussed if knowl-
edge is to be put to practical use.
The Great Mandala shows Capricorn at the apex
of the wheel; its ruler, Saturn, is the Guardian of
that gate; he says: ''fulfill your responsibilities to
yourself and to others or you cannot pass through
into Aquarius and Pisces.'' In a chart showing Saturn
90 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
square or opposition to Mercury we see a picture of
''organize your mind in this incarnation-or else!''
This aspect is a peculiar <>ne because it illustrates,
perhaps more clearly than any other, the inherent
goodness in a "bad" aspect. Capric<>rn is Gemini's
eighth house-sign; regeneratfon is through discipline
and order. The frustration which seems to be pictured
by this aspect is evidently focused in those conditions
of the house carrying Gemini, because Gemini is
Mercury's mutable sign and, hence, the one that most
needs organization. This aspoot, in a chart that is
primarily cardinal or mutable by planetary place-
ment, is a focus of organization; it ''holds back'' the
Mercury conditions only because the Mercury condi-
tions need to be brought into greater order and clear-
er system. The cardinal person who just "expresses
without plan'' or the mutable peron who "just
floats'' needs to be focused on points of needed ful-
fillment. The fixed person who has Saturn square
Mercury can, if he will, use his Mercury to learn
about the results of un-adaptability. He has, in the
past, "buried deep" in set patterns of thought and
reaction; consequently when he is timed for ''new
things'' he tends to resist and resent the changing
of his conditions. This person can be-usually is--
highly concentrated with, perhaps, a wonderful focus
of mentality, but he tends to think about everything,
or learn anything, from a very set approach. He will,
in time, sicken inside himself at the crystallization
of his conditions and affairs and seek to expand
through change. Saturn square Mercury, in a :fixed
chart, can picture mental or intellectual fear, and
THE PLANET MERCURY . 91
to experience the desire to know more will prove an
effective releasement for the mental congestions and
from that level to an improvement of psychological
conditions. Any chart with Saturn square Mercury
will have to be synthesized and analyzed carefully
to determine if the purpose of the aspect is to or-
ganize tendencies that incline to be scattered or to
observe the results of over-crystallization. Life is a
sequence of emanations; the best of the past (Saturn)
made its contribution to the best of the present. The
person with Saturn square Mercury may tend to
resist and resent the past (the old, crystallized, and
out-dated) as no longer practical or needed. How-
ev.er, if he uses his Mercury he will study the old to
determine its constructive value to the present. This
decrystallizes the feeling of frustration· and results
in turning the combined powers of Saturn and Mer-
cury to good account.
Further, Saturn rules the cardinal sign which
initiates the Earth trine--the third octave of which
is Mercury's Virgo. The spiritual lesson is this:
since "third octave" means "W~sdom,"' perfect
fulfillment on any level adds to the resource of
wisdom-since wisdom is distilled from experience.
Book-knowledge (Gemini) :iJS the first step in under-
standing, but all claims to understanding are put
to concrete testings in the processes of living. There-
fore, in valid service-contributions we prove whether
or not we know whereof we speak. So, with Saturn
square Mercury, knowledge must be demonstrated in
the kind of living that is true service ; this is the
evidence of the wisdom-octave of Mercury's vibration.
92 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
Uranus, ruler o.f one :fixed sign and exalted in
another, adds a touch of what might be called ''im-
placability" when squaire to Mercury. Uranus "in-
spires'' Mercury with the genius of inventiveness
because Uranus is the symbol of individuality that
expresses creatively. But this aspect can mean ''lock-
jaw" for Mercury because the thought-processes are
filtered through an intense resource of emotionality.
Immovable opinionatedness is pictured by this aspect
-it is the picture of the fanatic mind. A genius may
need this deep certainty in order to fulfill his great
purpo3es; he is focused on a great fulfillment and he
cannot afford!, in many cases, to be too responsive to,
or influenced by, the thoughts of others. He must live
and fulfill through his individuality however unortho-
dox or eccentric he may appear. He can be a tyrant
or despot, master criminal or inspired scientist, but
his mind is revolutionary in its ·effecJt; his mental
expressions are charged with power-for good or
for ill. However, geniuses are few and far between;
the average person with this aspect may be evolving
a genius-potential, but mental adaptability is one of
the things needed in evolutionary processes-we
have to be free insidJe to learn more and more as we
climb the ladder. A mediocre person with Uranus
square Mercury may feel, ''I know it all-don't tell
me anything.'' Life, by activating the Uranus, may
elasticize him in radical ways by bringing about
changes in such an abrupt fashion that the person's
world either expands with life or it disintegrates
through resistance to needed changes. Gemini is the
root of fraternal consciousness; Uranus' Aquarius
d'
THE PLANET MERCURY 93
is its spiritualized octave; when the two rulers are
square we have a possible portrait of a person whose
experience in this incarnation is tuning him for the
first time to the concept of universal brotherhood
and this is an octave of consciousness that is way
over the mind and heart of the average person.
So, ''catching a first glimpse,'' the person may talk
fraternity beyond his ability to realize it and live
it-except in a sort of "pretend-way." He may-and
usually does-proselytize a great deal on this subject
and bash his head against the wall of rock-like con-
servatism. This aspect is the symbol-par excllence-
of the "parlor pink;" it is also the symbol-let's
face it-of a person who is contacting astrological or
psychological thought for the first time. 'rhe Uranus
vibration interjects newness of mental perspectives.
We may be catapulted into a Uranus vibration during
the course of one incarnation but we do not adjust
to that vibration except in several incarnations.
Uranus square Mercury simply means that in this
incarnation the mental powers and the intellectual
capacities are ..,ellcountering a newness that was never
known before.I Uranus trine Mercury is an estab · hed
mental adjustment o an personal pattern ; indi-
viduality is here timed for "flowering" ·and the per-
son expresses naturally in this transcendant vibra-
tion that refers to ''that which is progressive.'' This
person can learn from the all-ovieir picture-he can
think in terms of the race, not just the limited con-
ditions of the local group. This aspect, on whatever
evolutionary level, is outlet for a potential of genius
94 STUDIES IN .ASTROLOGY
because, with the trille, Mercury is organized for.
expression.
In conclusion, connect the cusps of the third, sixth,
ninth, and twelfth houses of the Great Mandala by
straight lines ; the result is the mutable square,
the congestions of Mercury through the defects of
Jupiter and Neptune, and the negative potentials of
Jupiter and Neptune created by the basis of unor-
ganized Mercury. If Mercury is ''talk, tell, and com-
municate," Jupiter is "teach" and Neptune is "in-
spire.' We give information through Mercury but
we eradicate wisdo;m.-distilled from our experiences
-through Jupiter to ignite the latent Wisdom of our
"younger brothers and sisters." Through Neptune
we ''ignite the souls of people'' and this ignition can
only be radiated from a consciousness that is cen-
tered on true perception ; this perception, in turn,
is evolved from the constructive exercises of Mer-
cury. The upper octaves of Mercury, when congested,
represent potentials for ''perversion of truth;''
when they congest Mercury then the faculty of in-
tellectual organization is "tampered with" through
subtle false concepts that have been built in past
incarnations. All conditions represented in a chart
by congested Jupiter and Neptune represent a need
to gain truthful information from facts that pertain
to those cond!itions and experiences-that means use
Mercury objectively, unemotionally, and concisely.
Facts, not beliefs; statements, not implications;
proofs that are realizable not just blindly and cred-
ulously accepted through mental laziness are the
Mercury correctives for Jupiter and Neptune con-
$ ••t tr
THE PLANET MERCURY 95
gestions. The "base" of the mutable cross is formed
by two Mercury signs to give reliable foundation to
the truthful realizations of Jupiter and Neptune;
they, in turn, are to provide scope on more and more
abstracted octaves for the exercise of the Mercury
faculties. We understand a literal picture, then a
word, then a number, then a symbol, then a concept,
then a principle, and then an ideal. To understand
the nature of ideals (Neptune) is the :flowering of
the Mercury-potentials, because in ideals is found
the esoteric reality of all manifested life
The Rosicrucian Cosmo-Conception
B11 MAX HEINDEL
An inspiring book containing investigated facts
which bridge the seeming gap between Religfon and
Science; facts that thrill the m<Alern intellect and
eomfort the old-fashioned heart.
'fhis is the
textbook
used in the
Rosicrucian
Philosophy
Correspondence
Courses
702 pagem, with Topical
Index of 67 pagea and
Alphabetical Index of
9& pagea.
Paper Bound
G07 pagoea. Identical
with cloth, but has Toll-
ical Index only.
PARTIAL CONTENTS
Visible and invisible world&
Man, and method of evolution
Spirit, soul. and body
rhought, memory, IOWi[l'Owtb
Conscious. subconscious, and
superconscious mind
Science of death, the benefi-
cence of Purgatory, life i•
Heaven
Preparations for rebirth
The Law of Consequence
The Relation of man to God
Genesis and evolution of our
solar system; Chao• the
seed-lll"ound of Cosmos
Birth of the planet• : Blan-
etary Spirits
The moon an eighth sphere
of retro!ll"ession
Separation of the sexea
Lucifer Spirit11 and the Fall
Sixteen paths to destruction
Christ and His miBBion
The mystery of Golgotha and
the cleansine: blood
Future development aa•
Initiation
The method of acquirinirInt-
hand lmowledire
Western methoch for West-
ern p809le,
Price List on Request
THE ROSICRUCIAN FELLOWSHIP
Oceanside, California, U.S.A.
