{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1963__bacher___studies_in_astrology____v3.pdf","mytitle":"Studies In Astrology","mylang":"de"}
Studies in Astrology
Volume III
THE ROSICRUCIAN
FELLOWSHIP
Mt. Ecclesia
OCEANSIDE, CALrroRNIA, U.S.A.
Studies in Astrology
BY
ELM.AN BACHER
VOLUME III
FIRM> EmTION
THE ROSICRUCIAN FELLOWSHIP
MT. EccLESIA
Oceanside, California, U.S.A.
COPYRIGHT, 1963
BY
THE RoSICRUCIAN FELLOWSHIP
AU rights, inclu&ing tkat of translation reserved
Permission to copy or translate may be given upon
applica.tion
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY
THE ROSICRUCIAN FELWWSHIP
OCEANSIDE, CALIFORNIA, U.S.A.
FOREWORD
So much favorable comment has come to us con-
cerning the astrologieal articles by Elman Bacher
which appeared in our Rays from the Rose Cross
during past years that we feel sure this volume will
be cordially welcomed by all students of spiritual
astrology.
Mr. Bacher's profound knowledge of and devo-
tion to the stellar science, along with an uncanny
understanding of human nature, made it possible
for him to present material which undoubtedly places
him among the best of modern esoteric astrologers.
As the truth and value of astrology becomes more
and more generally accepted, his presentations will
serve increasingly to help people know themselves
and fulfill their highest destiny.
Before his passing in 1954, Mr. Bacher expressed
a keen desire to have us publish his articles in book
form, and although we deeply regret that he is not
here to see the culmination of his desire, we are
happy in knowing that his wish is now being fulfilled.
CONTENTS
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iii
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . vii
Chapter 1
The Astrologer 9
Chapter 2
The .Astrological Mandala . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Chapter 3
White Light Astrology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Chapter 4
.Astrologer Discusses Teaching . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Chapter 5
The .Ascendant ......................... 44
Chapter 6
The Second IIouse ...................... 54
Chapter 7
The Fifth IIouse . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Chapter 8
The Eighth IIouse ...................... 77
Chapter 9
Planetary Retrogradation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
a
iNTRODtJCTION
To the Rosicrucian student astrology is 8. phase
of ;reljgion, .basie8.lly a spiritual science. More than
ariy other study it reveals man to himself. :No 0th~r
science is so sublime, so profound, and so allcbl'~­
ing. It portrays the relation between God, the maer.9-
cosm, and man, the microcosm, showing them to be
fundamentally one.
Occult science, investigating the subtler forces
that impinge upon man, the Spirit, and his vehicles,
has chaTted their effects with no less definiteness
than has academic science the reactions of sea and
soil, plant and animal to the solar and lunar rays.
With this knowledge we may determine the as-
trological pattern of each individual and know the
relative strength and weakness of the various forces
operating in each life. To the degree that we are in
possession of such knowledge we can begin sys-
tematic, scientific character building-and character
is destinyI We note times and seasons cosmically
advantageous :to unfolding undeveloped qualities,
correcting faulty traits, and eliminating destructive
propensities.
The divine science of astrology reveals the hidden
causes at work in our lives. It counsels the adult in
regard to vocation, the parent in the guidance of
children, the teacher in management of pupils, the
8
physician in diagnosing disease, thus lending aid
to each and all in whatever position they may find
themselves. ·
No other subject within the range of human
knowledge appears to hold for this day and age the
possibilities open to astrologers for helping people
to their own dignity as gods-in-the-making, to a
greater grasp of universal law, and· to a realization
that we. are eternally secure within the caressing
fold of Infinite Life and Boundless Being.
Chapter I
THE ASTROLOGER
The astrologer belongs to one of those many
groups of people who, motivated by impersonal love,
seek to add to the betterment of human conditions..
He has come to a point in his development when his
inner resources, distilled from past incarnations, are
of such quality and scope that they "must out"; in
other words, a part of his consciousness can no longer
find satisfaction in the purely personal-or biological
-levels 1>f experience. (Of course, his impersonal
service is an expression of his devefopment and ex-
perience as a human being, but its purposes are for
the world of human beings at large.)
Let us consider the astrologer in the light of
''astrological designs :' '
In a blank circle draw the horizontal and ver-
tical diameters. The cros8 made by these two lines
symbolizes the kuman-beingness of tke Astrologer:
a man--or woman-incarnated for the purposes of
development, dealing with problems, trials, and
temptations as anyone else does; perhaps subject to
one 1>r many forms of testing-through-suffering. All
this pertains to the personal part of him, hut when
we add the cusp of the ninth house to this ''cross
pattern'' we see the astrologer emerge from the lim-
itedness of a mere human. Placing the symbol for
io STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
Jupiter in the ninth house of this design pictures
his essential identity: he is "elder brother" and
teacher.
In his human-beingness on this plane he is brother
to all people who come to him for guidance. He recog-
nizes that he walks the same essential paths that all
people do, but the thing that differentiates him from
others is the composite of his impersonal love quality,
his range of understanding of human conditions and
his abstract mental faculties. This composite lifts his
consciousness to a level that transcends the basic
biological motivations of thought and feeling, he
sees through the concepts of race, group-religion,
caste, family moldings, physical relationship patterns,
and even of sex itself. His approach to his ''younger
brothers and sisters'' is from the basis of studying
and undertanding their vibratory patterns-in other
words, their consciousness.
His fundamental study is that of the vibratory
nature of the entity we call humanity in its myriad
expressions and variations, manifested by subcon-
scious impressions and feelings, emotional tastes,
physical attributes and conditions, and reaction pat-
terns to all the departments of experience and
relationship eiommon to all human beings in their
evolutionary progress. Mankind is not only one
family-it is one thing, one particular pattern of
life-expression.
The astrologer is, of course, a facet of the one
thing; but, by perception and understanding, he is
in relationship to most of the other facets of the one
thing as a person on a mountaintop is to those who
are climbing the same mountain or to those who have
THE ASTROLOGER 11
still remained in the valley below. He has, at his
particular evolutionary level, already distilled some-
thing of what the climbers on the mountain slope
and the people in the valley are in the process of
distilling : awareness of universal principles and it.s
expres.<.;ion through the processes of human life. He,
in his turn, still has mountains ahead, and there are
those who have attained "look-out points" that are
higher than that which he now occupies. But the
impersonal consciousness is the common denominator
of them all. That is the essence of the fraternity
which relates him to those still climbing and to those
ahead of him. To the former he is elder brother; to
those ahead he is younger brother. But all of them
are elder brothers to those who remain in the valleys
of purely biological and materialistic consciousness.
In our design, the ninth house symbolizes the
knowledge or wisdom aspect of the astrologer; his
love aspect is designated by the eleventh house. To our
design let us add Aquarius on the cusp of the eleventh
house and place the symbol for Uranus in that house;
shade in the ninth and eleventh houses so that they
stand OUt from the rest Of the wheel; "groundH
these two houses by adding the cusp lines of the
third and fifth houses, thus designating a composite
of two polarity-patterns: (1) knowledge raised to
its transcendent expression of wisdom, distilled from
experience; (2) personal love, as a creative expres-
sion, raised to its spiritualized level of boundless
impersonal love for humanity-regardless of the
latter's levels of manifestation or development.
The love aspect of the astrologer's consciousness
-designated by the eleventh house and the vibratory
12 STUDlES IN ASTROLOGY
essence of UranUS--is the culmination of all the
houses of relationship and the most spiritualized
expression of the air signs. The eleventh house is
Human Relationship in its most protean expression.
It is the distillation of all relationship patterns-the
power of love in its expression as the ''waters of
Life,'' the panacea of all emotional experience, the
ultimate goal of all human loving. We call this state
"Friendship"-the essence of the best that may be
derived from the togetherness of people, no matter
who, or what, they may be as individuals.
This love aspect is, by its very nature, the fused
essence of the love aspects of both sexes-or polar-
ities. The astrologer, through his intensified experi-
ence in past incarnations, has distilled, to a degree,
the understandiing of the emotional characteristics
pertaining to the masculine and feminine attributes.
He must, to fulfill his service, be able to see into
the problems of both men and women and to perceive
the directions of regeneration and correction.
The consciousness of the astrologer, in reference
to this love aspect, might be more clearly delineated
by another design. (The one we have been con-
sidering refers more particularly to the evolutionary
directions or paths that must be traversed by one
who seeks to render service through astrological in-
terpretation.) The :flowering of the love consciousness
of the astrologer is shown by a blank wheel in which
the cusps of the third, seventh, and eleventh houses
are connected by straight lines, forming an equi-
lateral triangle. Interestingly enough, one point of
this triangle-the third cusp-is in the lower, or ego
consciousness, hemisphere; the seventh cusp marks a
THE ASTROLOGER 13
point of equilibrium, being opposite to the Ascend-
ant; the eleventh cu,sp, representing the highest peak
of relationship consciousness, is in the upper, or soul
consciousness hemisphere. There is an element-a
common denominator-of ''fraternity,'' linking these
three houses to each other. IJ'he third house, on biolog~
ical levels, is "brothers and sisters;" on a more
impersonal expression it is ''kindred and neigh-
bors;" still more impersonal it is "fellow students"'.)
-people of whatever age or condition who are learn-
ing from the same source of knowledge, or who are
being spiritualized by the same religious or philo-
sophical interpretation. The seventh house is the
fraternal relationship of one person-or conscious-
ness-to a complementary expression-either sexu8.I
or vibrational. The ''fraternity of marriage'' might
be described in this way: one man and one woman
serves, in togetherness, the on-goingness of life in love
experience and .procreation. Husband and wife, in
this life service, are truly brother and sister as an
expression or the third house consciousness intfill8i.-
fied by the composite powers of desire attraetion and
love releasement. The eleventh house, in the soul con-
sciousness hemisphere, is the transcendence of the
former two, sinee it is the love consciousness ex-
pressed toward the entire entity which we call hu-
manity, and it is not limited in its expression by
being confined to only one part-or selected parts-
of that entity as its object.
So, the spiritually motivated astrologer must
stand as a living symbol of that love whieh recog-
niZes no barriers or limitations-of any kind-to its
expression.
.14 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
We will now consider a design which could be
taken to represent a symbolic portrait of the astrol-
oger in his composite factors of human consciousness
and spiritual consciousness. Using a wheel with .
houses on white paper fill in the :first six houses
with a dark color-brown or blue, etc. ; fill in
the seventh and eighth houses with red-symboliz-
ing the ''fires'' of relationship and regeneration;
the remaining four houses will remain white-
symbol of the spiritualized consciousness. The por-
trait which results is that of a human being whose
vibratory and. environmental elements are essentially
those of any other person; he has experienced much
development through transmutation of his lower
vibrations by the spiritualizing powers of idealism,
love, service, sacrifice, self-discipline, and respon-
sibility fulfillment. He has been many things-as a
worker; he has fulfilled most of the patterns of ex-
perience in love relationship-both as male and as
female ; he is-or has been-something of an artist
because his mental perceptions include an under-
standing of the symbolic and of the abstract. He is
aware of the drama of life and he is sensitive to the
nuances of human thoughts and feelings as they are
presented in the problems that he studies. He knows
evil .but his mind and heart are set on good. He
studies problems to fulfill the purpose of finding
solutions. His motivation being one of love, he ra-
diates encouragement, neutralizes fear, illumines the
consciousness of his brothers and sisters by alerting
them to their strength and powers. He is-and re-
alizes that he is-an "open door" through which
all who so desire may walk; fro:r.q the qarkuess of
THE ASTROLOGER 15
their unregenerate patterns into the light of self-
knowing. He neither approves nor disapproves of
anything he sees in any chart-he keeps personal
feeling out of the picture-because he recognizes
that each chart is a picturing of good in its becoming.
In relationship to the client who requests his
assistance we see him portrayed by this design: an
otherwise blank wheel with the first six houses col-
ored or shaded, the upper six houses remaining white.
In this design, the lower shaded houses represent the
client with his problem; the white houses represent
the astrologer and his spiritualized consciousness. All
human problems are rooted. in unregenerate expres-
sions of the first six houses; they are brought into
their most intense focus throughout the composite
action of the seventh and eighth houses and the solu-
tions are found in the regenerating powers of the
last four houses. In this design the astrologer reflects
the regenera~e potentials of the client. H'e is thus
portrayed as the client's other, or higher, self. The
magnetic action of love power attracted the client
to the astrologer, who waits to assist all who need
him, and by the distilled powers of his regenerate
consciousness, he is able to study the client's chart
and to throw a beam of light into the dark corners
and perceive the needed spiritual corrective for the
client's consciousness toward his problem.
The astrologer, in contact with the client, has the
responsibility of putting aside all patterns of per-
sonal disturbance while he undertakes the task of
reading the client's chart. He must be the white
hemisphere, and in the event that he is dealing with
a deep personal disturbance it would appear a better
16 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
policy to defer the reading until he can establish
his inner poise. In recognizing the impersonal quality
'Qf his service he knows that he is an instrument
by· which the client's good is brought out into the
open and he has, really no right to impose on the al-
ready disturbed or apprehensive client his own inner
frictions. His responsibility is to reflect Zight-
<llearly, strongly, and unwaveringly.
· Since· all forms of service entail certain charac-
teristic patterns of testing for those who are aspiring,
·it might be well to consider a few of the principal
tests which are, sooner or later, to be faced by all
astrologers.
'The great responsibility of the astrologer is to
keep his viewpoint free from all false claims of pride
arid power-lust. These temptations are very subtle
a:h.d ·can be very difficult to detect consciously. To
be able to read a horosoope sensitively does place
in the astrologer's hand a certain power over the
mind or emotions of his client; the latter, being to
a degree dependent on the astrologer, may tend to
ieel and express a certain reverence toward the as-
trologer, which can be very flattering to his human
consciousness. The astrologer must keep a respect
for his own instrumentation; if he does so he will not
fall into the trap of letting his ability become a
source of pandering to latent vanities; he will, in-
stead, let it remain a ''candle burning brightly on
the altar of spiritual service."
The astrologer serves best if he can keep his serv-
ice output free from all limiting claims of financial
remuneration. ·If he can make his living in another
way and do his astrological work as a creative e~-
THE ASTROLOGER 17
pression he stands a much better chance of keeping
his channels open and free-flowing. The client has
a perfect right to make compensation if he wishes
to-since he wants to establish equilibrium in rela-
tionship to the astrologer by what he considers right
exchange and to express his appreciation. However,
financial remuneration cannot be allowed to become
a static factor to the astrologer if he is to, keep him-
self a· symbol of universal giving. The moment he
establishes a policy of specific charge for his service
he risks cutting himself off from many people who
may need his assistance but who cannot ask for it
because they cannot afford it. In short, the astrologer
who keeps his service channels open and free is the
one who serves best, most completely, most happily,
and most spiritually.
l8
Chapter II
THE .ASTROLOGICAL MANDALA
A m,andala is an abstract design which is used
as a focus for concentration and meditation by a
creative artist. The mandala depicts the essence ·of
·an artistic concept; by meditation on it the artist
concentrates his inspirational faculties which are sub-
sequently released into form through painting, sculp-
ture, or whatever medium the artist uses for his
expression.
The astrologer is an interpretive artist whose
essential mandala is the design commonly known as
the natural chart. On a wheel, place the symbols of
the zodiacal signs on the cusps in regular sequence,
starting with Aries on the cusp of the Ascendant,
Taurus on the second, etc. Then the symbols of the
Sun, Moon, and planets are placed in the signs and
houses of their dignity: Mars in .Aries, first house;
Venus in Taurus and Libra. second and seventh
houses; Mercury in Gemini and Virgo, third and
sixth houses ; Moon in Cancer, fourth house; Sun in
Leo, fifth house ; Pluto in Scorpio, eighth house;
Jupiter in Sagittarius, ninth house; Saturn in Cap-
ricorn, tenth house; Uranus in Aquarius, eleventh
house; Neptune in Pisces, twelfth house.
The design resulting from placing these symbols
around, and in, a circle containing twelve equal sec-
•
THE ASTROLOGICAL MANDALA 19
tiohs is considered by the writer to be the greatest
mandala created by the mind of man. It is the com-
posite symbol of the vibratory nature of the entity
we call humanity. The horoscope calculated for the
incarnation of any human being is a variation of
this mandala; the same essential elements are found
in all horoscopes of human beings, qualified in eal-
culations only by the specializations of date, time,
and place of birth.
This '' Great Mandala, '' as we shall call it, is a
composite symbol of such ma,,onitude and complexity
that the imagination reels in contemplation of it. It
might be well to create the mandala, step by step,
from its b~inning:
rse a sheet of blank paper, calculate the exact
center and piace there a dot. This dot is the symbol
of the Consciousness which makes possible the mani-
festation of a galaxy, a solar system, or the incarna-
tion of a human being. It is the essential symbol of
"being-ness" on all planes.
Through the dot, lightly draw a vertical line the
entire length of the paper; this line represents the
dynamic, energizing principle of Nature-the symbol
of eosmic generation, "being-ness" in the process of
taking form, the essential symbol of male sex. Now
draw, lightly, a horizontal line through the dot aero8s
the entire width of the paper; this line is the sub:-
jective aspect of ''being-ness,'' the essential symbol
of Form it.self, the female principle of Nature-that
which is energized or acted upon. The picture thus
far represents a radiation from a central point--
Consciousness, a composite of the dynamic and S'nb-
jec'tive principles, the El$sential lines of force by
20 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
which manifestation is made, the cross-pattern which
stands as the eternal symbol of "beingness ob-
jectified.'' This much of the design-a geometric
8<bstract-can be called the basic mandala and
can be .utilized. for meditation by all astrologers.
.It is the skeleton of all horoscopical structure, the
picturing of the Fatherhood-Motherhood of God and
the essential symbol of cosmic sex which results in
physical manifestation.
.There is an indefiniteness about the appearance
of the basic mandala described above; the lines from
the central dot can extend off the paper indefinitely-
thus an impression of chaos or formlessness is con-
veyed. Since manifestation (incarnation) serves the
purpose of evolution, and evolutionary forces always
.require specific forms as their instruments, we now
take the next 8tep to create, in our basic mandala,
a field for evolutionary purposes.
With the point of a compass on the dot describe
a circle, the circumference of which will, of course,
twice intersect the dynamic-vertical and horizontal-
subjective-lines. Since all points on the circumference
of a circle are equally distant from the center we
now have created, symbolically, a perfect field des-
ignating an instrument for evolutionary forces; each
of the four sectors of the circle are equal to each
other in area, as are the lower and upper hemispheres
to each other and the two lateral-or vertical-
hemispheres to each other.
Now erase the light lines outside the circle, in-
tensify the circumference of the circle and the ver-
tical and horizontal lines within. The result may be
called the "Mandala .of Incarnation." Ita form liJ
l
irHE AST:iiOLOG!CAL MANDALA 2i
definite-an enclosed thing in which certain speciali-
zations of evolutionary forces can work. This Man-
dala of Incarnation may be used as a focal-point for
meditation from two standpoints: (1) from within.-
out; and (2) from without-in. The astrologer must
so elasticize his interpretative ability that he never
loses sight of the spiritual significance of any chart
he studies.
(1) From within-out: The creative Will of God
expressing through a specific manifestation for evolu-
tionary purposes; the essential spirituality of all
manifestation; the God-spark inherent in the con-
sciousness of each and every human being radiating
into every factor of the individual's experience.
(2) From without-in: Divine Love and Wisdom
overshadowing and interpenetrating every point of
manifestation; manifestation being ''enclosed within
the Divine Arms and always in sight of the Divine
Eyes;'' the human being looks into his consciousness
to find the source of his conditions and the channels
for his best expressions; he turns in to become aware
of his powers and potentials; his consciousness is
reflected by his outer condition-the radiations from
the Center-but the Center remains eternally the
source of all that he experiences. The ''Life'' of a
horoscope is within the circumference, not outside
of it; so we do not :find our essential solutions outside
of ourselves but in our particular expression of the
Eternal Consciousness and our ever-growing aware-
ness of it.
Simple though it appears, the circle with its di-
vision into quadrants by two straight lines is a man-
dala of enormous complexity. If we consider that the
~~ STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
circle itself is activated in being bisected by the
horizontal line, the two hemispheres which 'result
from this bisection are themselves undifferentiated
and unactivated; their activation is made possible
by the vertical line.
Each bisection symbolizes the Cosmic Principle
of Duality-two-in-one-ness. "Dynamic" and "Sub-
jective'• are found to be inherent attributes of any
part of any manifestation. As such these two words,
in composite, are expressed by the word ''sex'' when
macie in reference to Life incarnated. Sex, activated,
is.· generation and regeneration-the '' on-goingness''
of Life. ·Either of the two pairs of hemispheres, in
juxtaposition, result in the composite One; neither of
w}iom can represent Life functioning creatively with-
out the frictional ignition of the other pair. For
meditation, sketch circles in which are represented
th~e bisections individually; each pair of hemi-
spheres can be taken to represent an expression of
cosmic generation.
The :flat, two-dimensional representation of the
quadrated circle is now to be given, abstractly, ad~
ditional dimension.
The Mandala of Incarnation is an essential matrix;
but incarnation implies expression of that matrix in
physical form. The terms length, height, and depth
are u8ually thought of as three difl:erent expressions
of physical dimension. When we consider that all
physical manifestation is three dimensional we re-
alize that length, height, and depth are three at-
tributes of one essential dimension-the dimension
of physical manifestation. Each of the four quadrants
of ;the Mandala of Incarnation is aspecialized level
TB:E ASTROLOGICAL ~iIANDALA 23
of Consciousness and, correspondingly, of experiences.
Since experience is reflected in the dimension of phys-
ical manifestation and interpreted by consciousness;
we will apply the principle of three dimensions in ·
onr to the Mandala of Incarnation.
From the center of the circle, or by four more
polarity diameters, subdivide each quadrant into
three equal sections. This action is the twelve-fold
division of the wheel which we use as the environ-
mental houses of the horoscope. The three dimensions
of each sector are not length, height, and depth, but
are in terms of signs, dimensions of consciousness re-
flected by the houses as dimensions of experience.
The dimension of the first house of each quadrant
(first, fourth, seventh, and tenth houses) is the
statement of Being-the "I am": first house, I am
an individual; fourth house, I am an individual as-
pect of an entity called family group or family con-
sciousness; seventh house, I am one of the two factors
of an intensely focussed emotional relationship pat-
tern; tenth house, I am an individual aspect of the
entity called humanity.
The dimension of the second house of each quad-
rant (second, fifth, eighth, and eleventh houses) is
possession of emotional resource by which the life
of the previous, cardinal, house is sustained. Second
house : My physical life is materially sustained by the
exercise of my consciousness of possession or steward-
ship and by exchange with other people; fifth house:
my family consciousness is sustained by releasements
from my resource of creative love ; eighth house: my
relationship consciousness is sustained by transmuta-
tion of my desire forces through the exercise of my
24 sTubrEs IN As'i'RotoGt
love consciousness in emotional exchange with my
complements; eleventh house: my identity as an
aspect of the universal entity, humanity, is sustained
through the exercise of my spiritualized, impersonal
love consciousness.
The dimension of the third house of each quadrant
(the third, six.th, ninth, and twelfth houses) is the
impersonal distillation of the previous two houses.
Third house : intellectual faeult.ies by which I iden-
tify the world of forms; six.th house: my creativity
expressed as service to life through my best as a
worker; ninth house : wisdom--.spiritual understand-
ing-distilled from the regeneration of desire through
love relationship ; twelfth house : my consciousness of
serving universally, my needed redemptions from the
past incarnation which have impelled the present one,
degree of cosmic consciousness distilled from the
perfect fulfillment of all responsibilities through
spiritualized love.
The triune dimension is expressed in reference
to the wheel as a whole by the "grand trines"-the
equilateral triangles formed by connecting the cusps
of (1) the first, fifth, and ninth houses; (2) the
second, six.th and tenth houses ; (3) the third, seventh
and eleventh houses and (4) the fourth, eighth and
twelfth houses. These trines pertain, respectively,
to the four elements: (1) Fire: Spirit; (2) Earth:
Consciousness of evaluation of forms; (3) Air: Iden-
tification and relationship consciousness; (4) :Water :
emotional responsiveness-the principle of sympa-
thetic vibration.
Here are suggested a few basic mandala patterns:
(1) Twelve wheels, each of which has the signs
l
THE AS'l'ROLOGICAL MANDALA 25
on the cusps in sequence, each with a different as-
cendant; each 0£ these mandalas may be utilized
for meditation on the cardinal, fixed, and mutable
crosses, the fire, earth, air, and water trines, the
firr-air and the earth-water sextiles.
(2) Planetary environmental mandala-a plane-
tary prill(}iple expressing through a particular house
--can be found in ten groups 0£ twelve wheels each:
each group pertains to the placement 0£ each 0£ the
ten planets (Sun, Moon, and eight planets) in each
of the twelve houses, leaving out the placement of
the signs.
(3) Planetary vibrational mandalas can be cre-
ated by wheels with the signs on the cuspS-placing
the planet under consideration in each 0£ the twelve
signs and studied regardless 0£ house position.
(4) Synthesis 0£ groups 2 and 3: mandalas for
meditation on Ascendant rulership: twelve wheels,
with signs in sequence, for each 0£ the ten planetS
as ruler of the ascendant-the ruler to be placed in
each 0£ the twelve houses.
(5) Elaboration 0£ number 4 in terms 0£ medita-
tion on the Ascendant ruler by its placement by sec-
tor: (1) houses 1, 2, and 3; (2) houses 4, 5 and 6;
(3) houses 7, 8 and 9; (4) houses 10, 11 and 12.
Simple and complex mandalas can be abstracted
from any natal horoscope. Here are a few sugges-
tions by which the student may concentrate his syn-
thesizing ability:
(1) From a given chart, abstract all dignified
plauets into a wheel with the natal sign positions on
the cusps ; meditate on the placement 0£ these con-
centrated vibratory essences in terms 0£ their house
STUDIES IN ASTROIJOGY
rulership, house placement, and sector or quadrant
placement.
(2) From a eiven natal chart, abstract any
specific square or opposition and any one of its re-
genera'.ive agencies (a planet making a trine or
sextile to either one of the affliced planets) ; meditate
on this mandala from every possible standpoint that
will open your consciousness to the clues of alleviation
for the afflicted pattern.
(3) Suggest abstracting the Saturn mandala
from every natal chart that is studied by placing
Sa'urn and all the planets which aspect it in a wheel
witl1 the natal signs on the cusps. Interpret Saturn
as t.he principle of responsibility fulfillment, and
meditate on its significance in the chart from all
approaches.
(4) The most important of all mandalas ab-
stracted from a natal horoscope are those which per-
tain to the twelfth house. In composite, these give
the clues to th~ whys and weherefores of the present
incarnation. S .1gg;est a mandala to be applied to a
natal sign cusp wheel for every single factor per-
taining to the twelfth house of the natal horoscope:
sign, house, and sector placement of the ruler; vibra-
tional and environmental placement of each planet
aspecting the ruler; each condition pertaining to any
planet in the twelfth house, and, last of all, a man-
dala composed of the signs on the twelfth cusp and
the ascendant and the placement of their planetary
rulers.
27
Chapter III
WHI'l'E LIGHT ASTROLOGY
'l'he essence of spiritual service of any kind is
performed by the person who transmutes the negative
areas of his own subconscious, strengthens and dis-
ciplines his mental faculties, keeps his heart con-
sciousness alive with love power, and seeks always
to be perceptive of the best in others. The perception
of the actual or potential good in others is an igni-
tion which sooner or later makes possible the ex-
pression of that good. The essence of evolutionary
progress is the ever-unfolding awareness of Good; we
as individuals make a contribution to the progress
of the race as a whole when, by regenerate conscious-
ness, we are able to alert others to a recognition
of their higher potentials for the fulfillment of talents
and abilities, health, love, and success in any field
of endeavor.
The term ''white light'' is a symbolized expression
of this consciousness. White is the composite of all
color refractions ; in its purest form it stands as a
symbol of the vibration of consciousness which is
centered in God. The refractions of white light may
be referred to, or thought of, as soul qualities, cor-
responding spiritually to the variations found in the
color spectrums. Each of these colors manifests the
principle of diversity as an expression of unity, in
28 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
that eac11 quality has its vibratory ranges from the
most primitive, unregenerate aspects to its most re-
generate and highly spiritualized aspects. The utmost
degree of pure, luminolL> white composites the best
of all visual vibratory expr~sions as a symbol of con-
sciousness perfected.
The astrologer, in his study of horoscopes of hu-
man beings, is actually studying, analyzing, synthe-
sizing, and interpreting vibratory patterns of soul
qualities representing all possible ranges of develop-
ment and their reflection, in the world of forms, as
experience patterns.. The artistic consciousness of
the painter, for example, is reflected by what is found
on his canvases; that of the musician is manifested
by that. which comes out of his instrument.
The astrologer, also an interpretative artist, ex-
presses his consciousness by the way he interprets the
hBroscopes of others; the horoscopes are his instru-
ments--corresponding to the brush, colors, and can-
vas of the painter, and to the violin of the musician.
The astrologrr 's consciousness of good corresponds
to the composite of the artistic perceptions of the
esthetic interpreter. Inspiration is the ignition of all
consciousnesses that are aligned to truth and beauty;
for. the .astrologer, this ignition is ;made possible when
he charges his consciousness with the desire to in-
terpret a horoscope according to the best of all its
potentials. 'l.'his means that he ;makes his ultimate
-interpretative goal that of alerting the client to a
recognition of the best and finest of the latter's soul
colors and soul tones.
The impersonality of the .astrologer's service
,makes it imperative that, when he is at his work, he
WHITE LIGHT ASTROLOGY 29
lift his consciousness from down-pulling patterns of
personal feeling and emotion. We suggest, as a pre-
paratory technique .for d.eveloping this faculty, medi-
tation on the following mandala: a circle, blank
except for a round dot, or spot, in the exact center.
This mandala is the most perfectly impersonal rep-
resentation of a horoscope that it is·possible to make.
It conveys no experience pattern, emotion pattern,
nor friction, sorrow, or difficulty. The dot in the
center can stand as the purpose of the astrologer's
task. It is one-pointed, conder:scd, and undifferen-
tiated. That purpose is to be a somce of spiritual
enlightenment to the client and when meditation on
that purpose is, itself, focussed and concentrated,
personal down-pullings vanish from the consciousness
of the astrologer. In this way the astrologer ''white
lights" himself; his next step is to "white light"
the client. He does so by adding to the above man-
dala the vertical and horizontal diameters; the result
is the most abstract and impersonal portrait of a
human being that can be made. This mandala is a
composite picture of the spiritual consciousness-the
central dot : the state of physical incarnation is the
cross formed by the straight lines, and the envelop-
ing of the perfect circle is divine power, divin.e love,
awl divine wisdom The mandala pictures a human
being who is conscious of his spiritual origin and of
the spirituality of incarnation. From meditation on
this portrait, the white light awareness of the as-
trologer tovmrd the client is unfolded.
The next step in developing white light awareness
is for the astrologer to add the other diameters to the
above mandala, thus completing the twelve-fold horo-
30 STUDIES IN ASTROL.OGY
scopical wheel. The mandala now presents the picture
of the client as subject to the same general patterns
of experience and relationship that are common to
all other human beings. These twelve ''houses'' are
the "rooms" of the house in which the entity, Hu-
manity, lives during incarnation. Each is as necessary
as all the others, each has its particularized sig-
nificance in experience, and each is a work-shop for
the creation of greater good on all planes of human
expression and realization.
The mandala, as it now stands, is the essential
pattern of all horoscopes. Meditation on it, as a pic-
turing of human life, can be made by all astrologers
so that the realization of evolutionary purpose in hu-
man life may become deeper and clearer each day.
Every horoscope perceived as a "variation-expres-
sion'' of his mandala stands a much better chance of
being sensitively and intuitively interpreted; without
this preparation of "White Lighting, the basic pat-
tern,'' the astrologer risks mental entanglement among
all the complex factors of a natal horoscope. Fur-
ther-and this is important-since horoscopes repre-
sent people, the astrologer develops the response of
"white lighting" people automatically when he con-
tacts them in his daily living. This is a natural de-
velopment from his daily white light meditation on
the astrological mandala because he throws out to
people an awareness which is being more and more
focussed on perfections.
From the abstract design we now begin to apply
the white light technique to personal variations; we
leave the universal pattern to consider particular
patterns.
WHITE I~IGHT ASTROLOGY 31
'1.'~1::i old admonition, "Charity begins at home,"
can be restated here in this form: The development
of white light technique begins with the astrologer's
meditation on his own chart. He, a Imman being, has
the same essential pattern as has any other human
being. But his partiwlafs differ to a degree from
those of anyone else.
His being an astrologer does not automatically
exempt him from patterns of personal feelings in
1he foem of prejudice, resentment, false pride, envy,
etc. Uowcyer, his being an astrologer imposes on him
the responsibility of transcending these negatives as
soon, and as completely, as pmsible. His negatives
can congeal and crystallize jnst as anyone else's can;
so he, the astrologer, must turn his impersonal con-
sciousne;s on liimself, the lmman being. This is a
tn1th: to the degree that an astrologer remains fixated
in negative reaction patterns he limits his interpreta-
tiYe abilities. Tn that state he transposes his own
negative.3 iuto similar patterns whieh he may find
i:.1 another's ehart. For example: a male astrologer
ha.q b2come fixated on a pattern of aversion to a
specific feminine expression of human life. He has,
toward that expression, a deep subconscious feeling
of dislike or animosity-the result of his reaction
to a problem-experience some time in his past. He
ha,<; never rt'foased that frictional feeling from his
subconscions. How, we ask, can he adequately inter-
pret and psychologically or spiritually solve a similar
condition which he finds in the chart of another maleY
There are astrologers wh-0, motivated by deep urges
toward self-defense and self-justification, fail to in-
terpret correctly certain patterns in their charts
32 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
which others can see at a glance, A little white light
is urgently needed at that point.
We astrologers, as a general thing, find no dif-
ficulty in "white lighting" the twelve houses of the
chart. The houses stand as picturings of basic ex-
perience patterns and, as such, convey a more directly
impersonal meaning. But some of us seem to have
it in for certain planets and/or planetary aspects.
Why? Because the planets are the focalizations of
consciousness and some of the patterns they make
in relationship to each otl1er picture the friction and
testing of consciousness patterns. We tend to regard
as bad, evil, or unfortunate any experience pattern
which ignites our unregenerate consciousness levels,
thus causing us to experience reactions of pain. Those
which ignite our regenerate levels of consciousness we
interpret as bene:fic, fortunate, and happy. The sym-
bolic composite we eall black-evil, painful or bad-
is to be worked on though the alchemicalizations of
regenerating experience and transmuted into that
which we eall white. Why not, then, learn to perceive
the whiteness inherent in all planetary qualities and
relationships¥ This comprises the interpretative phase
of white light astrology
The whiteness of any planet is the life principle
which is symbolized by that planet. The diversity of
expression of any planet is just another way of say-
ing: the diversity of expression of human conscious-
ness. According to your development you are aware
of these principles; according to your non-develop-
ment you are unaware of their meaning and sig-
nificance. The purpose of white-lighting anything is
to become more aware of its spiritual meaning.
WHITE LIGHT ASTROLOGY 33
However clearly you, as an astrologer, may de-
lineate and und.erstand the chart of another person, .
it is suggested that a plan be adopted by which you
may become more perceptive of your own whiteness.
This plan involves meditation on several mandalas
abstracted from your own chart; one mandala for
each of your planets. These mandalas will not involve
the use ·of numbers in any form since number im-
plies limitation, and whiteness is unlimited. Do not
permit a single negative, down-pulling keyword to
be used in these interpretations. Use only words
which convey levels of spiritualized consciousness.
The mandala for your Sun position will be a
circle with the twelve houses : the symbol for Leo
on your Leo cusp ; the symbol of the Sun placed in
the house and sign where you have it; the symbol
for your Sun sign is placed on its appropriate cusp.
This is the concentrated picture of your Sun seen
with white light. Synthesize by spiritual keywords
every factor of this picture-it is the spiritualized
essence of your Sun consciousness, will-power and
purpose, the radiation of creative love.
Y<mr Venus mandala: a wheel like the above with
the symbols for Taurus and Libra on the cusps ap-
propriate to your chart; the symbol for Venus-the
abstract symbol of the fulfilled feminine conscious-
ness, the refinements of the soul, the esthetic aware-
ness, the capacity for co-operation, etc.-to be placed
in the house and sign where you have it, the symbol
of the sign containing Venus placed on the cusp ap-
propriate to your chart. And so on-one mandala
for each of the other planets.
The impression that is conveyed by each of your
34 STUDIES IN AS'fiROLOGY
planetary mandalas is that of a pure cofor, a light
blazing without hindrance. There are no implied
complications or limitations to the ability of the
planet to radiate at its fullest.
Your white light horoscope is the composite of
all your planetary mandalas: a wheel with your signs
on the cusps, your planets placed according to the
houses and signs in which you have them. Utilizing
the most spiritual principles as key words, you now
interpret your chart as a picture of the highest and
best that you are capable of experiencing and realiz-
ing in this incarnation. Your chart, in this form, is
an astrological portrait of your ideal self.
The next step is to abstract a white light mandala,
in the same way as is described above, for each of your
sq'_-are and/or opposition aspects; we will call these
patterns aspect ma.ndalas. Do not place the planetary
degrees in the aspect mandala but meditate with
spiritual key words on the two planets involved.
Since each planet in an aspect mandala bla2Jes with
the same pure essential light that it does in its own
mandala, you are now exercising the faculty of syn-
thesis to white light.. a two-fold pattern. Follow out
the same plan in application to your compound (in-
volving three planets or more) aspects.
After the white light preparation has been made,
the squares and oppositions in your natal chart will
be clearly and truthfully seen to be the process of
experience and reactions to experience by which you
regenerate your life on all planes. In conclusion, this
statement is offered for your spiritual consideration:
Rc>generation of consciousness is not for the purpose
of making trines for the future, it is for the purpose
WHITE LIGHT ASTROLOGY 35
of unfolding God-consciousness through the expres-
sion of your planets according to their spiritualized
white light principles.
ChapteT IV
THE ASTROLOGER DISCUSSES TEACHING
Jupiter, as the abstract ruler of the ninth house,
is the astrological symbol of the teacher. Since a con-
sideration of abstract subjects is assisted by medita-
tion on a drawn symbol, or '' outpicturing,'' it is
suggested that four astrological designs be utilized
in the pursuance of this material.
The first will be a wheel with the houses num-
bered; the symbol of Sagittarius on the ninth cusp,
the symbol of Jupiter in the ninth house. In the con-
sideration of this design we find our..,point of concen-
tration to be in the upper hemisphere of the horo-
scope; or, shall we say, in the soul consciousness part
of the life pattern. It is the transcendent expression
of its lower polarity, the third house. We could talk
about the ninth house and remain "up in the air"
forever if we do not "root ourselves" in consideration
of the third house which is ruled abstractly by MeT-
cury through the sign Gemini.
To our original design we now add the sign Gem-
ini on the third cusp and in the third house we put
the symbol for Mercury. We have now established
36 BTUDlES lN AS'l''.R.OLOGY
a "polarity design" by which a point in the lower
half of the wheel is directed into the upper half.
This design signifies a " path of evolution" by which
an aspect of the ''separative consciousness'' evolves
into an aspect of the "impersonal" or "soul"
consciousness.
The first house is "I AM"-the recognition of
individual consciousness, of '.Being. The second h<>use
is "I have "-an emotional identification with Life
by the oonsciorumess of '' attaehll1ent. through pos-
session. '' The third house is the ''awarenes$ of Life''
through an c·xercise of the unemotional faculty of
intellect. As abstract rulers of the first and second
houses, Mars and Venus are ''emotional e.xpressions;''
Mercury, as abstract ruler of the third, is, even in
primitive levels, the first awareness of unemotional
impersonal consciousness.
Mercury, then, is our capacity for ''unemotional
identification.'' By its exercise we give names to
things, either concrete or abstract. We also give iden-
tification to things in terms of measurement, quality,
and function. Mercury is not a means by which we
identify ourselves with Life ; it iS the means by
which we relate the objectifroations of Life to our-
selves for our utilizations and communications.
Seen fmm this standpoint, Mercury (as ruler
of the third house of the first or "ingathering"
quadrant of the wheel) is the symbol of all learning.
It is the faculty by which facts m·e transmitted from
one person's mentality to another's mentality. It is,
correspondingly, the faculty by which facts are com-
prehended by the mentality receiving the instruction
'>r infor:r;nation. Mercury is language, expressed con-
ASTROLOGJi:R DISCUSSES TEACHllNG 37
cZ:~teJ;r b.;v. tbe. ~po~en word, gesture, or picture; al:>-
E1tractly, by th~ written word. lt is the symbol of ui:ti-
v,"'rsal rduticinship of people to each other J.n terms
of rncntal rapport. It is the symbol of all students,
an(!., as flUCh, et$teriCaJ.ly Sympqlizes the essence ~f
;dl frailolrm1l r~ation84ips. (We are all, regardless of
outer pel~tioriSbi.p~. parallel with each other__;fra~r­
nrilly-b~cause we are all learners from life ex-
perience.)
J:i'urther c.oµi;ijderatfon of this design will show
that all teaching has its roots in learning, and tbQ.t
developnwnt of ski:ll as a teacher is depe:Q..dent on
lhc facri.lty ()f learning being kept alive. The pQlari~y
currents (in !?OnseioUE1ness) between ihe lower and
upper Jiemispher~ mUE1t be kept stimulated if the
11pper bal.( capaejties are to flower. We are never
13ep,arate fr,oµl 8.iiy part of our horoscope ; even
thougb we may ~nd twenty hours out of each day
in the pl'.o!e~ion of~~l/.jng, the eurr:ents of ''intake''
m:ust ni>t hecp:rµe .depleted or neg~ected. Learn.jug ;rt
lJ.n i~itfon Qf a'fj.reness of facts and identi.fi~tion8;
it D1.ay :be likeP,.ed. :to an in)lalation of breath. Anyone
truly and str()~ly JP.otivated to teach will kee.p this
"thir('J. )1.0~ f.lic~~y'' alive. In other wordS, he
will neglect no opportl;l:nity t<> learn further. To stop
the "fut~g" ·j.s .to i~re al). eventual stoppag~,
of .erystall~t.lou, of the aj>ility to teach. (Herem lies
a le8son iii. sincerity and humility: teacheri;i .~e
heecj,).
If ~fe;r~~ is :t!}ie synibQ~ of "II1.ental in~i:ng"
then J~piter~vital, r~t, and dynami0--is .t4e
a~liJtrae.t~on ,o~ "exhalatlo:p." : tl'.ansmission of knQ~l­
edge or lgnitfon Qf fotelleetual awareness amplified
38 STUDIES IN .ASTROLOGY
and enriched by the mafarity of spiritual under-
standing. Knowledge of facts plus awareness of Prin-
ciples. In this connection we must- add another factor
f:-0 our design : the sign Virgo on the cusp of the
sixth house, creating a T-cross, two. arms of which
·· are in the lower hemispheres, ruled by Mercury.
Here the abstract symbol of "fellow students" is
expressed in an extended form to represent the ''fra-
ternity of workers.'' ,Work, .spiritually considered,
is more than physical labor-it is the service that
each person may render as a contribution to the bet-
terment of Life for all.
Virgo, as an earth sign, has a distinctly practical
connotation: ''I work to make money to sustain my
physical life and that of those I love.'' As long as
the attitude toward the service of teaching is "I learn
something so that I can teach something so that I
can make some money," the square aspect of Gemini-
Virgo threatens the unfoldment of the teacher's ca-
pacities by keeping him identified in consciousness in
frictional awareness of ''practical considerations.''
The redemption of this square pattern is found in
the fact that the sixth house is the. last house of the
lower hemisphere and is the ''modu.Jation'' into the
upper hemisphere of emotional regeneration and
spiritual awareness. It succeeds the fifth house, which
is that of Love-power ; when the consciousness of
"money-making-labor" is charged with the creativity
of. Love and expressed as Service for the betterment
of Life it becomes as expressions of redemption.
Through the experiences of Love-service we gain
understanding of our subject that makes mere book
learning seem, in comparison, a lifeless shell. This
.ASTROLOGER DISCUSSES TEACHING 39
understanding is the thing that a true teacher ra-
diates to his students.
We now complete this design by adding the sym-
bol for Pisces on the cusp of the twelfth house and
place the symbol of Neptune therein: the cross of
mutable signs. Through the first arm, Gemini, Mer-
cury symbolizes the ''learner;'' its ''exhalation'' is
Jupiter a.c;; abstraction of the ninth house. Mercury,
through Virgo, is the "learner" from Service-experi-
ence; its ''exhalation'' is Neptune as the abstraction
of the twelfth. Of this, more anon.
To consider the subject more concretely, let us
regard some of lhe problems that are, sooner or later,
faced by those who experience the urge to teach.
Since, in the first place, teaching is a dynamic
expression of wisdom, the motive must be one of
illumination. Anyone who responds to the urge to
illuminate must accept a challenge from those pat-
terns of consciousness that represent darkness: men-
tal crystallization, rigid formalism of opinion and
attitude, prejudice, the kind of ignorance that forms
a basis of indifference toward the impersonal or spir-
itual needs of students. This experience pattern
serves as a challenge to the integrity and courage of
the teacher.
The urge to fulfill an impersonal service is, sooner
or later, to be tested by the person's own conscious-
ness of economic factors. This testing is one of the
most significant points in the evolution of anyone
who is spiritually aspiring in any work-pattern. Con-
sidering again the design with the mutable signs we
see that the opposition aspects are "rooted" by Mer-
cury through Gemini and Virgo. Unregenerate Mer-
40 STUDIE·S IN ASTROLOGY
cury, in its alliance with the first sector of the wheel,
is ''practicality,'' ''expediency,'• literalness,'' and
''surface evaluation.'' These key words pertain to
levels of consciousness which have not, as yet, touched
the impersonal. Persons who are motivated into· the
teaching profession and who remain in this expres-
sion of Mercury are those whose basic attitude is
one of self-interest. "Which job pays the mostY"
"which job paves the way for the greatest academic
prestige?", "earliest retirement," "biggest pension,''
''pleasantest surroundings,'' and so on. These con-
siderations are held by everyone for a time in their
evolutionary progress, but the point ·that i"I being
made here is that eventually the attitude toward work
must be regenerated into one of Love-service. Until
that step is taken the function of teachership cannot
be truly fulfilled. Astrologically, the above may be
translated in this way: until self-interest is tran-
scended, the cycle starting with Mercury-Gemini can- ·
not find its spiritualized fulfillment in Neptune-Pis-
ces, through Jupiter-Sagittarius.
Since Jupiter, as symbol of the teacher, is found
in the upper hemisphere of the wheel, the testing
·of the truly motivated teacher are much more "in-
ner" than they are "outer." His most significant
problems are soul problems. Some of these testings
arise from the necessity to regenerate what might be
called qualities of negative Jupiter, such as:
Intellectual pride, by which the teacher fixates
himself in egotistic levels due to the feeling of having
superiority over those he teaches. This tendency can
be remPdied by a ''switch in consciousness'' by which
the teacher intensifies his awareness that he is not
ASTROLOGER DISCUSSES TEACHING 41
nor never can be, a re·pository for all the knowledge
of hi<; particular subject, but is, in effect, an elder
brother to those he teaches-and any one of them
may be, innately, his superior in essential wisdom.
He recognizes that he is a foreshadowing of the de-
velopment of his pupils and that he serves as a "mod-
ulating point" by which they move from levels of
innocence to levels of awareness of their own wisdom.
He must never forget that he has, at some time or
other, traversed the same path of learning, and, in
terms of his own personal development, should still
be a learner. In other words he should keep his at-
titude toward his teaching work fluid and dynamic-
expanding, improving, and enlarging. Thus he utilizes
regenerative key words of Jupiter to prevent the
crystallizations caused by pride.
Self-aggrandizement through desire for recogni-
tion and praise is an expression of Jupiter as vanity
and greed. In this level, the teacher seeks continually
to shiuc over his colleagues to compensate for his
envy of them. He desires the adulation of his stu-
dents; he utilizes his work to gain the good opinion
of people. An urge to improve his skill and enlarge
his scope is motivated, basically, by his wish to be
well thought of. This "inturning" viewpoint carries
the seeds of its own disintegration since it automat-
ically results in an experience which will serve to
shatter the fixated, limiting motivation.
The purpose of teaching is not self-aggraru.dize-
ment but the illu.mination of the consciousness of
others. The teacher who has an attitude based on his
integrity as a worker possesses what might be called
a healthy humility-he respects the work he is doing;
42 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
he cultivates his skill in order that the work be im-
proved ; he is thankful for all suggestions that are
given him and he is willing to give them his con-
sideration. His attitude toward his colleagues is one
of appreciation for their value to the work, not one
of competitiveness, since he recognizes that each
teacher has his own unique contribution to make. He
assists each one when he can and he is willing to
learn from each of them when he can. In other words,
he utilizes the .Tupiterian key word of "improve-
ment'' and keeps his motivations spiritualized and
regenerated.
The true teacher's attitude toward his pupils is
never one of ''having power over them.'' It is true
that he does have, since they are susceptible to his
words and influence, but his motivation is to "alert"
them to an awareness of their own powers and abil-
ities and the ways and means by which they may
express their best potentials. Motivated by 1-0ve his
attitude toward his pupils is one of benevolence;
their progress is his joy. He appreciates the signifi-
cance of the emergence of his pupils from one level
of understanding to a higher one. His desire is to
assist growth-never to "keep in submission." His
"output" as a teacher is backed up by loving ap-
preciation of his pupils..--.as students and persons-
who, in their turn, will be instrumental in the further-
ing of the work which is the obje~t of their mutual
devotion-the altar on which he and they have lighted
their candles.
The symbol of the teacher's path in its most subtly
spiritualized expressions is found in the fourth quad-
rant of the mutable cross: Jupiter in the ninth to
-
ASTROLOGER DISCUSSES TEACHING 48
Neptune in the twelfth. This is the experience-pat-
tern of the Elder Brother-the illuminator of Souls,
the radiation of Wisdom of Philosophies and Arts;
universal in its scope of redemptive power. In this
sector of development intellectual knowledge has
been encompassed and transcended. The pupil is con-
cerned with the Principles of Life and his aspirations
-not his desires or ambitions-are fired by contact
with the illumined Intelligence and spiritualiz~d con-
sciousness of the teacher.
One more design : Aries on the first cusp, Leo on
the fifth, and Sagittarius on the ninth; Mars in the
first house, Sun in the fifth, and Jupitc·r i11 th.· Hilllh
This is the crinity of the fire signs. :Olars says: ··I .A.\'1
a manifested expression of the One.'' The Suu says:.
"I AM the radiating power of Love." Jupiter says:
''I AJYI the radiation of wisdom.''
This triangular design outpictures the dynamic
consciousness; Jupiter as teacher, here symbolizes
spiritual parenthood: the father who guides the de-
velopment and illuminates the evolving awareness of
his ''children,'' his ' 'little brothers and sisters.'' In
human terms, Jupiter is here seen to symbolize the
spiritual responsibilities of fath·erhood-and the re-
sponsibility of all parents to provide spiritual as well
as physical nurture to those who have incarnated
through them.
On impersonal levels, it shows the inherent spir-
itual parenthood of all teachers to their pupils, who
on mental levels, are their children. Parents should
be teachers; all true teachers bring to their pupils
a radiation of I.Jove-power that makes for completest
fulfillment of their Teaching Service.
44
Chapter V
THE ASCENDANT
Students, this is a discussion of you.
The left horizontal of the horoscopical wheel, ex-
tending from the center to the circumference, is the
emergence of you from the inner planes---as an ex-
pression of the idea we call Humanity-into objectifi-
cation in incarnation; the Ascendant-point is your
appearance on this plane at the time of y-0ur birth.
When you emitted your first cry you were saying:
''Look, World, here I AM again !'' That cry was your
''dawning,'' the Light of you appearing in the world
of other human Lights as it has appeared many times
in the past. You came in to express a brighter, clearer
quality of your Light than you ever did before, and
those who welcomed you with Love did so, actually,
because of the promise inherent in your Light for
the betterment of human Life during the years of
your incarnation. Every incarnation is an expression
of Humanity's love for, and faith in, the J,ight
which is its Source and its Habitation.
Your incarnation was vibratorily key-noted by
the zodiacal sign which covers the Ascendant-point
of your horoscope. Each one of the twelve signs is
one of the three (Being-ness, Love, Wisdom) aspects
of the dimension of Polarity (Positive/Negative) in
terms of Gender (Masculine/Feminine). And-a hu-
THE ASCENDANT 45
man being's principal vibratory purpose in incar-
nation is to fulfill, to the best of his/her ability, the
p()tential of the Ascendant-sign through the experi-
ence-chapter and vibratory placement of the planet
that rules the .Ascendant-sign. (By '"vibratory place-
ment'' is meant the sign in which that planet is
placed ; the quality of expression is indioo.ted by the
n1tture of the planet whieh disposits it; the ruler
being in Taurus or Libra is disposited by Venus; in
Aquari~·s, it is disposited by Uranus, etc.
Create three mandalas, one each for the cardinal,
fixed, and mutable signs. This is done by drawing
three circles; ea.ch one has the symbols of one of
~he\se three cl11BSification.s of signs as they appear in
zodiacal sequence; the sign-points are connected by
straight lines, giving us the three variations of a
square.
The cardinal signs are the turning points as we
travel around the wheel from the Ascendant-point;
they represent the four basic points of seasonal
change throughout the year and they also represent
the four basic points of human relationship-structure:
the masculine-feminine of parentage (Capricorn/Can-
cer) and the masculine/feminine of that which is
begotten by the parents (Aries/Libra). Persons who
have a cardinal sign on the Ascendant (unless there
are interceptions and the Ascendant-sign is also on
the twelfth cusp) have oome in at this time to take
a ''new direction'' in their evolution-their Ascend-
ant-sign opens up a new quadrant of the zodiac for
the quadrant of the first three houses. (Those who
have the cardinal Ascendant-sign also ·on the twelfth
cusp are simply- CQPtinuin~ that whi~h w~ ii!-
46 STUDIES IN. ASTROLOGY
augurated as a turning point in the previous
incarnation)
Each of the four cardinal signs ts the ''Being-
ne~" aspect of the element to which it belongs: Aries
-Fire; Cancer-Water; Libra-Air and Capricorn
-Earth. Aries and Capricorn are the "male signs"
of which Aries is the masculine and Capricorn the
feminine; Cancer and Libra are the "female signs,"
of which Libra is the masculine and Cancer the
feminine.
The fi..wd signs are the "Love aspect" of the
elements-each being the fifth sign from the cardinal
of its element. In parallel: Aries-Leo; Capricorn-
Taurus; Cancer-Scorpio; and Libra-Aquarius. Since
every horoscope is the result of the exercise of con-
sciousness in the past incarnation and we really go
"round and round the wheel" through our incar-
nations, we see that, from an evolutionary stand-
point, Leo is the first fixed sign, Scorpio the second,
Aquarius the third, and Taurus the fourth. On a
mandala with the twelve signs in order-from Aries
around the wheel- draw four straight lines as fol-
lows : (l) from Aries to Leo (cusp of first to cusp of
fifth) ; (2) from Cancer to Scorpio (cusp of fourth
to cusp of eighth); (3) Libra to Aquarius (cusp of
seventh to cusp of eleventh); and (4) Capricorn to
Taurus (cusp of tenth to cusp of second). In this
way we see a "motion picturing" of the linkage be-
tween one incarnation and the next, since the line
connecting Capricorn to Taurus ''comes back'' into
the :zodiacal cycle through the tenth, eleventh, twelfth,
and first houses. Actually, we do not "go around
a circle," repeatedly; we unfold through a spiral-
THE ASCENDANT 47
process from one "octave" to the higher one; each
''octave'' brings us closer and closer to ''return to
the Center" which is our "lost Eden;" in effect, we
are, in Consciousness, re-absorbed into our Source.
The mutable signs are the Wisdom-aspect of the
efoments, bec:ause each mutable is the ninth sign from
its initial cardinal. To the above mandala we will now
draw four more straight lines as follows: (1) from
Lt0 0 to Sagittarius, cusps of fifth and ninth; (2)
Scorpio t0 Pisces, cusps of eighth and twelfth; (3)
~'i.quarir.s lo Gemini, cusps of eleventh and third; and
(4) Taurus to Virgo, cusps of second and sixth. We
now have the picturing of the four elements in their
triue 2.spcets, the Being-ness, Love, and Wisdom as-
pects of the two ''expressions'' of Polarity and the
four "combinations" of Gender. Apply this formula
to your Ascendant-sign and get a clear picture of
ihr "trinc-quality" and the "grnder-quallty of yti~ir
sign...
CYour ruling planet i'l the significator of the
focusing, and expresi:;ing the vibration of your As-
cendant-sign and its Principle, represents a basic
function that you are to fulfill in this incarnation.":I
However, you have another ruler which is co-related
to your planetary ruler :Ufiat is the planet that dis-
posits your ruler · we might term this plant!t the
''vibratory ruler' )of your chart since its generic
quality is the one through which your planetary
ruler must express. (Unless, of course, the planetary
ruler is in its own sign of dignity-in which case it
is "two-fold" ruler.)
The environmental requirement for the unfold-
~ent and. fu!fiJJment of ;your personality-potentials
48 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
is shown by the house in which your planetary ruler
is placed. The key-words of each house must be
learned by the astrological student if he is to learn
where his personal ''essence'' is to be progressively
fulfilled. No matter where we go on this plane, we
carry our entire horoscope with us, inside ourselves,
for the simple reason that the horoscope is the pic-
ture of our consciousness and we can never get away
from consciousness. We can, however, keep ourselves
established in the requirements of our planetary ruler
if we will perceive that any place or association with
any group of people contains possibilities for exercis-
ing the potentials of the planetary ruler. Man is to
utilize the physical plane. He is not to be used by it,
but he will become congested and limited in it if he
does not establish his self-awareness represented by
the combination of qualities of the Ascendant-sign,
the planetary ruler qualified by its dispositer and its
significance by placement in a certain house.
The astrological design shows us a strange and
wonderful thing-that which is known as the "psy-
chological base :'' the cusp of the fourth house of the
natal chart. This cusp, from an occult standpoint,
can be studied by the Law of Cause and Effect as the
significator of a condition which links this incarnation
to the one passed-thereby showing- us how we can
strengthen our sense of ''continuance'' from the past
embodiment into the present one.
First, let us remember that we come into incar-
nation with no conscious awareness of what we have
come from ; the superconscious carries all of our
memories from the past and it is the "re-vivification"
of these memories that makes it possible for us to
_
I
I
THE ACSENDANT 49
"ti•2-in" consciously with a certain level of our vi-
bratory beiug tJ1at is closely connected with our mem-
ories of progress made in the past incarnation. Now,
let us see how this is pictured abstractly, as a Life-
Principle:
A mand1ala containing only the cusps of the
twelfth and firnt houses; place the symbol for Pisces
on the twelfth and the symbol for Aries on the first;
connect the two points on the circumference by a
straight linr. This is the essential picture of the res-
idu;i of unfulfilled ideals which made necessary the
present incarna'ion. Now add the lower vertical-
1he· cusp of the fourth house-and plaee the symbol
for Cancer at the cusp-point; connect this point, by
straight lines, to the cusps of the twelfth and first,
The ''Aries-line'' is the involution in the present in-
carnation to the point where identity with family
and vibratory heredity is established-the sense of
'' nest-occup:mcy'' and relationship-identification
with the vibratory quality of the parentage. (The
fourth cusp is, of course, one-half of the complete
line of parentage which is extended, for completion,
into the upper vertical to the sign Capricorn, the
cusp of the tenth house.)
The Pisces line ·in the above mandala is the spir-
itualized matrix: one of three lines and two of three
points of the Water-trine of Cancer, Scorpio and
Pisces. Therefore, since the first "up-turning" point
in the cycle from the Ascendant is the cusp of the
fourth house, we see that the spiritualized matrix,
derived from the best of ourselves in the past is di-
r :·2:.ly pictured in the best of our vibratory heritage.
To know only the worst of our parents is, in human
50 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
terms, to become most intensely aware of the worst
in ourselves because we incarnated through them by
the Laws of Cause and Effect and of Vibratory Sym-
pathy. To remain established in our worst feelings
about ourselves, as ''expressions'' of our parents, is
to remain congested in the negative past. We cannot
make spiritual and vibrational progress until we
recognize our potentials for progress ; to make such
progress implies the need to become aware of our
spiritualized resources.
Now, translate this mandala into the terms of
your natal chart-the signs on the cusps of your
twelfth, first and fourth houses. Unless there is the
complication of interceptions in certain arrange-
ments, the signs on the twelfth and fonrth houses will
represent two aspects of one of the four elemental
trines. A detailed analysis-by generic and spiritual
value-of these two signs in relationship to the ruler
of the chart gives us the picture of how the best of
our past is to be continued in this incarnation as
"pabulum" for progressive and upgoing expression
of the planetary ruler.
Turn your natal chart as it is so that the fourth
cusp appears as the Ascendant-a quarter-turn to
the right. The (apparent) twelfth house is actually
the third house of the natal chart and it is the
ninth house from the natal seventh-'' ninth house''
representing ''Wisdom-aspect.'' This is the picturing
of the wisdom resource from the last time you in-
carnated in the physical sex opposite to your present
expression. The third house of the natal chart is the
present intellectual unfoldment, but it is also, as
seen in the above, a key to understanding something
THE ASCENDANT 51
of the best of your complementary polarity because
it reflects one of the "higher octaves" of yourself
expressing the opposite sex. Your ability to learn now
is conditioned by-and qualified by-your distillation
of wisdom in past embodiments (learning is, for the
most part, "reminding") and your past "learning
from experience" (Wisdom) has a direct bearing
on your mental abilities now.
So, we see that the fourth house of the natal
horoscope contains so much information concerning
the best of ourselves translated from the past into
the present. We hold ourselves back and down if we
ignore this potential; we start the upward climb
into psychological maturity if. we use it.
The above-described horoscopical conditions refer
to the individualized chart-the "you-ness" of your
vibratory portrait. But there is another way of learn-
ing how to say ''I AM'' and it is found in considera-
tion of the fact that no matter what the actual As-
cendant and planetary ruler might be, every horo-
scope has the Aries-Libra diameter somewhere-and
Aries, through its rulership by the dynamic, ex-
pressive Mars-is the abstraction of "I AM." In
primitive levels of consciousness, Humanity's "I
AM" is stated in terms of friction, resistance, con-
tention, self-defence, and destruction of that which is
feared because it is not understood. Man has fought
for his survival-seemingly against the world, other
people, and conditions. Actually, he has resisted the
outpicturings of his own ignorance of Life-Principles
---he has never fought other people but he has fought
his fear of them since they, his ''enemies,'' are never
anything but the :m.irro~ of his negatives. When he
52 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
truly loves that which he really is, and his loving is
an expression of that loving, then his "enemies"
disappe.ar and all people are recognized as his broth-
er/sister/friends.
Mars, through its rulership of Arks, is the abo
stract ruler of the horoscope of humanity. Through
this vibration we say not only "I AM" but "I AM
determined to survive and perpetuate my existence."
The Mars-potential in every horoscope is the ''red
blood'' of consciousness, the vital sense of Being-nes.s,
the essential mascuJinity of generic vibration, the
capacity to vitali7.e, to stimulate, to impregnate (on
whatever plane), to contend with inner and outer
down-pullings, and finally, through its spiritual dis-
tillations, it is courage-born-of-faith-the aspiration
of the Spirit to progress and to live on ever-ascending
octaves of the consciousness of the One Life, the One
Love, and the One Wisdom.
The significance of the cusp carr;ying Aries in
your chart shows that, regardless of your physical
sex, that experience-ful-fillment demand'! the exercise
of the most vital masculine generic quality; you must
learn to exercis3 courage, yon must develop self-C-On-
:fidence, you must face your fears, learn to under-
stand their source in your consciousness and over-
come them through transmutations and constructive
expressions; you must develop and exercise the basic
Mars-quality of initiative-referring to the ''start-
ing-ness'' of Aries as the first sign of the Abstract
Horoscope; at this point you must-and eventually
will-learn what it means to propel yourself without
waiting for suggestions, proddings or even encourage-
ment from others; through the house carrying your
'l'HE ASCENDANT 53
Aries cusp you arc the "birdling" who hops from
the protec' i.-c nrst and exercises his strength to fly;
once in the air and away from home-base he either
flies or falls to the ground; no one and nothing can
hep him in the air except his own strength and his
acclimation to the element which is to be his natural
field for liYing and moving.
Since the Aries cusp may be anywhere on the
wheel and the l\Iars-potcntial in any chart may be
slight or great in S'.'.Ope, there is an infinite variety
of "Marsiness" possible. To the degree that your
Mars is ''congested'' by square or opposition aspects
and to the degree that planets in Aries (disposited
by Mars) are congested will you have to learn to
exercise the virtue of courage as an expression of
yonr inner Love-Wisdom; to fight, not by re-
sistance to people you feel are ''enemies'' but non-
resistantly by transmuted expressions of your con-
sciousrn'"s; to :;;t.and by your convictions (if they
are truthful m1es) as an expression of your integrity
and above <ill thing'S to respect the right of other
people to express themselves according to their vi-
bratory equipmrnt. A l1ea1thy, integrated Mars never
tries to congest, inhibit, limit, or imprison the ful-
fillment of another, but he seeks always to encourage
by his Love-Wisdom the ignition of their best and
finest potentials on all planes. The person who knows
Love-Courage and Wisdom-Courage is the person
who truly knows what "I AM" means; we must all,
sooner or later, come into an awareness of this spir-
itualized sense of identity with our Source-our
Father-Mother God.
54
Chapter VI
THE SECOND HOUSE
Conditions pertaining to the second house of the
horoscopical wheel focalize a great deal of what the
astrologer is called upon to interpret in his service.
Since every phase of the horoscope has its particular
principle, it is suggested that we elasticize our con-
ception of the second house beyond the traditional
approach of seeing it as money and possessions.
First, in order to place the second house in the
scheme of things let us consider a mandala made as
follows: a wheel with houses; place the symbols for
Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, and Virgo on
the first six cusps; draw a straight line from the cusp
of the first to the cusp of the fifth; another line from
the fifth to the seventh cusp. The sector of the first
four houses is analogous to the grades of grammar
school which we all go through in childhood as a
foundation of our educational experience. The addi-
tional sector of the fifth and sixth houses could be
considered analogous to our high school and college
education, initiated as it is by the vital impulse of
the fifth house. The inner conditioning indicated by
these first six houses finds its expression in the upper
hemisphere, initiated by the seventh house of part-
nership consciousness; it is analogous to the experi-
ence in the world which we enter into after com-
THE SECOND HOUSE 55
pleting our formal education-we put our knowledge r
to work. 'l'he composite of these six houses is what
we bring to all mature experience for regenerating
and perfecting, just as we bring to our mature ex-
perience as adults all the training, conditioning, and
education that we have learned and acquired in our
growing years. Unspiritualized expressions of the first
six-and particularly the :first four-houses indicate
the essential root-square of all our problems.
When we consider that primitive ·human con-
sciousness expresses the fifth house as an instinctive
expression-as a resource of the fourth house--rather
than as conscious creativity, it is not to be wondered
at that hmnanity tends to function largely in the
consciousness of the first five houses. To most people
even the sixth house is an expression of material sus-
tainment rather than an expression of impersonal
contribution in service. So much of humanity's rela-
tionship-consciousness is primarily rooted in the
fourth house awareness of identity with family and
race that decisions are made in terms of the group
feeling rather than by the requirements of personal
development and the urges to express the conscious-
ness of persollill integrity. Since the physical con-
sciousness is tlle realm in which people tend to live,
the second house focalizes much of their experience
patterns and problem patterns because the second
house is the essential symbol of sustainment con-
sciousness for the entire wheel, concentrated by its
significance in the sector of the first four houses.
The first three houses may appropriately be called
the ingathering quadrant-representing the inner
plane processes by which we integrate ourselves with
56 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
the triune dimension of physical manifestation.
"Possession" and "ownership" are W()rds that
identify the consciousness of most people in their
second house expression. The real principle of the
second house is revealed, however, when we consider
the philosophical point that we do not possess or own
any physical thing. The only possession we have is
consciousnesl:l. The quality of that poosession is found
in the reactions we have to any phase of life ; our
stewardship of it is in regeneration. The life of hu-
manity is an inner thing-material expression is its
vehicle. So, what we call the ''desire to possess
things" is a primitive way of saying that we desire
experience by which we can exercise our faculty of
stewardship of physical forms and the ongoing that
is provided for in regeneration.
Since every factor found in the horoscopical
wheel is a necessary thing in the life of humanity,
there is no factor that is "wrong" or "evil." The
second house-as a chapter of experience and a level
of consciousness-is a symbol of Spirit as much as
any other house is. It conveys, essentially, the emo-
tional or desire consciousness by which humanity
seeks to draw to itself the things needful for sus-
tainment. To say ''I I-Lave'' is an extension of the
first house consciousness of ''I Am.'' The underlying
impulse of "I Am" is to sustain itself-to be able
to continue saying "I Am" and to perpetuate that
consciousness in the form world. To some people "my
children'' or ''my wife'' is said with the same degree
of poosession consciousness that "my money" is
said. Both phrases imply self perpetuation and self
expression.
THE SECOND HOUSE 57
The essence 0£ any astrological £actor is found
in coru;;deration of the spirit11al principle inherent
in that factor. Sine'.) the second house has its par-
ticular ''spirituality,'' let us consider three mandalas
abstracted from the natural or achetypal chart.
(This is a wheel with thirty degrees of each sign con-
tained witllin the holL'<e appropriate to it, starting
with A !'ies on the first cusp; the planetary rulers
are related to the houses and. signs of their dignity.
'!'he first· mandala will be a wheel blank except
for the cus:~s of the first four hom;es forming the
~rs~ quadrant. The symbol for Aries, Taurus, a.no
Gemini are placed on the cusps 0£ the first three
houses respectively. Our key phrase3 will be: Fin;t
house: l am an individualized consciousness; s~cond
house: I desire to sustain rny consciousness in the
vhysi ·r•l dimensions. Third house: I learn how to
make this susta·inment possible. This "ingathering"
quadrant represents our proc?ss of "planting roots"
on any cycle of evolution.
Venus, ruler of Taurus and abstract ruler of the
second house, is the principle of attraction; her sig-
nificanee to our second house is the urge to draw to
ourselves tlie means of material snstainment, or at-
tract t11e inflow of material abundance. In no other
way is t.he truth of the statement that we do not make
money more eYident. We, in fact, do something in
exchange for money. This brings to our attention
the arch-principle of the venusian vibration: equi-
librium through exchange. Seen as an expression of
this arch-principle, money is material exchange be-
tw~:;·n people, not material possession; in other words,
something received in return for something done.
58 STllDIES IN ASTROLOGY
Perfect fulfillment of mutual agreement on this point
is the essence of right money-use. 'l'he Commandment,
''Thou shalt not steal,'' was given as an injunction
against trying to violate a material expression of
a universal principle.
To enlarge our appreciation of tJie' second house
we now link it to the other house which is abstractly
ruled by Venus through the sign I1ibra--the seventh
house.
The mandala will be: the twelve-h_oused wheel;
the symbols for Taurus and I_Jibra on the cusps of
the second and seventh houses, rcspcctiwly. The sym-
bol for Venus in both of these houses; lightly shade
in these houses so that they stand out from the rest
of the wheel. Here we have the archetype Venus-
mandala-the abstract picture of the goddess's focus
of influence on humanity's life-experience. The sec-
ond house pictures the Principle of Attraction in
man's consciousness of drawing material for self sus-
tainment; the seventh house is the bringing together
of people who complement each other. In other words,
Life, in the processes of human relationship, achiews
equilibriums through the love-exchange of comple-
mentaries.
The seventh house abstractly identifies all pairs
of givers and takers. The employee gives work--the
employer gives pay. The physical life of the em-
ployee is sustained by using the money he receives;
the life of the employer's business is sustained by
the efforts of those who work for him. When mutu-
Lli~y of i;,ood is maintained in such relationships, all
persons involved benefit each other thrnugh right ex-
changes. When the principles of either factor are
THE SECOND HOUSE 59
violated, disharmony and unbalance result. This is
evidenced ou all planes-between individuals, two
groups, or two nations.
We must keep in mind that money-our symbol
of material possession-is actnally a "fluid" in the
sense that exchange in some form takes place between
people everywhere and at all times. It is like the
blood which circulates throughout the physical body
to sustain physical life. Stop the flow of blood and
you stop the individual life-expression. Stop, or con-
gest, the flow of money in economic life and-just
observe the results. They are evident everywhere.
The flow of blood through the physical body starts
with "output;" the "return" is made when the
initial impulse has completed its work. The flow of
money, between people, starts when, :first, something
is done for which money is given as payment. Hu-
manity, in order to fnnction with financial success,
must learn to he willing to make the best possible
output in quality of service to be rendered. The sixth
house makes the first trine aspect to the second, and
the sixth house preludes the seventh, the abstract
symbol of relationship experienc.
Success in money return starts with mutual in-
tegrity of exchange consciousness and service con-
sciousness. Deficiency or darkness of that conscious-
ness eYentually insures "money problems" in the
form of subconscious remorse, loss of self-confidence,
distrrist of others (memory of past dishonesties),
avarice, and the kind of extravagance that is all
"output" without regard for equilibrium of ex-
change. These negative money pictures are the result
Qf Qutrages perpetrated in the past against the Prin-
60 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
ciple of Mutual Exchange, and are manifestations
of "un-love" toward fellow beings. They, the pic-
tures, serve as magnets for negative experience, loss,
and limitation, and until they are regenerated by
principle they insure the continual experience of
financial negatives.
The Venus mandala is the astrological picturing
of the saying that "the love of money is the root of
all evil." Not money itself; because money of itself
has no power. But when the consciousness of a person
is ' '.rooted' ' in the second house his love conscious-
ness is rooted in attachment to his possessions.
Thus the alchemy of Love in his relationship with
people is thwarted arid it thereby becomes, in time,
congested to sPch a degree that almost anything or
anybody will be seen as a threat to his holdings. His
greed, distrust, avarice, fear and the like impel him
to create very twisted mental pictures of people and
he automatically thrusts them farther and farther
away from him. Evil grows to the dlegree that our
consciousness separates us from people. Therefore we
see that money is not just a medium of material ex-
change but it gives, by the way it is used, a direct
indication of a person's heart consciousness.
The person either loves the possession of pos-
sessions more than he loves and respects people; or
in certain patterns of relationship--parents, wife,
children, etc.-he exercises a rich heart consciousness,
but in business he has the consciousness of a pirate;
or his consciousness is integrated towards the ends
of maintaiiiing balanced and harmonious relationshipi.
with all people. We serve God by exercising the re>
demptive Love power, or we serve l\Iammon by f'U-
THE SECOND HOUS~
slaving ourselves to the illusion of possessing things.
As long as this illusion dominates the consciousness
we invite experience of a negative and painful kind.
As soon as the right attitude toward, and right
relationship with other people becomes the focal point
of· consciousness, the currents of the Love-power
initiate an alchemical process by which liberation
from the bondiage of ''being possessed ·by possessions''
is -achieved. Regudless of what anyone else does,
evl'!ry human being must., in due course of time, come
into the awareness of the spiritual value of the right
use of money. When that time arrives the assurance
of right relationship between people will be man-
if~~ted,. Honesty is a flowering of the human heart
by which the consciousness is able to interpret the
thin~ of Life for what they really are. An honest
man or woman sees things as they are in reference
to ·principle and as expressions of principles. They,
truly honest people, do not need to be "legislated"
into honest action by laws or by the threat of pun-
isbIDent ; they function in the consciousness of right
and res:pectful exchange with other people in every
way.
The process involved in astrological reading
may be stated in this way: :first, a solid understand-
ing of·the abstract or spiritual significance of each fac-
tor in the chart; then, application of abstract under-
stt:i.nding to the particulars of the chart under con-
sidera~ion. This is because each human horoscope is
a .variation of the Archetypal Horoscope which is
the Grand Vibratory Symbol of the entity we call
Humli.JJ.ity. This archetype is the twelve-housed wheel,
with ·the symbols of the signs placed on the cusps
~ .. :.- ..
62 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
starting with zero of Aries on the first, zero of Taurus
on the second, and so on through the other ten signs
and houses. 'l'he Archetype is completed by placing
the planets in the houses and signs of their dignity.
Every factor is just as important as every other
factor -since all are expressions of consciousness in
incarnation. All are spiritual, all are good, and all
are necessary. All astrologers must ground themselves
in this understanding if they want to develop the
ability to perceive the spiritual potentials delineated
in the charts they study, as well as the causes and
purposes to be found.
TTnloeking the secrets of the second house is one
of the most significant services that the astrologer
can perform because humanity, for the most part,
is tied up in bondage to the desire for possessions.
The conseiousness of possession is the primitive level
of the principle of the second house ; the principle
itself is stewardship-the responsibility of right use
and perfect exchange. When a horoscope is read from
the possession standpoint the factor of accumulation
is emphasized-or can be emphasized-in the mind
of the client. The astrologer must not neglect his
opportunity to alert his client to principle. It is the
awareness of principle that opens the consciousness
to solutions and re-directions.
'l'he faculty of the second house can be clearly
seen by consideration of the following mandala: A
twelve-housed wheel; the symbols for Aries, Taurus,
and Gemini on the cusps of the first, sec<>nd, and third
houses respectively; a straight line connects the cusps
of the first and fourth houses, creating an enclosure
of the fir.st three houses. The second house conveys
THE SECOND HOUSE 63
an emotional implication : the desire to sustain phys-
ical life. The third house is mental : the process of
learning how to effect this sustainment. We sustain
physical life by using the things of Earth, not by
holdinp; on to them. In the final analysis, we cannot
hold 011 to any physical thing, but our use of phys-
ical things-and money-depicts our consciousness
of either bondage to the sense of possession or inner
freedom to use the things of earth with judgment and
intelligence.
The reading of any house can be a complicated
matter. IJet us break down the factors which can per-
tain to the :;;econd house patterns and consider them
in sequence. This break-down will involve the crea-
tion of s0wra.l white light mandalas. Use only the
planetary positions by sign and house, not the degree
numbers; ·we a.re going to try to perceive the work-
ings of principle through the second house patterns,
and· we do not want t.o limit our awareness by the
psychologically negating effect of impressing our
minds with ''bad'' aspects.
First mandala: the symbol of the second house
sign on the second cusp ; place the symbol of its
planeta.r~r ruler in its appropriate sign and house.
This is the "essential second house mandala" of any
horoscop('; it conveys, by the sign on the cusp, the
consciousness of the person in regard to money and
possessions; the position of its ruler indicates where
and in what capacity this consciousness is to find its
completest fulfillment of the power to attract the
means of c·arth through the exercise of perfect ex-
chm1ge. It also serves to delineate the 1department of
experience that ·will focus the best of the person's fi-
6
·,,
•:t STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
nancial consciousness and, essentially, it shows to
y;lJat degree the spirit:tal level of stewardship is ex-
pressed-or can be expressed-by the person. It also
shows whether the person tends to express possessive-
ness or use of possession.
Second mandala (or group) : a mandala for each
planet in the second house and in the second house
sign. Place the sign-symbols on the cusps of the houses
ruled by these planets. These planets focus the pos-
session-consciousness much more intensely than any
other pattern because the chapter of experience syn-
chronizes with the consciousness pattern. This man-
dala emphasizes the experiences of finance very
strongly ; these experiences may include property
:finance, investment finance-in short, all manner of
ex.rwrienecs which are focalizations of the financial
consciousness. The regerneration of the houses ruled
by the planets is definitely dependent on the regen-
eration of the possession-consciousness.
'rhird mandala : a mandala for each planet in the
second house sign but in the first house. This is a
phase of financial consciousness in the making. Per-
sona.l developmentr-or personality unfoldment--in
this incarnation is preparing financial experience for
the future. Financial ability is seen to be a point of
personal evaluation rather than tbe faculty of ac-
quisitiveness for its own sake.
]'ourth mandala: planets in the second house but
in the third house sign : education and mental de-
velopment are focussed through financial experiences.
Mental disciplines are to be met in experiences per-
taining to money-making. The mental approach, in
such a pattern, tends to be colored by the desire-
THE SECOND HOUSE 65
quality of getting and holding. The third and fourth
mandalas are throw-back patterns because the planets
so placed are in houses precediug the one they are re-
lated to by sign. The fourth mandala tells us that the
person is-to a degree-not yet purely integrated in
abstract or impersonal meutation; he tends to ''think
in terms of his desires of possession and financial
evaluation.''
These four mandala.-; are all focusses of second
house experience patterns. The harmonious develop-
ment of this factor in our Earth-experience is shown
to b3 oi tremendous significauce in soul growth when
we remembrr that the second house is the first step
in the formalion of the Grand Trine of the Element
of JTiarth. The base of this trine is a horizontal con-
necting the cusps of the second and sixth houses; the
symbolic implication is that the Principle of Perfect
Service (a phase of the impersonal consciousness)
is directly dependent on the right exercise of the
money consciousness. The apex of the Ea-rth trine is
the tenth house-Society and its perfected exprrsciions
as a universal entity. The defP,cts of the second and
sixt.h houses insure defects in the tenth. The phrase
" Capital (second house) versus Labor (sixth house) "
is as negative as anythillg can be. It must become
"Capital and Labor," functioning together in per-
fect exchange between all factors in order that the
apex of any society or civilization can attain its best.
The natural--or abstract-rulership by Saturn of
the tenth house and i:s exaltation in I1ibra-the sign
ruled by Venus which also, abstractly, rules the sec-
o::d house--is something upon which we can all med-
itate. It picture~ the ~8.';lential meanin~ of the worcl
C3 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
civilization: ''Civil relationships between all peoples
in their dealings with earth-things and all exchanges
pertaining to them.''
Regardless of the sign on the second cusp and the
pla:1cts hwolved, we must keep in mind that Venus
is :he ar.:hetypal symbol of the second house .as a
factor of spiritual com;ciowmcss. At this point it is
appropriate to state that the natural, or abstract,
rnkrs of the signs and houses condense-or concen-
trate--the esoteric meanings of the hoUSl'S as chapters
of our unfoldment. So, our consideration of second-
housc~ r;:ading c·annot be complete without studying
th~ \Tt'ims positions and patterns; furthermore, we
must intensify our consciousness of th,~ significance
of VN1us as !he "Principle of Equilibrium (Harmony
and Balance) through exchange.
Fifth mandala--the Vem·s mandala: Taurus on
the second cusp, I.Jibra on the seventh cusp. Study
this mandala by rotating the wheel so that each cusp
i11 t rn becomes the Ascendant. Perceive how the two
signs-forming the 150-degree aspect-relate to the
wheel as a whole in these different positions. Taurus
and Libra composite the "consciousness of money"
and "the consciousness of relationship." The prin-
ciple, as has been said before, is ''Equilibrium
through mutuality of giving and receiving"-the
Principle of Marriage. Meditate on the Veuus man-
dala of any chart that you are called upon to read
from a financial standpoint, in order to get at the
roots of the person's basic consciousness of exchange.
ThJ ho~se and sign positions of Venus-regardless
of her aspects-will give you a clue a.<> to the esoteric
reasons for manifestation of financial lack or de-
'rI-IE SECOND HOUSE
ficiency. Planets afflicting Venus must be regenerated
if the root of poverty-consciousness is ever to be re-
moved. The afflictions to Venus show only how the
person, in his past incarnations, expressed unbalance
and inharmony in his relationships with other people.
Conditions pertaining to the second house are par-
ticular to this incarnation, but Venus is the arche-
typal symbol of right relationship in all phases and
on all planes. Help your client to become more aware
of the truth of this principle--doing so is one of
yonr deep('St responsibilities.
'ro conclude this discussion: Utilize the spiritual
keywords of the planets as they express rulership or
occupancy of second house conditions; doing so in-
sm·es perception of the esoteric purpose of money in
this incarnation of your client. Do not weaken him
by making financial decisions for him-to do so is a
violation of your own Principle of Service. Alert him
to his own consciousness of Principle and encourage
him to "take up his own (financial) bed and walk"
-walk in the paths of exercising his financial in-
telligence to its utmost best, in good will, honesty,
and perfect exchange with all people.
68
Chapter VII
THE FIFTH HOUSE
The fifth house of t11e abstract horoscope is the
second point for both the fixed-sign sq•utre and the
fire-sign. The release of its potentials provides a
very gTeat channeling for spiritual on-1:ming.
1'he fifth house is below the horizon-in the north-
ern hemisphere--and to the right of th~ vertical of
the wheel: west. It is the middle house of the quad-
rant ini!iated by the foerth house ; thi;;; quadrant is
called-or can he thought of as-the family sector.
Being below the horizon, the fifth honsc is in the
hemisphere which per!ains to the consciousnses of the
separate self. Being we:>t, it is in the '' fated'' hem-
isphere-those chapters of experience which Ufe
brings to us to deal with as brst \Ve can; we do
not exercise self-deter:mination as much in these pat-
terns as we do-or can do--with those in the eastern
hemisphere.
The four fi.xe<l signs--Taurus, JJeO, Scorpio, and
Aqi.'arius--aud their corresponding houses-the SC(~­
ond, fifth, eightl1, and eleventh-are the signs and
honst\'> of resGurce and sustenance, by which the
quadrants initiated by the cardinals are "fed." The
fa~.;:-. he:::.:"" inil i:.ttes the consciousness of "I AM an
individual ;'' the fourth house says: ''I AM an in-
(iividi;ia? factor in a pattern of family, heritage, and
THE FIFTH HOUSE 69
f~ce.'' The resources made possible by the fifth house
enables Humanity to rralize: 'I have the power to
contribute to tltr strenm of life through the exercise
of my Jove-consciousness and to sustain my creations
by my owu rc:;ource of love-power." The Sun, which
ab~tracotly rules the :fifth house through the sign
Leo, is th" ess:'utial symbol of Power of any kind
j•-st as, litrrally, the Sun is the radiant source of
life for our solar system, its creation. From this re-
source we are urged to release life-giving energies
throu6h t}n exercise of parental love and we give
incarnation to other Egos who come in as our chil-
dren. \"Ye also give life to impersonal expressions in
tJie crrativity in Art. Biological or impersonal, in
lovini~ our ehilclren or in loving our creativity and
the work we are devoted to, these realeasments are all
expressions of the creative aspect of love-power.
Brcnme of the resources of intense potential im-
plied by the four .fixed signs and houses, the unre-
generate patterns ·which are involved with them im-
ply a corrFBponding intensity of karma. The essential
keyword implied by unregenerate I1eo is misuse of
power through the exercise of egotism. (By '' unre-
generate Leo'' is meant frictional patterns concern-
ing planets in l1eo or the Sun itself, wherever it iq
in the eha.rt.) 'I'he symbol which we use for the
"square aspeet"-a square with horizontal base-
when applied to the wheel falls in such a way that
the angles coincide with the midpoints of the fixed
hoMes; the seeond of these--the midpoint of Leo-
proyid:_·s the upward turning point as we travel
a.round the ·wheel counter-clockwise from the As-
c~~dant; In this picture. we are alerted to the im-
70 STUDIES IN .ASTROI10GY
portance of regeneracy of the fifth house: until that
po!ential is regenerated the consciousness remains
fixated in levels of possession and egotism-the sec-
ond and fifth houses, both below the horizon. If we
can imagine the fixed square being "stopped" at the
sixth cusp and the currents ''cut off,'' the energies
which-symbolically-would seek to rise upward into
the relationship quadrant above the horizon are
frustratrd and boil and churn back and forth within
the first five houses, and the I .AM of the first house
remains fixated in a limiting expression of possession
desire and power desire ; possessions become objects
of lore rnnseio'"sness and people who should be loved
and sustained by love become the objects of the power
consciousness, to be dominated and utilized as are
inanimate possessions. .A great symbol is shown in
this frustrated pattern: the story of Man's inhu-
manity to mankind; Man's imprisonment of him..~elf
by himself.
When humanity identifies its possessions as sym-
bols of power, and children as objects of power rather
than of love, we see the consciousness of egotism
trampling through human experience. This conscious-
ness, activated by the first four houses and sustained
-if such can be called sustainment-by unregenerate
levels of the fifth house depicts, in symbolic form,
the concept of dynasty: groups of individuals vibra-
torily united through a family pattern or a national
pattern who are held in a mold of family as an ex-
pression of power and egotism The individual and
his essential rights are considered a cipher-at best,
a pawn-in the maintenance of this fixated, rigidly
organized plan. Marriage is based on position, her-
THE FIF'fH HOUSE 7i
itage, and possessions; religion is a conformance to
ritual and dogma by which the power and supremacy
of the pattern is continually emphasized; education
is a tool for the molding of minds according to the
expedir,ncy of the pJan. In fa.ct, the third house, in
this symbol, is impaled between the first and fifth
houses. Having i10 rcleasement beyond the fifth house,
education remains purely a thing of rote, tradition,
and repetition of a limited intellectual organization.
Histor.Y te11s this story oyer and over again; we have
all gone throug·h pha.ses in which we functioned as-
and felt Jike-ciplwrs in a family or nationalistic
pattern; it is really an expression of the tribe con-
sciousm'ss of lrnmanity, As such it fulfills an evolu-
tionary n00tl and, a.s such, it is good. However, in
due cour& of time it must be transcended if the race
is to eyolw. Those who have recognized, to a degree,
their i11lwrc11t po'.vers bnt who remain unregenerate
are those who net as the tyrants, despots, and auto-
crats of families, groups, and nations; they are the
"givers of commands" and the "vvielders of whips."
Those who remain in the first four houses, not as
yet having come into an awareness of their powers,
are the victims of the others; they are the supersti-
tious and the credulous, the minions and the slaves.
They Jin~ in their surface awareness, their desires
and physical lleeds, their subservience to anything
they fear or do not understand. They have, in short,
not yet become aware that they are resources of
power and self-determination. They are scarcely
aware or individual potential. They exist as factors
in an over-all pattern which exists as a molding for
their experiences.
72 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
When people come to a point of feeling unsatis-
fied, restless and bored with the crystallized patterns
they have been living with and desire to find a more
satisfying and more extensive release for their ener-
gies, then study the chart with an eye to analyzing
the fifth house potentials. This analysis must of course
include a study of the Sun because the Sun is the
abstract symbol of the ability for self-determination.
Many people crystallize bceause they have put their
lives into channels that they themselves do not really
want; in other words they have side-tracked them.-
selves into artficiality of pattern and, being "fed
up" with tlwir own mistake are eager to get back to
their real selves and begin to live constructively and
happily in accordance with the best potentials in
their charts. Some of these people have side-tracked
themsdvrs because of a reaction of fear of, or sub-
servience to, a stronger will which has sought to force
them out of line due to ignorance or to a lack of
sympathetic awareness of their needs. Self-determina-
tion, let it be said, is an aspect of courage-the fifth
house is a self-expression backed up by the regen-
erated qualities of the first house. However, when
purpose is electrified in the consciousness, release-
ments of hope, courage, and renewed enthusiasm are
made and the person feels that he truly has been
''born again.'' He must know what he wants to do
with his life and if he continues to fulfill his respon-
sibility patterns he has every right to re-determine
his upward progress. In dealing with such a chart,
create mandalas of every Sun-aspect; determine to
what degree the person can re-direct a new course of
living and help him to understand why he was im-
THE FIFTH HOUSE 73
pelled to move off from his rightful path so that he
can meet the challenges of his aspects of conscious-
ness more successfuly in the future.
In regard to the frictional patterns involving the
fifth house, one in particular can be dealt with
here: the assistance that the astrologer, as philos-
opher-friend, can render to parents who are stricken
by what is perhaps the most pathetic form of human
suffering-their reaction of grief to the transition of
a beloved young child or baby. .All human beings in-
carnate through their parents, specifically, by the
Law of Vibratory Sympathy Those persons who, as
husband and wife, lovingly extend an invitation to
incarnation to another Ego may have in back of
them a history of possessiveness and parental domina-
tion over their children in the past The conscious
mind may not recognuize it-and usually doesn't-
but if a new incarnation is "cut off" the parents,
from a philosophic standpoint, need not feel that
their parental experience has been frustrated. That
transition was made by Law, just as the incarnation
was.
Occult explanation tells us that many Egos in-
carnate for a short time in order to re-establish con-
tact with this dimension in order that their on-going
may be more completely made. Such children come
in to parents who, for some inner reason, must learn
to let go. Somewhere in the past there was too much
holding on as an expression of parental ,authority or
power and perhaps the progress of the child in the
past was inhibited or frustrated. .Also, when an Ego
makes transition through some sudden or violent
agency and the physical body is destroyed the person
74 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
may come back very soon to establish its links, and
th<'n, not being intended to remain for a full span
of incarnation-experience, it goes on in its progress.
Encourage, if you can, an elastieization of viewpoint
in the minds of such parents; encourage them to re-
new, if possible, the expression of their love power
in some way. Encourage them, above all, to neutralize
tendencies to prolonged grief, brooding and disin-
tegrative sorrow, and point out to them that as long
as they themselves are in incarnation they need not
cut off all expressions of their love-potential. Try
to help them, in other words, to keep their fifth
house consciousness alive and expressive. To keep
the fifth house alive is to keep the heart alive.
In the fire-sign mandala we connect the cusps of
the first, fifth, and ninth houses, forming an equi-
lateral triangle, the "upward" of which is the ver-
tical from the fifth to the ninth.
When the power-aspect of the fifth house is am-
plified by the love-consciousness the symbolic insignia
is drawn of the potential for joyousness. The sugges-
tion is made at this point that we consider joyous-
ness as being much more significant than just a feel-
ing-usually temporary-of well-being or of satis-
faction. Joyousness is a spiritual state in whieh-
or by which-the Higher Self of Humanity is able
to express its constructive releasement regardless of
outward conditions and affairs, because joy is one
of the attributes of the love-consciousness. It enables
the releasement of power for the best good of all con-
cerned because love clarifies the perceptions to an
awareness of the inherent good in all people and of
the best potentials and meanings of any experience.
THE FIFTH HOUSE 75
The be:o;t of lJeo-and the fifth house-is the
"smiling heart" the radiating enthusiasm and over-
flowing of high spirits that charge human life-and
relationships-with loveliness, buoyancy, and charm.
It is the insignia of pleasure and luxury by which
the consciousness of Man expresses its awareness of
amplitude-both inner and outer. It is the "house of
hobbies'' since a hobby, in the true sense of the word,
is the creative releasement of an intense interest, a
beloved pass-time, a re-creative and harmonizing ac-
tivity. A psychological re-directive can be presented
to people who have become stagnated through too
much preoccupation with routine, responsibility-
fulfillment and: practicality. Everyone can find a
channeling for release of creative and recreative im-
pulses if he wants strongly enough to organize his
life accordingly. Psychology has proved over and
over again the power of a vibrationally synchronized
hobby to infuse into human life a new awareness of
joy, enthusiasm, and well-being on all planes.
The first house is self-awareness; the fifth is
creative self-expression; the ninth is the creative as-
pect of wisdom, distilled from experience. The first
is being-I Am; the fifth is joyful being-I Love;
the ninth is wise being-I Understand.
The fifth house is love in its most one-pointed
expression. It is a radiation from the individual con-
sciousnss which is a releasement of powers for the
person from whom they emanate and a warmth and
stimulation to those who receive it. The fifth house
is traditionally called the "house of children." That
interpretation, however, is a derivative. In the chart
of a specific individual the fifth house is the insignia
76 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
of his creative love potential: it paints the picture
of his awareness of children as a factor in his rela-
tionship 0onsciousness-it is his potential as a loving
giver of life. The Love by which we parent other
Egos is our level of that Divine Love expression by
which a solar system is incarnated. Herein can be
seen why egotism on the part of parents or teachers
can be a death-dealing agency to the lives of children
and pupils. Egotism is retroactive; it boils back into
the levels of self-glorification and self interest. Love
is interested in the true welfare and up-going of
those to whom it gives life. Kahlil Gibran refers to
parents who love truly as ''bows from which arrows
spring for~h"-to go on in their development and
to fulfill their own purposes and destinies.
Let us appreciate, more than ever before, that ex-
pression of Love which made possible our incarna-
tion. Let us learn of parental love from those who
have gone before us and recognize that our on-going
was made possible because they responded to the
opportunity to release life in their releasing of love.
A.nd we must rceognize that as we too, whether
parents or not, do create a greater beauty for all
when we tap our resources of joyous-heartedness; in
doing so we, by the processes of sympathetic vibra-
tion, actually parent the joyousness in the conscious-
ness of all people who come in contact with us. We
want to live life in joyous terms, courageously, gen-
erously, and beautifully. In order to do so, we must
express the heart center and live lovingly.
77
Chapter VIII
THE EIGH'r:EI HOUSE
The experience of transition from the physical
dimension 1o the invisible planes is one which lm-
manity, for the most part, regards with a feeling
of anxic·ty, dread, and in some cases, sheer terror.
In no phase of astrological service is the astrologer
required to be more sensitive, more impersonally
compassionate, and more truly sympathetic than in
those times when he is called upon t-0 interpret a
chart of someo~rn whose grief-stricken reaction to the
passing of a loved one has, temporarily, neutralized
his capacity for on-going. Since each house in the
wheel has its basic principles-as an experience-pat-
tern-this material is presented with the hope that
it will help all astrological students and practitioners
to come into a clearer realization of this most occult
of houses and thus to enlarge their ability to deal
with people who are ''walking the darkened path-
way."
The principle of the eighth house is regeneration;
and, at this point, a word of explanation may be
offered.
A certain fine man whom the author knows has
magnificently demonstrated the power of the regen-
e;oatiYe viewpoint in the face of a shattering separa-
tion, His honored wife mad:e transition from this
78 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
incarnation at a dme when she was at the height of
fame and fortune, loved and respected by many peo-
ple. She had, as we would say, every~hing to live
for; yet Life removed her from this chapter under
drastic and calamitoi;s circumstances. A little more
than a year ago this fine woman's chart was made
available to the writer who sought to unravel the
secret of this particular transitional experience. Fo-
cussing the chart-analysis on the seventh and eighth,
twelfth and first house patterns, this conclusi<>n was
reached: above and bey<>nd any worldly fame she
had attained, this w<>man was a truly great soul who,
as a gesture <>f love-service, chose t<> make transi-
tion in this drastic way in order that a great re-
demption might be made. It is more than possible
that this· heroic deed has provided the possibility <>f
great fulfillments for her in the future. This par-
ticular chart is a most marvelous example of the
linking <>f relationship-patterns from the past and
their fulfillment in the present incarnation. The
challenge t<> the husband's courage and integrity
of spirit was gallantly met and, in consequence, he
was m<>ved to a gesture of service which, being ful-
fillt>d, has already proven to be a source <>f regenera-
tion and renewal f<>r his remarkable work.
'Io get at the essence of the eighth h<>use prepare
a mandala as follows: a blank, twelve-housed wheel;
number the first, second, seventh, and eighth houses ;
intensify the diameter made by the cusps of the sec-
ond and eighth. This is a simple picturing of the
e:ghth house and its polarity, the sec<>nd. Turn the
wheel s<> that the eighth cusp becomes the Ascendant;
the seventh house thus appears as the twelfth. Essen-
THE EIGHTH HOUSE 79
tial meaning of the twelfth house of anything are :
(1) the link between the past incarnation and the
present; (2) ncC'ded redemption which impels the
present incarnation. From this standpoint the mean-
ing of the eighth house of the present incarnation is
seen to he :regeneration of desire-pictures which are
tho hidden memories of reactions to marital and re-
lationship experiences in the past incarnation These
desire-picturrs have their roo•s in the sexual instincts
and in the consc-iousne.ss of possession which, in mar-
ital or sexual relationships, reach a peak of intensity
greater than they do through any other phase of
experience.
To refer to the original mandala: the polarity, or
opposition, made hy the relationship of the eighth and
second houses to each other may be interpreted in this
way: the enemy (opposition aspect) of regeneration
(eighth house) is attachment (primitive phase of
the second house) ; the enemy (opposition aspect)
of stewardship (second house) is failure to regenerate
desire (negative eighth house). Stewardship is "right
use of m.aterials"-proport.ioned, equilibrated income
and out-go; altachment to matcria]s is all in-come and
no out-go, a state of unbalance by which the con-
sciousness eventually becomes "land-locked" in its
preoccupation with material evaluations.
The negatives o.f both of these ho-:Jses "feed each
other.'' Desire without Love, sex without :fruition
remain fixated on possessiveness; intense desire for
money and things without balanced release through
exchange congests the intaking pictures and a sort
o2 pa.ralysis results due to the ever-increasing de-
mands of th~ desire .nature The lo:ved person is re-
80 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
garded -as a p03session ; the :focus on money or pos-
sessions to the exclusion of right personal relation-
ship, neutralizes, gradually, the love-potential and,
in either case, congestion results which, in its turn,
breeds all kinds of ills on all planes of human con-
sciousness. The powers symbolized by the eighth
house are those which provide releasement for these
congestions of the desire nature. This releasement
is symbolized by the dynamic vibration of Mars:
constructive action; throngh Venus: mutuality.
The transition that we are accustomed to call
death is actually a large-scale expression of the Prin-
eiple of Regeneration which, in turn, is the essence
of the onwardness and upwardness of any Life-
expression. Our bodies are continually being re-
newed and regenerated when they are in a state
of health; congestion-or "un-ongoingness"- is the
thing that results in dis-ease. On the emotional-reac-
tion plane congestion is any reaction that results
in the person's inability or disinclination to keep him-
self adaptable, responsive, receptive, and enthusiastic
toward newness of experience. If we cling, in feeling,
to things that no longer have a part to play in our
constructive living, we congest in some way. If, how-
ever, we keep open to, and responsive toward, the
significance of newness, we welcome the advent into
our lives of other moldings into which we can pour
our potentials
Congestion, as a reaction to a loved one's passing,
results in such manifestations as self-pity, morbid
brooding over the past, resentments, and tendencies
to self-isolation. These, in turn, pile up the energies
into dust-heaps of misanthropy, despair, escape-
THE EIGHTH HOUSE 81
tendencies and neuro-mental confusions. When we
cling to that which life has proven to be outworn,
we do not stagnate-we retrogress. We are either
with life in generation and regeneration, or we are
against life in congested degeneration. The transi-
tion of the person loved by your client is not your
client's problem; his problem is to tap the sources
of inner power that will resnlt in the neutralization
of his down-going reaction-patterns. It is a vital part
of your responsibility to help such a person under-
stand that "there is no death, there is only life."
Impress on his consciousness the eternal "living-
ness'' of life and the importance of our responsibility
to adapt to change of circumstance and release the
be:;t of our on-going possibilities.
Make your converse with such a person com-
plete]y life-giving; never predict transition or even
try to describe the means by which it might come
about. Morbid curiosity on this point is not to be
indulged. (From a purely astrological standpoint,
anyway, it is not wise to att0mpt this kind of inter-
pretation; the same pattern that designates death also
designates the emergence from the old into the new
during incarnation.)
You, as an astrologer, must have a clear, clean
perspective on transition and its meanings if you are
to aBSist in any way. Fear of death cannot be per-
mitted to lodge in your subconscious if you are
undertaking the service of "throwing Light on an-
other's shadowed consciousness." Ground yourself
thoroughly in an awareness of eternal ·livingness and
i~ you ever experience a tendency to react with shock,
f<;~r or anxiety to a death :picture train yourself to
82 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
neutralize it immediately by the most efficient means
at your (philosophical and psychological) command.
Another approach to the eighth house can be made
when we realize that it provides a key to unlock prob-
lems of all kinds that may be shown in the chart. A
problem is the result of misdirected energy; because
of the intensity of quality implied in the eighth house
pattern, a little redirection at that point could have
a noticeable effect in redirecting almost any other
negative condition shown in the chart. Actually, all
of our relationship patterns now are sequences from
the past and are, in the final analysis, rooted in our
desire-consciousness from many incarnations of re-
lationship-experiences. Our desires run the entire
keyboard: self-preservation and self-maintenance;
obsessions of all kinds; power over materials and peo-
ple ; sexual gratificaion and mutual possessiveness
of two people toward each other; property and pres-
tige before the world ; fame and renown ; andi so
on-all of these desire-pictures and impressions and
memories have impe1led us into specific patterns of
relationship with other people all along; congestions
on any of these points have been "inner deaths"
from which we l1ave had to find releasement some way
or another.
There is something in the human heart that is
continually searching for enlightenment, and when
the astrologer has a "grief problem" to deal with
he recognizes that his first and foremost responsibility
is to stimulate the bereaved person's capacity for
courngc and intelligent adaptability. When we realize
that the eighth house is also called the house of sleep-
experience we recognize the value of onr daily period
-
THE EIGHTH HOUSE 83
of sleep as a regenerative agency. Rather than con-
tinuing in the miasma of dread while facing the
"unlmown" (which has, incidentally been faced by
all of us many times in the past), any bereaved per-
son is instinctively searc.hing for a clearer under-
standing of his experience-pattern than he has ever
had before; he will, in fact, continue to search until
he has found the answer whether in this incarnation
or in the tenth one from now. Help him, therefore,
to see the transition of his loved one in as merciful
a light as possible; remind him of times when he was
so exhausted by physical effort or pain that he wanted
a few hours of sleep more than all the gold on earth.
Then present the picture of the consciousness of the
loved one (which has manifested for millions of
years) as needing a few hours of sleep before resum-
ing the next phase of experince. Make "death"
known to his awareness as a rhythmical, natural,
needed phase· of experience. Then turn your attention
to the client's eighth house because he is still here
and must go on with his life. The suggestion is made
that you "white-light" the ruler of his eighth house,
and study its sign and house position accordingly.
This is suggested because it is yonr opportunity to
alert him to the very best of his on-going possibilities
-and you must make your comprehension of this
part of his chart as inclusive as possible.
Do not, in such readings, make the mistake of
interjecting your own personal reaction to his broken
relationship-pattern. Recognize that a woman can
love her husband above all other people, even her
children; a man can love his mother more than any-
~me else, even his wife. Remember that no mattei·
81 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
how deeply the client loved the deceased, the latter's
passing provides more room in the client's life to ex-
tend his love-potentials in other directions and it is
evident that such extension is required at that time.
8tudy the solar-eclipse aspects that were made pre-
vious to the passing; this will indicate if the eclipse
conjuncted a planet, that a severe testing will be
manifested between then and the next eclipse. But
remember too that the previous eclipse may have
trined or sextiled a planet in the client's chart; this
is promise of a very significant ''opening up experi-
euce." The transition may have made that opening
up possible.
Progressed Moon aspect.;; current at the transition
(that is, current in the client's chart) must be
watched closely. What he puts into action during a
progressed Moon aspect bears very significant fruit.
If his reaction to the transition impels him to ret-
rogressive action he stamps his consciousness with
a deeper--than-ever impression of that aspect. So,
again, we say that persons must be encouraged to
release in constructive action for a mutuality of
good when regenerative patterns are in effect.
•
85
Chapter IX
PLANETARY RETROGRADATION
Planetary retrogradation, as studied in astrology,
is a periodic, rhythmic action which illustrates the
great evolutionary principle 0£ recapitulation.
In ordinary mundane usage, retrogradation is con-
sidered to be synonymous with retro,,,DTession, which
implies a process 0£ decline, degeneration, going to-
ward inertia, devolution, or counter-to-evolution.
However, this interpretation is wrongly used when
applied to life within form or to the orbital move-
ment of the planets. It is true that when a vehicle 0£
manifestation has fulfilled the purpose for which it
was created, its substance, form, and organic function
do enter upon a process 0£ retrogression; the with-
drawing of the Life-forces initiates a process of dis-
integration of the vehicle. But the Life-essence, which
cannot die or disintegrate, awaits a suitable new
vehicle for its further evolutionary expression and
experience.
When we observe and thoroughly consider the
great principle of recapitulation we recognize that
it is a pattern or mode by which Nature insures the
thoroughness of evolutionary processes. That which
was accomplished on one round of a given cycle is
recapitulated or reviewed at the resumation of the
new activity in order that the complete integrity of
86 StrUDIE'S IN ASTROLOGY
organic powers may be established. When recapitula-
tio!1 is undergone, that which was established is made
the base of that \1·hich is to be established; the evolu-
tionary program of the organism or entity is thereby
made continuous, without holes or breaks. This prin-
ciple is Nature's great safeguard for completeness
and thoroughness of evolutionary processes. On the
plane of human mentality, this principle is revealed
in the faculty of memory; on the plane of organic
functioning it is revealed in the cyclic pattern of
birth, growth, maturity, and transition which is
undergone by every evolving entity in each incar-
nation or cycle of manifestation. Max Heindel gives
a most wonderful exposition of this principle in his
writingR concerning the great periods which mark the
iirrnlution and evolution of our planet and the life
it n urturcs. 'With the inception of each new period,
the previous period is recapitulated in order that
integrity of function may be established.
In prayer-activity, the principle of recapitula-
tion is advocated by many spiritual schools. To re-
view in memory the thoughts,· words, and actions of
the previous day does not mean that the aspirant
goes back or retrogresses; he makes his honest review
of his experiences in thought, word and action in
ordeY to distill spiritual value therefrom. He ana-
lyzes, compares, and evaluates not only his thoughts,
words, and actions but his motives;· when he realizes
a motive to have been impure, he ejects that motive
from his consciousness by realization; the clarity of
the realization will alchemically become a strength
of Spirit by which he will, in future, avoid enter-
taining and acting upon that particular motivation.
-
PLANETARY RETROGRADATION 81
Has he gone backward in making his spiritual re-
view? On the contrary, in making a constructive thing
of the review, he has gone forward, even though the
recapitulation may have included a scrutinizing of
something very unpleasant-even abhorrent-to his
finer sensibilities. The word ''recognition'' means
''to know again'' and recognition could well be iden-
tified as the basic purvose of all processes of recapitit-
lation. Rceognition, by recapitulation, is insured by
Nature for all planes, modes, and degrees of evolv-
ing consciousness.
One point must be made clear at the outset. As-
trology does not teach that the planets of our system
sometimes go backward. The retrograde action of
the planets is a periodic apparent motion due to the
axial and orbital rotation of the Earth-it is not
actual. However, because of the relative observational
0hanges-relative in the sense that the planets in
geocentric astrology are zodiacally observed from the
Earth rather than from the Sun-each one of the
planets seems periodically to retract a portion of
its zodiacal travel, remain stationary for a period
and then move forward again over the retraced area
and forward into a new area.
Since the Earth and each planet has its own orbital
speed and distance around the Sun, these retrograde
and stationary periods follow a rhythmic plan of
regular sequence not unlike, for illustration, the hu-
man 's periods of conscious activity when awake and
subconscious activity when asleep, or the rhythmic
plan of seasonal changes through the sequence of
years. We must remember that every principle which
is illustrated by astrology h3.'3 its correspondences in
SS STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
the life of the universe because the universe is the
creation of Consciousness and astrology is the sym-
bolized study of Consciousness. The picture of every
factor in a human 's natal horoscope is a picture of
Principle, or Law, revealed; if further incarnation
is necessary for the evolution of a human, then in-
carnation is made subject to the laws apprehended as
Space and T-ime. A timing and placing of incarnation
which includes the registration of a "retrograde"
planet in the natal horoscope tells the reader some-
thing about that person's evolution-of-consciousness
just as does his Sun-sign, Moon-sign, Ascendant, or
any planetary aspect.
The fullest significance of the Principle of Re-
capitulation may be gleaned from considering the
evolution of consciousness to be represented as a
spiral,ic process. Change is the one constant thing to
be seen throughout life and the spiral represents the
composite of the "upward, onward and always"
that characterizes all life-processes. Involution, which
is the necessary preparatory phase, is as much a part
of the onward as evolution is-just as studies and
lessons and practice are the preparatory phase of
fu:filling an artistic or professional talent. In any line
of endeavor, or expression of organic life, the in-
volutionary and evolutionary programs and objectives
always contain periodic areas of recapitulation, but
the start of the first recapitulation is always an ex-
tension from the initial point and every succeeding
recapitulation is an extension from previous corres-
ponding ones. Thus the linkages are formed and
integrated; the spiral forms with unbroken con-
tinuity as individualized consciousness gains in-
PLANETARY RETROGRADATION 89
creasing awareness of its Self through organic
experience.
A question might be raised on this point: what
about stragglers--are they not retrogressing to in-
ertia? The phenomena of individualized conscious-
ness unable to keep step with tlie follows of their life-
wave must be considered also from a relative stand-
po;nt. 'I'hese entities l1ave delayed or postponed their
eyolutionary program for a tremendous period of
time but because they were once individualized, they
must some day make their return, in consciousness,
to source. Since their individualization with ·others
of their life-wave, they did proceed for a time on the
evolutionary program-they have had some evolu-
tionary experience. Therefore, when they start again,
their initial recapitulation will move them forward
faster than they moved in· their first attempt. These
entities are not ''lost forever;'' they are channels for
their Creator's Light and Life as all others are; they
are retrogressing only in rela.tion to the progress of
their evolving brothM·s. They are having the experi-
ence that is rir1ht for them to have and will have
their repea':ed individualization, recapitulations, and
progressive steps in due course. Remember: in or-
ganic function and in consciousness, retrogression or
retrogradation is relative, not a.bsolute.
From the standpoint of geocentric observation,
the Sun and Moon are always observed to be in
''direct'' motion ; neither of them ever make the
periodic retrogradation that characterizes the ap-
parent action of the planets. The Sun ·transits the
zoliac once a year and recapitulates its natal posi-
tjo~ Oii. each 1;>4-t;hday of the individual i the Moon,
·90 STUl>IES IN ASTROLOGY
by transit, recapitulates its natal position every
twenty-s~ven and a third days; by progression, every
(~pproximately) twenty-seven and a third years.
Moving forward from its natal position at the end
of its first progressed tour of the zodiac, it enters
the second cycle and recapitulates therein all the
aspects to the natal combined with the additional
factors of a different "set-up" of progressed plan-
etary aspects, major transits and solar eclipses.
Solar and lunar recapitulation is also revealed in
patterns formed by solar eclipses and Full Moons
in this way: for example, solar eclipse, August 1952,
in 28 Leo; Full Moon, February, 1954, in 28 Leo.
~his pattern spanned eighteen months of time and
the Full Moon recapitulated the eclipse. The aspects
mf!.de to the natal chart by the eclipse in such a case
'Yill key-note the experience of the person during
that subsequent span of many months, and at the
time of the recapitulating Full Moon, the spir-
itually-minded astrologer will do well to make an
evaluation-review of his experience, distill construc-
tive va.lue therefrom and build his soul body thereby.
The periods which are characterized by the recapitu-
lation of a solar eclipse by a Full Moon are usually
found to cover eighteen or twenty-four months of
time; the solar eclipse of Cancer, in July, 1953, was
recapitulated by the Full Moon in Cancer, January,
1955..
The Sun and Moon reveal a constant backward
movement in these ways: the Sun, by precession,
move& backward through the zodiac and the se--
quenees of ~elipses, New Moons, and Full Moons will
be observed to occur in "counter-zodiac" positioiis.
-
PLANETARY RE'TROGR.AD.ATION 91
Only the planets reveal the periodic "baclnvard-
stationary-forward" movement. ·
We have all seen instances of students being de-
moted in school, due to what appeared to be insur-
mountable difficulty with a certain subject or phase
of a subject. The necessity for such a demotion did
not indicate that the child was basically stupid, sub-
normal, or "bad." It did indicate that he was not
yet equipped successfolly to fulfill the requfremerit
of th(J.t grade for that particular s11bject. Therefore,
since he was required to gain that specific learning,
it was necessary to let him recapitulate by going
back to the preceding phase of the subject, restudy,
a11d re-digest that material and thereby qualify, by
having equivped himself, to progress.
Our incarnated experience is evolutionary school-
ing. Just as we cannot assimilate all the material oh
a given subject in one term, so we cannot enter into
all phases of human experience in one life. Every-
thing else aside, the fact that we are organically
polarized as males and females would make total
experience impossible. Yet, by a long sequence of
incarnations during which we can incarnate, accord-
ing to evolutionary need and karmic requirement, as
male or female, we have the opportunity to fulfill
all phases of experience pertaining to gender. Since
concentration of thought and effort is necessary for
success and fulfillment of our talents and professional
endeavors, we l>se each incarnation to specialize in
order to focus our consciousness and so d:erive the
maximum benefit and development from what we do
in work, or other activities and endeavors. Ho-\\'ever,
fost as individualization of consciousness demands
!!' --- . . .. .
92 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
eventual evolutionary fulfillment, so does any ac-
ceptance of experience demand fulfillment. And,
very often, the Principle of R€capitulation must be
utilized when, after accepting and living a certain
phase of experience, we leave it for a while to focus
our attention on other phases. That which was left
in suspension was not forgotten; it was allowed,
rather, to remain dormant, waiting future assump-
tion and resolution. Herein is found a philosophic
clue to the interpretive study of planeiary retrogra-
dation.
Natal retrograde, staying retrograde by progres-
sion throughout life :
The conditions indicated by the house ruled by
this planet are indicated to be of secondary impor-
tance to the fulfillment of the present Zife-assignment;
however, since all planetary factors have spiritual
and evolutionary purpose_ and must be used by the
entity, it appears that some form of vicarioiis ful-
fillment is indicated by this type of retrograde; in
a future life, the fullness of expression represented
by this planet will mark a major factor of the life-
ru!ISignment-in the present life, the experience-factor
representedi by the planet ·and the house it rules is
held in relative abeyance, so that those factors which
comprise the major evolutionary assignment for this
life may be concentrated upon.
Natal retrograde, stationary by progression at
end of life:
Indication that the assignment of active recapit1t-
lati<m will be assumed in the next life; the period
of abeyance ends in this life and th~ next life will
find the person q-ual-ified to resume, by \recapitulation,
l'~.
PLANETARY RETROGRADATION 93
those factors of experience which have been held in
abeyance for perhaps several lives; this type of
progression indicates that the person will assume
a new factor of major significance in the next life-
assignment, being one which he started and then
turned from some time in a past life ; it will contain
considerable karmic content, residual from the long
past, and perhaps several lives may be necessary to
fulfill this assignment.
Natal retrograde, progresses stationary and then
direct in this life :
Indication that the assignment of active recapitu-
la.tion is to be assumed in the present life; the period
of abeyance is finished and the experience represented
by the planet becomes a major evolutionary [actor of
the present life's assignment when the planet moves
forward into direct motion from the stationary pe-
riod. The astrological reader will give very careful
attention to the timing of the progressed direct mo-
tion, relating it to the current progressed planetary
aspects, eurrent solar-eclipse cycle and the progressed
Moon quadrant. This type of planetary progression
is one of the most important, from an evolutionary
standpoiut, because it marks the second attempt of
the person in matters relating to the house ruled by
the planet, and what is done in the remaining years
of this life in regard to it will create much obstruc-
tive or regenerative karma to be utilized in future.
'l'his type of progression marks· a major evolutionary
faring-point in the cyclic history of the individualized
consciommess.
Natal retrograde, progresses stationary, direct and
then conjunct the natal position:
STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
The end of the period of abeyance and subjective
rc~apitualation, tbe :flowering of active recapitulation
and actnal, direct, creative expression of the planetary
po\~'er; direct participation in the relationship-pat-
tern and experience·-factors represented by the planet,
its ·honse of rul~rship and house of pccupancy.
The particular aspect or phase of the soul-conscious-
ness ''comes into its own'' and every natal aspect of
regenerative quality-sextile or trine-indicated by
the pl~net pi·omises an upsurgence of great joy. The
natal squares or oppositions indicated by the planet
will bring testings at that time of life but, in terms
of the per:on 's greater ability to handle them, bring-
ing to bear all the resources of spiritual power for
the necessary resolutions. f!hen a planet is natally
dfrcct but turns, ahd stays, retrograde by progression
the indication is that this life sees a "withdrawing"
from the factors represented by the planet; this ac-
tion seems to indicate that the person is going to focus
his attention, evolntionarily speaking, on other factors.
If this planet, by progression retrograde1
, reaches the
conjunction of its natal position in the present life,
the indication is completely given. that the special
planetary factors will not be of major importance
in the next life.
The Rosicrucian Cosmo-
Conception
By MAX HEINDEL
~i ves the most logical explanation of the
a.niverse and man's part in it from the
viewpoint of ev-
olution ever is-
sued to the gen-
eral pubJ.!c.
The earlier
ages vaguely re-
ferred to in Gen-
esis a.re fully
elueidated,show-
ing how man
started as a
spark of the Di-
vine Flame of God, and after eons of
preparation reached his present state,
and will finally attain the perfection ·of
superman.
702 pages, with 95 pages of Alphabetieal
and 57 pages of T<>pical Study Index
Cloth cover&d
Priola on Bequsst.
Write for free 4-page Topical Synopsis oj
God's Plan as gwtm '11. this great tegstboo1'.
THE ROSICRUCIAN FELLOWSHIP
Oceaneide, Cal:iJorni.a, U.S.A.
