{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1962__bacher___studies_in_astrology____v2.pdf","mytitle":"Studies In Astrology","mylang":"de"}
Studies in Astrology
VOLUME II
THE ROSICRUCIAN
FELLOWSHIP
MT. EcCLESlA
Oceanside, California, U.S.A.
Studies in Astrology
BY
ELMAN BACHER
Volume 2
First Edition
The Rosicrucian Fellowship
MT. EccLESIA
Oceanside, California, U.8.A.
COPYRIGHT, 1962
BY
THE RosICRUCIAN FELLOWSHIP
All rights, including that of translation reserved
Permis.~ion to copy or translate may be given upon
application
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY
THE ROSICRUCIAN FELLOWSHIP
OCEA...-...SIDE, CALIFORNIA, U.S.A.
FOREWORD
So much favorable comment has come to us con-
cerning the astrological articles by Elman Bacher
which appeared in our Rays from the Rose Cross
during past years that we feel sure this volume will
be cordially welcomed by all students of spiritual
astrology.
Mr. Bacher's profound knowledge of and devo-
tion to the stellar science, along with an uncanny
understanding of human nature, made it possible
for him to present material which undoubtedly places
him among the best of modern esoteric astrologers.
As the truth and value of astrology become more
and more generally accepted, his presentations will
serve increasingly to help people know themselves
and fulfill their highest destiny.
Before his passing in 1953, Mr. Bacher expressed
a keen desire to have us publish his articles in book
form, and although we deeply regret that he is not
here to see the culmination of his desire, we are
happy in knowing that his wish is now being fulfilled.
CONTENTS
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iii
Introduction vi
Chapter 1
Mars: The Principle of Energy . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Chapter 2
Jupiter : Principle of Improvement 19
Chapter 3
Saturn's Command: "Thou Must Fulfill"... 40
Chapter 4
Uranus Commands "Release!" 49
Chapter 5
Neptune: Principle of Instrumentation . . . . 56
Chapter 6
Neptune Patterns : The Twelfth House 65
Chapter 7
Neptune: Aspects and Positions . . . . . . . . . . 73
Chapter 8
Pluto : Principle of Frozen Fire 85
INTRODUCTION
To the Rosicrucian student astrology is a phase
of religion, basically a spiritual science. More than
any other study it reveals man to himself. No other
science is so sublime, so profound, and so all-embrac-
ing. It portrays the relation between God, the macro-
cosm, and man, the microcosm, showing them to be
fundamentally one.
Occult science, invest '~·arqy tl1e snhtler forc·'s
that impinge upon man, the Spirit, and his vehicles,
has charted their effects with no less definiteness
than has academic science the reac1.io::_s of sea and
soil, plant and animal to the solar and lunar rays.
With this knowledge we may determine the as-
trological pattern of each individual and know the
relative strength and wealmess of the various forces
operating in each life. To the degree that we are in
possession of such knowledge we can begin sys-
tematic, scientific character building-and character
is destiny ! We note times and seasons cosmically
advantageous to unfolding undeveloped qualities,
correcting faulty traits, and eliminating destructive
propensities. -
The divine science of astrology reveals the hidden
causes at work in our lives. It counsels the adult in
regard to vocation, the parent in the guidance of
children, the teacher in management of pupils, the
8
physician in diagnosing diseases, thus lending aid
to each and all in whatever position they may find
themselves.
No other subject within the range of human
knowledge appears to hold for this day and age the
possibilities open to astrologers for helping people
to their own dignity as gods-in-the-making, to a
greater grasp of u11iversal law, and to a realization
that we are eternally secure within the caressing
fold of Infinite Life and Boundless Being.
Chapter I
MARS: THE PRINCIPLE OF ENERGY
As the Sun symbolizes the creative center of
things, so Mars stands for the energy which flows,
like blood, through the life of manifestations and
makes possible all forms of growth, sustainment, and
progress. Mars may be called the Sun's ''right-hand-
man.'' The two together synthesize the masculine
polarity and, in primitive or undeveloped types, who
live in emotion and desire rather than in will, Mara
takes the place of the Sun until certain stages of
evolution have been transcended.
1\fars is essentially egotistical, separative, fric-
tional, and dynamic. His is the voice of I am, I
want, I will get, I defend myself, I clefeat my enemies,
I tnust survive. It is through his vibration that WQ
see other manifestations of life-people, experiences,
things-as obstacles to be overcome. They, in our
consciousness, stand as threats to our life, satisfac-
tions, and progress.
Thus, Mars is seen, in the horoscope, as the cen-
ter from which we struggle for self-sustainment-
on all planes. He represents our degree of eagerness
to live, our determination to keep going, our urge
itpward and onward; he is the steely eye, facing the
slings and arrows of outrageous fortune. Mars, unre-
generate, is I will have what I want-at whatever
the cost to others; regenerate, is alchemicalized into
the shining gold of courage-his cardinal virtue.
10 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
Thus, we see that Mars is the maker of karma,
b€cause he is our pt·ojection into life. He is the basis
for action, but not its fulfillment. He is the objec-
tification of consciousness because in what we do we
reflect that which we are. Through Mars we live in,
·and for, ourselves, but when energy is expressed in
terms of union with others (the Venus vibration)
then l\'Iars finds his regeneration.
Mars, as energy, is the principle of work. His
degree of expression indicates how we bring zest,
enthusiasm, force, and drive into that form of ex-
perience which represents our contribution to life
and the channels through which we make a living.
There is a universe of difference, in consciousness,
between work and labor. In the first, we do the thing
we want to do, as a form of self-expression and
psychological release ; in the second, we simply do
something for the pay involved. To the first we bring
an urge of the heart to do our best, in terms of
action; in the second, material self-sustainment is
the only cone ern-a routine, automatic doing in or-
der to makt> money.
:Mars, as the principle of work, do2s not neces-
sarily mean a }Jars type of work. A musician, poet,
philosopher, teacher, nurse, lecturer, or what-not can
bring to his line of activity this principle of work-
as-fulfillment. Mars shows how strong is the urge
to work, to self-expression, to effort, to development;
any afflicted, or inhibitive, aspect to Mars in the
chart shows a depletion of urge, a scattering of en-
ergy, a lack of courage, and a tendency to knuck1e
under rather than to carve out destiny.
We must not confuse the indications of a talent
MARS: THE PRINCIPLE OF ENERGY 11
with the indications for a life work. A person may
have all the indications of being a gifted artist of
some kind, but if Mars is not connected with this
pattern, the art expression cannot be taken as the
vocational pattern, since his urge is not expressed
through it. He may use it as a hobby or for creative
release in some way, but his life-work pattern, to
be authentic, must include some degree of the Mars
vibration to insure success and fullest accomplish-
ment. .Anyone who follows, as a life work, some ac-
tivity unconnected with his Mars potential, does not,
and cannot, really work-he just labors and stmggles,
and wonders why he can't seem to get ahead, and ulti-
mately insuring unhappiness for himself. Mars, as
a factor of the life-work-pattern, may show by dfrect
aspect to other planets involved, by being strong him-
self. e>r by his dispositorship of others.
In line with present-day concepts of constructive
psychology, we know that much internal disorder is
due to the misdirections of Mars, because Mars is
the prime symbol of the sex impulse, the creative
motivation of all life. In the vibration of Mars,
mankind finds one of its chief sources of Ego-expres-
sion through the accomplishment of sex exchange--
or, as undeveloped people express it, sex conquest.
Mars, as conquest, in this reference is seen as an
expression of utter selfishness, in which the satisfac-
tion of the desire urge is the only objective. It is only
when this urge is experienced in terms of mutuality
that ''exchange'' takes place. In this case, Mars,
through Venus, is gradually redeemed or regenerated
into higher and higher expressions of love.
Jn primitive life, Mars finds its feminine counter-
12 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
part in the Moon. One is the urge to initiate or pro-
ject life, the other is the urge to bear and nurture
it. The Mars-Moon pattern in the horoscope of either
male or female may be described as the desire po-
tential; Mars-Venus is the love potential, and the
sun must be taken into account in the analysis of the
parenthood potential. Synthesis of the patterns ;1f
Mars, Moon, Sun, and Venus will indicate the pos-
sibilities of fulfillments, frustrations, predominant
emotional tendencies, and polarity urges of the per-
son's nature. Careful attention to the afflicted aspect
that exists between any two of these planets that is
most nearly exact by degree will indicate the pat-
tern that contains the most deeply rooted potential
for frustration _or disharmony in the emotional
nature.
Space does not permit a complete, detailed dis-
cussion of Mars in its patterns with all the other
planets, but, because we are primarily concerned
with psychological factors in astrology, we must, at
this time, offer some material in reference to Mars
and the sex urge. In recent years, the sexual factor
of human nature has been the object of intensive
study on the part of all people who seek to assist
others in their development, and the astro-analyst
has a big contribution to make in this connection. He
sees in the horoscope a picture, like an X-ray, of the
emotional potentialities, not just as static patterns
of reaction, but, karmically, as expressions of the
.Law of Cause and Effect-from the past, through
the present, and pointing to the future. We are now
concerned with ''afflicted'' aspects.
Mars-Moon: The subconscious mind is charged
MARS: THE PRINCIPLE OF ENERGY 13
with unfulfilled, disordered sex pictures; sexual re-
actions are easily aroused and, when expressed, are
done so with intensity. Great wa..~tage can result if
scientific and spiritual sex inst.ruction is neglected--
the subconscious pictures must be cleansed and re-
organized. Parents should allow sex awareness to
come into the lives of such children without fear
or ''nasty-niceness'' because these false attitudes
only serve to make the problem more difficult. Nat-
ural, honest, and honorable approaches should ba
made as soon as the child evinces sex interest. His
energies should be given constructive and produc-
tive outlets, and, without m1due strictness or harsh-
ness, the child's early life should contain a certain
routine of activity that can serve as a mold for his
energy outlets. \Veil balanced physical training is
very beneficial, since the organism then has a chance
to develop through energy output, and wholesome
respect for the physical body can be inculcated. The
child must be taught respect for his sex organism,
and with such redirection of his subconscious, healthy
attitudes may be absorb€d. These factors become com-
paratively more important to the degree that Mars
is strong by sign (Aries, and particularly Sco·rpio
and Capricorn) and/or if the Moon is in Scorpio and
the planetary oc·cupancy of water signs is marked.
l\fars-Venus: The fires of Mars (desire-passion),
when distilled through the alchemy of Venus result
in the flowering of human love because Venus is the
result of energy expressed in terms of the other fel-
low. Venus in the chart may be strong by sign, as•
pects, etc., but if Mars is weak, then the love potential
is slight. In this case, Venus would be identified as
14 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
culture, artistic or social abilities, love of beauty, etc.
The love potential is clearly shown as a possibility
of fruition if Mars and Venus are in aspect to each
other-the desire impulse then has a direct contact
with its alchemical agency, but careful synthesis
must be made regarding possible factors of frustra-
tion or inhibition of this process.
When Mars is strong and Venus weak, if the two
aspect each other the pattern shows a possibility,
in this incarnation, of developing the love nature.
This pattern shows a predominance of the masculine
impulse (initiative, conquest, etc.), which, for flower-
ing, must be harmoniously cultivated. When Venus
is the strong-er, and Mars is debilitated, then the
rPceptfrt\ or frminine qualities, pred'Ominate and
tho per,,;on i::; sub-co11Sciously attracted to a mor~
positiYe or dynamic partner. Mars square Venus is
a detriment to the expression of Venus, however well
aspected she may be otherwise, because she does not,
in this case, receive the dynamic impulse in construc-
tive or fruitful form. The reffillt of this aspect may
show as : a deep urge to love, but the inability to
express it; the tendency to express love in terms of
ego assertion rather than heart expression; an over-
predominace of the basic masculine qualities that
creates an unresponsiveness to the feminine expres-
sions of lifo--or a lack of understanding of them ;
the person may prefer to live his life in terms of
work rather than love.
Mars-Uranus: This, on the emotional plane, is
dynamite. The potential for passion is very great,
and, if Venus is connected, love may be developed to
extraordinary degrees. Intensity is the keyword,
MARS: THE PRINCIPLE OF ENERGY 15
whatever the expression. Since Uranus is the fusion
of Mars-Venus into creativity, this aspect shows a
tremendlous urge to create or invent, in some way,
and the aspect shows the need for much control and
direction. Inhibited, the dynamic energies can ba
banked up and choked to such a degree that there
is great danger of destructive outbursts, emotionally
or physically.
The negative expressions of Mars-Uranus com-
binations show that energy may be wasted or dis-
persed in extreme degrees and, in the sexual ex-
pressions of life, this aspect indicates a pattern of
unregenerate sex as protest or lawlessness. This is
a symbol of possible libertinism-the person may
scatter himself as the impulse moves him; he doesn't
want to--or can't-be held down to what he call!'!
"limitations" or "bondage of relationship." He is,
in his terms, a ' ' free soul ;' ' so free is he that, emo~
tionally, he can't keep his feet on the ground at all-
but flits hither and thither. Such a person should be
advised that unless love impulses are molded into
con:;.tructive and fruitful forms, nothing but wastage
is the result.
Other conditions allowing, Mars-Uranus can in-
dicate the possibilities of powerful sublimations, if
the energies are directed. A cause, an ideal, a life
work, any of these may be the channel through which
the person redirects his sex potentials into impersonal
expressions. This process presupposes a strong will
power, and if such is lacking in the chart, the scat-
tering of this intense expression of Mars energy can
result in very difficult and painful karma. Mars-
Uranus also indicates a possibility of .perverse ex-
16 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
pressions of sex through over-balance of the masculine
polarity, and emotional balance and fulfillment dif-
ficult to attain. This pattern should be carefully com-
pared with the feminine indications in order to ascer-
tain the possibilities of emotional integration.
Mars-Neptune: In this afflicted pattern we have
a symbol of many obscure and difficuU-to-put-tke-
fingcr on conditions that have been the object of re-
search by psychiatrists and psychologists for many
years. It is an indication of a high-strung and easily
affected nervous system which, under certain types
of stimuli, can result in serious deviations of the sex-
impulse. Vve may describe this pattern as sex-illusion.
Attended by a pattern of frustration, this Nep-
tune influence may cause the person to seek release
through the "liberations" of drink and/or drugs.
l'h'J organism is sensitive to these stimuli, and since
-or if-the love potential is deficient, the person
has the urge to find his sexual releases through false
and illusionary forms. These releases are unhealthy,
destructive and, because the lower astral vibrations
are repeatedly contacted, very contaminating. Th1J
energy releases are diffused into ''dreams'' and
emotional health retarded-in extreme cases, de-
stroyed completely.
However, reactions to drink and drugs can be
corrected by therapeutics; Mars-Neptune can indi-
cate something even worse-expressing the sexual
nature and impulses tkro1igk symbols. In this form
of pathology, subconscious pictures have been brought
over in which the person does not, or cannot, express
his sex urg~s with another person at all-he can only
be stinrnlafod by some inanimate thing which sym-
MARS: THE PRINCIPLE OF ENERGY 17
bolizes to him arn object of desire. Thes·e perverse
forms can only be uprooted by careful analysis and
therapeutic or spiritual psychology. Something '' dev-
ilish-way down deep" has become an emotional
reality to the person which twists and deflects his
urges out of all normal perspective. Check the chart
carefully for every indication of possible heaUhy
emotional expression, by which the person's sex im-
pulses may be brought into alignment with the reality
of human patterns.
The above pertains to extreme or complicated con-
ditiorui involving Mars and Neptune, and of course
other factors must contribute to indications of such
perverse tendencies. However, Mars-Neptune does
indicate some form of sex expressions that deviates
from the norm. Let us consider a few possibilities of
regenerating this pattern :
Energy may be sublimated through creative art,
music, or drama; work may be found dealing with
the healing professions; devotion to human welfare
in •;ome form could be a splendid corrective measure
in !"edirecting the desire nature; knowledge and wn-
dersland,ing of sex, physiologically, psycho:togically,
and esoterically, would certainly serve to clarify the
mental pictures so that the person could, to greater
degree, understand his problem; establishment of
cleanliness as a factor in his physical habits could
bring his consciousness into attunement with the
ideal of inner and outer purity; and, above all,
establishing in the consciousness the goal of love by
which all desire impulses find their regeneration.
Mars-Saturn : The essence of emotional frustra-
tion. To the degree that Mars is strong by sign and
18 S'rUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
aspects, this frustrating pattern can create trouble
and pain, and cause the person to develop all man-
ner of complexes, i:1forioriti2s, seIf-deficiencies, ancl
fear&. SLdy tl1e chart esoterically to determine th~
p1irpose of thi:-; frus'.ration-why is the person being
held back by Saturn? V\That must he fulfill through
Saturn? Then, when fulfillment of the responsibility
has been made, 'Yhat avenues does JHars have for
constructive, creative, and healthy living? This as-
pect serves a serious p1ffiJOse, wherever found in the
chart. J.Iars lias been misused in the past, and now
E:m:f·. by b~nn?t, be held in restraint, for his energies
&1·,, u·. c~ecl to r21milc1 a distorted pattern. Appeal to
the person's self-1·csp2ct, honor, and courage-he
must understand that the inhibijve force rniist be
dealt with and so transcended.
19
Chapter II
JUPITER-PRINCIPLE OF IMPROVEMENT
"\Vhen we analyze the symb()l of Jupiter, we see
& ~emicircle surmounting, or overshadowing, the
cross of material manifestation. This semicircle may
be interpreted as the Moon-the function of nurture
-or as a generaJ. symbol ()f spirit. In either case,
the es.sell!ce of Jupiter's purpose is conveyed.
In the case of the former, we see the ''principle
vf nurture" parmeating all physical manifestation-
preserving, healing, and amplifying the componenL
parts ()f experience-as-incarnation; in the second, it
identifies Jupiter as the agency by which spiritual
forces are made mawifest to earth conscio-usness.
Jupiter must always W()rk through form; his scope
is definitely cond'itioned by the dictates and require-
ments of Saturn. He is not transcendent, as are
Uranus and Neptune; he is a "fore-shadowing" of
them, since he provides a channel for the exoteric
presentation of spiritual truths. In psychological
application, he is those qualities of mind and heart
which provide an invigoration and uplift t() the
evolving consciousness. He is the arterial blood in
the physical body-the fresh, clean, nourishing fluid
which in its course carries out a work of renewal
and sustainment. He is the ninth house of the horo-
scope-the true judgment and understanding which
are distilled from experience, and which provide
pabulum for constructive progress in life.
20 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
There is always a plus quality to Jupiter's vibra-
tion. He is "more than just enough." He is bigness
and amplitude in any form. His is not specifieally
an ffithetic vibration, but his ''personality'' is cer-
tainly clearly evident in the eomplexity, magnificence,
and splendor of pageant, ballet, and grand opera. His
is the extension of Mars energy which we call
''play;'' he is the enthusiastic, laughing, progressive,
generous lover of life.
ff one word were required to sum up the virtues
of ~fupiter, that word must certainly be benevolence.
Jupiter is our capacity to give-sincerely, abundantly,
and wisely. It is through Jupitei- that we blend with
the lives of others from a motive of assisting them,
by a radiaition to them of our best of heart, mind,
and material resources. Jupiter is philanthropy, he
is the beneficence of religion. He is any means by
which we, individually or collectively, improve con-
ditions on this plane. Jupiter can be expressed, of
course, in terms of ''self and self alone,'' but this is
not his ultimate caipacity. No matter how much
wealth an individual acquires, how large his horn~,
how elaborate his wardrobe, how vast his inheritance,
or how extensive his education, he does not live up
to his Jupiter until he gives something of his abun-
dance to improve something outside of himself. It is
through this extension that Jupiter counteracts pos-
~jble difficulties caused. by Saturn crystallization due
to fear of loss. Jupiter and Saturn work hand in
hand when intake is accomplished by a beneficent
output.
Psychiatrists, psychologists, and astro-analysts-
attention ! Jupiter never demonstrates his power
JUPITER-PRINCIPLE OF IMPROVEMENT 21
more specifically than when ''output'' has been made
as an expression of gratitude for the receiving of
''intake.'' Sincere gratitude-to a person or to God-
provides a quality of ''openness'' for the conscious-
ness, making it more and more attuned to growth and
to abundance of expression. No aspiring person lets
a single day of his life go by without feeling and/or
expressing gratitude to someone for something. This
is a sincere, joyous, positive gratitude; it is not a
servile crawling by which the receiver debases him-
self and insults the giver. Jupiter's psychology-
thanks for the gift and a willingness to share it-
is a profound and a far-reaching one. It is a nourish-
ment to the mind, body, and soul, infusing, as it
does, a stream of renewing energies into conditions
that have been allowed to become crystallized, morbid,
and unhealthy. Our national festival of Thanksgiving
is enjoyed when the Sun is in the sign Sagittarius--
ruled by Jupiter!
There are some who contend that Jupiter is well
taken as a symbol of the father-carrying out the
masculine version of the nurture urge. Be that as
it may, of one thing we can be sure; Jupiter is the
symbol of the teacher, or "spiritual father." Jupiter
nurtures the spiritual mentality, and as such he is
represented by the clergyman. Any teacher is a spir-
itual parent-his work and purpose is to guide the
younger, o-r undeveloped person, along the lines of
unfoldment that do not pertain specifically to phys-
ical needs. Saturn is the principle of Law, in the
esoteric sense; but the 9th house is the profession
of law, as a protection of the people. The 9th house
is also the Church, as a protective and instructive
22 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
institution. Thus the 9th house, through Jupiter's
ruforship, seems to sum up the ''consciousness of right
and wrong,'' not in the abstract or absolute sense,
but in terms of the person's cycle of development,
his racial background, and the religious mold' in
which he is manifesting.
Jupiter is .our direct outward expression of this
consciousness and his position and aspoots in the
horoscope show how and by which means, if any,
we feel the urge to teach people the way (we think)
they should go. A 9th house unafflicted by either
planet of occupancy or planet of rulership is indica-
tive that the person, in this incarnation, will have no
difficulty, by and large, in finding the religion that
he really needs and wants. He will be brought in
contact with the teachers that are best fitted to feed
his spiritual longings. Afflicted, the obstacles are
shown to be the attainment of religious or philosophi-
cal satisfactions. Long delays, confusions, disillusion-
ments, and disappointments are indicated by afflic-
tions to the 9th house, and afflictions to Jupiter
himself indicate how we, individually, need to dis-
cipline and train ourselves in order to express our
fullest capacities as teachers or moral leaders. Much
karma can be read from 9th house afflictions, by
deducing from Cause and Effect; they are the
"d~tours" which the person has made on his. path
towards spiritual unfoldment. This unfoldment of
spiritual consciousness and understanding certainly
bears out Jupiter's function as the "Principle of
Improvement.''
One of the most fascinating phases of astrological
interpretation is to be found in the "negative" or
JUPITER-PRINCIPLE OF IMPROVEMENT 23
"karmic" aspects of Jupiter. Benevolence, higher
understanding, protection, abundance, generosity-
how can such a planet represent ''evil'' ? Plenty, my
friends, plenty!
In so far as Jupiter is a ''dynamic,'' his evils are
to be found, as in the case of Sun, Mars, and Uranus,
through unbalance, uncontrol, and uncultivation.
When the urge to improve is perverted, Jupiter
manifests in many unpleasant ways, the chief inner
one is:
FALSE PRIDE: This is the person whose urges
to self-approval are so strong that he cannot listen
to advice or sincere criticism. Thus, he can't-and
usually doesn't-improve himself by some process
or other, but he keeps himself going by maintaining
a d1sjointed evaluation of his own worth. The astro-
analyst who reads for a person with this aspect must
be tactful-you can not help him by "spot lighting"
his defects because he will resist and resent your
observations. You must maintain an attitude of ap-
proval, and without being untruthful, you must
sugarcoat the medicine. If he asks for the '' unvar-
nished truth" remember that foi· him the "varnish"
makes the truth palatable. Analyze the chart care-
fully so that you find something in which he may
justifiably feel proud of himself. At the same time
you must ascertain what snag in his life causes him
to wear the mask of false superiority as a compensa-
tion. His pride may center on family, position, na-
tionality, backgroundi, the possession of money, O·r of
a genuine talent. No matter; whatever is valuable to
his inner self must become usable and objootifiable
to have any real value.
24 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
ARROGANCE: This is a variation of the above,
caus:ed by a mixture of Mars with afflicted Jupiter;
a noticeably unlovely quality that causes the person
to ''force his pretensions.'' The arrogant person is
essentially ·unkind-his attitudes toward other peo-
ple seem to comprise condescension, unjustified su-
periority and snobbishness, with a certain cruelty by
which he expresses his false pride, no matter who is
hurt in the process.
WEALTH : Financial abundance is one of th<}
devil's favorite traps. Since money is a medium of
exchange, no more, no less, it is only the persons who
can use it without being either bound by it or fooled
by it who possess a well-integrated money conscious-
ness. Wealth, to certain types of people, is synony-
mous with character, virtue, spirituality, and what
not. They say that the success of a marriage is insured
if the husband to be has "plenty of dough." To them,
financial return justifies the perpetration of any
manner of dishonesty, injustice, or perversion of
responsibility. A ''lucky man,'' they say, is a rich
man, one who has so much money he doesn't have to
work. He can buy anything he desires, his children
can have anything they want and bis wife is smoth-
ered in luxurious idleness. They say, occasionally,
that the possession of wealth would compensate them
for any suffering or problem in their lives. They are
people who cannot learn from their suffering, nor can
they understand or handle their problems. Such per-
sons, coming into an inheritance of millions, would
embark on the shortest possible journey to disaster.
They give to money a power that it does not possess-
and thereby deplete their own. powers. The scion of
JUPITER-PRINCIPLE OF IMPROVEMENT 25
a fabulously wealthy :family, some years ago, in-
herited something like ten million dollars on his
twenty-first birthday. He had been surrounded by
luxury since his babyhood-he knew nothing else.
At the age of thirty-five he committed suicide leaving
a rn>te for a :friend saying, 'I have only fifteen thou-
sanil dollars left-I have nothing to live :for." This
is symbolic of a Jupiter, possibly affiicted by Neptune,
ruling the twelfth house-the illusion o:f the power
o:f wealth as a source of self-undoing. Let wealthy
people with afflicted Jupiters take care how they
use money and how miteh power they give it ovm·
themselves. Wealth implies great scope o:f usability-
and, since we "can't take it with us," we might as
well learn to apply it as an expression o:f constructivP.
and productive living.
GENEROSITY: On certain cycles of evolution,
people are tested as to the sincerity with which they
express their urges to give. One would think, super-
ficially, that if a man has an urge to give something-:-
how ca.n there be impediments~ But there are, and
here is a hypothetical exan1ple: During the past in-
carna:ion, the person lived meanly and acquisitively-
gave only when it was absolutely necessary, or with
an ulterior motive of getting something in return.
Toward the latter part o:f the life, he was the recipient
of a generous, unselfish deed performed by another.
He was moved with deep gratitude and as he passed
out of incarnation, he impressed his subconscious with
the desire to live longer that he might, in his turn,
express his gratitude. He comes into this incarnation
with that urge very close to the surface but the sin-
C(m:t'!j of that iirge, because it was late in developing,
26 STUDIES IN .ASTROLOGY
has to be tested in order that its reality may become
part of his consciousness. So he may have a parent
who is overindulgent toward him and who doesn't
want him to give to anyone-and the person :finda
himself involved in a frictional circumstance. If he
reaU1
y wants to express his subconscious feeling of
gratefulness he must foke his stand against the par-
ent's overinclttlgence. If he allows the parent's in-
fluence to push him off his path of expression, he
has failed his test. To the degree that he allows other
influe-nces to smother his gener01is impulses he will
again become enmeshed, not only in self-concern, but
in a very painful frustration complex. His ''urge
to ~ive" is representative of an impulse of his higher
nature-the frustration of it causes a distinct reac-
tion of self-contempt and feelings of unworthiness
and self-abasement. If in the example cited above of
the person with the overindulgent parent, he realizes
that resentment and friction are growing in his at-
titude toward the parent, he can, with philosophical
approach, counteract that tendency and transmute it
by feeling gmteful toward the parent for providing,
even though unconsciously, a much needed test. His
attitude should grow more and more "outgoing" in
keeping with his purposes of growth. Great religious
leaders, or any persons who ''give to the race,'' are
tested in this way. They give of their best, no matter
what the immediate result may be.
CHURCH-EXPERIENCE: Many people in
their processes of growth toward the unfoldment oE
spiritual understanding, :find that their lessons come
from distinguishing the "real from the unreal"
through contacts with other persons in church ac-
JUPITE~PRINCPILE· OF IMPROVEMENT 27
tivities. This type of karma-afflicted Jupiter ruling
or occupying the 12th house-seems to pertain to
people who have come into the present incarnation
with a strong ''religious urge.'' Much of their trans-
mutations will be stimulated by contact with hypo-
crites, fanatics, and those whose spiritual pretension.<i
do not match their development. These persons--
members of the same church-are the objectifications
of the afflicted Jupiter aspects, and their "per-
formances'' are certainly a source of deep· testing
for the aspirant. He loves his church, believes and
has faith in the teaching, seeks in every way pos.<Jible
to establish cooperation and harmony with the others
so that the church may stand as a credit to the com-
munity and as a standard of spiritual conduct-and
what does he get 7 Everyone pushing and fighting to
be the head of this or that ''committee;'' backbiting
criticism going on all the time; the minister who
makes his religious teaching a scourge and a punish-
ment; the well-to-do man who threatens to withdraw
his financial support any time his personal wishes--
and prejudic~eem to be ignored; and so.forth-
you've met them, at some time or another. These are
all representations of false pride, arrogance, presump-
tion and pretension, bluff and false front. They are
not very pretty pictures, but they are Jupiter-un-
regenerate. The person with the afflicted Jupiter
vibration who is hurt and disillusioned (tested) by
such persons is seeing his own past experiences re-
flected. He is now sincere and aspiring, but in this
incarnation his sincerity, faith, and trust in spiritual
principle are being given a chance to see what is real
and what is unreal and spurious. He will fail his test
28 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
if he allows the ''shadows'' to turn him frGm his
progress. He must learn from the shadows, not be
overcome by them.
In psychological parlance, the term ''mechanism''
is used to identify certain deep-rooted subconscious
drives. Correlating with astrology, we identify the
"defense mechanism" as Mars the "escape mecha-
nism" as Neptune. Jupiter certainly identifies the
'"compensation mechanism." We all, every single one
of us, are seeking fulfillment, and when karmic
patterns create disorder, incompleteness, frustra-
tion, and lack, we automatically feel the urge to
''compensate ourselves'' for what we feel to be our
most deeply felt deprivation. In other words, we are
driven to establish "improvement" and "benefi-
cenre" even if we must do so vicariously. The aspect
in the chart indicating the most strongly felt "lack''
or ''frustration'' may, certainly, involve Jupiter-
but it is not necessarily so. However, because of the
very nature of Jupiter himself, is it not reasonable
to <Juppose that the "positive" expression of Jupiter
will provide the most direct and satisfactory "com-
pensation" 1 It is through Jupiter that we give;
when we give we open ourselves, in consciousness, to
receive. We cannot receive the fulfillment of our
deepest needs, unless, and until, we put into action
O'lf,r willingness to make that thing possi"ble for an-
other. We then "contact" our Jupiter by direct ex-
pression in terms of his house position (environment-
tal factor), bene:fic aspects (scope of constructive
expression), and the planets to which he is related
by bene:fic aspect (relationships, activities). An un-
aspected Jupiter indicates that ''the time has come
JUPITER-PRINCIPLE OF IMPROVEMENT 29
to begin giving." As long as we think of life in terms
of "self-isolation" we stagnate-and Jupiter becomes
more and more choked up by the crystallizations of
Saturn. A multi-aspected, but affiicted, Jupiter, needs
various kinds of control and direction; such a Jupiter
may represent many psychological complexities which
the person must, for clear understanding, approach
with reason, fact, discrimination, and analysis. Mer-
cury-Saturn is the corrective that most closely ap-
plies to the disorders of Jupiter.
Jn synthesizing the patterns of Jupiter in a chart,
we not only observe his aspects and houses of oc-
cupancy and rulership; we must also study the
conditions of the 9th house in co-relationship to get
the picture of Jupiter as a spiritual signi:.ficator.
Jupiter is the level of Spirit in the lives of the people
who are manifesting in the consciousness of forms.
As rnch, and for them, he parallels the vibrations of
Uranus and Neptune in the lives of people who have
attained, to a degree, a consciousness of transcendence.
Jupiter amplifies whatever he touches. Unless he
is dignified-in Sagittarius-it is important to an-
alyze with care the conditions of the planet which
disposits him..An entirely afflicted, or variable Jupi-
ter disposited by an unafflicted planet indicates
that the constructive qualities of the dispositing plan-
et may be used to help Jupiter control and discipline
himself. An afflicted planet dispositing an unaf-
flicted Jupiter is indicative that the planet may, to
a large degree, be redeemed from its afflictions
through the expression of Jupiter qualities at their
best. In this case, Jupiter must "clean the house
where he lives"- the constructive expression of his
30 STUDIES .IN ASTROLOGY
vibration provides a channel of transmutation for
the afflicted planet.
'rhe afflicted conjunction of Jupiter with another
planet indicates the tendency of that planet to ex-
press excessively-a quality of "too-muchness" is
implied. The expressions of the person toward the
conditions and experiences of the conjuncted planet
are misdirected because Jupiter afflicted, is "poor
judtnnent;" "judgment" being defined: as "soul-
knowledge,'' the distillment of experience-not the
result of factual study. However, in the case of such
an afflicted conjunction, the power of Jupiter prom-
ises a rich return if the planet concerned: is expressed
con;;tructively; the constructive expression of such
a planet can only he made as a result of detached
observation coupled with extensive self-discipline.
The continued negative expression of such a con-
junction-undirected energies-indicates an inevit-
able depletion of resources.
The "graduations" of Jupiter show that his vi·
bration expresses most purely in Sagittarius, Can-
cer, and Pisces. He is at a disadvantage in the Mer-
curial signs, Gemini and Virgo, and, in the opinion
of the writer, Jupiter is most perfectly un-Jupterian
in Virgo and Capricorn. Virgo is analytical and de-
tailed, persnickity and faultfindng-the opposite
of big, generous Jupiter. In Capricorn, Jupiter is
''opportunistic''- he tends to give, but with an eye
to what he will get in return. The religious urge,
mixed with the vibration of Saturn, tends to for-
malism and dogmatism. If Jupiter in Capricorn fa
multi-aspected and has some direct connection with
the 9th house of the chart, then the religious urge
JUPITER-PRINCIPLE OF IMPROVEMENT 31
is seen to be extensive, but the person should study
religions with the purpose of understanding them 30
he can understand other people and not for the pur-
pose of contention, argument, or forcing his opinions
on others. If the person is a teacher, of any kind,
his .Jupiter in Capricorn emphasizes the tendency to
ambition and display. He must learn, somehow, to
''get into the minds of his students'' so that in his
teaching he may be better able to unfold their latent
capacities. His tendency will be to try to make them
conform to his particular molds of thought. Jupiter
in Capricorn need\s to learn how to give-and to give
without consideration of possible return.
In Leo, Jupiter shines gorgeously, but when af-
flicted, self-justification and self-esteem are strong.
This is a "noble aspect" but perverted and stunted
it can manifest a blazing arrogance and mountainous
superiority. In Taurus, blending with the Venus
vibration, Jupiter takes on a coloring of "financial
abundance"-he expresses his qualities in terms of
things of earth. In Aquarius he is very social and
humane; he seeks to establish and maintain abun-
dance in his relationships with friends--he is a bene-
ficial influence in group activities. And so with other
signs.
Jupiter in the 12th house: the benefic aspects
describe Jupiter as a "guardian angel"-a deep,
subconscious awareness of protection. This is evidence
of having "given secretly" in the past and the prom-
ise of ''eleventh hour luck'' in this incarnation. All
seems to be lost and someone appears just in the
nick of time to preserve the situation. This is the
person who should not make a display of his giving--
32 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
doing so is the corruption of the pure expression of
Jupiter and depletes his power for doing good. Re-
gardless of Jupiter's sign, the 12th house is affiliated
with the sign Pisces, and Jupiter's position here is
indicative, to a degree, of the possession of a radia-
tion of healing power to those who are sick and con-
fined. No person with this position need feel that
there is no one who needs him-there are plenty of
them in hospitals, orphanages, and asylums, to whom
he 1.•ru.1 give of his utmost and best for the alleviating
of their suffering and the improvement of their con-
ditions. To give money for good purpose is fine, but
wh•m Jupiter is at his best, he urges the giving of
one's self-in time, work, and interest.
Jupiter, afflicted in the 12th house is "self un-
doing through false pride"-a subconscious condi-
tion which "blacks out" perspective of one's self.
It also shows the karma that may be experienced by
-or through-the possession of wealth and how the
misuse of that abundance may lead to inner deteriora-
tion. The house of Jupiter's rulership, in terms of
experience and/or relationship, is here seen to indi-
cate a condition of limitation which can be redeemed,
if unoccupied, by the expression of constructive
Jupiter qualities. Twelfth house Jupiter throws a
"mantle of secrecy" over the house that has Sagit-
tarius on the cusp, and afflictions to Jupiter from
other planets indicate a tendency toward furtiveness,
hypocrisy, and false front. Jupiter, to live at all,
"must out"-and if his outer expressions must b~
experienced in secret or behind the scenes then, for
his best, he must be expressed with the utmost sin-
JUPITER--PRINCIPLE OF IMPROVEMENT 33
cerity and genuineness possible, or corruption can
result.
,Jupiter in the 2nd house : Financial abundance,
with benefic aspects, is assured by this position if
the person is doing the work he is meant to do,
the work he most loves to do, and the work through
which he can give the most of his best. In other
words, Jupiter can only "bring in the bacon."
if he is expressed in such a way that he is
able to radiate of his best. Which brings up this
que<stion: What about the man with Jupiter in the
2nd who is only capable of doing a ''routine, over
and over'' kind of work? He is not aware of loving
his work-he does it to make enough money to live
by. He can assure himself of increased return if he
makes the effort to improve his ability and scope of.
work expression, even within the limitations of a
rou~ine job. There is always room for making im-
provement-and the man who makes this effort there-
by, even unconsciously, makes a contribution to the
job at large. To the degree that he improves, the
work, as a whole, improves. Jupiter not only "loveth
·a cheerful giver" but he takes the hand in assistance
of anyone who improves in some way.
.Jupiter in the 6th house: Unafflicted, this is a
preservative of the health. If the general patterns
of the chart show a tendency to disease or physical
inharmony, this position of Jupiter promises allevia-
tion if the person himself does what he can to estab-
lish correct and constructive habits and health pro-
cesses. He must try to improve his own physical con-
ditions. Applying to work, this position of Jupiter
S.\lems to point tc:> the assurance that the person wiU
34 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
''do the work that he loves to do ;'' he has a clear
channel for throwing into his work experiences his
enthusiasm, determination to progress and to succeed.
Afflicted, Jupiter shows the tendencies to physical
disharmonies through overindulgencies, and, in work,
the inclination to do the kind of work that will as-
sure the most return for the least effort. If the person
doesn't give through his work, he lessens his oppor-
tunities and depletes his capacities for progress.
Jupiter in the 10th house: Afflicted, this is a subtle
condition that warrants careful study. In the con-
sciousness of such a person, "reputation" is seen to
be a source of ,protection and beneficence, no matter
how illusionary. The "urge to improve" is here seen
to be expressed as the ''urge to improve in the eyes
of other people, or of society at large.'' This position
is the essence of pretension, a forced contrived, ar-
tificial veneer which is applied to hide any manner
of deficiency and unworthiness. This is the worldly
ecclesiastic who glorifies God by the biggest cathe-
dral, and the wealthiest congregation, to whom re-
ligion is a matter of publicity, renown, and fame.
This is the ''society hanger-on'' who feels happy and
comfortable only when being seen with the right
people, who ''preserves herself'' by living in the
good impression she makes in the eyes of those
she admires and considers ''superior,'' Jupiter
afflicted in the 10th house or conjunct the ruler
of it and afflicted, brings out much the same
quality. Reputation seems to be the focus of Ju-
piter expression in either case. Renown, the actual
attainment o.f it or the "way down deep" desire for
it, i.s an extension of ''reputation.'' A great person
JUPITER---PRINCIPLE OF IMPROVEMENT 35
may have it conferred on him without his having any
particular desire for it; another person may find
that his capacity to improve himself may grow in
the proportion that he is acclaimed for his achieve-
ments; still another has so strong a desire for a kind
of ,,;elf-approval that comes with recognition by the
world that he has no scruples about attaining it, in
some way. With this pattern of afflicted Jupiter,
study the chart carefully to find the possibl.; defici-
ences that the person tries to cover up, those things
which urge him to compensate for by pretension. If
the person is going to be put on a constructive path
of living, the debris that clutters up his mind and
reartions must be cleared away, and his possibilities
of attaining real attainment must be brought to his
attention.
Jupiter in the 4th house: Jupiter creates a con-
dition of abundance in the house he occupies. This
position, supported by benefics, promises affluence
in the latter part of life, and a sort of ":flowering"
of higher impulses comes as a result of constructive
activity during the yearn of growth. Anyone may
have to deal with all kinds of difficulties during the
course of incarnation but Jupiter in the 4th house
makes of his home-life a sanctuary. Afflictions to
Jupiter in the 4th show how depletion may be caused
by wastages of opportunities for growth and improve-
ment, thus causing a condition in the later years of
turning to the home-circle as the only refuge for
peace and comfort. This is an indication of affluent,
or at lea.st generous parentage. The domestic pattern
is stamped with a coloring of plenty. The person
finds in home life an enrichment of heart and spirit
36 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
-and whatever he may bB in the eyes of the world,
or in professional activities, he radiates his best to
his family. When he establishes his own home, he
tunes in on something in his nature~ that represents
his best. Jupiter's vibration expressing through 4th
house conditions paints a picture of a devoted hus-
band, a · generous, loving fath,~r, an/or respected
honored matron.
Jupiter in the 5th house: an abundant love capac-
ity; the children are regarded as the blessings of life.
Afflictions may indicate the experiences by which
the person, as a parent, must develop ru1derstanding
and judgment but, on the whole, this person finds
his or her life expanding with amplitude through
contact with his children. Because Jupiter is bas-
ically masculine his position in the 5th house of a
man's chart indicates the joy he finds in fatherhood.
His love of children is unlimited-he would like to
do •werything for all of them. Mr. Heindel had Jupi-
ter in Sagittarius in the fifth-he was truly a ''spir-
itual father,'' his capacity for devoted love was un-
bounded. Afflicted Jupiter in the fifth needs the
discipline of discrimination. This is the parent who
could so easily spoil his children by overindulgence,
or whose excessive concerns for them could move
him to overprotect them. He must find some means
of developing a more detached, impersonal attitude
toward them. Unregenerate Jupiter in, or ruling, thJ
fifth, shows as a ''compensation-mechanism'' through
excessive addiCtion to pleasure. This is the man who
does not know how to turn his abilities to much prac-
tical. account, so he improves his financial conditions
by gambling and easy speculation. Mixed with a
JUPITER-PRINCIPLE OF IMPROVEMENT 37
Mars vibration, sex pleasure can be the means used
to "compensate" for unfulfilled love urges. Negativu
Jupiter-Neptune patterns involving the 5th house
can be very bad-since Neptune is the essence of the
escape mechanism, and if the desires for pleasure
and "joy" are excessive, a jaded appetite may turn
to the lurid compensations of drugs or excessive
drinking. This pattern throws an influence of per--
versity into the pleasure experiences-artificiality,
luxuriousness, and the morbidly sensational can take
the place of those things which are healthy and truly
"recn,ative." An afflicted Jupiter vibration express-
ing through the 5th house can do nothing better than
establish, if possible, a response to pleasure activities
that are conducive to improving health along natural
lim >. The out-doors, hiking, swimming, gardening,
c.tc., could be employed, to a degree at least, with
good results.
Jupiter in the 3rd : this is a mental expression of
Jupiter. Study becomes the channel for improvement,
crn1 education a necessity. Fluency of expression is
irh; ':ited, but, if afflicted, Jupiter needs method and
rou~iue. Benefic aspects indicate happiness through
fratt:rnal relationships, which in turn "feed" the
possibilities for success in mature relationships. Gen-
erally this ii;,licates a capacity of abundant mental
reso•irces, a mind fertile in ideas and capable of re-
taining much knowledge. Possibilities for public ex-
pressions are seen to be incentives for study and
intellectual development.
Jupiter in the 9th: Jupiter in the ninth house,
or in Sagittarius or disposited by a planet in the
ninth or any other direct connection with the ninth
38 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
emphasizes the "spiritual aspiration capacity." Pro-
fessional patterns refer most specifieally to law, the
church, and teaching. Jupiter himself shows how we
express our religious convictions, the planet ruling
the 9th indicates our basic feelings about, and at-
titudes toward, religion generally. An empty 9th
house-unoccupied, Jupiter unaspected and the 9th
house ruler insignificant by scope-shows that the
person is not yet attuned to the ''understanding''
side of life. He is still involved with ''things as
things." To the degree that Jupiter and the 9th
house have "scope," the patterns show to what de-
gree the person has distilled understanding from his
patterns of experience, and to what degree he seeks
further understanding. The Jupiter mentality is the
mind that is primarily interested in principles rather
than dry factual knowledge. It sees the ceremonies
and appurtenances of church as being symbols of
inner truths and is interested in tracking down
the origin of these outward symbols. The person with
a strong 9th house will ''seek until he finds'' the
religious concept which most fully satisfies his needs,
and when he finds it he recognizes it almost
immediately.
When we study a chart from a psychological
standpoint, it is of some importance to get a "pic-
ture'' of the person's ability to think in terms of
principles-because all corrective psychology is based
on an attunement to principles of thought and action.
If the 9th house is undeveloped, we must speak to the
person in terms that he can understand-we must
use ''earth terms.'' In this way, the astro-analyst ful-
fills his purpose as an expression of 9th house fac-
JUPITER-PRINCIPLE OF IMPROVEMEN'r 39
ulties-as a spiritual parent he, of his understand-
ing, leads ''his children'' by constructive advice
that is simply presented, and always with the motive
of ''lifting up'' and encouraging. The astrologer
joins spiritually with all people in many walks of
life who seek, in some way, to create improvement
in the lives of others. Suggest the reader practice
synthesizing the Principle of Improvement in rela-
tion to the other houses.
BOOKS BY MAX HEINDEL
The Rosicrucian Cosmo-Conception
The Rosicrucian Mysteries
Simplified Scientific Astrology
The Message of the Stars
* * •
Send for Complete Price List
* ••
The Rosicrucian Fellowship
Box 713
Oceanside, California
40
Chapter III
SATURN'S COMMAND: '"rHOU MUST
FULFILL''
This material is offered to all astrological student<;;
in the hope that it will serve to clarify the purposes
and mundane significance of the vibrations of Sat-
urn. It is of vital importance that all astrologers be
able to present to those they a._qsist a constructive
picture of why and for what this planet is as it is in
any given horoscope.
Obstruction, crystallization, disappointment, pov-
.erty, frustration, and the like are the only terms by
which some students identify the vibration of Saturn.
We beg to inquire: ''How, in the name of everything
that is enlightened, can such terms be used to calm
the quivering nerves of the apprehensive client?''
lf the horoscopical pattern is to be studied for solu-
tions to problems, each planetary vibration must be
approached from the standpoint of its significance
in the Solar Spectrum and its importance in the
evolution of the Ego. To the degree that we can philo-
sophically understand why a planet is as it is in the
chart under consideration, we are, mentally and
psychologically, so much better able to deal with the
problems and conditions represented.
Saturn is the symbol of the physical plane, through
whirh all agencies of mind, emotion, and Spirit man-
ifest for evolutionary purposes. It is the vibration of
SATURN'S COMMAND: "THOU MUST 41
FULFILL
objectification and manifestation. Its position in th~
horoscope shows where the expression of Spirit is
most heavily condensed; the point of greatest r~­
sponsibility; the area of un£nlfillment in the past,
therefore the area of greatest spiritual effort in this
incarnation. (The last phrase explains the exaltation
of Mars--energy-in Caprcorn, the sign of Saturn's
rulership; Venus, as beauty, is the principle of Per-
fected Manifestation, and Saturn is exalted in Libra,
sign of Venus' rulership.) Saturn, the outpost l)f
mundane vibrations, sets the boundaries for every
experience and every cycle of experience. Therefore,
the great command of Saturn is ''Thou must fulfill !''
Fear is one of the words that is most frequently
used to indicate one of Saturn's principal qualities
in negative expression. Fear is our reaction to any
threat to our sense of security or well-being. That ·
which is spiritually unfulfilled represents insecurity
on the inner planes. So Saturn, afflicting, is the in-
dicator of that which the Ego, or Higher Self, recog-
nizes as being the most incomplete or the most lacking
in fulfilled expression.
Assisting a client to approach his aspects with-
out fear is one of the principal purposes and duties
of the astro-analyst. When Saturn aspects are inter-
preted to represent needs for f1tlfiUrnent, an appeal
can be made to the person's sense of integrity, self-
respect, strength, courage, and competence. Assist
him to feel capable of handling his situations so that
his attitude is constructive. Study his chart carefully
so that you can find soul-agencies by which the needed
fulfillments can be most successfully realized. A good
42 STUDIES IN .ASTROLOGY
Mars indicates courage, and the ability to work hard;
a good Moon gives the protective impulse; Jupiter
denotes be11evolence and abundance; Neptune repre-
sents faith and inspiration, etc. .Also, the long-range-
viewpoint is particularly applicable to presenting
the solution for Saturn problems. Patience is one of
the keywords for a ''good Saturn,'' and patience,
as a quality, is required to fulfill Saturn aspects-
whatever their nature. When a person uses the vir-
tues of Saturn he tackles the problem at its roots.
To the degree that Saturn comes to represent, in the
person's mind, certain constructive qualities within
does Saturn cease to be misunderstood as a burden
or a frustration.
Saturn never indicates a complete denial of every-
phase of its position, as some students are inclined
to think. Its position in any house shows conclusively
that fulfillment, therefore experience in some form,
is of utmost importance. There are as many avenues
of experience in each house as there are meanings
of the house. If Saturn implies a denial in some form,
it automatically indicates that fulfillment of that
house must be made in some other form.
To think that Saturn frustrates expression of the
house of its occupancy or rulership is a miscompre-
hension of the purpose of its vibration. It indicates
that unfulfillment must be overcome by experience.
The frustrating effect of Saturn is shown by the con-
junctions, squares, and oppositions that it makes to
other planets. It is the other planet that must con-
tribute to Saturn's work. The person, in this incar-
nation, is compelled by his spiritual necessities to
direct the energies of the other planet from expres-
SATUSRN'S COMMAND: "THOU MUST 43
FULFILL
sion in its own house to the house occupied by Saturn.
Hence, Saturn has been termed the "whiplash of
fate,'' the "heavy hand of karma," etc. Since there
are many types of Saturn's patterns, the "whiplash"
effect is shown in varying degrees by different types
of aspects. It is important to study the chart care-
fully from this standpoint in order to understand to
what degree the person is, spiritually and psycholog-
ically, ''earth-bound.''
First, the most earth-bound of all, the conjunction
of Saturn with one of the dynamic planets (Mars,
Sun, Jupiter, and Uranus), with no alleviating sex-
iiles or trines: In this instance, a planet which is
outgoing in expression is compelled to forsake the
ho;:ise of its rulership and express itself in terms of
Saturn's requirements, for fulfillment of the condi.-
tions of its house position and house rulership. Thus,
the dynamic planet is enslaved, ''in bondage to
earth."
Second, a dynamic planet squared or opposed by
Saturn, with no alleviating aspects: This type of
fru:>tration allows much more leeway for the af-
flicted planet to express itself than the first instance
because it does have, by influence of house rulership
and house occupancy, "room to breathe." Because
no other planetary contacts are ''enjoyed'' by the
dynamic planet, in this case, its expression has to
be made in terms of constructive Saturn qualities
in order that its own negative expressions may be
avoided. This vibration blending does, then, give the
planet scope for expression in its own house, and its
house of rulership, if otherwise unoccupied, is also
44 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
activated. The requirements of Saturn's house of
occupancy are fulfilled much more satisfactorily and
constructively to the degre~ that the constructive
qualities of the dynamic planet are ''poured'' into
Saturn's house. This process on the inner planes cor-
responds to the redirecting of water from its original
or natural flow into the field by irrigating channels.
The dynamic energies of the planet are as life-giving
wat~r to Saturn-Earth. Until this process is done
consciously by positive transmutation, the person will
be compelled by his spiritual necessities to do so-
unconsciousiy- and the result will be the suffering
we call frustration. On the inner planes, Saturn has
the first-and last-word. Progress in the larg1:1r
sense cannot be made until Saturn's needs are ful-
filled and its expressions perfected.
Third, a dynamic planet, with one sextile, squared
by Saturn which has no other aspects: In this instance,
the dynamic planet has alchemical assistance from
the planet that it sextiles; but Saturn, having no
other expressions, acts as a vampire, sustaining itself
on the ''life blood'' of the dynamic planet. Because
the alleviating aspect is a sextile, not a trine, this
aspect seems to indicate a chronic or lifelong con-
dition. If it is not worked on and worked with, it is
easy to perceive the possibility that in the next in-
camation Saturn will also afflict the sextiling planet
as well as the one it now afflicts-a heavy burden!
Fourth, a dynamic planet squared by Saturn, but
having one trine : This repeats, to a degree, example
three with the qualification that the trine promises
much more in favor of the Saturn-squared planet.
This example may indicate also a lifelong condition,
SATURN'S COMMAND: "THOU MUST 45
FULFILL
but the dynamic planet will have much more capacity
for self-expression and compensating factors for the
Saturn square can be utilized for greater happiness
and well-being. The person or persons represented
by Saturn will be the agencies of restraint and re-
sponsibility, but the persons who ''tie in'' with the
trine aspect will be those who compensate for the
deficiencies induced by the Saturn fulfillments. In
every one of these Saturn-patterns, the development
of the constructive qualities of Saturn is the purpose
of the aspects.
Pifth, Saturn conjunct or afflicting one of the
negative planets (Moon, Venus, Neptune, or neutral
Mercury) : Saturn, as Earth, is itself negative or
feminine. However, its function, being gravitational,
does imply action or process. (Capricorn, its sign
of rulership, is cardinal, and so is Libra, its sign of
exaltation). In this type of Saturn affliction, the
other planet-particularly Mercury, Venus, or Nep-
ttme-needs the dynamic stimulus of another planet
to e!:ergize its expression, or serious crystallization
can result. Even a semi-sextile to the afflicted planet
must be considered of value in this case, as it does
indicate a start, a reaching-out for the afflicted planet.
Saturn g~ \'es us the clearest picture of our iden-
tity with experience on the physical plane, and thus,
serves as a measuring rod of our progress on the par-
ticular cycle of manifestation we are now on. Let us
consider examples of Saturn as cycle-development-
indicator.
Saturn unaspected: The start of a new cycle of
earth experience; there is little ''ballast'' in the na-
46 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
ture, except if Capricorn is rising, or Saturn 1s m
the first house; scope of expression is indicated by
planets in Caprieorn or planets in the house ruled by
Saturn. If the latter conditions are shown in the
chart, the promise of a well-aspected Saturn is indi-
cated for future incarnations if the house of Saturn's
occupancy and dispositing influence are expressed in
terms of saturnian virtues and constructive qualities.
Saturn with one semi-sextile: A start on the path;
contact has been made with the chart through direct
expression with one planet; the birth of an alchemical
agency through the planet a.spected.
Saturn with one sextile: A member, in good stand-
ing, of the family of planets; an effective channel
for transmutation; agency of restraint if the aspected
planet is dynamic and otherwise unafflicecl; promise
of future trine.
Saturn with one square: treated, in part, in the
earlier part of this article; a vampire, drawing energy
from the planet a.spected; need to express two-fold
constructive qualities through house of occupancy;
this condition of Saturn can indicate a blessing in
disguise, though felt as a frustration, if the chart
contains many cardinal and/or mutable afflictions--
in which case the fulfillment requirements of Saturn
serve to give focus and point to energies that would
otherwise be disordered and incoherent. The person
who possesses this kind of set-up will redeem the as-
pect, and himself, if he lovingly, willingly, and
courageously accepts the opportunities to work anii
live with his Saturn, not against it in conflict.
Saturn with one trine: the planet a.spe:eted has
been productively and harmoniously integrated with
SATURN'S COMMAND: "THOU MUST 47
FULFILL
Earth; through Saturn's house, wisdom has been
developed and knowledge can be beneficially ex-
pressed to others; older and more mature people
benefit the person through the house of Saturn's
o::cupancy-they serve to stimulate that which he
has already built into his pattern; a reliable counter-
active to escape tendencies; a trine from Saturn to
any planet is a point of maturity for the planet itself;
Saturn, in this case, is a most effective antagoni<>t
for the squares and opposition of the planet so as-
pected; a trine aspect of Saturn is a flowering of the
saturnian virtues.
Saturn with one opposition: a frictional aspect that
draws the energies of the planet aspected into the op-
pos~te side of the chart; a polarizing through re-
sponsibility and fulfillment neOOls; an ''exchange of
currents'' is indicated by this pattern-each planet
needs the virtues of the other for mutual fulfillments
and the establishment of balance on the inner planes.
Saturn afflicted with various aspects: a varied
dn·:lopment of saturnian qualities, representing dif-
ferent stages of growth that has gone on for a long
time. The person with this pattern is well along on
the cycle, much has been learned, much is yet to be
learned; int::.gration with Earth has been made in
many different degrees and many types of ''Saturn
experience'' are indicated for this incarnation; the
qualities of the planets which receive the trimis and
sextiles from Saturn can be utilized, alchemically,
to harmonize the afflicted planets; the person so
represented is, in relation to this cycle, an ''old
soul"-give careful analysis and consideration to his
48 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
trines in order to gauge his ability to transmute the
squares.
Saturn unafflicted : Saturn identified with other
planets through sextiles and trines is indicative of
great development and soul power. It serves as a
counteractive to evil second only in scope to Sun
trine Moon; it is a panacea for any frictional aspect
in the horoscope and the saturnian virtues can be
used as aides to any psychological problem indicated
by other planets ; if cadent in a chart containing
many frictional aspects in cardinal signs and houses,
its power may remain dormant during the early years
of life, but since it promises much of value in the
life of the person, it will, sooner or later, be activated
into full expression; progressed Sun or Mars square
or opposition natal unafflicted Saturn may indicate
the period of activation-the energies of the dynamic
planetary thrust can awaken Saturn to its objectifica-
tion. A person with such a Saturn should not ignore
any responsibility that comes to him-he has the
power to fulfill it and he must utilize it to direct
and give scope to his other planetary conditions. The
person with unafflicted Saturn is blessed with the
assistance of those in authority, and those who are
advanced on his particular paths of life expression.
They are truly his "brothers in Spirit," since both he
and they have distilled Wisdom from their response
to Saturn's command: "Thou must fulfill!"
49
Chapter IV
URANUS COMMANDS ''RELEASE!''
As a keynote to this discussion of Uranus, we offer
the following definition of spiritual liberation: those
points in evolution when the Ego, having completely
and perfectly fulfilled the requirements of Saturn-
relationships, responsibilities, works, utilizations-
automatically begins to function on progressively
more impersonal phases of experience.
The vibration of Uranus provides this process of
''progress after fulfiillment. '' He is the disintegrator
of forms, the antidote to crystallization, the opener
of doors. Because of the intensely dynamic functions
that he represents on the emotional plane, Uranus
symbolizes the alchemist, the magician, and the cre-
ative artist. He represents the astrologer, whose im-
personal wisdom is the distilled result of alchemical
processes made during the course of wide and varied
experiences in love and relationship.
Of all abstract terms, the word ''transcendent''
most concisely des:ribes the nature of Uranus. He
transcends blood-relationship because he himself is
the fusion of the fires of polarity which create re-
lationship in human experience. (The ultimate of the
emotional triad). He transcends materiality because
his realm is that of the Soul-the ''Inner''--and,
as such, is beyond and above those illusions of reality
which are so often ascribed to the material phases
50. STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
of life. He transcends possessiveness of things and
people in any form, for his vibration makes possible
that type of consciousness which recognizes soul
power as the only real possession. The flowering of
his vibration represents the transcendence of fear
because Love-Wisdom, the result of experience,
abolishes fear.
Aside from the synthesis of sign-position, house-
position, house-rulership, and aspects of Uranus in
a given chart, there is another-and very important-
study of his vibration to be made: in relationship
or contrast to the influences and powers of Saturn.
The two planets, by nature and purpose, are anti-
pathetic. Saturn, afflicting, crystallizes, condenses,
limits, and frustrates the possibilities of other planets.
The position of Saturn indicates the path toward
inertia. Uranu.c;, however, provides release as the
logical and natural progress following fulfillments,
but when stagnation threatens, he forces open the
paths which have become congested and his electrify-
ing power creates a charge of renewing life. It is in
his afflicting effect on other planets that he seems
to act as a "sma.<>her-up," a destroyer-by-violence,
a disrupter and a disorganizer. The person who does
not, or will not, keep in line \vith progressive meas-
ures of living must, by the laws of progressive evolu-
tion, be forced to do so.
With this thought in mind, the astro-analyst will
realize that Uranus does not afflict any planet in
a chart unless there is a karmic tendency toward
crystallization to be counteracted. Uranus does not
"shake us up" unless we need to be shaken loose
from our inclination to ''cling to form'' in some part
URANUS COMMANDS "RELEASE!" 51
of our experience. Therefore, to interpret the func-
tion of Uranus, and get the complete picture of his
significance in a chart, we must compare his patterns
with those of Saturn.
The perfect example of this conflict is seen in the
aspect of Uranus squared by Saturn, a pattern sym-
bolizing the old versus the new, bondage versus tran-
scendence, fear versus liberation, the instinct for safe-
ty versus the urge for adventure, creed and race
versus universality, the tribe versus the individual,
and orthodoxy versus realization.
'l'he following are a few ''pointers' '--.suggestions
for reading this aspect in different combinations :
1. Both planets otherwise unaspected: In this
case, the two planets must be compared from the
standpoint of comparative ''strengths' '-dignity, ex-
altation, elevation, angles, and planetary dispositor-
~hip. Further, either planet gains· in power to the
degree that the sex-polarities (masculine: Sun and
Mars; feminine: Moon and Venus) and the solar-
lunar polarity are dynamic (Uranus) or passive
(Saturn). This must be found by careful synthesis
of sign-quality and aspect-quality. Either Saturn
or Uranus will be found to be the more influential
and must be taken as the "key" to the square aspect,
and will be regarded as an "evolutionary barometer"
of this incarnation. The person concerned either
clings to the form side of life and resists change,
or he rebels against forms in his search for broader
experience and wider realizations.
2. Saturn otherwise wcll-aspected: The con-
sciousness is well integrated in the form side of life.
Saturnian virtues; patience, practicality, utility, etc.,
52 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
have been developed in the past and the urge to se-
curity is strongly developed. Uranus is here seen as
a threat to the orderly, accustomed processe,<; of liv-
ing, a disturber of the peace, a ''defier of morality,''
impractical, disreputable, and unreliable. This is how
a Saturn person feels about Uranus people-they just
don't fit into his neat, tangible, "two-times-two-
equals-four" universe. In fact, a Uranus person some-
times feels that two-times-two doesn't make much
of anything that's really interesting !
3. Uranus otherwise well-aspected: This is a per-
son who has ''lived and loved much.'' Inner freedom
is his range of understanding, independence of mind
and action. The square from Saturn shows that in
this incarnation he must fulfill a certain area of
responsibility. In one respect, at least, he has been
"foot-loos~" too long. He has abilities-he must
use them; he has knowledge-he must make it avail-
able to others; he has relationship-responsibilties-
he mnst learn to f1tlfill them willingly and! lovingly.
Until he does so, Saturn will hold him in ever-tighten-
ing bondage.
The persons represented by Saturn in the Uran-
ian's chart will seem, to him, to be "crampers of his
style,'' ''millstones around his neck,'' and, in general,
burdens and crucifixions. And they will continue to
sezm so until he realizes that they serve to give form
to his dynamic urges, to keep him united to the
stream of constructive living, to give purpose and
direction to his abilities.
(Incidentally, the Crucifixion and Resurrection of
Christ Jesus symbolize, perfectly, this ''conflict'' o.f
Saturn and Uranus. Saturn symbolizes the crystalliza-
URANUS COMMANDS ''RELEASE!'' 53
tion of fear and ignorance possessed by the "world"
that sought to kill the Teacher and destroy His in-
fluence; Uranus symbolizes the Divine Purpose of
liberation which mMt, and inevitably will, release
the consciousness of man from stagnant concepts and
slavish ignorance).
4. Both planets variable: this pattern is best ap-
proached, after synthesizing, from an astro-dynamic
standpoint. Either planet may have been emphasized
the more strongly during the years of growth and
maturity. The counteractive agencies to the afflicting
aspects will show as possible neutralizations for the
unregenerate qualities of both planets. The sextiles
to each arc particularly important, since they show
avenues of potential alchemical developments.
Uranus is electric, magnetic, and the most dy-
namic of all the planets. His "conditions," for this
reason, must never be interpreted as superficialities.
His conjunction with any planet intensifies the qual-
ity of experience represented by the planet, and a
quality of ''extremeness'' is shown in that part of
the life.
The position of Uranus in the chart shows the
source of potential genius; the benefic aspects, the
opportunities for developing that potential, and the
culmination of those developments. The malefic as-
pects indicate primarily the need for control and
direction, for Uranus, by nature, is all "out-going,"
and his urges, if uncontrolled, can result in wastage
on all planes.
Interpret Uranus' conditions from a ''largeness''
btandpoint. His sorrows are soul agonies; his punish-
ments are catl!-:;itrophic; his loves have nothing to do
54 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
with man-made ceremonies and regulations. They are
volcanics of the heart, the power of which can disrupt
any set emoifonal pattern and hurl the lover into an
rnirely new universe. Uranus represents the intense
f~~sion of emotional polarity which we call ''creative
power,'' and under the stimulus of his electrification,
new forms of art, philosophy, fields of research, etc.,
are projected into human affairs. Continents are dis-
covered, concepts of time and space are revised and
elaborated, and man, himself a dynamic unit, finds
ever-new worlds within himself.
Uranus stands for our response to that which is
new to us. He is ''the way we walk to the opening
door," our ability t.o see farther, deeper, higher,
lower-and to welcome any form of change (new-
ness) which ecmes into our lives. That which was ten
years ago called radical, extreme, and ''brand new''
ha<> by now been poured into the mold of experience
and is commonplace. That which is really new is that
which we recognize as an unfoldment of areas of con-
sciousness which have never before been tapped.
Since liberation (progress) is a life principle, and
no respecter of sex, Uranus shows in the charts of
both men and women as the itrgc to freedorn. His
position shows in which department of experience
the person must have ''elbowroom ;'' where ''limit-
lessness of self-expression" is sought and obtained. It
also shows, since it is the potential of genius how
the person seeks to assist others in their search for
liberation.
In line with the above statement, trines to Uranus
can indicate channels of precocity in children. It i!!
evident that many children are, in their very early
URANUS COMMANDS ''RELEASE!'' 55
years, clearly aware of some knowledge or talent
which was brought to a high peak of development in
the past. These youngsters don't even have to wait
c;ntil physical or chronological maturity takes place
-they just abolish time and give vent to these amaz-
ing abilities while still in knee pants and pigtails!
(Trines to UranLs, regardless of the evolutionary
· status of the person, indicate that he is in advance
of his time and place and background~
Squares and oppositions to Uranus from other
planets show to what degree his energies need con-
trolling and directing. Conversely, the squares and
oppositions that he makes to other planets show how
his vibration can throw the other planets off center,
make them express in confused and chaotie ways.
Whenever Uranus and Sun, l\iars, or Jupiter (the
dynamic planets) are in discordant relationship,
then check carefully to find the degree in which Sat-
urn holds a controlling influence in the chart. Saturn,
in this case, can form the patterns for fulfillment
into which the dynamic energies must be poured.
The astrological student or astro-analyst tunes in
with the vibration of Uranus every time he, or she,
studies a horoscope. That study must be used, and
the Uranian vibration directed for the purpose of
helping a fellow being to understand his life-patterns
more clearly and impersonally. In this way, astrology
is used as a channel of liberation and, as such, stands
as one of the highest expressions of this mighty and
spiritual vibraticm.
56
Chapter V
NEPTl'NE-PRINCIPLE OF
INSTRUMENTATION
THY WILL BE DONE. It is by this phrase, or
one of its many equivalents, that the human being
recognizes that he is an instrument in the hands of
the Over-all Forces, either ·white or Black. In an
attitude of adoration or consecration, he surrenders
his personal will in order to serve his concept of the
purposes of those Forces. Also, those who are qual-
ified to act a.s agencies for the rcl0asing of Power are
driven by irresistible urges to do so, even though
they may not b:'. conscious of their instrumentality.
Of the former group, Jeanne d'Arc, the warrior-
saint of France, is a good example. Through her
devotion to her ''voices'' she became an instrument
in the hands of those spiritual agencies which were
concerned with the development of the French na-
tion. An extraordinary example of eonscious instru-
mentation was Isadora Duncan, the American dancer;
her inspirational responsiveness made possible a dy-
namic liberation to the concept of the art of Dance
in modern times. Among the many people in recent
years who demonstrated instrumentation we may
consider Bernadette Soubirous, the French peasant
girl, through whom the establishment of the healing-
grotto at Lourdes was made possible; Max Heindel,
the late Father Flannagan, and Mother Frances Ca-
NEPTUNE-INSTRUMENT.A.TION 57
brini were ''instruments'' for the establishment of
institutions for instruction, human regeneration, and
healing.
Of the second group, humanitarians who work
along the more secular lines of government, science,
economics, etc., are good examples. Of these we might
mention Woodrow Wilson, Thomas Edison, Henry
Ford, and Albert Schweitzer.
The exoteric symbol of Neptune is the "trident,"
or forked spear, of the ocean-god. Esoterically, how-
ever, the symbol represents the upturned cup, open
to receive the inflow of inspirational or astral en-
ergies. Furthermore, we are told Neptune is not,
really, a member of our solar system but is function-
ing as a ''transmitter of galactic energies'' to our
system. In this function of galactic transmission,
Neptune is seen to parallel, on a vast, transcendent
scale, the functions of our Moon, which "works lo-
cally" between the Earth and the Sun.
Combining the above factors, we see that Neptune
is a feminine vibration, impressionable, sensitive, re-
flective, fluidic, and receptive. As the Moon is "moth-
er" in a personal sense, with reference to relation-
ship, home, and nation, so Neptune is "rnDther" in
a universal sense. "Mother Church," all-embracing,
all-forgiving, all-redeeming, is Neptune; the ocean,
harboring in its depths the evolution of millions of
forms, is Neptune; the virtue of compassion, which
is understanding-love, recognizes no barriers to its
expression-it reaches all because it has experienced
all-its universality is a perfect representation of
Neptune. The magic of Art is Neptune; by attune-
ment to this transcendent vibration Man gives ex-
58 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
pression to the highest impulses of his consciousness
through poetry, drama, dance, music, painting, and
sculpture. Through these agencies l\fan, from his be-
ginnings, has sought to give "body" to his idealities
thro-.~gh the direction of technique by Will, fired by
in<;piration. "R':'ligion" and "Art" are two ways of
saying "Man's expression, of his recognition of Di-
vinity." Through these two forms of expression, Man
proves himself to he ''an instrument in the Divine
Hands.'' Through the exercise of his Neptune po-
tentials, he manifests as a microcosmic ''transmitter
of super-dimensional forces" in his capacities as ar-
tist, healer, teacher, and philanthropist.
While Venus represents Man's faculty of ''re-
sponse to Beauty" through his inner sensitivities and
cul'.ivations, Neptune represents his faculty to "con-
trive Beauty" or "express Beauty" by means of
exercising his artistic talents and abilities ; he uses
his materials as instruments to manifest his concept.a,
but he in turn, through response to inspiration, is an
instrument through which great Intelligences speak
to humanity. The two arts which most specifically
represent the "instrumentation" of Neptune are
Music and Drama.
Neptune is the transcendent planet of the mental
triad-Mercury and the Moon being the other two.
Since the language, or ''the word'' of the inner plane
is tone (rhythmic sound vibration), the musician
"speaks to us in melody and tonal harmony." The
interpretive musician acts as an instrument to man-
ifest the concepts of the creative musician who, in
turn, acts as 8.!1 instrument for inner-plane voices.
'fhe trained improvisor, by his sensitive response to
NEPTUNE-INSTRUMENTATION 59
musical inspiration and the obedience with which his
physical equipment reacts to that inspiration, is an
immediate and direct channel for artistic utterance.
In the exercise of his talent, his body, his musical
instrument, his musical intelligence and responsive-
ness are all fused into one composite instrument
through which the inner-plane voices speak to us.
The actor, from his inner knowledge of human
nature and experience, which is accumulated through
many incarnations of intense emotional experience,
symbolizes in each characterization a certain vibra-
tory pattern, or level, of the soul body of mankind.
Through his inspiration he transmits the playwright's
concept of humanity and temporarily assumes the
reality of a certain type of person. The greatest act-
ing requires, of course, technique of timing, reading,
and movement, but the quality of spiritual greatness
that moves the members of an audience to rapture
and exaltation is that which is derived from the
actor's transmission of his own inner memory (the
superconscious) of experience. He "out-pictures" a
facet of the inner memory of each person moved
by his performance.
The Drama of Life is reflected, microcosmically,
by the drama of the theatre. Human problems, rela-
tionships, joys, loves, sufferings, defeats, and tri-
umphs are all mirrored by the projection of the play-
wright and the instrumental interpretation of the
actor. When we, as individuals, choose to make our-
selves ''instruments of the Divine'' we play a role
on om own Stage of Life that is ennobling, inspir-
ing, beautiful, and triumphant.
''Instrumentation'' is a focalized releasing of
60 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
power. When used by persons centered by the higher
dimensions of consciousness great service of beauty,
healing, and realignment are made possible in all
phases of life--human and subhuman. However, pow-
er is no respecter of persons or things; it just operates
as it is directed. Conseqt:ently, when it is released
t,hrough an unregenerate or unspiritualized conscious-
ness, instrumentation becomes a process by which in-
describable negatives may be exposed. Egotism that
is self-centered and self-glorifying makes of instru-
mentation a thing of evil because through it Power
is released for the fulfillment of ends that are limit-
ing and destructive. In this reference the vibratory
effects of Neptune must be understood in the study
of horoscopes of criminals, delinquents, and psycho-
paths. These sick people are disorganized, intensity
of desire capacities .over-balancing Will and/or in-
telligence, intensity of Purpose coupled with per-
version of Ideality and all such maladjusted condi-
tions tend to develop responsiveness to destructive
astral forces. Putting these impulses into actfon is
"black instrumentation." The person whose intense,
but undirected, sexuality leads him to perpetrate
murder and cruelty as an ''outlet'' is a tool of Black-
ness ; the religious fanatic who, in the name of his
gentle, loving, Master, abuses, imprisons, tortures,
and enslaves his fellow man ''for the glory of God
and his Church'' may be perfectly sincere in his
motives, but in such treatment of others he proves
himself to be on a low vibratory rate.
The Spanish Inquisiton may be studied briefly
at this point since the organization was an ''instru-
ment'' of ''Mother Church.'' There were, doubt1El!38,
NEPTUNE-INSTRUMENTATION 61
many members of the Inquisition who zealously and
sincerely perpetrated outrages against "heretics,"
being motivated by idealistic efforts to expres.<i ''glory
to God'' as their church interpreted it. Acts of hero-
ism, self-sacrifice and loyalty which they committed
point to an unshakable faith in their c-0ncept of spir-
itual rightness. The means used will have to be an-
swered for in subsequent incarnations, but there is no
doubt that sincere devotion to an ideal builds in
Whiteness in the inner planes.
It is the ultimate perversion of the vibration of
Neptune when a pretense of ideality is utilized de-
liberately for self-aggrandizement, self-glory, and
domination over the mind and body of another per-
son. This is illusion masking illusion, corruption of
corruption, a lie lying to itself.
When the regeneration has been commenced and
the Neptune-patterns from the past are ready for re-
demption people are "pulled into the most impos-
sible-to-control situations.'' They are subtly in-
fluenced in+o habits which destroy them; they ask for
bread-they get stones; they lovingly assum~ a re-
sponsibility--it becomes a back-breaking burden
from which they never find release in this life; they
seek spiritual enlightenment-they get a species of
black magic which wrecks them; they have intense
creative urges and their efforts toward self-expression
are frustrated at every turn ; they are endowed with
unusual physical attractions-they never find the
fulfillment of love which they seek above all other
things. In each of these cases, the realization of the
Ideal forever eludes the suffering person with the
accompanying temptation to sink into negative levels
62 STUDIES IN .ASTROLOGY
of cynicism, rage, and hopeless fury against Life
which they begin to think of as something they can
no longer endure but must esca;pe from. Negative
Neptune is the "flight from reality" through drink,
drugs, indolence, perversion, and suicide. The
"flight from reality" is the attempt to escape the
pressure of the Inner Voice, which is the person's
Reality; he cannot face his past failures to live
spiritually.
Neptune afflicted in the horoscope should be
studied as a karmic indication of Principle having
been perverted in the past. People who attempt, in
one way or another, t.o escape their problems do so
only because they are not aware of the principle
which is working for their development. They have,
in the past, blinded themselves to ''Principle-aware-
ness'' by deliberately masking their own truth. Ob-
jectively or subjectively in these instances Neptune
walks hand-in-hand with Cause and Effect: clouding
the lives of people with illusions because of IlllL<iion
having been perpetrated.
Since everyone's Neptune is activated in S'Ome way
periodically it is of value to the astro-analyst to
learn something of th:i perso-n 's experience and reac-
tions in those times. .A person who, to a degree, ''lives
with his Neptune" will recall moments of intense
inspiration and exaltation ; he will refer to a highly
developed, spiritually-minded person whose acqaint-
ance he made or an experience of artistic illumina-
tion. Persons who are not well acquainted with Nep-
tune may recall experiences that caused them con-
siderable distress. They misplaced and lost things;
material affairs appeared chaotic and confused;
NEPTUNE-INSTRUMENTATION 63
things happenrd and things were said, the sources
of which could no; be determined; relationships took
on a bizarre aspect and unsuspected things were
revealed. On the more subtle planes of experience
strange, disturbing emotions were aroused, com-
plex desires and peculiar ecstasies may have been
felt ; will power and purpose seemed to dissolve
into unaccustomed feelings of lassitude and indif-
ference; trancclike imaginings and weird dreams
may have been experienced. Persons whose charts
carry a heavy emphasis on the element of Earth or
tln vibration of Saturn can experience in their Nep-
tune-ac'ivations something really frightening: the
material expression of life seems to become fl.uidic
and perspe2tiYes appear all out of focus. This is Nep-
tune reminding them of impermanance of the phys-
ical plane; it may appear like a temporay aberration
but it is really just a momentary shift of conscious-
ness onto a more subtle plane.
The quality of "hyper-passivity" clearly de-
scribes Neptt:ne's "personality" and as such em-
phasizes in a pronounced manner the receptive,
feminine potentials of the chart. The sign of Nep-
tune's rulership, Pi'>ces, is of the water element and
the mutable cross-the most purely impressionable
of the entire zodiac.
Since Neptune's function is "channel-ship" we
must give careful study to the unregenerate patterns
of the planets which aspect Neptune in the chart
even if Neptune itself is unafflicted. This is important
because though the ''channel'' may be efficient in
function we should understand the quality of "what
comes through.'' A person naturally endowed with
64 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
psychic sensitivity or a high potential for idealism
and devotion can, in his unregenerate expressions,
open up to all manner of perverse or de3tructive in-
fluences. Thus, inundated by waves of inflow from
the astral planes he can submit his heart, mind, and
consciousness to agencies which are neither worthy
nor health-giving. Neptrne itseif w1afflicted in the
chart is a potential for transmutation through Ide-
ality-i.e. through the exercise of prayer, living de-
vo~ion to high ideals which are expressions of life-
giving Principle, purification of the entire organism
through regeneration of physical health and re-
sponsiveness to the therapeutic power of nurnic or art
in general.
Neptune is the ruler of the twelfth house of the
"natural" or "cosmic" horoscope; its vibrations con-
vey a twelfth house condition of some sort or another
to the house that has Pisces on the cusp-or is prin-
cipally influenced by that sign. Planets in Pisces-
disposited by Neptune-are "potentials for the un-
foldment of Cosmic Consciousness through the re-
demption of karma by Idealism;'' frictional aspects
to Piscean planets indicate the required ''soul
adjustments.''
The house containing Neptune contains the secret
of how you express cosmic consciousness and, par-
ticularly through which experience-patterns; toward
what ends are you used by spiritual or astral forces ;
the source of your awareness of ''heaven on earth;''
the principal environmental source of your inspira-
tion; the point where you most easily surrender to
(your concept of) God's will; your transcendence of
separateness and instrumentality for truth.
Chapter VI
NEPTUNE PATTERNS-THE TWELFTH
HOUSE
65
The twelfth house of the horoscope forms the
essential experience-pattern of Neptune's vibration
and function. As we consider a blank wheel we see
that this house is plaeed at the end of a cycle of de-
velopment; it also, since Life is a continuous process
by incarnations, ''sits on the back of the first house.''
(The first house, of course, is the first breath of the
next phase, or cycle, of on-going). In this ''sitting''
the twelfth house may be taken to symbolize the
"burden of sin" which the traveler must carry, for
a time, as he continues his journey on the Path. It is
the redemption of this "sin" which impels the per-
son to incarnate again for a new cycle of experi-
ence. The twelfth house is the astrological symbol
for the biblical phrase ''original sin ;'' each person
brings his own memory of sin--or unregeneration-
from his previous embodiment. In relationship to the
wheel as a whole, the twelfth house stands as the
''accumulated residue'' of a cycle of experience; in
relationship to the first house it represents the es-
sence of what is still to be regenerated by adjustment
of the individual consciousness to the Cosmic-
through succeeding experience.
During any particular incarnation we use the
planetary vibrations as ''tools'' for our development.
66 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
Frictional planetary aspects represent our needed
lessons in the use of our faculties-they are J.Jife's
way of ''alerting us'' to development-needs. The
twelfth house indicates, essentially, what we were
as personalities in the past. It tells the story of the
way we looked at life last time and to what degree
we subconsciously tend to live this incarnation in
terms of what we were in the past. This picture, in
the case .of the twelfth house being tenanted or its
ruler being "bound" by frictional or gravitational
aspects, can be taken as an explanatory clue for the
way many people tend to live in ''back-going terms.''
They go through the progressive physical phases of
childhood, adolescence, and maturity as everyone
does, but the strong memory pictures of the past
malrn it almost impossible for them to express them-
selves or to understand their experiences in terms of
what is represented by their Ascendant sign-the
present. Let us consider the different types of
twelfth-house Ascendant patterns from this stand-
point for application to different horoscopes.
Pattern I: Same sign on twelfth cusp and Ascend-
ant; succeeding sign ori second cusp. This is analogous
to being held back. a grade in school. It means the
person is continuing, in this incarnation, a phase of
experience directly connected with his viewpoint in
the past; it suggests that the person was out of in-
carnation for a relatively short time-he comes right
back to what he was; to the degree that the ruler
of the chart is afflicted the person becomes his own
secret enemy-since that planet also rules his twelfth
house; by this pattern Life says to the person: "I
shall give you one more chance to make good.''
NEPTUNE PATTERNS-12TH HOUSE 67
Pattern II: The same as Pattern I except that the
succeeding sign is intercepted in the first house :
this suggests that the pe!'son has been out of incar-
nation for a longer-than-usual time; he needs to es-
tablish his link with past conditions by living part
of this incarnation in terms of the past so that, by
objective experience, he may be made aware of his
potentials for self-undoing and, so, recognize his
need for regeneration and redirection ; the sign in-
tercepted in the first house is the traveling com-
panion who has gone ahead but who waits quietly
by the roadside for the Ascendant person to catch
up. When the experiences which reflect past-life con-
sciousness have been undergone and the person has
been brought to a seeming st.op in his development,
the aiwareness of the intercepted sign is brought to
the attention of the person to alert him to on-going;
the intercepted sign calls out: "Hello there-I'm
glad you finally found me; take my hand and let's
get going.'' If a planet is found in the intercepted
sign study it carefully by quality and aspect; since
''planets are people'' this planet will describe the
type of people who will reflect th~ on-going qualities
of the person. This pattern promises progress in this
incarnation-the ''pull of the past'' can be trans-
cended; if the intercepted sign is not occupied) its
ruler, by position and aspects, will serve to describe
the "companion waiting ahead."
Pattern III: Twelfth house containing an inter-
cepted sign: a very complex combination of ''mem-
ories ;' ' planets in either of the twelfth he>use signs
will objectify the past conditions; to the degree that
they are frictionally or gravitationally aspeeted will
68 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
the person by pain-experience, face his ''flowers of
evil"-the seeds of which may have been planted
even previous to the last incarnation. This pattern
is ''payment long overdue;'' it is in the nature of
a ''notice of eviction''-unredeemed in this incarna-
tion the bill will have to be adjusted in a future cycle
of experience.
Pattern IV: The same sign on the eleventh and
twelfth cusps: this, on whatever "level of the spiral,''
links the potential for secret self-undoing with the
unredeemed areas of cons0iousness pertaining to re-
lationships iri general. The eleventh house, in rela-
tionship to a cycle, is the culminating point of rela-
tionship-consciousness; we call it the ''house of
friends'' because friendship is the essence of Love
that has distilled through fulfillment of all relation-
ship-experience on a given cycle. The unregenerate
aspects to the planetary ruler of these houses-or if
unafflicted, to its planetary dispositor-will indicate
how the person tends to ' 'block himself'' in relation-
ship-consciousness; careful study of fraternal, pa-
rental, and marital relationship-patterns will reveal
the type of experience which the person needs most
to ''work on'' to fulfill his cycle by Love. This pat-
tern is also in the nature of "pay-up day" since the
eleventh house is a culminating point on the cycle.
Pattern V: Afflicting aspect to twelfth house ruler
-no interceptions: the indication of why, what, how,
and through whom the person expresses his unre-
generate past in terms of the on-going of this in-
carnation; this is a "reminder of the past" and
strong, critical stimulation of the planet may "pull
the person into his subconscious,'' but the regenera-
NEPTUNE PATTERNS-12TH HOUSE 69
tion of the pattern by cons~ructive elements in the
chart assures direct on-going.
Pattern VI: Planet in the twelfth house, but in
the Ascendant-sign: Thi<;; is the most purely on-going
of all the twelfth house patterns. There is a '' se-
crecy" about the environmental expression of this
planet but becaus~ of its position in the Ascenda.nt-
sign the peroon automatically tends to express the
vibration in terms of his consciousness of present
personality. Unregenerate forces acting on or through
this planet may, of course, be redirected in terms of
the planet's own essential good; another agency of
redirection is assured by the regenerate quality or
aspects of the ruler of the chart as it disposits the
twelfth house planet and is the focus for perronality-
expression and personality-fulfillment in this in-
carnation. Afflicted aspects of the twelfth ho·Jse
planet and/or patterns of afflictions pertaining to
the house that it rules will indicate conditions and
relationships that the person subconsciously tends
to think of as ''enemies'' because, :focussed through
his Ascendant-sign, they ''challenge his on-going;''
he has to use the vibratory powers of his present
ASC to redeem or transmute those conditions.
Pattern VII : First house unoccupied, ruler of
the chart in the twelfth house and the twelfth house
sign: afflicted a.Spects to the ruler in this pattern
represent karmic adjustments to be made through
limiting and confining environmental conditions; r;-
gcnerate aspects show the potentials for flowering of
personality-qualities in work or activities connected
with the sick or confined or ''generally unfortunate ;''
it is a clinging to the past-the person is not quite
70 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
ready to establish an on-going expression of person-
ality; such a person seems to be born "in back of his
contemporaries"-he is not "modern" in his view-
point. Certain elaborations of tills pattern can indic
cate that the p<'rson, being very gifted in some way,
expresses in the modern world ''something wonderful
from a past age"-he lives in the world of "now"
but he symbolizes the world of ''then.''
Pattern VIII : Ruler of the twelfth house in the
Ascendant-sign, first house, or intercepted in the first
house: '' This is astrology's answer of ''no !'' to the
teaching that early environmental conditions are the
basic cause of later difficulties. By this position of the
twelfth ho se ruler the early environment-influences
are seen as effects from the unregenerate past. The
person incarnates through certain parents, in a cer-
tain plac:e and lives under certain conditions in his
childhood because an unregenerate area of bis con-
sciousness nee,ds that kind of a start for his ongoing
in this incarnation. The ''bad memories'' are im-
mediate-ly objectified in the early part of life ; analyz-
ing the chart by application of ''cause and effect''
will give a clue as to the person's inner reason for in-
carnating under those particular circumstances. This
pattern is "secrets brought out into' the clear light
of day"-if the twelfth house is unoccupied the
secret karma is out-pictured in the person's child-
hood, by ihe combined effects of early home-life, sur-
:·oundings, and associates. Harmful influences which
have the appearance of "deviating the person" are
simply the objectifications of his surface-subcon-
scious; this pattern may point to an attitude of de-
NEPTUNE PATTERNS-12TH HOUSE 71
Jiberate wrong·-doing in the past-of sueh a nature
that the person is "pulled into" the same kind of pic-
ture so early in this incarnation that he ha.<>n 't the
power or intelligence to combat the wrong infkence-
he just ''falls right into it. ''
Pattern IX: (cyclic): Any two adjaC'mt houses
covered by the samfJ sign, hence ruled by the same
planet: Wherever placed in the chart, this pattern
carries out the principle of "present-in-terms-of-
past. '' Any sign of the Zodiac can be twelfth house;
any sign can be Ascendant. The cyclic pattern of
twelfth house in relationship t-0 Ascendant may be
described as: that area of conscioicsness, imregenerate,
which impels reincarnation; the cy0lic pattern of
Ascendant in relationship to twelfth house may be
described as : 'l'he progressive means by which unre-
generate ka1rma is redeemed by reincar11ation. As a
compound pattern of Cosmic symbol, the above
phrases can be applied to any part of the chart which
shows a linking of past to present.
In reference to Pattern IX we may say that the
house with the higher degree on the C"SP represents
the department of life to be fulfilled by that par-
ticular planetary vibration in this incarnation ; the
lower degree house (the previous) represents an ·ex-
perience or relationship which still waits fulfillment
or regeneration. Since the third, fifth, seventh,
ninth, and eleventh houses are the houses of
progressive-relationship-patterns (the fourth and
tenth being the houses of parentage) we can deter-
mine-in Pattern IX-what, in the past, has
impelled the present relationship or how their
relationship established in the past is to be ful-
72 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
filled in this incarnation. Mercury, Venus, and
Mars normally rule two signs each; involved in
Pattern IX they, of course, extend their influence
to a third house which serves to ''complete their
picture;" the other planets, normally ruling one
house, can, in Pattern IX, rule two.
Pattern X: (cyclic) Planet in the house it rules,
but in the following sign: in this pattern we see the
''twelfth house relationship to Ascendant'' expressed
in terms of the planet's own vibration, not by house
po:;ition. If the planet has an afflicted aspect the in-
dication is that continual expression of its cusp-sign
vibration "holds the person to the afflicted past"
and assures depletion of constructive or regenerate
expression. The environmental indication or mode of
expression is the same now as it was in the past, but
this incarnation demands expression through pro-
gressive planetary vibration; the latter of course,
refers to the planet which disposits the one concerned.
This pattern is, potentially, very on-going since the
person, from pa'>t experience, is accustomed to ex-
pressing the planet in that particular house. It also
can indicate a strong possibility that the early en-
vironment or parental influence may tend to empha-
size the cusp-sign expression; the parents, in this
ins'ance, would represent the ''pull of the past.''
The pattern demands of the person that he exert the
expression of his own personality and integrity to
''forge ahead on his own'' in that department of his
life.
All of the pat.terns are variations of the state-
ment: ''-and He took upon Himself the likeness
of a man ;'' the ''redemption of the world'' (unre-
I
·~
NEPTUNE PATTERNS-12TH HOUSE 73
generate ccmsciousnes.s to be redeemed by experience-
in-incarnation) by the Spirit (those levels of con-
sciousness which have been aligned to Truth). Let
us study our horoscopes with the renewed aware-
ness that each stellar design shows us the picture-
on all phases of our lives-of why we were born and
how, by regeneration, we can attain the "second
birth'' which is the transcendence of the past.
Chapter VII
NEPTUNE-ASPECTS AND POSITIONS
It is interesting to note the correlation of Nep-
tune, ruler of Pisces, with the other two signs of the
water triplicity. Cancer, cardinal and ruled by the
Moon, is water as a generator of power-rivers,
streams, waterfall, and rain; Scorpio, fixed, is ic&-
compressed and static-symbolizing resource of pow-
er; Pisces, mutable, is water as an enveloping agency
-fog, mists, miasmas, and above all the mighty
ocean which encircles all bodies of land.
Cancer is the maternal body which generates sus-
tenance for the new incarnation. Scorpio, ruled by
Pluto. is the "collective unconscious"-the vast
ocean of astral forces which surrounds the body of
humanity. Pisces is the "Great Overshadowing"-
the Divine Life in which we move and have our being.
Neptune represents our capacity to ''open up'' or to
74 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
''tune in'' to the recognition of the Higher Agencies
and to unfold our awareness of the divinity of Life.
Through the ''instrumentation faculty'' of Neptune
we can, depending on our states of consciousness,
contact the sources of exalted inspiration or we can
open the door to Pluto's realm and walk in the cav-
erns of our unregenerate states.
This ''overshadowing'' of Neptune has been
treated previous by interpretations of the patterns
involving the twelfth house-the overshadowing
of our own past incarnation which must be re-
redeemed, to a degree, in the present one. How-
ever, your own personal variation of Neptitne's direct
influence is shown by the house of your chart that
has Pisces on the cusp--or Pisces intercepted-and
th.e house which Neptune itself occupies.
The former shows where illusion and disillusion-
ment are concentrated; the channel of experience
that indicates your need for developing Faith; if
Neptune is afflicted, the Pisces house indicates where
and how, in the past, you betrayed Faith and now
need realignment with Principle. The Pisces house
can indicate a relationship-pattern of deep spiritual
value or one that is masked and veiled-its inner
reality is not outwardly recognized by others. It is
well to realize that the Pisces house of your chart
1s the one which you, yourself, may understand the
least clearly-its realities are more "occult" than
objective in quality and significance. It is where you
can mislead yourself because it shows how, in the
past, you may have misled others. In the extremities
of your difficulties the Pisces house will show what,
most likely, will impel you to seek Divine Assistance;
NEPTUNE PATTERNS-12TH HOUSE 75
seeing that chapter of your life through dark glasses
you a.re moved to ask for guidance from Him who
sees clearly.
'rhe house containing your Neptune is your direct
e;cpression of spiritual consciousness, the department
of life in which you can be qualified to lead others
to establish Faith, the focal point of your idealism,
your capacity for establishing Heaven-on-Earth.
Through your Neptune house the Divine says : ''Be
ye the voice for my words and the hands for my
work." It is where and how you express your un-
derstanding of ''Thy will be done, in earth, as it is
in heaven.''
Because of Neptune's affinity with the element
of water, the fourth, eighth, and twelfth houses may
be m1derstood to be the most ''congenial'' for its
placement. They represent the emotional and astral
levels of consciousness and, placed therein, Neptune's
sensitivity is more definitely emphasized. The signs
Pisces and Cancer are considered Neptune's two
"best signs" because of their fl.uidic, emotional
quality. Furthermore, since the Moon and Neptune
are ''personal mother'' and ''universal mother,''
respectively, the Moon's sign corresponds to the Nep-
tun quality more than does any other, except Pisces.
Therefore Cancer is considered the ''exaltation sign''
of Neptune-the dynamic, cardinal quality of the
sign amplifies the sensitive mutability of Pisces. Nep-
tune in this sign expresses with more ''force" than
it does in its dignity.
Neptune's slow travel indicates it to be of
great value from the standpoint of cyclic research.
Millions of incarnations are made during Neptune's
76 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
position in any sign; each group is like a miniature
"life-"·tJ.ve" attuned to certain expressions of cosmic
consciousness. The correlation of Uranus with Nep-
tmic iu this respect is of particular value. Consider:
During the later years of the eighteenth century
occurt:d a stellar event of primary magnitude-the
conjuncton of Uranus with Neptune in the sign
Sagittarius. New concepts were born, new ideals, new
visions, and new prophecies of a liberated mankind
were projected into the human scheme of things. Rev-
olutions occured, the old was shattered by blows of
disintegrative effect. This conjunction carried over
into Capricorn in the early eighteen hundreds. Meta-
physical teachings were released, new concepts of
art and morality were promulgated.
This activation by Uranus and Neptune was in
the nature of a "cosmic lunation"-the dynamic
Uranus and the spiritualizing Neptune provided a
"new birth" for the entire human race. The "full
moon'' of this ''lunation'' was the opposition of
Uranus in Sagittarius-Capricorn to Neptune in Gem-
ini-Cancer during the early years of the twentieth
century. A world war of devastating significence
brought out into the open the levels of unrest and
change which had been "gestating" all during the
last century. In other words, Uranus had returned
to the "lunation point" and Neptune, like the full
moon after a Sun-Moon lunation, had reached its
halfway point. Persons who incarnate during a
major planetary opposition do so for greater aware-
ness of certain soul principles; Uranus-opposition-
Neptune is awareness for the entire human family-
a critical point in our evolution.
NEPTUNE-ASPECTS AND POSITIONS 77
Those persons who incarnated while Neptune was
in Aries were of the generation of visionary pioneers,
particularly those who had Neptune in Aries and
Uranus in Cancer-tumultu01.:s souls who busied
themselves in establishing the ''new look'' in human
affairs: metaphysical teachings, woman's suffrage,
birth control and all the other agencies of freeing
humanity from outworn and crystallized concepts.
We who incarnated during the opposition of the two
planetary giants came into a world full of unrest
and disturbance. We, by inner development and un-
derstanding, can take our rightful place in the scheme
of things and make our contribution to the New Age,
or, by inner undevelopment we can live--or try to
live--by approaches that pertain to a bygone age
and so find ourselves ''out of line with the chang-
mg aspect of things. Study Neptune in charts to
determine how the persons concerned can be con-
sidered of this age, not just in it. Study the twelfth
house conditions, the Saturn conditions and the af-
flictions to Neptune or to Neptune-Uranus, and get
some sort of picture of how-or how not- the per-
son is cyclicly ''at home with this age.''
Neptune by position in the fourth, eighth, and
twelfth houses conveys a certain natural sensitivity
even if it is unaspected-this pattern holds promise
that sometime during the incarnation occult experi-
ences are to be met and dealt with. It naturally fol-
lows that afflicted aspects to Neptune when in these
houses are particularly acute.
Neptune unaspected, like any other unaspected
planet, is, on a given cycle, a ''traveler starting out
on a jolJ:rney.'' If a traveler is not properly guided
78 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
or instructed he easily riskq taking the wrong roads,
thus making many detours and delays before he
arrives at his d~stination. Since Neptune is the
transcendent expression of the "mental triad"-
(Moon, Mercury, and Neptune being the "triad of
transmission" )-the start of its new journey must
be prepared for by (1) discipline and transmutation
of subconscious feelings and redirection of feminine
reaction-patterns-symbolized by the Moon-and (2)
knowe<lge by acquisition of facts pertaining to spir-
itual life-a.q an expression of the intellectual facul-
ties, symbolized by Mercury. Neptune, misdirected,
can result in perversion of under.standing which can
bring the person into c.ontact with the forces of
bla.clc magic; such experiences result in various forms
of disintegration and loss of ''inner plane aware-
ness." This in turn brings many difficult experi-
ences-during later lives-by which realignment
with Truth must be made. Study carefully the house
position and house rulership of an unaspected Nep·
tune to determine, as clearly as possible, what
dlirecfion Neptune shoulcl take for its immediate
unfoldment.
Since Neptune is a fluidic, feminine, and im-
presqionable vibration give careful study to the
planet which disposits it-(Venus for Taurus and
Libra, Mercury for Gemini and Virgo, Moon for
Cancer, and Sun for Leo)-because the conditions
of the dispositor will indicate the essence of "what
comes through Neptune." For example, if Neptune
is in Cancer,- where it is particularly sensitive any-
way-and the Moon carries an afflicted Mars vibra-
tion the indication is that the sex urge and the po-
NEPTUNE-ASPECTS .AND POSITIONS 79
tential for destruction can be strongly stimulated by
the activities of Neptune by lunations, progress~d
Moon, etc. If Neptune is in Taurus and Venus is
unafflicted then the person can be a focal point for
a very spiritual love-radiation, as well as an artistic
agency. Synthrs;ze the dispositor of Neptune very
carefully and, in your assistance to another, plan
your "road map" so that the person will know ahead
of time when certain subconscious tendencies will
be activated and he can prepare his inner defenses.
Help him to unders'and the subtlety of Neptune's
position and house rulership of an unaspected Nep-
expressions-people who appear on the scene when
his Neptune is activated negatively simply objectify
his own inner subconscious levels. They may ''tempt''
him, try to mislead him for their own selfish pur-
poses, or give him false instructions. 'rherefore he
must, for best results, ''cleanse his thoughts and
reactions'' and establish awareness of what he
really is, why he is, and what he can become.
The above observations also apply to Neptune
with sextiles, trines, and no afflicted aspects. These
patterns promise certain realization of spiritual
states in this incarnation, but still the· Moon, Mer-
cury, and! the dispositor must be studied. During the
years of childhood and adolescence many subcon-
scious negatives can be intensified by repeated reac-
tion and the full expression of a trine to Neptune
may not be realized until later in life. Neptune ''fl.oats
on the waves of feeling and thought"-if the mental
faculties and capacities are undisciplined and un-
regenerate subc9nsc;ious reactions have been intens-
80 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
ified, a state of consciousness may prevail that
obscures the full realiz1tion of the Neptune-potential.
We cannot, in justice to those we seek to assist, take
sextiles and trines to Neptune for granted since they
are the flowerings of redirected consciousness.
Neptune, wherever placed and however aspected,
throws a decided influence toward the feminine, or
passive, tendencies of the chart. If there is a ''plus''
of the earth and water elements and Moon and Venus
are more in evidence than the Sun and Mars, then
the whole chart carries a ''hyper-feminine'' quality.
Neptune does not, of itself, act dynamically; it is we,
as patterns of consciousness, who "act through Nep-
tune;'' if oar channels are clear and clean we open
up to inspirational and spiritualizing impulses; if
they are not we bring through the opposite.
The person who incarnates with Neptune on the
Ascendent has evidently invited a difficult experience.
Even with the best of aspects the physical body is
sensitive to an extreme degree; susceptible to all
manner of thought forms, atmospheres, and emotional
vibrations. This position of Neptune is the arch-sym-
bol of the ''instrumentalist;'' the vehicle can be
used, beautifully, by the White Forces or disastrously
by those of Blackness. Such a chart must be ap-
proached with great care; it is advisable to find out
a few things about the person to acquire a perspeetive
on the "Neptune-picture." A highly developed Ego
can be represented by this position, and the planetary
afflictions to the Neptune could represent the dif-
ficulties he may have in "keeping his feet on the
ground'' in adjusting to the practical phases of life.
These aspects can tell a story karmically, of the
NEPTlJNE-ASPECTS AND POSITIONS 81
phases of human life which the person can regenerate
by his own spirituality. Since "planets are people,"
each square or opposition to the Ascendent-Neptune
can symbolize persons who need the spiritualizing
influence or persons who serve as "testers" for the
Neptune person. This person, to neutralize the neg-
ative effects of unregenerate influences must keep
himself ''inwardly alive'' by repeated spiritual re-
charging. Particularly difficult is the pattern of As-
cendant-Neptune being squared or opposed by the
ruler of the chart, whatever that planet might be.
The Ascendant and its ruler are the "nowness" of
the personality-its focal point of expression for this
incarnation. This pattern presents a picture of the
physical body itself being particularly sensitive to
Black Forces and the indication is clearly shown
that psychic training of only the most spiritual kind
can be dealt with. This person needs continual
alignment with White Forces through dedicated
service, prayer, physical purity, and inspirational
agencies such as music. If he chooses to walk a spir-
itual path, in his life activities, his motives and pur-
poses must be immaculate, and he must acquire con-.
scions understanding of the psychic nature of the
human organism-he must come into an understand-
ing of his own sensitivity and the responsibility
that he has to those around him to ''be a Light.''
Without understanding of his own nature and po-
tentials he could be misdirected into negative ex-
pressions and eventually find himself on the down-
ward grade.
Neptune conjunction Moon is the arch-symbol of
psychic sensitivity- particularly when found in the
82 S1'UDIES IN ASTROLOGY
charts of women. Women with this position would
do well, if circumstances permit at some time during
their lives, to transcend the purely personal phases
of woman-experience by ''reaching out with hands
and heart'' to express motherhood in terms of wel-
fare of those not connected with them by blood re-
lationship. This position intensifies the maternal urge
and the qualities of sympathy and tenderness are
very deep and strong. Concentrated on the com-
paratively narrow sphere of home circle it can be
very confined. Such women have come to a starting
point in impersonal living and ''all those who need
nurture can be their children.'' Fortified by strong
aspects, this Neptune-Moon conjunction can indicate
the ''born medium''-the faculty of living con-
sciously in the higher dimensions of realization
through clairvoyance or clairaudience. But, as noted
before, solid groundwork must be established--such
a sensitive person cannot risk attunement with that
which is false and misleading.
Neptune-Saturn combinations are very important
-and very interesting. These two planets represent
the ''extremes'' of the feminine polarity ; Saturn is
the most condensed vibration of the planetary spec-
trum; gravitational in function, it symbolizes the
vibration of earth. Neptune, however, is the most
sensitive, the most ethereal and "un-earthy" in the
spectrum. The square and opposition aspects of these
two to each other must first be analyzed by determin-
ing which one is the stronger by position, sign, and
scope of influence in the chart. Also a comparison
must be made from the standpoint of which is the
more ''afflicted'' by other planets. Whichever one
NEPTUNE-ASPECTS .AND POSITIONS 83
of the two is otherwise unafflicted is the key to the
solution of the square or opposition "problem" since,
being a free agent, it serves to counteract the neg-
atives of the other. Too much Neptune, undirected
and undisciplined, is "clear out of this world"-im-
practical, irresp<:msible, perhaps inspired but prob-
ably just a little too ''precious ;'' too much Saturn,
laying on with a heavy hand, "obscures the star-
light,'' the consciousness is trapped in the world of
forms and effects, idealism is strangled by the heavi-
ness of burdens to be borne and responsibilities to
be fulfilled. The opposition aspect of Saturn-Neptune
is very significant-it indicates that this incarnation
provides opportunities for the spiritualizing of at-
titudes toward responsibility-fulfillments by Faith
and Idealism and the demonstration of spiritual con-
sciousness as a redemption of responsibility-karma.
Both vibrations must be used to establish equilibrium
between these two forces-by living a synchronized
expression of both, the best of both can be utilized.
Saturn in favorable aspect to an otherwise afflicted
Neptune is a marvelous antidote to the swamping of
astral conditions; also this pattern promises a rela-
tionship-or relationships-with people who objectify
the fine Saturn quality; they will be persons who act
as "steadying-agencies" in the subject's life, through
whom he will-or can-become alerted to the ma-
turity of responsibility-fulfillment. They will vibrate
harmoniously with serious aspects of his nature and
through association with them the finer qualities of
his character can take on added depth and signif-
icance of expression.
An unafflicted Neptune in favorable aspect to
84 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
a "heavy" Saturn iJS like fresh water on a parched
garden. The persons represented by the Neptune will
be a source of inspiration and spiritual refreshment
to the subject, who, by the afflictions from Saturn,
may find life quite a dTUdgery through responisibil-
ities and his own ''limitation consciousness.'' If such
a chart is heavily characterized by the earth vibration
and Uranus is not much in evidence the subject may
feel that his Neptune friends are rather a strange
lot-he may not be able to understand them very
well, but he will recognize his needs for their "lift-
ing touch'' in his life. He needs their realization of
the inner life-his own is so preoccupied with the
outer-and the aspect basically promises that through
them he may take steps in this life to free his con-
sciousness from the heavy chains of form.
Neptune is the cry of the human consciousness
for '' Shangri-la-the place of Peace, the souree of
Life-giving waters.'' Peace is established in the hu-
man heart when living is done through adherence
to the best, the finest, and the most perfect realiza-
tions. The perfected state is first dreamed about, then
visualized, then approached through processes of
transmutation, and when the pull of Earth conscious-
ness has been transcended the gates of true- realiza-
tion are open to Beauty, Inner Peace, and Knowledge
of Truth.
85
Chapter VIII
PLUTO--PRINCIPI,E OF FROZEN FIRE
This matrrial is presented in the hope that it
will assist ihose astrologicaJ students who a.re sin-
cerely intere,;fod in psychology to clarify their ap-
proach to pattr,r11s pertaining to the clrsire-asne'ts
of human cons"iousness. We fail O''r task M ''en-
Jighteners'' unless we make inner agree:ment to
s::arch for solutions to those complex and devious
emotionalitfrs that resnlt from confusions and frus-
trations of the s0 xual comciousness of people. Evolu-
tion is generation and regeneration; phobia., psy-
chosis, fixation, and the like arr terms used to indi-
cate levels ol' emotional consciou:mrs<> which, because
of lack of construc'.ive releasement, have been per-
mitted to stagnate, crystallize, congest, and ''back
track.''
In the application of astrological interpretations
to the findings of modern psychology there is no
single symbol more significant than the sign Scorpio
in its placement as vibra'or~r significator of the eighth
hous<>, of the abstract wheel.
As a fixed water s,ign, it may be likened to ice,
compressrd and immobite. As an emotional signif-
icator it is feeling in its most intense form. It is the
great ocean of desire-power from which all humanity
a~rives its emo~iona.l pabulum, to be transmuted
through love for the regeneration of Life. (Physiolog-
86 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
ically, Sc.orpio represents all excretory functions of
the body-the releasements of materials, in fluidic
states, which for health must be "let out" so that
the body's regenerative and transmutative processes
may be carried on.)
The above reference to Love might be better clar-
ified if we use a dasign to illustrate. On a blank
wheel put Aries on the cusp of the :first house, Taurus
on the cusp of the second house. This is the picture
of "I AM"-the statement of conscious being-and
"I HAVE "-the rooognition of relationship with
the things of Life through the consciousness of pos-
session. Taurus-Venusian, earthy, and fruitful-
symbolizes the maintenance and sustenance of phys-
ical life ; it is our ''roots in Earth'' by which we,
through the sense of having, maintain our hc>ld in
life-experienoo. In primitive levels the second house
does not-nor need not-necessarily imply the con-
sciousness of relationship with another person; but it
is a state of "feeling" or "emotion" of ownership
by which we carve our destiny according to our con-
sciousness of ''evaluating the things of Earth.''
To this design we now add Libra on the cusp of
the seventh house. The "I AM" of first-house Aries
now finds its fulfillment, or transcendence, in the
"WE ARE" of partnership, marriage, or relation-
ship of any kind. The isolative awareness of the :first
house is amplified through the mutuality of experi-
ence in· ''togetherness.''
The seventh house i.3 the :first house of the upper
hemisphere, the initiation into soul-consciousness
levels by the experienee of love-recognition or love-
distillation through the mechanics of relationship.
PLUTO: PRINCIPLE OF FIRE 87
The maintenance or sustenance of the seventh house
is found in the eighth house, the ''soul-consciousness
polarity" of thie second house. It is, as has been
said, the '' desire-resourne,'' the ''fires of polarity-
exchange. ''
\Ve now place the symbol of Scorpio on the cusp
of the eighth house, thus completing the picture of
the individual thrust into the evolutionary levels of
experience thro:.igh the power of love for the trans-
mutation and regeneration of his oonsciomness. (Sug-
gest that all astrological students meditate on this
design; it is the symbolic picture of the biblical ac-
count of the Garden -0f Eden, the birth of se:x: con-
sciousness and the initiation of marriage. The per-
verted interpretation of this allegory, through ages
of human experience, has been the cause of more
tragedy and suffering than can be ascribed to any
other one factor. "Eve" is the soul-consciousness, or
the upper half of the wheel. "She" is derived from
the need of each individual to transcend the states of
the first house-isolative self-maintenance, innocence
and/or ignorance. Each human being is a vibratory
composite of "Adam and Eve;" physical sex is
merely a specialization of polarity expre.ssed in phys-
-ical terms during a given incarnation for specific
generative and evolutionary needs. There can be no
such thing as superiority of the male over the female
-we ave all, in consciousness and subconsciousness,
inherently both. Astrologers must understand this.
We will now create another design in our study
of the sign Scorpio.
In a blank wheel connect the mid-points of the
fixed housE*!~i>econd, fifth, eighth, and eleventh-by
88 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
straight lines. The result is the perfect geometric
form of a "static square" resting on its base. (This
is the symbol we use for the "square aspect "-a
relationship between two planets that are wit.bin orb
of ninety degrees from each other.) Since the vibra-
tory significators of these houses are all signs of emo-
tional power we must study the polarity-relationship
of these signs by pairs. We connect the midpoint of
the second with the midpoint of the eighth and the
midpoint of the fifth with the midp.oint of the
eleventh. The Leo-Aquarius polarity is the power of
personal creative love, expressed in relationship of
parent to child, being spiritually fulfilled in the
Aquarian vibration of impersonal love-power which
includes all relationship patterns as they are ful-
filled in friendship or brotherhood. These two signs
are love-power as radiations. The Taurus-Scorpio
pattern represents resources of loYe-power through
the evolutionary agencies of ''desire for possession
of things'' and ''desire for possession of love-
experience.''
The "static square" here depict.ed gives us the
clue to the real meaning of the "square aspect" that
we use in astrology. Frictional patterns shown in a
horoscop~ symbolize potentials for suffering-'' prob-
lems"-due to the frustrations and/or unspiritualized
expressions of desire-power. To explain:
Our problems are ignited in our consciousness--
as pain-by the contact we make with other people
and through our vibratory reaction to their patterns
of consciousness. This can be possible only through
PLUTO-PRINCIPLE OF FROZEN FIRE 89
the experiences delineated by the seventh and eighth
house sector of the wheel, which is the sector of ''vi-
brational exchange.'' Our states of unregenerate
consciousness, unexpressed or unfulfilled desires, syn-
chronize with a complementary pattern of the other
person and our relationship-experience is objectified.
Since this phase of life is brought to us through the
other fellow, let us considler the design of the static
square as starting with Scorpio.
The wheel, as we know, is an abstract picturing
of evolutionary processes through succes.sive incar-
nati-Ons. Physical birth is symbolized in each incarna-
tion by the ascendant, the c.usp of the first hous·e.
However, in each incarnation, a ''second birth'' is
initiated by the first reaction to sex-awareness: the
recognition of one's complement, one's ''other self, ''
one's living symbol of desired and needed fulfillment.
So, we may think of the wheel as having started its
revolutions from the moment that humanity-in the
abstract (Adam and Eve)-became aware of the de-
sire for fulfillment through the processes of polarity-
exchange, starting with the vibratory exchange of
physical sex experience on through all stages of de-
velopment on mental and creati¥e exchanges and in
biological and unbiological relationships.
Scorpio, then, is seen as the vibratory resource
of desire-powe.r for that entity we call humanity,
and from which all living things derive their creative
expression and perpetuation. Because we are backed
up by many, many incarnations of having expressed
this power in certain ways we may think of each
human being as resembling, symbolically, an iceberg
which shows above the surface only a small frac.tion
90 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
of its entire bulk. Each one of us has a "great area"
of submerged or unrecognized desire-potentials which
stem directly from our affiliation to this resource.
Thus mutual affiliation has been referred to by many
thinkers as the ''collective unconscious.'' Every hu-
man being, at any given moment of any stage of his
evolution, vibrates to a certain level of this ''elective
desire body." (Similar-or shall we say analogous-
to the relationship of any specific vibration of color
to the entire spectrum, or to that of any tone to the
"body of tonal vibration.")
In terms of conventional, orthodox viewpoint we
may say that Scorpio represents or symbolizes the
"source of evil." The devil is the eternal tempter,
the eternal push-in-the-wrong-direction, the eternal
trap for the unwary, the arch-destroyer, the enemy
c..f good, the foe of Man and a ''stench in the nostrils
of the Most High.'' We do not quarrel with orthodoxy
but these phrases represent the attitudes of people
who see life--and its chapters-,as ''black or white,''
"essentially good or essentially evil," the "high or
the low,'' ''day or night,'' and so on. These levels
of concept have been-and still are--necessary be-
cause they serve as guideposts for the conduct of
evolving humanity. There must be molds of some
kind into which man pours his expressions of himself,
else all evolving life would be chaotic and pointless.
Desire, itself, would hav:e no evolutionary purposes
to assist beyond the satisfaction of the most primitive
needs.
However, an alchemical process works throughout
the evolution of any individual or pair or group of
individuals by the spirituali7.ation of the love-con-
PLUTO-PRINCIPLE OF FROZEN FIRE 91
sciousness and the development and expression of
intelligence. Self-love becomes love of mate and
progeny; self-protection becomes devotion to family,
tribe, and state; the forces of sexuality are raised in
vibratory quaility to extend into levels of creativity
and mental power. Through it all the consciousness
of the individual ripens and matures into desire for ·
improvement, expansion into wider and wider ac-
quaintance with the universe of other people and,
ultimately, for wisdom and realization of ideals. Thus
Scorpio, through the eighth house patterns, makes
possible the extension of experience into the tran-
scendent expressions of the ninth, tenth, eleventh, and
twelfth houses. Scorpio is evil only to the mind that
sees evil as a ''static entity.'' However, from the
approaches made by dynamic r·ealization, Scorpio
is the source of all love, all aapiration, and, through
the fulfillment of relationship-experience, the source
of all wisdom.
Since Scorpio is a fixed sign of great potential
power, planetary placements or patterns involving
its vibration may be interpreted as being backed up
by intense resource, !the result of a "lon.g-time--oom-
pression'' of desire force at that point. Scorpio pat-
terns-and Scorpio types-are never superficial or
insignificant. Give careful attention to Bllly natal as-
pecra pertaining to this sign because its potentials
are very great for "great good or great ungood."
Desire is concentrated there and its constructive re-
leasement and expression is a "mu.st" in this incar-
nation. Failing, painful destiny is assured for the
future. No emotional inhibition can compare with
Saturn in Scorpio for intensity of fear or fixation ; no
92 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
purpose-potential is more unwavering than Sun in
Scorpio. Mars in Scorpio may represent sex desire
at its most shrill need for expression. Mercury in
Scorpio must watch its expressions-backed up by
unregenerate impulses of jealousy, frustration, fear,
etc. Its words can have a devastating effect on the
minds and feelings of other people. Moon and Venus
in Scorpio intensify to a high degres those patterns
which pertain specifically to the levels of feminine
consciousness of anyone, male or female. There is, or
can be, a certain implacability, ruthlessness, or tend-
encies to ''express through domination'' when these
factors are not satisfactorily released. All of these
planetary positions demand transmuted expression
through relea.sements made possible by the love-con-
sciousness of mutuality in relationship, satisfactory
sex-exchange and fruitful generation or, on imper-
sonal levels, in loving work-service or creativity of
some kind. These are fires which cannot, indefinitely,
remain in a state of suppressed smouldering; they
must be allowed to "blaze with the Fires of Living."
Since we are searching for understanding there
is a pychological factor involved in the Scorpio vibra-
tion which -..ve mu.st consider, unpleasant though it
is. That factor, and it is an individual and collective
emotional state, is the essential result of the failure
to release constructively those necessarily intense de-
sire urges. Because the physical body is an outer ex-
pression of the inner let us consider how this prob-
lem manifests on the physical plane.
As we said before, Scorpio reprr,sents all exere-
tory functions of the physical body. Failure to make
these needed releasements insures the condition of
PLUTO-PRINCIPLE OF FROZEN FIRE 93
congestion with all its atterndant possibilites of phys-
ical inharmony.
In comparison then, how much more difficult it
is to remedy 1he cong'.'stion of the· desire nature. 11 ny
student ca.n, by a few moments of reflection, recog-
nize conditions of desire congestion in him.self or in
the natures of those he knows well. The~e congest.ions
take very tragic forms sometimes and we must. learn
to recognize them.
The essential basic tragedy of unrel::asxl Rcorpio
is the frustration of the generative urge. From this
particular congestion stems a myriad of emotional,
nervous, and mental ills that may afflict humanity
in almost every phase of development. True that
there are a few persons in incarnation at any time
who do not require this particular form of relea<>e-
ment but these people are few and far between. It
is natural and healthy that people, generally speak-
ing, experience the fulfillment of the mating urge
in the companionship of love-relationship. Failing
this fulfillment, when its need is deeply felt, there
is presented a horrible picture of suffering and per-
petuation of wrongs on others. Unfulfilled Scorpio-
wherever it is placed in the chart-gives us a picture
of possibility that the person may yield to expression
of cruelty, dishonesty, murder, and all manner of de-
struction as a substitute satisfaction for this thing
which, in his desire nature, screams for gratification.
As the physical body may erupt with boils d::e to un-
released toxic conditions, so the consciousness may
erupt with all kinds of black urges to get some form
of releasement. The history of humanity's develop-
ment as a $exual organism is riddled with chapters
GALLEY THIRTY-ONE
94 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
of fear, perversion, dis<:>ase, and madness because so
many human beings "agreed" to live, emotionally,
by standards completely removed from the processes
of natural experience and healthy, loving fulfillments.
1VIarriage, which should be a natural response of
two people to each other in terms of emotional rap-
port, has bet>n made a tool to serve family interests,
property acquisition, fortune, temporal power, dy-
nasty, and heaven knows what else. An entire re-
ligious form was based on the attitude that man,
b'ing a worm and fit for nothing but eternal punish-
menl·, had no right to spontaneous enjoyment and
fulfillment of l1is urges and his life. This '' philoso-
phy" has tainted the minds and emotions of millions
of people for IP.any hundreds of years. We are, in
these times, beginning to get at the roots of these emo-
t;onal diseases and, in studying them, we are f.orced
to the conclusion that life cannot be well lived unless
it is based on a philosophy of healthy, constructive,
loving, and happy releasemt:'nts.
Some of the rescilts of having been instrumental.
in ·deflecting the emotional life and happiness of
others:
People whose lives seem to be consecrated to suf-
fering because of the lack of love experience; mar-
riages which seem to be an eternal friction between
the partners concerned-old enmity; children brought
in who are sources of continual anxiety and care be-
cause of illness of mind or body-or deficient in es-
sential character; womeu who are persuaded to marry
men who keep them in continual enslavement to their
desire urges without fruitful results; men who can-
not free themselves from psycho-emotional bondage
PLUTO-PRINCIPLE OF FROZEN FIRE 95
to their mothers ; children who come in to parents
who cannot-who will not-treat them with reason-
abb affection or consideration; people who live an
entire incarnation in fear of their own sexuality and
shame at the k1wught of trying to ''do anything
about it.''
So it goes--the torment, pain, fear, inferiority
feelings, cruelty, domination, enslavement, self-de-
struction, and madness-evidences of the congestion
of the desire nature. The remedy is found in the en-
lightened, spiritualized education plus the vitalized
determination to live healthily, expressively, bea11ti-
fully, and lovingly in relationship with oneself and
with other people. Thus the desire resource is trans-
muted and expressed in terms that make for evolu-
tion, as well as the redemption of karmic patterns
into spiritualized consciousness.
We :find meditation on a sign or a planet as it
relates to the ''abstract horoscope'' to be a reliable
foundation for all study of interpretative astrological
science. By ''abstract horoscope'' is meant a wheel
with Aries on the cusp of the first house, Taurus on
the second cusp, and so on around the wheel. This
applies the thirty degre2s of each sign to its related
house. The placEment of the planets in the signs and
houses of their dignity complete the picture.
In Part I of this series we considered the sign
Scorpio in its ''square relationship'' to the other
three fixed signs-the signs of "resource of emotional
}JOWer," which are the sustenance of the canlina]
~igns preceding them.
Now we must consider Scorpio in iti-; relationsr.1p
to the other ·two si~nfl of its element-water. Uur
96 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
design will be a blank wheel with Cancer on the
cusp of the fourth house, Scorpio on the cusp of the
Pighth, and Pisces on the C''SP of the twelfth. These
cusps are connected by straight lines forming an
eauilateral triangle. Of the three water signs and
hou'les, one-the fourth-is in the lower, or "ego-
consciousnes.'l,'' hemisphere ; the othe.r two are in
the "soul-consciousness" hemisphere. To consider the
fourth:
This is the second aspect of cardinal ''I A.M''
consciousness ; it is the "I AM" in terms of the Ego's
relationship with heritage, family background, racial
con<:.eiousne:;s, and identification with the streams of
Life. Cancer, cardinal-water, is generative in the
sense that it is our "home-building" consciousness;
it is our ba<se (the lowest point of the wheel) from
which we rise up through the succeeding evolutionary
patterns.
Scorpio and the eighth house sustain the seventh
house, which is our focal point of most intensified
relationship consciousness in marriage (love) or in
enmity (unfulfilled love). Consequently the intense,
concentrated emotional power of Scorpio-through
sex-impulse and its derivations-is ueeded here. Scor-
pio is generation and its spiritualizations through re-
regeneration in love.
Pisces and the twelfth house symbolize water
as an enveloping agency. Abstractly considered it
is the e~sence of the past brought over into the
present. All 1he mutable signs and houses are "modu-
lations'' from one vibrational or environmental
quadrant to the one following. The twelfth house is
the modulation from one incarnation to the next-
PLUTO-PRINCIPLE OF FROZEN FIRE 97
or considered conversely-it is the essential key to
understanding what, in the past, impelled the present
incarnattion. It symbolizes the emotionality of the
water signs in its most transcendent and impersonal
aspects of universality of Love, Sympathy, and Com-
passion-Under'Standing. Cancer is emotional iden-
tification with family ; Scorpio is emotional identifica-
tion in partnership; Pisces is emotional identification
with world causes, universal welfare, and evolutionary
progress as expressions of the most spiritualized
faculties and consciousness.
The water signs in composite, symbolize our fac-
ulties as "sounding-boards;" our "vibrational re-
sponsiveness to other people's vibrational patterns;''
''subconscious instinctive family feelings,'' ''sub-
conscious desire-impulses'' and ''subconscious mem-
ories from past incarnations.''
Since the foundation of all astrological interpreta-
tion is "Know Thyself," suggest acquaintance with
the water-sign pattern by turning the design we have
created so that your Ascendant sign falls on the
cusp of the first house. Even if your natal chart
has intercepted signs, this turning of the wheel will
give you a picture of how, in general, the water-sign
consciousness applies to your individual astrological
variation. Study it carefully, with emphasis on the
cusp carryng Scorpio, for pursuance of this discus-
sion. Approach it in this way: ''Scorpio indicates
the concentration of my desire-consciousness in such-
and-such house in such-and-such quadrant of my
chart.'' Meditate retrospectively on your past ex-
periences pertaining to this pattern. Apply this tech-
nique by placing Scorpio on all cusps of an otherwise
98 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
blank wheel. Elasticize your mental approach by
applying the water-sign trine and the fixed-sign
square to the twelve possible abstract positions.
Our next consideration of the sign Scorpio will
be in its relationship to Libra, the cardinal sign pre-
ceding it. On a blank wheel put Libra on the seventh
cusp and Scorpio on the eighth. from the cen-
ter of the wheel darken the lines representing the
seventh and eight cusps and then shade in the sev-
enth and eighth houses so that they stand out from
the other houses. This .is for the purpose of alerting
you to the intense emotional signification of this two-
house and two-sign sector of the wheel.
Libra, cardinal-air, is the vibratory correspondence
of the first house of the soul-consciousness hemi-
sphere; it initiates the third sector of the wheel by
the dynamic action of the magnetic attraction of two
people to each other. The egotistic individualistic
"I AM"-Adam-of the first house extended into
''I am a unit in family relationship'' of the fourth
house, becomes, in the seventh, ''I am one of the two
complementary factors of an intensely focused emo-
tional experience pattern.'' Venus, as ruler of Libra,
is the abstract symbol of the ''Eve-consciousness''
of every human being, the agency of redemption for
the isolative egoism inherent in all of us and the
essential channel by which we all find the source of
our cultivations andi refinements through exchanges
in mutuality-in all phases and levels.
Scorpio, succeeding Libra, is the desire-food by
which this redemptive experience is sustained and
the eighth house is the process of generation, regen-
eration, renewal, and transmutation by which is dis-
PLUTO-PRINCIPLE OF FROZEN FIRE 99
tilled Understanding-leading from the eighth house
into the transcendencies of the remaining four
houses of the wheel. Add to our design a straight
line from the ninth cusp to the Ascendant, enclosing
the last four houses. This four-house sector is con-
sciousness resulting from transmuted expressions of
the desire nature; spiritualizations made possible by
love. Apply this design to your own chart in medita-
ton. Elasticize by studying it as it applies to the
twelve possible positions in the abstract wheel. Utilize
the basic key word approach to the sectors and to the
individual houses, keeping in mind that Scorpio con-
veys the intensity of the desire nature; the focal
point of sex consciousness; the chapter of experience
which requires the utmost of your regenerative and
transmutative powers; the levels of your emotional
awareness that demand the improvement of vibratory
quality by love ; and the improvement of expression
by constructive action.
The viewpoint is maintained here that Pluto is
the ruler of Scorpio; Mars is the co-ruler as the ac-
tive expression of Pluto. And for these reasons:
'fhe essential qualities of a planet's ''spiritual
nature'' must coincide with the essential qualities of
the sign it rules. Mars is not only the Principle of
Energy but it is the expression of that energy in
action. Its sign is Aries--the initial step of the wheel,
the ''new life,'' the consciousness of Being and
Doing. Its essence is dynamic in every way: thrust-
ing, energizing, impregnating, stimulating, and vi-
talizing. It is the abstraction of individual selfhood
contending with Life and its component parts as
100 STUDIES IN AS'l'ROLOGY
things to be overcome through the urges of self-
maiutenance and self-expression.
Pluto, remote and slow moving, is the abstracted
essence of the fixed, congealed, and compressed nature
of Scorpio-the most rigid of all the signs. (Leo, :fixed-
fire, glows with power and radiance; Taurus, :fixed-
earth, is fruitful and expressive; Aquarius, :fixed-air,
is a vibration of genius--transcendent and inventive;
of the water signs, Cancer is responsive and moody;
Pisces is extremely impressionable and subtle), Scor-
pio, smouldering with the compression of its inner
fires of intense feelings, expresses its utmost infre-
quently but then with great and telling effect. Vol-
cano-like, these expressions are made when the urge
to express exceeds the capacity to withhold and the
energy-releases are made for far-reaching effects and
results. Let us refer again to the dlesign of Libra-
Scorpio with the line drawn from the ninth cusp to
the Ascendant. What does this design essentially
convey?
In periodic recurrence--revolution after revolu-
tion of the wheel-it symbolizes the need for reincar-
nation for the greater spiritualizations of the con-
sciousness due to failures or unfulfillments of the
partnership-regeneration patterns of the previous in-
carnation or cycle of incarnations. The Ascendant
earries on its back the whole sector of four houses
which include the ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth.
Pluto, as ruler of Scorpio, stands at the portal of
spiritual life-on any phase--from relationship to
relationship and-and this is significant-the rela-
tionship-essence of the past to the present and from
the present into the future. The last four houses of
PLUTO-PRINCIPLE OF FROZEN FIRE 101
the wheel represent the "Wine of Spirit" distilled
from all fulfilled relationships.
Now if, at the commencement of incarnation, the
Ego is unable to say "I AM," of what use is incarna-
tion? The fact that incarnation is made is proof that
the Spark of eternal, indestructable Consciousness
is seeking further spiritualizing, no matter how lim-
ited the capacity for self-expression may be. The
congenitally crippled, the blind, the mentally de-
ficient, and all such defective persons are personifica-
tions of the expression of the lower hemisphere of
the wheel-consider this carefully-loveless release-
ments of the generative and regenerative factors. The
on-going of life is regeneration; those lives that seem
to be back-going are themselves object<; of devotion,
sacrifice, and love for parents, or others, who need
extreme measures to relea,ge their resources of knowl-
edge, compassion, and sympathy; thus the processes
of improvement and regeneration are maintained and
perpetuated. The ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth
houses not only represent people who live in spir-
itualized consciousness, but they also represent the
patterns of work or service that are extended to those
who personify evil destiny in their afflictions of suf-
fering and ignorance. In other words, those who have
learned the lessons of the eighth house distill, for
service to all, those spiritualized powers by which
afflictions and suffering can be, and are, redeemed.
Therefore, enlightened people regard every incarna-
tion as significant and of value; their viewpoint ex-
tends beyond the superficial and transitory ; they
perceive the Laws of Life in expressions and recog-
102 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
nize that there is the possibility for the regeneration
of any and all phases of human existence.
The approach made by modern corrective psych-
ology-let us refer again to our design-is to help
the person who is physically, emotionally, or men-
tally-psychically afflicted to re-establish his ability
to say ''I AM'' in terms of (1) physical healing and
improvement of the physical capacities; (2) the un-
derstanding of his emotional patterns of fixation,
fear, frustrations, or inhibitions, so that the inner
('Omplexes and compressions may be released and ail
upsurgence of self-confidence, sexual-emotional health,
relationship realignment, optimism, joy, and love
be established; (3) disciplines and directives for
stronger and more efficient mental awareness so that
the person may bring himself into clearer alignment
with things and people around him. All of these fac-
tors point directly to a higher level of ''I Aili'' con-
sciousness. There is no other basis for living life in
construc'.-ive and fruitful terms.
Now we must consider that from incarnation to
incarnation an inner life starts with each emergence
into sex awareness and the recognition of partner-
ship experience. More destiny can be created from the
pattern of one marital experience than from any other
single factor in human development. All of the es-
sential factors are involved : sexual exchange, rearing
of children, economic problems, relationship entangle-
ments, etc., making a composite of very complex
emotional reaction patterns. Since we all are indi-
viduals, regardless of how close or bound we may
feel to our partners, we cannot, ultimately, and
should not try to, get away from the consciousness
PLUTO-PRINCIPLE OF FROZEN FIRE 103
of ''I AM.'' Even to try to effect this inner cleavage
is to ensure, to a degree, the wreckage of integrity,
the undermining of self-confkLence, and the depletion
of ability-expressions. The "I AM" of Mars-Aries
should be-and eventually must be-a thing of honest
self-awareness, integrity, and emotional health. Until
this springboard is made the basis of our ''leap into
life'' we risk :floundering in swamps of indecision,
falsity, and all :pianner of tragic complications. Pluto,
as· ruler of our intense desire-capacity, is released
through Mars either as an agency of destruction,
domination, greed, crime, perverEjjou, and disease,
or it is an expression of courage, self-reliance, con-
structive activity and work, the ardency of true love-
impulse, the health of rewarding sexual-mutuality,
and the luminous spark by which life is expressed
with warmth and light, joy, and progress.
When your life seems to reach a point of stagna-
tion and, through a feeling of inertia or depletion,
you feel unaware of new directions and new paths
of growth, but you do want to continue progressively,
look to your chart and point your attention at the
cusp carrying Scorpio to alert yourself to your re-
sources. Then by consideration of the house carrying
Aries and the potential indicated by your Mars, find
out how you can say ''I AM'' in bigger and better
.terms than ever before. This is the process on the
inner planes :
You are aware of a strong desire to move ahead
with your life in some way. Desire, unreleased and
.unexpressed, banks up until congestion sets in; this
congestion results in envies and jealousies of others,
self-pities and a diminishing of self-respect and self-
104 STUDIES IN ASTROLOGY
confidence. Futilities and superficialities are resorted
to in order to fill up the ''aching void'' and your
life goes wandering off into all kinds of (really un-
wanted) byways and detours. ·
So-you know you must do something with your-
self from your own center of awareness. Your start
of anything is made with your Aries and/or first
house consciousness ; an enlarged or extended con-
sciousness of your Aries-Mars potential is the key
_for greater releasement of your desire for on-going.
Not what someone else thinks you might do, should
or should not do, but what your horoscope says is
your pattern for progress.
Without reneging on legitimate responsibilities
or trampling unjustly on anyone you will respond
to the first opportunity that synchronizes with your
progressive purpose. Your respon.se will be in terms
of ''good Mars''-eagerly, enthusiastically, courage-
ously, and positively. You say, in effect, "I wish to
release something of the best that I have to offer to
my own life and to my relations with other people--
something from the deep, hidden resources of my
consciousness and abilities. I am determined to make
this a worthy and constructive contribution to be
expressed and fulfilled with honesty, integrity, and
courage.''
By such an attitude, and inner feeling, the re-
sources of Pluto, the collective desire body, are re-
leased into life through you and serve to feed the
spiritual vibrations and consciousness of all who
contact you. This, in short, is the redemption of re-
lationship, the essence of love-experience.
