{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1955__lees___through_the_mists.pdf","mytitle":"Through The Mists","mylang":"de"}
THROUGH THE MISTS
\
LEAVES FROM THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
OF A SOUL IN PARADISE
RECORDED FOR THE AUTHOR
by
ROBERT JAMES LEES
Fram zu/10::pen aka
“ The Life Elysian," “ The Hcrttir,"
‘* The Car of Phzbus," err.
"
Behold I bring you good tidings of great joy.
which shall be to all people."-—The Aug: '5 Song.
"
There is no deatb."—Longf:IIow.
“
Deathis swallowed up in victory."—P.ml.
Published by
EVA LEES _
“Rodona,” 54, Fosse Road South, Leicester
FIRST IMPRESSION I898
TWENTY-FIRST IMPRESSION 1955
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY
n'ALs2v naornzns & R151‘ 1.70., LONDON, n.c.1
TO THE READER
I heard, withinmy spirit home, a wail:—
"
If onlyone could come—cou1dtell thetale
Of his experienceon thatotherside ;
Could tend themists—-could flingthe portals wide,
That we might see-«night understand—mightknow 1"
The agony disturbed me, and my heart said—-" Go I "
Love cheers me on, but ignoranceresists
ffhe power by which I hand this “
Through the Mists."
THE AUTHOR
RECORDER'S NOTE TO FIRST
EDITION
I HAVE.no desire to add anythingto the following story more
than a brief explanation of its origin, and my connection with
the same.
It was Christmas Eve, and I was busilyengaged with some
annuals lying on my table, when a stranger—uninvited and
unannounced—entered my room
"
while the door was shut."
His presence did not disturb me, since I had entertained such
visitors before ; so, pointing to a seat, I bade him welcome, and
asked the purpose of his coming.
He thenexplainedto me a desire he had long cherished, and
asked if I would aid him in its consummation. As soon as his
mind comprehended the fact that he had passed the grave, a
yearningpossessed him to find some means of coming back, and
telling how men erred in their conception of that life beyond.
At first he feared he had no power to break the silence of the
tomb, but with experience came the knowledge of the omni-
potence of love, by’ which the lips of death could be unsealed,
the proof of which was granted in our conversation. He desired
me to write what he should dictate then give his story to the
world.
'
How, could I answer
“
No I "
Was not I, in common with
every human being, seeking for that knowledge he had the
power to give? Therefore I did not hesitate to take my pen.
. I soon discovered his recital, though unorthodox, threw a
flood of light upon the Bible teaching, clearing clouds of doubt
away, and reconcilingpassages therein I could not understand
before. He came to me a stranger but I soon learned to love
him, and awaited his return with impatienceevery morning;
now, when he has ceased his record for the present, I look upon
the seat whereon he sat so many hours as beingin some mys-
terious ,1__nanner half-way “
Through the Mists."
In sending this forth in obedienceto his wish, let me append
the prayer he breathed when last he left me :—“ May God, the
Fatherof the souls of all men, bless thiseffort of a yearningheart
to lift a portion of the weight of ignorance from the shoulders
of his brethrenin the flesh ; and grant thatthe light of its truth
may be a lamp unto their feet in coming Through theMists.’ "
To this I add Amen!
May 1898
ROBERT JAMES LI-:Es
PREFACE TO THE THIRD
IMPRESSION
"fin: necessity for a third impression of this book affords a wel-
come opportunity of expressing my sense of gratitudefor having
been chosen as theinstrument throughwhich thisgospel of hope
and comfort has been revealed to the world. Nor do I speak
for myself alone, but the author,who is present with me as I
write, also desires to add a similar confession for himself. His
hope and endeavour was to reach and comfort a few of the
woundedsons and daughtersof sorrow. but alreadythetestimony
of ministry to a multitude lies before us, and now in company
with its promised continuation—“The Life Elysian"—we send
it forth again to carry on its healing mission in other spheres.
In thisconnection I desire to answer an oft—repeated question
and say that my note to the original edition as to how the
book originated is to be taken as a literal fact. The volume is
not a novel, not in any sense a tour-do-force of the imagination,
but—stupendous as the assertion may appear-so far as I am
concerned, it is the record of experiences dictated to me by
a visitor from that "home of the soul ”
to which we are all
hastening onward.
Many others, doubtless anxious to be favoured by similar
experiencesas thoseI have now so long enjoyed, have asked how
theymay beattained to. Such an inquiryis not easilyanswered.
Still, after long and prayerful consultation, my friends in the
beyond, who understand these things so much better than my-
self. came to theconclusion to set the process indicativelybefore
“‘
Preface to Third Impression
theworld for the benefitof those who chose to profit by it. This
was done, and may bereadin thevolumeentitled “
The Heretic.”
in which, followingtheexampleof Charles Dickensin his "
David
Copperfield "—while the book is a story and in no sense a.
biography-—thenature of the connection existing between us
may he clearly traced, with the successive demands made to
test my loyalty and devotion, and then the nature of thereward
with which they have more than repaid my humble services.
It is, however, impossible for me to promise that another
followingin the same steps shall meet withidentical experiences.
"
God givethto every manseverallyas He will.” As Paulsays
to the Corinthians: "There are diversities of gifts, but the
same Spirit. And there are difierences of administrations, but
the same Lord. And there are diversities of operations, but it
is the same God which workethall in all. But the manifestation
of the Spirit is given to every man to profit withal."
That spiritual gifts were to be the heritage of the followers
of Christ is surely beyond question. That they were not in-
tended to be withdrawn, but were promised to as
“
many as
the Lord our God shall call," thehistory of saints in all ages and
theinvasionsof thepresent day testify. for “
God is no respecter
of persons,” and "
whatsoever He doeth it shall be for ever."
I can say no more.
ROBERT JAMES Lees
ENGELBERG, ILFRACOMBE,
NovemberI, 1905.
CONTENTS
CHAPTER PAGE
I. comm; THROUGH THE msrs — — -. —
15
11. THE JUDGMENT HALL — - — — — 22
m. A r1usuAT1c LANDSCAPE — — - — —
32
IV. THE uoUNT or con — - - — -
—V 42
v. THE non or REST - - — — - -
59
v1. A MAGNETIC CHORALE - - - - —
70
V11. THE D003 01? non: AJAR — - — -
‘
—'
go
VIII. HOPE nwssous INTO PROMISE — — - .‘ 98
Ix.
I
THE HARVEST or JEALOUSY - — -
—_ 106
X. AN EXPLANATION — — - — V -— —
124
xx. THE noun on THE ASSYRIAN — - — —
130
xn. ACROSS THE msrs - - - - — —
142
xm. Two ILLUSTRATIONS — — - — - —
147
xrv. THE RELATIONSHIP or suzzr To DEATH - -
157
xv. THE CITY or COMPENSATION _— - - —
165
xvr. com: UP HIGHER - — - - - —-
I73
xvn. A ponrass AT HOME - - - - — -
179
xvux. THE FAMILY or HEAVEN — - - —
190
xxx. THE SANCTUARY or sruzncs — — - —
197
xx. BEULAH LAND — — - - — — 206
xx1. HOME - - -
— — —
211
THROUGH THE MISTS
CHAPTER I
coxmc ranouen rm: msrs
IN my earth-lifeI was called a misanthrope. This is a strange
admission withwhich to break my silence,but beingnow beyond
the consequences to which‘ such franknessmight lead, I have no
reason—even though I had the will—to speak withless reserve.
If any apology bedemanded for the pleasant task I have under-
taken, let it befoundin theceaselesswailto which I have referred
in my preface to these pages. Is my statement true in that
respect P I bidyou turn thatquestion inwards. Ask your own
heart, and I will be content to take the answer. merely adding
thatas you are, so is all mankind.
Pardon me one or two sentences in necessary explanationof
myself before I carry you across the borders of the other world.
My life was overshadowed by the consequences of some pre-
natal trouble of which I knew nothing, save the phantom re-
mainingto hauntme, and thatit robbedme of a mother’sguiding
hand. My father was an inflexibleCalvanist, with a mode of
life as carefullyarranged as an architectural elevation, while its
working details were as rigorously insisted upon. An elder of
the Presbyterian Church, with a banking account of suflicient
magnitude to allow him to live a life of most unquestioning
faith, he spent all the years of his pilgrimage free from the
shadow of reproach.
My brotherand sister were not so strictlyinclined, and their
almost open rebellion, as they grew, by no means tended to
soften my father’scharacter. For myselfI neitherreceived from,
nor extended to, any memberof the household any sympathy.
No one ever spoke to me of my mother—-her name, in fact. was
seldom mentioned—but I always felt that had she lived we
should have been all in all to each other, but she was gone, and
16 THROUGH THE MISTS
I was left alone! Books were my only companions--thepoets
my greatest favourites. My earliest recollections are of the
religousbabyfarmto whichI hadbeenentrusted, whosemanagers
I learned to loathe for the duplicity and hypocrisy theyhabit-
uallypractisedthere. Witha naturallymorbidmind, theshadow
of some unknownwrong above me, and a soul shrinkingfrom the
appearance of deceit, I soon learned to hate those who did not
hesitate to lie in act and prayer, and plead with God to grant
success to infamy.
By these thingsI was graduallyled to draw all my comfort
from books, and to entertain a great aversion to any fellowship
withthoseabout me.
I was naturallyof a religous turn of mind, but preferred to
solve its questions by the light of my own reason and the plain
teachingsof theBible as I could comprehendthem. A practical
acquaintancewith the public worship of the —various sects only
confirmedmy originalidea of therebeingmuch more of form and
fashionthansolid worship or spirit in themall, thereforein this,
as in everythingelse, I learned to rely upon myself alone, and
trust to theleniencyand justiceof a righteous God in respect to
any error resulting from my honest endeavour to do His will
accordingto the light withinme.
Nevertheless,»I had companionship and sweet communion in
my worship, after this manner: Led by some influence, to me
nothingless than an inspiration, I would find myself in one of
h
thecourts and alleysso numerous in theEast of London, where
vice, poverty, and wretchedness most abound; where help,
thoughurgentlyneeded, is seldom met with; where theinhabit- _
ants are not learned in metaphysics,but hunger for the bread
of practicalsympathy. Amongsuch outcast and fallenmembers
of our common humanity, I always found I had a sermon to
which was comprehended in every part, a gospel to
proclaim that they would gladly hear, a seed to sow which
brought forthfruit sixtyor a hundredfold.
If the Church was right, and I at the last found that I was
wrong, the gratitude which these poor unfortunates showed for
theinterest I took in themwould be suflicientto make thepains
ofmypunishmentnot onlybearablebut welcome. Therewould
be plenty of good people in Heaven to ensure the happiness of
every soul who should gain an entrance to those streets of gold.
I had no voice to sing, and if thereligous conversation on earth
were fair specimens of what would be the standard there, the
goody-goodiness would have no charm for me. Forced into
suchsociety,withoutany congenial workto do, theplace would
COMING THROUGH THE MISTS 17
have no interest—-no attraction—forme. It was not my idea
of Heaven, consequently I did not want it.
It would be very different withthe poor, cast adrift into that
other plaoe—for if the Church was right the division would be
made more upon thoselines than any other. The rich build the
temples, keep them out of financial difiiculties, are constant at
the means of grace, make them fashionable, provide everything
necessary to worship Godin thebeautyof architecture and ritual,
while theygenerously subscribe towards the salary of the min-
ister; payingin every way for theirsalvation,it is but right and
honest theyshould meet with theirreward. But the poor, who .
have to work long hours, withnothingto give, scarcely one suit
to wear, and that unpleasantlysuggestive by the odours of the
workshop, with their vulgar habits and loud-voiced song, for
whose accommodation the white-washed, ill—lighted, draughty
mission hallis provided,have no right to expect such an abundant
entrance as thosewho contribute better whiletheylive, and can
be drawn in a four-horse hearse when theytake theirdeparture.
For thisreason the poor always had my sympathy. When
I thoughtupon the subject, I often felt as if I should be glad to
find the pearly gates shut upon me, if by thatmeans I could be
some little consolation to the multitudes in hell. It was wicked
-—blasphemous—to feel so, so the vicar once told me; but it
was constitutional—part of my unfortunate malady, and he
found it useless to attempt to change my mind.
I never could understand the righteousness of poverty here
and damnationthere ; or the logical sequence of riches here and
salvation there. It was not according to my reading of the
Bible,or theteachingof Jesusin theparableofDivesand Lazarus,
as I understoodthe English language. It may have been a
defect in my power of analogy,but if so I held to thedelusion.
It was one evening, when on my way to visit some of these
uncared-for people, that the great change overtook me. I was
'
alonga crowdedfoootpath,engagedin thecontemplation
of the lights and shadows visible on the faces of‘passers-by,
when I heard a scream, and saw a child in deadly peril among
the horses in the road. He was not far away, so bounding
forward—with no thought but for his safety——I reached and
dragged him from his hazardous position, then turned, and——-
Somethingtouched me. I clasped the boy more firmly and
stepped forward. The noise ceased, vehicles and street faded
away,as ifsomegreatmagicianhad wavedhis wand, thedarkness
disappeared, and I was lyingupon a grassy slope in an enchanted
land.
8
18 THROUGH THE MISTS
Neither did all the changes lie in our surroundings. Few
people would have been enamoured of the ragged child I rushed
to save, withhis shoeless feet, matted hair, and unwashed face;
but theangel I found lyingupon my breast would have driven an
artist into raptures. For myself,in thatinstant, I had changed
my morning suit for a loosely flowing robe which somehow
seemed to be a part of myself ; and though I was fully assured
of my own individuality,I was curious to know what had taken
place, and by what means, in theinterval of one solitary step, a
transformation of such completeness had been efiected.
The lad, thoughevidentlyconscious of thealteration, looked
into my facewithcalm laughingeyes, void of any trace of fear ;
perhaps he expected me to give some explanation,but I needed
that myself. Then he buried his head in my shoulder and fell
asleep. I sat and nursed him, trying to answer theonlyquestion
which occupied my mind—“ Where are we ? ”
I was recliningupon thegrass of what can only be described
as theauditoriumof an immense but natural amphitheatre,with
the arena occupied by a multitude who appeared to be engaged
in the recep.ion of strangers, whom they were welcoming and
congratulating. If only I could have understood it, the scene
would have been as pleasing as it was brilliant,but, under the
circumstances, my feelings were more of curiosity than of appre~
ciation. It resembledtheperformance of an elaborate tableauof
which I held no descriptive programme, being alike ignorant of
theplace,theplayersand thepurpose. Thiswas all thatI could
understand :—There were two classes of persons represented-
theone, evidentlyresidents, attiredin garmentsembracingalmost
every shade of colour withwhich I was familiar,andsome thelike
of which "I had never seen before, and therefore have no means
to make you understand. The other, by far the smallerof the
two, gave me the idea of strangers, who, having just arrived,
stood in need of the help and assistance so freely proflered.
Where did they come from, I asked myself ? To this I was
enabled to find a somewhat satisfactoryreply. Before me lay a
plain, across which numberswere continuallycoming and going ;
at its furtherside I saw a heavy bank of fog lying,the outlines of
which were boldly portrayed as if confined within certain limi-
tations. The atmosphere was so unusually clear, that although
the fog was perhaps some two miles distant from where I lay, I
could easilydiscern thattheyentered theplainfrom thatdirection.
I now becameintenselyinterested in somethingwhich battled my
powers to determine whether it was real or an optical illusion.
I noticed that the variegatedcolour of the dresses worn by those
"K150119311"? PM I ..'Knn=n.mp Km saseenuz Ktuo mu. ..
,,'t1opesusdu1os pm; ;ss1 ;nq Su;q;ou 1105 .10} Supq mm
1; :.res; Jou pssu “OK ;nq ‘ssspdms ;o pun] 2 xx} s.nz noA ,,
,,°;'eq; Mon); 0; psxs[d1sd os um I
5 sxsq sures sm moq ptre ‘sre am sxsqm sux us; ‘ss1zs[d ‘usql,,
Kl
20 THROUGH THE MISTS
"
But just now it was night in London, where I saved thatboy
V
frornbemgrunover. Theneverythingfadedlikeaflashand
I
f:In1ndv?vewere here. Where, then,is this place.—Whatdo you
it "
"
The land of immortality? ”
"
What l—Dead ?—How ? "
_
I was conscious of falling back a step as the stupendous
announcement fell upon my ears, but there was somethingso
reassuring in his manner that I instinctively returned and
grasped the hand he held out to give me welcome. Among all
thetheoriesby which I had tried to solve the mystery, this one
had never suggested itself—it would not have been entertained
for a moment if it had, whiletheunexpectedsurroundingswould
have warranted me in dismissing it. I was astonished at the
unquestioningfaithwithwhich I _acceptedhis declaration, while
his sympathetic composure absolutely forbade any sense of
agitation as the startling truth was fully comprehended.
“
No I Not dead I "
he replied, after a moment's pause.
"
Did you ever know dead men to talk,and besurprised ? When
a boy leaves home for school, or school to take his part in the
more serious events of life—when a girl leavesher father'sfor her
husband’s home, have you been in thehabit of sayingtheywere
dead? Certainly not I Neitherare you right in supposing you
are dead since passing throughthe change which has overtaken
you-DI
“
But I have made an unmistakable exit from one world
and an entrance into another; thereforewhileI am alive to this
new life, I am dead to thatwhich I have left behind."
"
You will now be called upon to enlarge your conceptions
and ideas ; as your homes on earthare separate habitations,and
nations form the dominions of different kings, so the various
states and worlds in thislife become the many mansions in the
universal kingdom of our Father—God. Therefore you are
only dead to earth in the same way as the schoolboy dies as a
scholar, but has the greater power of a teacher; or as the girl
ceases to be a resident, and becomesa visitor."
“
I do not understand you," I replied.
“
Let me giveyou theoutlineof a parableover whichyoumay
reflectuntilsomeoneelse is sent to afford you clearerinformation.
Children are coaxed to sleep on earth by the singing of nursery
rhymes,thefabulous heroes of which becomehistoricalcharacters
in the minds of thelittle listeners,untilthe realities of life dispel
the illusion. So children of a larger growth, upon entering this
life, find thateven so have theybeen lulled to spiritual slumber
COMING THROUGH _THE MISTS A
21
by the fictions of the nurses of theirsouls. It is the awakening
to the truth of this fact which makes this a land of surprises, as
you willfindit to beas you proceed. ,
But now I must leave you,
and take our little brother to the children's home, where you .
will meet him again presently."
With a kindlysalutation he departed, and I was left alone to
thinkon all he had said. His parable was pregnant withrevel-
ation that the future alone could intelligently unfold, but one
thingwas evident——I had taken theirrevocablestep—had solved
thegrandsecret ; yet what had I learned ? I was merelywaiting
withtheknowledgethattheact of dying had been unconsciously
accomplished. What would be the result ? Whatever it might
be I could not now go back; I had to meet my fate. One thing
I had been assured : therewas no need to fear. I did not—was
not even anxious—I was content. So I waited and pondered.
CHAPTER II
rm: JUDGMENT HALL
MY reflectionsran in somethinglike thefollowingstrain :
“
A land of surprises, is it P Yes I And why did he not say
a land of revelationas well? How long have I beenhere ? An
hour—-a day-—a month? I know not. By my idea of time it
seems as if I had but just made thatattempt to save the boy;
but measured by the revelation. I feel as if I had been here for
ears.
y “
How strange thatI should have no knowledgehow I came
away I I did not fa1l—felt no pa.in——had no indication of
reviving from a swoon~how was it ? How many people cloud
theirlives with fear born of the dread theyfeel of dying ; how
many teachers delight to dwell upon the terrors of that hour
when the soul stands face to fag with death? How vastly
different has my experience been I
"
I wonder whetheramong all thesurprises of thislife I shall
find it possible——-
“ ‘
Oh, God I I know not yet where Thou art, or who Thou
art ; but therevelationwhich has beengiven to me is full of love
and bright withpromise, thereforeI feel it has come from Thee,
and fills my soul with hope. I know not yet if I am saved or
lost ; but in Thymercy hear me, and in Thypity for thesons of
men, permit me, if it be possible by some means which I do not
know—-by some method Thy love is able to devise—-once more
to make my voice to reach the mortal state, and help to lift the
weight of error lying upon the shoulders of my fellow-men.
Thou knowest, 0 my God, the blindness and ignorance of those
who now profess to lead Thychildrenon. Many have not tasted
Thy great love ; many have not felt Thy grace ; many are
groping in the dark, blinded by the traditions of men; ma.ny
have wandered from the fold. The songs of Zion have been for-
gotten in the greed for fame, and wealth, and power ; and weary
pilgrimstramp theirhomeward way, with sighs, and groans, and
tears, beatingtime to the rhythmof their march. If any joy is
~ :2
THE JUDGMENT HALL 23
here for me, O God, my Father, I am ready now to forfeit it.
If thepenalty I must pay is agony in hell, I am willingto endure
it, if in Thy mercy Thou wilt send me back, with power to tell
thetruthof Thyunchanginglove, and lift theload of doubt from
those who, seeking, know Thee not.’
"
Is it wrong of me to say I know not where or who God is ?
Perhapsso l But it is honest,and I cannot but thinkthathonesty
is right. Everythingaround me is so contrary to what I ex-
pected, I feel afraid to trust to anythingI knew ; and the tor-
ment of yearning for my fellows to know the truth as far as I
beholdit, force me to breathethatprayer. If some strong hand
could, but foran instant, teartheveilaside, and bidthemultitudes
of earth behold the future as it really is, what a revelation it
would be I How it would change theirsighs to songs, remove all
doubts of God's eternal love, and proclaim a gospel for which all
hearts are crying. It would be to earth what it is to me ; I who
more than once, or twice, or thricehad been cautionedthat the
life I led could only meet withcondemnationat thebar of God ;
and yet I found the first words addressed to me were words of
hope and encouragement—‘I need not fear.'—How different a
declarationis made on earth, where the love of God is limited to
suit the requirements of every sect, while wrathand retribution
are left as infinite quantities to drive the sirmer to salvation.
What can such teachers thinkwhen theyawake to a. knowledge
of thetruthas I have found it here I’
“
Here I But where is ‘
here ’
P That is a question thathas
not ‘yet been satisfactorily answered. Is it heaven? No ;
surely not 1 Or if so, how strangely different from the harping,
singing, crown-decked throngthe Church expects to find. It is
not——l No! All the surroundings are just as incapable of
such an interpretation. What then can be the condition of this
lace1’ Is it possiblethatthereis an intermediatestate after all ?
erhaps so! And over the crest of these hills the judgment
thronemay stand to which I shall be summoned by and by. I
had not thought of that; but the suggestion comes without a
trace of fear ; the words I have heard fillme with hope which I‘
am sure can never be betrayed. Whatever the issue may be I
am content to learn it in the usual course of events, in themean-
time I willrest."
It is a popular idea thatour entrance to the spirit-world will
begreeted by friendsand relatives who have preceded us, and in
manycases thisis so ; but strange to say, even after I had learned
thenature of thechange which had come over me, thethoughtof
such a meeting never occurred to me, until I felt, rather than
24 THROUGH THE msrs
heard, someone call my name. I turned, and, saw a
woman, clad in thedaintiest of pinkrobes,coming down thehill
towards me. I was not sure, but thought her face bore a re-
semblanceto one I had known in thelong ago,exceptthattheold
furrows of care and want had been transformed into lines and
curves of beauty. I had long since forgotten her, but she re—
membered me, and with eyes brilliant withwelcome, and hands
extended to clasp my own, she was the first ofall I knew to
greet me.
“
A thousandwelcomes,”she cried, as she graspedmy hands ;
"
I have but just received the news of your coming; am I the
first to meet you P "
_
"
Yes,Helen, thefirst of all I know."
"
I am gladof that; I alwayshoped it would be so.
'
I have
watched, and prayed and waited for it ; it is all I can do to
thank you."
“
Thankme for what ? "
I asked in astonishment.
"I need not tell you that," she answered. "
Our Father
knows, and He willrepay you."
At that moment I found thatheaven is quite as much a
condition of the soul as a locality,and true friendshipis a great
factorin completing that condition. Only a short time before
Helen's advent I had almost satisfactorilyassured myself that I
was not yet in heaven, but her appearance had reversed the
.
decision. It had brought me such an overwhelmingsense of joy.
I was so satisfied,I had no conceptiontherecould bemore happi-
ness to follow ; andthisresulted from thepresence ofone to whom
I had been but imperfectlyknown on earth.
Her story,so faras I knewit, was not a longone. Her mother
had died of sheer starvation in her endeavour to maintain three
chfldren and a sick husband by her labours as a charwoman,
supplementedby Helen's scanty wages in a match factory. The
girl was but fifteen years of age when the whole burden of that
home fell upon her shoulders in its heavier form of greatly
diminished means. Bravelyshe struggled on, toilingfar beyond
her strength‘to keep thewolfof hungerat bay,and save thehome
from its threatened destruction. But the wages for match-
making are more easilycounted in coppers than gold, and the
little extra she could earn in other ways was but a drop in the
ocean of theirrequirements, so she fell in the heat of the battle,
crushed and broken-hearted.
I learnedher story just beforeher death,and called to see her
in the hospital where she was lying. On several days I sat for
half an hour or so. trying to comfort her with the assurance that
THE JUDGMENT HALL "25
thechildrenwould be cared for when she was taken away,for I
found the uncertainty as to theirwelfare was thesharpest thorn
in her dying pillow. She was deaf to themissionary’sentreaties
to prepare her soul for death.—She had no fear forrthat.—Did
not care about herself. She wanted to know the childrenwould
besafe, and when I gave her a solemnpromise she grew calm and
closed her eyes in peace.
Her personal connection with those children I had long for-
gotten, since our acquaintancewas of such brief duration; but
in the first moments of thatre-union I felt I had discovered one
of thoseconsolationsfor which I had longbeenseeking—-asister's
love.
“
Are you surprised thatI should be thefirst to meet you? "
she asked.
"
I can scarcely say ; surprises double on each other so
rapidlythat I "beginto thinktheyare naturalhere."
“
Ifnot surprised, are you glad that you have met me once
again
If
"
Yes, Helen I More than glad," I answered, "
for your
sake quite'as much as for my own. You have beenhappier-‘heme
than you expected, have you not ? "
'"
Yes! Much happier ; and it has always seemed to be
increased by your assurancesthatit would beso. Once I almost
feared you were wrong ; but when I found thatyou were right,
for your sake I was increasinglygla ."
“
It always appeared to me," I responded, “
that whatever
was done for love’s sake could not bewrong. I did not profess to
know much about God, and now I am conscious of knowingeven
less than I thought,stillI have not changed my idea.”
“
Why, ‘
God is love,’ Fred ; thatis all we. know. about Him.
'
That which is born of love is also born of God.’ Come home
withme and let me tell you what I have learnedabout Himsince
I came here.”
“VNot yet,” I answered. “
You must not forget that I have
just arrived, and do not know where I have to go at present."
“
You will learn all about that as you proceed," she said, as
she turned to go ;
"
come withme now."
“
But have I no one to see? Is thereno——"
She saw theperpl 'ty and uncertaintywhichmust have been
so plainlyvisibleupon my face,at-whichshesmiledand asked :
“
Is it thejudgment seat you are lookingfor ? ”
"
Yes! For at present I know nothingof my position, not
where I must go."
“
Fred,get theearthideasout of your head as soon as possible.
26 THROUGH THE MISTS
You have alreadypassed thejudgmenthall, and carry its verdict
in thedress you wear.”
"
Passed it ? Where? I have no knowledgeI ”
“
Perhaps not; but it lies there in those mists from which
you see so many coming into the plain,” and as she spoke she
fietjedin thedirectionto whichmy attentionhad beenpreviously
‘
“IsthatthewayIcame?”Iasked.
“
Yes ; thatis the only way of entrance into thislife I ”
“
I knew nothingof it—was not conscious of anythinguntil
I found myselflyinghere where we are now standing."
“
That is quite possible, since yours-was one of thosesudden
passageswhich hurry you so quicklyinto thisstate as to leave no
consciousness of theevent. I often thinkit is a great blessing to
come in such a way.”
“
Why ? But do I‘-weary you withmy questions ? ”
"
No. It will be a-pleasureto tell you as much as possible;
though,as I have not beenhere so very long,you willhave many
questions to ask that I carmot answer, and will have to submit
themto otherswho know more thanme."
"
I feel thatyou are just theteacherthatI require at present,
since all is so different from what I expected. I am like a child
witheverythingto lea.rn.”
"
I shall be glad to tell you what I can; but you must not
talk oi,beingtired, for no one wearing our colour can grow
‘weary
"
THE JUDGMENT HALL 27
practicallyregards theearth life as thechief, ratherthanthesub-
ordinate condition of existence. As a spiritual being,he should
beeducated to look upon everythingfrom a spiritual standpoint,
in thesame wayas a schoolboyis encouragedto regard his studies
in thelightofwhat theywillafterwardsenablehim to accomplish.
Earthis not all, neitheris it a finalityof development, but rather
theelementarystage, upon which thisis thenext advance, while
the errors of the lower state have to be uprooted here before we
can assume the positions we should be fitted to enter upon on
our arrival; this, however will be more forcibly illustrated for
you presently." .
"
I am anxious to hear somethingabout that judgment hall.
If I came throughit unconsciously,as I must have done, how can
a righteoussentence he passed upon a man in such a condition ? "
"
The idea of the judgment hall is another misapprehension
owingto theliteral interpretation of what was onlyintended as a
parabolicmetaphor.”
“
Do you mean thatI have no knowledgeof it, for thesimple
reason thatno such placeexists ? "
I asked.
“
So far as there being a regular trial and sentence by a
personal judge) it is a fiction ; the verdict of the bar of God is
more just and unerringthan thatcould be, and asks no evidence
otherthanthedefendant offers. The text which hung above my
bedin thehospitalis thelaw upon which thatjudgmentis given,
and fromwhichno appealis askedor granted—' Be not deceived ;
God is not mocked, for whatsoever a man soweth thatshall he
also reap.’ Justice cannot miscarry, since no man is called to
give evidenceagainst his fellow. As thesoul comes into contact
with those mists, it separates from the flesh, and is stripped of
any false and seeming character,which may have been assumed,
no matter under what circumstances or for what purpose. The
function of the mists is to dissolve everythingbut the spiritual.
There all the seals of life are broken, everythingwhich has been
hidden is revealed, thebooks are opened wide, whetherto acquit
or to condemn. It would be just as rational to expect a. builder
to say, as he put the final touches to a cottage, ‘
that ought to
have been a. cathedral, and I believeit is ’
; or for a farmer to
say to his men, ‘. thatfield of turnipsshouldhave beenwheat, and
I believeit is ; go and reap it,’ and find their beliefhonoured in
the transformation, as for a man, when he feels the chill of dis-
solution upon him, to thinkthatby the acceptanceof any creed
or system of belief,he can, in thatmoment of fear, eradicate the
evils of a life-time, and receive an abundant entrance into ever-
lasting joy. No, Fred 1 As the mortal drops away there is
28 THROUGH THE MISTS
evolved from thespirit a natural coveringin accordancewithits
life and character, the colour beingdetermined by the acts and
motives of the past—not by the creeds it has held or the pm-
fessions it has made-—a.nd that colour is the righteous sentence
which the soul has passed upon itself by virtue of the invariable
law of God."
“
Then you subordinate faith to works? ”
“
Worksare to faithprecisely what thespirit is to thebody-
thelife. ‘
Faithwithoutworksis dead,’ thereforefaithcan only
bemanifested by works. The teachingof Jesus is '
Inasmuchas
ye did it,’ not believedit, and nothingbut love and noble deeds
are able to enter thislife in company withthesoul ; all forms of
beliefare lost in yonder mists."
"
Who then can be saved? "
“
We hope that every individual child will be, ultimately;
and I think if one shall be excepted it will be his own fault
entirely.”
It
0 THE JUDGMENT HALL 29
"
In thatjudgment,"she answered, “
every act, motive, and ,
attendant circumstance in the life of a man has its legitimate
consideration, and is appraised at its sterling value, and the
balance struck accordingly. Acts of charity originating in
expediencyaregauged by the attainment of the object desired.
'
and leave no balance to the life's account; m_unificent phil-
anthropybestowedfor.politicalor
30 THROUGH THE MISTS
"
Thatwillbemore ablyexplainedto you byotherspresently,
but in the meantime I can partiallyanswer it by telling you of
one of thefirst receptions I attended after my a.rrival."
"
Do you hold receptions thenin heaven ? "
“
Yes. Though they are somewhat diflerent to yours.
When any friends go across the boundary to bring a pilgrim
home, we call it a reception. That I refer to was one of those
abundant entrances you speak of, and Omra went to welcome
the brother.”
"
Who is Omra? "
-
"
Thegovernorof thisstate, and thehighestspiritI have seen
except Jesus."
"
Have you seen Him, Helen? "
“
Yes, once ; but He was at a distance from me, so I did not
speak to Him. But to tell you of thisreception. The man we
went to meet was an inmate of a workhouse, but there were
thousandsof spirits present to receive him."
“
From a workhouse? ”
“
Yes! I shall never forget the scene. When Omra drew
near to the bed, the closing eyes caught a sight of him, and the
comingsaint cried to his friend,who was asleepon a chair beside
him: ‘John! John! I am going now; someone has come
for me! John! Don't you see how light the room is? See,
the angels! And——and—— No I Not Jesus! Not for me l ’
Thenthepoorfeebleframe,whichhadhalfrisen inhisexcitement,
fell back ; and thewatcher found it cold when he awoke, for the
spirit had dropped its veil of flesh.
"
As the soul came away, Omra threwhis arm around him,
and bade him welcome. Then, with a bewildered, almost
frightened look, the man gazed upon the host that crowded
round him, and, turning to Omra, stammered:
“ ‘
This—is—not—for me! It is—-a mistake! You—did
not—come for me ? ’
“ '
Yes,we did, my brother,’replied Omra ;
‘
we do not make
mistakes ; theyare all behindyou now.’
“ ‘
But——— But—it cannot be for me! I have not-been
a good man! My Lord—it must be a mistake ! What have I
‘done P ‘
“ ‘
Fed thehungry, clothedthe naked, and ministered to the.
sick,’ Omra replied.
‘”Ah! Nowlknowyouarewrong. Ihavebeenalmostall
my lifein thework'us. I never had any money to do it at all. I
know'd it warn’t for me.’
"
You once gave your dinner to a hungry lad,’ said Omra;
THE JUDGMENT HALL 31
‘
you gave a pair of boots, you could badlyspare, to a wandering
tramp; you gave your glasses to a poor old woman who could
not see to read, and left yourself in thesame condition; You sat
beside an old comrade when he was ill, and nursed him back to
health; you have beenpatientin your enforced poverty,and en-
couraged others to hope for the best and be contented.——Have
you not ? '
‘
“ '
Well, yes! I did sit beside old Bill, a bit; but "he'd 'a’
done the same for me, if I’d’a’ wanted it. I don't know much
about the rest.‘
“ '
But we do; such deeds are never forgotten with us, and
there are many thingsyou wished to do if you had but had the
power. Such honest will is always accepted by God as if the
deed had been successfully performed, and so, you see, we are
not wrong.’
“
By this time he had been carried some distance from his
body, and had assumed his new robes, in which he was
triumphantlyescorted to one of themany mansions prepared for
such as he."
“
What a surprise for him,” I remarked,as she concluded;
"
why, it must have been as great as my own. But where are
these homes you speak of P I have not seen anythingin the
shape of a buildingyet."
“
They are over the crest of the hill; have you not been to
the top? ”
‘I’
No’)!
"
Come then, let us go; that will enable you to turn your
bdiirckon the mists, and I will show you the country in another
'
ection."
CHAPTER‘ III
Arrusuauc LANDSCAPE
I AM not-or was not in the other life—an enthusiast. No
person, howeverimaginativetheymight have been, would have
used such a word in thedelineationof my character. Cold, dull,
unimpassioned, prosaic, phlegmatic, even stupid, would have
beenconsidered appropriateepithetsby many ; but enthusiastic
—never I _Such a spiritis born oflivelyimaginationandap ‘a-
tion, but I had not the one, and was constantlyassured I knew
nothingof the other; how, then,could I be enthusiastic? This
was undoubtedlytrue of the old life, but does thatjustify me in
sayingitisequallysointhis? Isthechangeincharacterand
temperamentso slight, are we so much of our old selves, merel
translatedintonew fieldsandsurroundings,thateverythingwhi
was true in the past is equally true of the present P These
were questions which instinctivelyrose to my mind, but I had
not thepoweror knowledgeto answer them. Thatsome changes
had“taken placeI was fullyconscious, thoughwhethertheywere
permanent or otherwise I had no means of ascertaining for the
t ; furtherexperiencemight show theywere prompted for
the moment by the strange circumstances crowding upon me.
For instance, I was by no means inquisitivein thepast, but since
I hadfoundmyselfhere I haddone nothingbut ask: how ? when ?
whence? or why? from myself and the only two friends I had
had theopportunity to speak to.
This undertone of speculationwas running throughmy mind,
whilemy more activesenses were delighting in the magnificence
of theview I beheldon reachingthesummit of theslope. Being
quite happy in my originalposition, and having stilla multitude
of questions to ask, I was not in theleast degree desirous of
'
moving, even though I had been told of the greater beautiesof
the country I could so easily reach. When Helen made the
suggestion.ifthechoice had beenleftto me I should havedeferred
our departure, or. what is more probable moved in the other
3
"'sscmpo1d1; wags sq; ssstngm 0; spam sq somo
mq pmoo Ksq; ;y ugenssx or; ssuo pamzsxsq sq; 1duxo.1dKnmzuso
PROM GAO] qoyqm ';sg1S;o ssousngu; snopgtusd sq; Sugomsqunoa
II; Kaymgyyp qanux smzq sm sauxgsmog 'q:pres sq; oz 1_ugds
sq; spuyq qoyqm .I0qf)U'B ue sumo; 1; S soumsgssx s1; .10; Suons oo;
‘uop:>1a.m'e spsqnadmfis 13 3.10}9.Iaq1 seq spusp; go uogeqmusd
sq; pm; '&poq sq; ssA12s[ 1; ss uoos os snopsuoo s; {nos sq; s;q1 ;o
3 A\0ll')[ sm .I9AAOd 1ss1es1S sq; sg sAo[ naqa, no£ p[o; sA'eq .1 ,,
.. 6°C! WW1 “'39 “OH ..
,,'su1oo.1sAo ussq seq Kpoq sq; ;o sousngq; sq; .1s;;'e 3uo[ spusgx;
I0 19.113 fiq WFBIJS9-I Us P1911 are ritrem ‘aomsu! 10: fmopeon
psxyssp sq; 4usAs.Id o3, paspxsxsam ‘lonuooou seq [nos sq; qsgqm
JsAo ssoutnstnnoigza Kpuanbsx; s'e ‘fiyqexspgsuoo ssy.reA :11 ,_
,, g ;se[£1[ensnuopaaunzsq: ssop 8:101 MOH ,,
,,'souo
re ssuxoq .I;sq1 0; 811103 Jpq; Jspuyq oz Stqqgou smaq as '3; cpyn
mad &[;p'es.1 pu'e ‘&poq sq; ;o Axes» tmoxfi smeq Asql '03,; H
,,'[[e 32 pstrmsp mu axe sums ass 1 ,,
,,'s[qgssodse uoos se axes} 0; psonpu; are £sq1 mq 5 ss,\ ,,
‘P931513
I .. worm-Ina ms 199; am Sum am oqm awn In 0a ..
"'09mm sm as '1; qsqdmosoeues noK M011 mq
‘usq;nofi uodn Suons oo; sum :3 : aux tmm smoq sumo 0; 3,5113 re
no.4‘ psxse I treq; sax; IIOK ass ptre sausngugs;q1 xfeszq on, 51214 :1
[atom zusmom auo aoeq smog ,—esg.n saoq
ands sazqssmsqz ms; Asq; usqn puv
‘mop an ac xafiun 59111 use :92;
|aAq-poof),-—.£-asAsq; sum 12 Amztn [mg ,,
—1(poq sq; 11; [ms spusp; oz uounnoo sg sonspsdxs
sums sq; '£poq sq; spxemo; rpuq 03 0; sxgssp sfqpsgssug
;sou.qe ma spa; [nos sq; pus ‘amp tpoqs ‘e .10; ps.xsAss &[s;s[d
-moo 3011 s; quq apsufisux sq; 'ss'eo .mo& u; se ‘zfiusppnsos could
ssafe; uopnyossgp sq; usqm ufpoq .mo1( ;o uopsexwa sql H
‘P9315? I .. é “°¥1°'9-‘W3 3*’-IIAA ..
,,'sreAp.re msu sq;
qznsm 0; Suyoa mo.( 0; uogoslqo on sq mm sxstp, us1[o.xq sg uog
meme 9111 man Hume: or: unosusp 1; pm; ptnom no& ..
‘panda:
sqs "anon ;sn_[ 1u'es'es[dun ueqmsxnos Sugsq saousngu; sq; _,
‘P9315’? I .. .1 Km.,
"';usssJd112 no.( Jo; nsm sq mu pmom
3} 1B.[ '&'8& 3'81]; 03 O1
34.
.
THROUGH THE msrs
“
But is not thespirit compelled to come away? "
“
No l We use no force in thislife under any circumstances.
Everyperson retains theuse of his free will,theexercise of which
invariablyproduces its own reward or punishment."
"
Well I The old life has not many attractionsfor me, and I
_
have no desire to renew it upon thesame terms, so we willdo as
you desire—go forwar ."
We reached the summit of the slope, and I stood entranced
by the scene which lay before me. From the foot of agentle
declivity,clothedin grass of therichest, softest green I had ever
beheld,a landscapestretched away on every side dressed in more
shades of colour than I had power to estimate. I- had gazed
upon the skies of Italy, beautifuland calm, but the cloudless
grandeurof theirstar-illuminedglorieswas likethecold placidity
of death-boundsleep, in contrast with the infinite and vaulted
dome of eternal energy beneath which I stood, involuntarily
bowing before the baptism of life with which it bathed me. I
had seen themagnificenceof some Oriental landscapes, with the
radianceof a legioncolours thrownin rich mosaics all around,but
it were profanationto compare such hues and shades and tints
with these before my eyes. Pulsations of visible‘vitality throb-
bed and trembled in stone and tree and flower, each of which
poured forth its rhythmicquota to the harmonic proclamation
which sounded from every side that death is swallowed up in
victory, and over the threshold of the future-—reachingto the
horizonof eitherpole—thelegend ran—“ Life, life, eternal life."
1
But why attempt the impossible? Words never yet were
able to convey an adequate idea of many scenes on earth, how
thencan theybeused to tell thegreaterglorieswhich thelanguage
of the soul has not the power to paint, but leaves the entranced
beholder to understand by silent‘comprehension. Oh, hea.rtsl
the milestonesof whose pilgrimageare lettered alternatelywith
battle, defeat, and failure; ye outcast wayfarers, ostxacised
from all thatonce was clear ; ye who are hungering for a look of
sympathy—thirstingfor a kindlyword—groping for one ray of
hope; ye crushed and mangled, maimed and tortured on the
rackof social propriety; ye banned and banished from a soulless _
church, becauseyour weary feet have stumbled by theway ; ye
martyrsto thegreedfor wealth,and fame, and power ; ye, weary
of life’s struggle, all, yea, whosoever will,sink down to sleep, and
in thewilddelirium of your dreams, give rein to all your phan-
tasies; let your imaginationconjure before you all you wish for
or would dare to crave ; picture to yourselves all you thinkof
heaven ; revel among theanticipationsof what you therewould
A PRISMATIC LANDSCAPE 35
find ; thenmultiplytheproduct yet a thousandtimes, andgrasp
the conceptif you can. But even thoughyou reach the height
of thisdesire, you willnot have caughtmore thana faintreflection
of the provision made for the enjoyment of the righteous when
their bloodstained feet have reached the goal of heaven.
From the foot of the hillon which I stood, a hundred paths
diverged to every part of the landscape, not the monotonous
prosaicroads to which earthis so accustomed,but every onehad,
not a name, but a distinctive colour correspondingwiththe city
or districtto whichit led. Theywere arrangedso thatthedarker
shades curved themselveson eitherhand in the foreground,each
having a greater or less depression according to its tone until I
lost themas theysankbeneathmy feet ; thelightertints appeared
to have a corresponding elevation, until in the centre of the
prospect lay one straight line of faultlesswhite leading to an arc
of brilliantpurity in the far distance.
Helen left me for a time that I might gaze on the sight un-
disturbed, and when she returned was accompanied by several
friendsmore or less intimatelyknown to me. We sat down and
talkedover theevents of our past lives, and speculated upon our
future prospects with a feeling of restful satisfactionand enjoy-
ment to which I had hitherto been a stranger. Each individual
seemed in some inexplicablemanner to add to my sense of glad-
ness, and even now when I know so much more of the life then
new to me, I look back upon thatreunion as one of thesweetest
recollections of spirit experience.
“
You can beginto understandthesignificanceof thecoloured
dresses now," Helen said, during a pausein our conversation.
"
Yes! I perceive that each person takes the road corres-
pondingin colour to the dress he wears. But who are those in
parti-colouredrobes—acombinationof pinkwithelectricblue ? ”
“
They are messengers or teachers ; it was Eusemos, one of
their number, who attended you at the time of your accident,
and broughtyou to theplacewhere I found you. See, thatis he,
coming to take you away and teach you more than I am
able to I ”
He was a Greek, and beautifulas an Apollo. Though I had
no consciousness of havingseen him before, his smileof welcome
and recognition forbade the idea that we were strangers. As I
rose he caughtme in a brother'sembrace,and held me closely to
him, _without one word to break the hallowed silence of his
greeting.
“-Are you rested now ? "
he asked at l
"Yes,‘Ianswered;“butsobewil "
36 THROUGH THE MISTS_
“
That is by no means an uncommonexperience; the revela-
tions thatawait the soul on arrival here are calculated to over-
power untilyou have been taughtthesimplekey by which every-
thing is solved."
"
Who willteach me thisgrand art of solution ? "
I asked
"
I will,if you desire to know it."
"
When P "
"
Now if you wish."
“
Who would not wish to learn so great a seaet? My soul
is hungexingfor such knowledge. What is themighty power? "
“
Love I "
he replied. “
This life in all its phases, its multi-
form developments, its heights and depths, is but a grand com-
mentary on thatone word. Love is the onlystudy we pursue-—
the food we eat, the life we live : and it is to participate in the
joys of this inexhaustibleknowledge that you are now invited,
and Myhanene asks me to introduce you to such features of it as
I an capable of."
“
Who is Myhanene? "
I asked.
“
One of themessengers or teachers betweenthisand thenext
stage of life, who acts as ruler of several cities or circles in this
state."
"
But is not God the ruler? "
“
He is the Supreme, King of kings, and Lord of lords ; but
under Him are many subordinates--cherubim,seraphim, arch-
angels, ruling over the different dominions and divisions of -this
life, and Myhanene is one of the lowest authorities."~
‘-' That is another piece of surprising information,"I said.
"
So I anticipated, '
he replied, “
thoughit ought not to beso,
for thefacthas been clearlyrevealedto man ; but ‘
darknesshas
covered the earth, and gross darkness the people,’ who in their
ignorance have wandered from the way, and are lost in the
wildernessof doubt, confusion and error."
“
Andwheredoes therootofthiserrorlie,asseen fromthislife?”
"
In the doctrine that the soul has to make its eternal and
final choice on earth, rather than that being the elementary
stage of its unendingdevelopment. The legitimateduty of earth
is to ground the soul inthepracticalprinciples of love, in order
to fit it for its entrance upon the higher duties of this estate.
Abstractspeculationsin theologyare not thestudies man is called
upon to undertake, es 'ally when his teachers work upon in-
definite theories, and ave no absolute knowledge. Even here
we -are not competent to speak upon many matters our brethren
in the flesh have settled to theirown satisfaction; but we must
wait until we reach those conditions in which the necessary
A PRISMATIC LANDSCAPE --
37
faculties will be developed to understand the present mysteries.
Advanced instruction in science is not given by pupil teachers
to thescholars in an infant class; .and our Father knows the
requirements and capacitiesof His childrenbetter than to have
so designed the course of theirspiritual education.”
38 THROUGH THE MISTS
"
Not thatman has the power,“ I suggested, "
but thatGod
is able to accomplishit in the exercise of His omnipotence. I
never heard of any sect who claimed to have the power ; thatis
universallyascribedto God alone.”
"
In precept you are right," he answered, "
but in practice
man is supposed to have all the power, and God nothingwhat-
ever to do withit."
“
It may be my ignorance," I replied, "
but still I failto see
'
where you are right."
“Let me use a by no means uncommon illustration. God
is represented as having made certain provisions for man's
salvation, subject to his repentance; this nepentance to be
exercised or not as the individual may determine, and it is as
thearbiterof his own fate thathe is pleaded wi ."
"
And is it not so ? ”
I enquired.
“
In the sense thathe cannot be forgiven before repentance,
yes ; but the teachingI repudiate is that the exercise of repen-
tance in man is able to work an impossible change in the nature
of the individual the moment he consents. Hear my case, and
tell me if I am not right. A man whose life is weighted with
outrage, cruelty and murder, stands faceto facewithdissolution,
shrinking from the step about to be forced upon him. In the
prison cell, whiletheexecution bell is tolling, and the hangman
deprivinghim of all power to help or avert his fate, the minister
is pleadingwithhim to repent, assuringhim all may yet bewell ;
God is ready to forgive, Jesus is willing to receive, and angels
are waitingto carry his blood-washedspirit home. Hismoments
are but few, and an eternal destiny is hanging in the balance of
his own decision. Where, I ask, is any power left in the hands
of God in such doctrine? and yet you know that what I say is
true. Such a man is assured thatnothingbut himself stands in
the way of immediate and absolute forgiveness, no matter what
his life has been.” ,
“
But even repentance is thegift of God," I replied.
"
I know it; and do not wish to undervalue such an act,
but only to protest against the power attributed to it. A man,
by neglectingthe cautionof his friends,may sustain the fracture
of a limb, or bringhimselfinto difliculties,after which he repents
of his foolhardiness; but does that repentance save him from
the consequences of his rash conduct ? Of course not ; and the
same
Ilawtplbtfizlignfiin
gelationto thesoul.”
d kn ledge
"
n e
'
to your present experience-an ow ,
how would you proclaim the law of God to man i’ "
I asked.
“No one can make a simpler or more perfect declaration of
H
A PRISMATIC LANDSCAPE
‘
39
it thanJesus, when He said, ‘
One is your father,even God, and
all ye are brethren.’ In the exercise of His paternal duties,
God isnot a respecter of persons. From every child obedient
love is expected, and after that, brotherly.afiection towards
every member of the family without exception. This is the
whole law of God, and rigorousobservance of it is enforced, with
a commensurate punishment for each violation. '
Be not
deceived, God is not mocked. for whatsoevera man soweththat
shall he also reap.’”
These words revived the intense desire to get back again to
earth, which before possessed me and prompted my prayer
upon the slope; they seemed to strengthen the hope that in
some way my yearningmight possiblybegratified,and I asked:
"
If the familyrelationship is so closely observed, and the
transition onlya development,not a severance, is it not possible
thatsome provision exists whereby we may stillreach theearth
and help to correct thesegrievous errors ? "
"
YesI _such naturallyexists, andall thetestimonies of earth
bearevidenceto the fact; but, seeing a
40 THROUGH THE MISTS
the mercy of whoever chose to make a profession of expounding
it ? Even therivalry of thecreeds forbidssuch an assumption;
and to suppose thatGod can lighlyregard such false pretensions,
very seriously impugns the character of His love towards His
children."
“
Your words are tinged with a glorious hope for the future
of the race," I said, "in swinging the doors of mercy upon the
hinges of infinite love; but tell me somethingof the condition
those take in this life who have followed these teachings."
"
In thislife every man is held responsiblefor his own delib-
erate acts and motives, but all consequent punishment is reme-
dial, not vindictive. The noblest gift withwhich he is endowed
is the power to reason ; thisbeingso, he is expected to consult
and use it in everthinghe does. If then he possesses this gift
only next in inferiority to Divinity itself, is it consistent to
suppose it is only adapted to the minor details of life, while it
becomes a dangerous counsellor in the weightier matters of the
.
soul? Such an idea is a libelupon theGiver. But here comes
a difliculty—thenatural consequence of the free use of reason-
on earth would mean destruction to the narrow limits of creed
and dogma, hence its loud denunciation by the Church. On
the otherhand, if a man beingso endowed, is content to accept
the dictates of his fellow, rather than stand upon the solid
foundation of the consistcy of the eternal God, he must
not be surprised if he is called upon to take the inevitable
consequences of his preference of man's speculation to God's
revelation."
"
I failto see how he is to know,”I replied, "
if you take the
Bible away from him." '
“
I am not by any means» doing so," he said. “
The record
of God's methods of dealing with His children under various
circumstances are invaluable guides to men; He being forever
the same, the annals of the past form useful indications, not
necessarily abitrary laws, for the future. The men who wrote
those books were men who walked and talked with God, and
‘
their communings are recolmted for the comparison and
encouragement of others, not to supersede or prevent
such companionship in the future. By no means would
we take the book away; but to sa that our
Fatherhas ceasedtospeak to men is to charge ‘m with being
-a respecter of persons in the narrowest sense of the term, for
why should He have spoken to Abraham, to Socrates, or to
Buddha and not to the toiler of the present time? His light
shineth on every land, He maketh the rain fall on the fields
A PRISMATIC LANDSCAPE 41
of the evil and the good, men may fail, but God is the same
forever. When mankind, therefore, learn to use the Bible, not
abuse it, when theyreason over it and seek its spiritual, not its
creedal interpretation, when they search for truth instead of
priestlysanction, when theyrecognise the messengers of love as
angels from heaven, not emissariesfrom hell ; thenwilltheyhear
our voices behind them, saying in the language of the still
future revelation—'this is the way, walk ye in it, and our
Fathei-’skingdom willbe established onearthon the same basis ‘
.
as we see it here. When this time comes,'thenour world will
cease to be so full of surprises to the multitude of pilgrimswho
are continuallyjoining us.”
“
What would the old world be like," I asked, "
under such
a system of government?"
“
Come and see."
CHAPTER IV
THE MOUNT OF GOD
EUSEMOS led me down the hill towards that point from which
thedifferentroads radiated,and which was necessarilya common
meeting—placefor the multitudes continuallycoming and going.
There was no visible reason why this should be so—n0 barrier
or hindrance to theirpassing directlyfrom, or to, any particular
road or point theywished to reach-—-nogate at which theymust
gain admission or examinationto prove theirqualifications,yet
by mutual consent all persons gravitated towards thatcommon
centre in their passage either way. T grew momentarilymore
interested in my new and overpowering surroundings as every
fresh thoughtand scene impressed itself upon me. It was while
I descended into this busy, ever-changing, joyous throngthat
I for the first time fully comprehended the fact that death lay
out of sight behind us, and as I did so I stopped—stopped to
try and realise all I had passed from—what I had passed to, and
the incomprehensiblechange of circumstances into which I had
been carried, whileyet myself I stillremainedthesame. Every
single incident with which I became acquainted appeared to
self-contain a heaven, and more of it than I had had power to
imagineonearth,yeteachwassodesignedastoproclaimit
but an instalment of our home where the word would be heard
breathedfrom thelips of an Infinite Fatherin the perfect chord
of love, the echoes of which will linger on for aye in the vast
expanse of thateternal dome beneathwhich we shall ultimately
find our rest.
The scene before me was one of the chief items in the earth
idea of heaven, andsince we hadleft time as well as deathbehind,
therewas no reason why I shouldnot stay to study therealisation
of that upon which every soul had so frequently meditated.
My companion saw my desire, and standingsilentlyat my side,
seemed to‘ add by his sympathy,to the intense enjoyment I
thereexperienced. How manyconquestsover deathI witnessed!
The old enemy of man would have beenrouted a thousandtimes
43
rm: MOUNT or con 43
if he had marshalledhis forces there. Husband and wife, parent
and child, brother and sister, friend and friends meeting after
intervals more or less prolonged, witha full consciousness that
they were now beyond the parting; hands rudely torn apart
in the chillof themists resumed theirclasp withtheknowledge
that the deathparalysiswas powerless to intervene again ; eyes
on earthsightless,now feastedtheirhungryvision upon thosewho
had guided them in their darkness; ears strained to listen to
a mother's voice were now entranced with the sweetness of that
music; tongues long silent poured forth their gratitude; and
arms, which had been powerless, closed in the rapt embrace of
love. In all thatjoy it never occurred to me that I alone stood
-
there without such welcome from those I knew, the yearning
desire for one for whom my life had been a constant groaning,
never once possessed me ; I was so happy in the contemplation
of the bliss of others, I had no idea that I was singular in my
condition.
Neither was I. Had I not a friend, who though unknown
to me before, was yet dear to me already as if he had been a
brother—hadI not beenmore blessed thanmanyin thereception
Helen had accorded me, and in the assembly of friends from
whomI hadbutjustparted for an interval ? I wasbyno means a
stranger in a strange land, but a favoured son who felt free to
wander at willover his Father'swide domain.
Favoured indeed! for the privilege which was mine I soon
discovered was not the lot of all to enjoy. There are two sides
to every picture, and it was not long before I found a reverse
even to thatwhich lay before me. I was not alone, but I soon
saw one and then another ‘who laboured to pass unnoticed
through that joyous throng, anxious to avoid recognition, full
of fear, and terrified by apprehension lest their presence should
be detected by individuals from whom they shrank. In a
glanceat such poor creatures I received a revelation,and learned
a truth more phaticthanany argument could have resented
to my mind; the relative positions of heaven and ell were
practicallyillustrated,and I realised that.
In no geographycan heaven be found ;
But in the ocean of a righteous soul
It forms an island, withits coast rock-bound,
And quiet haven, where no ternpests roll.
'
One breathof sin upon God’: thronewould tell.
And start theconflag-rationof a hell.
My attentionhad been particulary attractedby thegreetings
44 THROUGH THE MISTS
passing between two who were evidently brotherand sister, the
formerofwhom had but just arrived; the fervent a.rdour of their
youthful embraces, the happy contentment upon the face of
thegirl, thegratitude and satisfactionso visible in the boy,were
very beautifulto look upon. As I watched their joy, partici-
patingin theirhappiness, I was conscious of askingmyself when
my capacityof bliss would reachits limit, and whetherit was not
possible for me presently to awake and find that all had been a
dream. Withthis,as if to give some weight to such a suggestion.
my eye fell upon a woman, robéd in a dress of reddish-brown,
who watched that boy and girl with looks and feelings I never
thought possible to find in such a place. In her eyes the fires
of terror blazed ; from her face the perspiration rolled in beads
of agonising fear ; her limbs were palsied with dread, and she
shrank and pushed to make her escape beforetheyrecognisedher
presence. Once and again she da.rted away from the spot on
which theystood, as occasion offered her a chance to achieveher
wish, but inexorable fate was fast upon her heels, and seemed
to blast every hope almost before its birth. Each fruitless
attempt but left her nearer to that happy couple who were un-
conscious of her until the crisis came, and the terror-stricken
wretch was forced upon their attention in her frantic efforts to
escape. No one in all thatcrowd showed any sign of sympathy
for her in her distress; no hand was outstretched to help her
clear a way by which thatunpleasant encounter could so easily
have been avoided; she was, in all that throng,so completely
alone that I felt more than once as if I must go forward and
render the assistance of which she stood so much in need; yet
somethingheld me back——told me that things were better as
theywere, and bade me watch and wait. .
Speechless and motionless the terror-stricken woman stood,
like a craven felon waitingfor thelaw's decree. The boyshrank
back, but the girl with a look of infinite pity beaming on her
face, stepped forward, and did what no one else had done 2 she,
"
Who might the vantage but have took,
Found out the remedy,"-
cleared the needed way, and if she spoke a word it was but of
pity and compassion, as she pointed where the woman could
escape. With this came strength to move, and as the culprit
—-for such I felt.convinced she was—-darted away I saw a bril-
liant flash of light shoot from the eye of her benefactress,which
struckandshoneuponhertroubledbreastlikearesplendentjewel.
.. 819W P99! P901WW1[HM 91911453. 5 P9-"1111-mm I .. I W05
19;’g;..m°
qtreauaqzqsgs on 1so1s'eMuoos pm: ‘uoga;o 901211 12 mocmmpassed
aqs s_tq; umop I ;qSp gem 995 pmoo 1 mo1oo s1; Kq qogqm qtred '2
no padazua aqs [pun 'um3a.x 0; Jaq panaduxoa Jamod a1qe.1oxau}
sures aq; '1;-em on ;o 1112 mq ‘ape!!! aqs 1dI1I931'8P111134 9 195 PH?
'puooas V may 0; pay; aqs qogqm 11101; req; qoeoxdde-91 0; Jaq
paoxoy--umaax0; Jaq pazuo; Supnauxog -ace; Jaq uodn uamm
ug-ed go £11032 pappe nu ass prnoo I ‘axaqdsoune reap xeq; ug
'aotnns3p 3 qons re qsnoqz ‘pm: ‘paum; aqs uatp iazatp sum
auou zmq ';.Ioddns auxos .10; mo qoeax pm; 1aa1—1uama;pxaptre
uopsnaqxa Jaq uzox; urge; umoxfi y; SB [991 Jaq (mas 1 uaql -4011
Man I gqnaaxq Jaq are; 01 asned Apxam aqs pgp .10 ‘page;
uq; qfinans Jaq :3 sum 'p9nuyuo:> 3uo1 aou gem '.l9A9M0q
'asmo:> 19H 'a[qyssod s'e pgdm s'e aqfigg rem 3}[T-2111 0:; 9010;
0111; panes exam sagfixaua1911 [[2 cs ‘;q3_rg u; £21 £39125 nun aq 01
pauxaasesp; 191.1 -pafiuom ptaq aqs [J33 9111 ptm nasxaq uaaauaq
aaumsyp12 md 0:; tpfiuans.I9I.[ [re Sumexa 3195;; pamasazdqogqm
pm :sn.: am om: Klssarpaaq pomp 9118 ‘Mom am vamp ans
9: 'aauasa.xd papearp 1911; max; adeasa o; ssatuasea Jaq n1
'05 PIP I
Iwpuodsax Ktmrev 9!: ..‘1aII‘I°1?AA..
"'8up1'e:; sy aqs p'eoJ sq; ;o .mo1o:> aq; smaatn on Kq
9! swp 39H Ifiuom 91303 5! °txs.. ‘paw I .. I 99s ms1.,
'
“'s&eM.mo pmnfi 0; spmms Buplreg qznm s[a8u1e
on past: am 'pangun sg aqs qogqm Jo; a‘ae[d [2 care; aqs um
19‘D!9" .. 5P919M5‘m 9‘! .. H1139; PRMWS SF! 11! 91399 9% ‘REM
zxosuoqsaqsg JO ‘samm s,u1aaoo am qnzauaq my uauz treg ,,
‘P9 I
"
gaoumoufig Jaq U; Suosm 03 mm aqs p;12.I;u 10!: no& em?“
-
“'03 mm arts
azaqm aas mm no.4 ‘JaqImam I105}; mg °pau1oo1amaq ueo oqm
33:11 are asoq; £1110 '9.Iaq 321;; ;o &u'e pug 301: mm 1105 pm; H
‘somasngpanda:,,‘;uasa.1dwe as op 03 Axaspouz2 sq pmom 11 ,,
H-uogepsnoo go pxom 12 Jago IO ‘ao;Ap'e Jaq aAg3_o; auo ou—.:9q
19am 0; auo on s; 3.1911; apmmnux syq; me 111 req; smaos 1; pass
-“OH €03 9113 II?“ 9-‘9‘IM.. ¥P91?I“99.[9 I ..lI“°S -1°°<I..
" 'uopeA1'es Jaq Suppom ug aouangu; [npamod 'e amaq mm 1; put
'3u;ueau1sap; asgreax0; pa1q'ena aq mm aqs uaqm ‘uysJaq;o Ammad
atp pyed seq aqs mun .!3L[ {mm uyemax mm zqfig nql 'auop
seq IIBIIIOA sq; Buolm 113913 amos Jo; ssanazsgfilo;SJJES aql H
.. i 1! 9'9-45 1911*‘ .. 5P919M‘-W9 I .. I 59A,.
-meppug arms atp Kq paxrexne uaaq Knuappsa peq uopuomr
asoqm ‘uoyuedmoo Km paxse U gqseg renp aas no& pgq ”
9* (109 go mnom EH1.
46 THROUGH THE MISTS
“
It abounds in subterranean caverns into which but little
light can penetrate. In these places such as she rush to hide
themselvesfrom thepresence of thosetheyhave injured, and who
theyfear willfollow to torment them. Terrormakes theirhell.
I
They know not who or what is near them, theyfeel that every
soul they come in contact with has come to take revenge, and
thus each becomes a source of terror to the other. There she
must stay untilsome spirit in a less miserable conditioncan gain
suficient of her confidenceto induce her to leave those dens for
a less wretched abode, this being the first step towards the
happiness it is possible for every soul to reach. But we will
pass along." _ _
For some time our progress was not a rapid one, as my
companion met numbers of his fellow messengers and others,
all of whom had a word of welcomefor me, and themanyinterest-
ing features of my surroundings prompted me to make frequent
pauses that I might the better understand them. When, at
length,we had reached theoutskirts of themultitudes, and were
started upon our projected mission, I was glad to hear Eusemos
refer to that incident which had so interested and yet so per-
plexed me.
"
I see," he began, "
that u are unable to reconcile that
woman’s presence here with e simple law of love governing
this life."
"
Yes, I am," I answered, "
and should be glad if you will
explain it to me."
"
I will,then you willsee that'
theLord is good unto all and
Histender mercies are over all His works '
; and for myself I do
not see where I could find a more forcible illustrationof it than
in such a case as thatto which your attention has been called.”
"
How so ? "
"
When she made her escape,” he answered, "
you saw her
take thepathon which we are now walking; noticed how every
person she met passed by withoutspeaking or pointing out that
she was wrong.’ Now I ask you to mark the buoyancy,the
exhilaration, the happiness and peace which increases with
every step we take, and say, if you can why it was that she
turned back from such a path of her own free will? "
“
I cannot tell," I answered.
“
It was simply becausethatwhich is a source of increasing
enjoymentto you was thecause of pain to her ; she was rushing
into an unnatural condition as pronounced as that of a fish out
of water. Of her own free will and deliberate act, she fitted
herselfon earthto take a. certain placein thislife,andshe cannot,
THE MOUNT or con 47
even if she would, assume any other withoutenduringthe pain
which would naturally ensue. She has made her choice, and
love intervenes to save her from the additional torment that is
the legitimate outcome of her own acts; thisis fully manifest
in the provision of that placeto which she has now gone. She
willnot be abandoned and left altogether‘to the mercy of those
who will be her associates there: others in a happier condition
go down to such asshe, andtell them to hope, encourage themto
repent, endeavour to induce, them to come away, and finally
lead themon theway to happiness." .
“
Then she has_not gone into thathell where the.fire is not
quenched? "
I asked.
"
The fire of hell is one of those metaphorical phrases mis-
understoodon accountof its literal interpretation,"he responded.
“
Willyou explain it for me, as you tmderstand it ? ’
"With pleasure, and in doing so I will use the illustration
you are most familiar with. It was said of Jesus, ‘
He shall
baptisewiththeHolyGhost and withfire ’
; of HimselfHe said,
‘I cameto send fire on theearth’; and manisassuredthat
‘our God is a consuming fire.’ Do you understand these to be
asliteralastl_1efir'esofhellP"
“
Certainlynot," I replied.
“But why not; what authorityis, there for making any
I
distinction? "
“
I am at a loss to answer you," I_ replied, "
other than it
is in accordance withtraditionalcustom so to do."
“
It is a credal necessity,"he answered, "andthisis thegreat
source of so much confusion, contradiction, and spiritual ignor-
ance. The word of God is spirit as well as truth and must
ever be interpreted by the spirit, not the letter; that being
merely the form in which the spirit finds expression, as the
mortal body is but the of expression for the soul. The
fire of the spirit is
lava.‘ erefoiedtosay
tliailtGgdodisaIcon-
surmng' fire is but ano er way 0 ecla.rrn'g at is ove.
Now love in its debased form becomes passion, and if unre-
strained will speedily burst all bonds and leave a. man the prey
to his own devouring lust with all the evil in his nature con-
tributing fuel to the flames. When such an one is severed tmm
the body and forced into this state of existence, where can he
go? You have seen a case which does not present anything
like such aspects of depravity,yet it was torture for her to stand
where we are now, how much more would it be so for such a ,
man as I describe? ‘Even the very place to which thatwoman
has gone would be intolerable to him, but stillhemust not be
48 THROUGH THE MISTS
punished in revenge ; therefore God has formed an abode con-
genial to such a nature, where, for the time being,he can plunge
in his mad frenzy into the ocean of his unsubdued passions, and\
be tormented i.n gathermgtheharvest of the seeds he has sown,
while the unquenchable fire will burn and work its purpose.
But in that word '
unquenchable'
our Father's love is again
made manifest, since the fire can only burn up the chat} ; or in
otherwords, thetimewillcome when thelust and passionwillbe
consumed, thenthe wheat shall be gatheredinto thegamer, and
the soul willcome out from the ordeal as gold well refined ; but
the sanctifiedfire of love will stillbe burning in thatsoul which
will thus be saved from the very uttermost.”
"
Do you know this,"I asked eagerly,“
or do you onlyhope
it will be so i’ ”
"
We know it ; it is the one great law of life that you will
find is everywhere in operation here. It should be so on earth,
but the multitude of the words of men have become the grave
of lmowledge, and the light of inspiration has been vanquished
inthe darkness of such a sepulchre. You will not find much
preaching here as you are used to understand the word; with
us to preach is to act, and all actionhas love for its incentive,
since we have practically learned that he who dwells in love
dwells in God, and God in him."
“
Oh I what a gospel of love you proclaim," I cried; "
what
music it would be to earth. With such a message I can well
understand that ‘love never faileth.’” ‘
“
The gospel we declare is thatwhich was given to men, and
is peculiarlyfitted for the earth condition."
"
I have now anotherquestion to ask on a point that,as yet,
appears to be at variance with your universal law of love."
“
Let me hear it, my brother,”he responded. .
"
How do you reconcile its application with that woman
beingallowedto enter with,andsee thejoy of happierpersons ? "
I enquired.
“
You imagineit has a tendencyto increaseher punishment,”
he rejoined.
"
I fail to see how it can be otherwise."
"
That I am perfectly willing to admit ; but first of all you
must remember that the way you came is the usual way of
admission, and that whatever punishment is endured is the
natural consequences of deliberate sin, as thingsdone in ignor-
ance or without intention exact no penalty in the judgment of
the mists. But those who have sinned with deliberate intent,
or culpable negligence-inmany cases followingthesame course
THE MOUNT or GOD 49
for years, stiflingthe voice of conscience, and crushing out their
spiritual life—receive theirjust reward and punishment, and it
must necessarilybe that their pain is increased, as theyrealise
what might have been under other and better circumstances."
ask;l.3utmight not that additional pang be saved them? "
I
“
No l God never turns aside to avoid the consequences of
a man's folly; but on the other hand even that pang you so
much regret is permitted by that same law of love. Although
she is at present unconscious of it, that woman has gained one
point of information which will give her hope and consolation
presently,the which she could not have learned had she not had
that unpleasant e 'ence.”
"
What is that ”
I asked.
“
She knowsthatthereis no gate at which an angelis standing
to keep her back ‘tom the way of life; and will presently be
brought to understand that the only obstacle in the way of her
happiness lies withinherself. When she is able to recognise this
it will become a powerful incentive to improve her condition;
it willteach her thather punishment has been to purify and not
vindicfivelyinflicted; it will be a text upon which her teachers
will build a hundred arguments, until she learns that even in
her dark condition she has not been forsaken, but, though she
knew it not, thehand of God was guiding her."
“Thankyou," I said. “
As you expound themI can under-
stand how the tender mercies of God are over all His works;
but now I have another diflicultyI would like you to clear up.
There are many children born who are morally incapable of
discerning right from wrong; how is this regarded on their
arrival here ? "
"
In all cases justice and equity are meted out unerringly,
he replied, "
and thepenaltyof all sin willfall upon theshoulders
of the sinner. In an earthlycourt a kleptomaniacor an idiot
would be pitied for his misfortune, not punished, thoughhe had
broken a law. Is man more righteous than our ‘God? That '
maimed body or unbalanced mind is the result of sin more
frequentlythanaccidentand someone must bearthepunishment
thereof—who shall it be? Listen to this awful truth. ‘Every
man shall give an account of the deeds done in the body '
; one
of those deeds is the deadly wrong of propagating life without
thoughtor referenceto a healthy and competent body in which
it can perform the functionsrequisite to its advancement,which
leaves thechild to bearthe nsequenoes of thesins of its father
or motherin its own organism. This may transfer theinfirmity.
D
50 THROUGH THE MISTS
but it cannot change the responsibility. The sins are borne by
the child, but the errors committed in itsincompetency are
accounted as the sins of that father still, and he will be called
to answer for them at the bar of God."
“
That is a terrible thought,"I said, as he concluded.
“
It is nevertheless true,” he replied ;
“ ‘
whatsoever a man
soweth thatshall he also reap.’ ”
I had been too much engrossed in the subject of our con-
versation to do more thanmechanicallynotice thescenes through
which we were passing; but, at this point, my attention was
arrested by a change thatwas takingplacein the appearance of
my companion, who was now surrounded by a soft and moment-
arilyincreasing halo, from which I became conscious of drawing
the necessary power to accompany him. Our course was along
the brighter way, occupying the centre and crown of the land-
scape, but its characterhad so changed since we commenced our
journey,thatin its present transparencyit looked like a pathof
sunbeams up which we sped our aerial flight, rather than at
ar roadin a kingdommore substanial thanGreece or Rome,
because it held a more legitimate right to the designation
"
Etemal,"since its creator and builderwas God. The soft and
fragrant atmosphere seemed to lift us in its embracebeyondthe
reach of weariness ; thebreezes redolent withlife and rest kissed
and wooed us with amorous caresses; the penetratingsunlight
bathingthe country pierced us through and through, until we
shone withthatglory, thelike of which beamedfrom thefaceof
Moses‘when he had beenin thepresence of God on Sinai.
It was to me as a delighful dream. The realand the unreal '
blended in perfect harmony,in which I found no room for even
thesuspicionofsurprise. On more thanone occasionI remember
reasoningwithmyself thatit was more than like—-it was surely‘
a dream ; from which I should presentlyawake to race thestem
realities of my disappointed life with an additional pang added
thereto by the recollection of its pleasant illusion. And I am
still conscious of a shudder running throughme at the thought
of how I could sustain such a heavy blow as I needs must sufier.
My companion noticed this and drew me somewhat closer to
him, while he answered my thoughts in one of those semi~
conscious reveries so characteristic of this life, and which have
more of encouragementandsuggestion in theirtone thanadmon-
ition. I caughtmore of thespirit of what he said thantheletter,
and as thewholewasanimpromtpu, I could not askhim to repeat
it to me, so that I am sensible of the injustice I do him in at-
tempting to reproduce thelines which made such an impression
THE MOUNT OF GOD 51
uponmeatthetimezbutthefollowingwill give acrudeidea
of what he said:
“Alldreamsareasrealeathewnking:
Then why should we spurn theirdelights ? '
The soul climbs permissibleheights—
_
When sleep bidstheheart pause its aching-
And gazes with eyes which are bright and strong
Onthepromisedhomeitwillreacherelong.
“’l‘heeoulisthema.n.andeternal;
The body but lives for s.day,—
”l‘is of earthand must needs pass away
But thesoul, in its visions diurnal,
From the mountains of sleep looks over, theriver.
And hails thebelovedin theland of ‘
forever.’
"
The child. and the man, and the maiden,
Have dreamed and willdream evermore
‘Tie the solacefor all men—heart-sore,
And true rest for the soul heavy-laden
‘Dillin thatlast sleep. the body forsaking. _
The soul enters heaven—-thatdream without waking."
I had neither opportunity not disposition to reply, for with
theend of his rhapsody, we paused, turned, and thescene which
lifllbeforeme causedme to break away from thetrain of thought
‘chhad calledforthsuch a pregnantlesson, whileI was carried
captive by the indescribable glories of the panorama towards
which he waved his hand.
As we stood upon the hill-side from which we started, the
one noticeable feature in the landscape, as I have said, was the
radiation of the many coloured roads leading to the numerous
cities now visible, but which then were hidden from our view.
At our feet, running to the right and left, was one of darkest
hue—crimson-black, having its termination round or under-
neaththehill,anddownwhichlhad watched thatunfortunateand
terrifiedwoman pass fromsight. Thisgloomyandforebodingpath
formed the basis or foundation of the scene; the next and each
succeeding road assuming a fighter tint in almost imperceptible
tions, until the ray of purit up which we had travelled,
formed a climaxto thewhole an capped the double prism as a
crown. As I recalled thatview in thelight of the many explan-
ations I had since received, I thoughtthat the arrangement was
a grandpropheticsymbolof thishappierlife, showing thenatural
and uninterrupted progress which the soul was enabled to make
from the far extremity of sin, to rest and perfect happiness in
the time_to come. And my heart was glad.
Another thought ed to me at this time-—thequestion
52 THROUGH THE MISTS
I had put to my guide respecting thepang thatformer view was
calculated to cause in the breasts of those more unfortunate
persons I had met with, and I realised the unspeakable mercy
and love that had been exercised in the design displayed before
me. The former prospect was but the reverse of the picture,
which now I had rounded to gaze upon such glorieswhereof eye
had not seen neithercould it enter into theheart of man to con-
ceive. If that sight would serve to add a pang to any soul as
it rose again beforethememory,I could well understandhow this
would overwhelm it with despair. Truly,the mercy of God is
over all His works.
Far, far away upon the western horizon, softened and
warmed by the wide expanse which lay between us,'hung the
mists across the boundaries of the country. Their appearance
« now was not black and chill as when I last looked upon them,
but a soft, crimson hue suffusing them, made them to look like
the rich tapestries the sun draws across the windows of the sky
when the autumn day is closing, and the weary labourer hies
him homeward before the tempest, which he hears rumbling in
thedistance, overtakes him. Behind us, at an altitude my vision
could not estimateor measure, over themountain peaks,streamed
rays of glory, bathingand nourishing all that land. It was as
though, while one invisible sun was setting in the distant west,
from out the eastern dawn another—theSun of Righteousness,
it might be—was rising from the bosom of the sea of love. Be-
tween this dawning and that sunset what a multitude of weary
souls were enjoyingthatrest upon which.likemyself,so manyhad
but recentlyentered. '
For thepurpose of our view we were standingupon theslope
of some majesticmountain chain, theheight of which defied my
powersofcomputation. If Isoughtits peak, myeyeswere blinded
y the arc of light which beamed upon me and frustrated my
quest: while far away, until my vision grew uncertain in the
distance, .I could see therange extend like the natural boundary
line of two adjacentnations. The pathwhich served as vantage-
ground for observation was like theeven crest of a smallerrange
running from the base towards the brow of the glory-crowned
and immeasurable hill behind me. In the distance lay a plain
of ap tly illirnitable proportions, undulating and pictur-
esque yonddescription, in which hilland dale, lake andstream,
terrace and plateau, park and pasture, grove and garden, city
and homestead, palace and mansion, were so arranged and
‘disposed as to contribute their own peculiar feature to the
grandeur of the whole. Throughout that vast domain, each
THE MOUNT or con 53
shrub and flower, each house and hill, each stream and lake,
had its legitimate balance to maintain in the general harmony;
and wonderfullybeautifulwas the eflect produced in the accom-
plishmentof thedesign.
In hours of weariness and disconsolation in the olden life,
I’
I hadtried to frame an outline ideal of what heaven must be-
who has not? My highest conception had a background of
disappointmentandirritation. It was like a fascinatingpainting
of some glorioussunset, entrancingwith its beautyas you first
beheld it, but as you gaze upon it, strange, weird, half-visionary
phantomsrise from out thecanvas and cast theirgloomyshadows
like corpse-mantles over the genius which had first so charmed
us ;—phantornsof dissatisfaction,regret, and unreality. Every-
thingupon the canvas is stiff, cold, lifeless ; the drama has been
caused to stop as the artist caught some situation most con-
genial, and of its poetry, no more willever reach the ear of man
than the irritating monotone on the lip when the command to
stand was given. How can we know the sunset from such an
inadequate presentment. The pigmy, momentary conception
may be faithful,yea, perfect in its colour and situation at the
instant it was caught, but it needs the quick succession of the
changing tints, the rolling and curving of the clouds, the rapid
entrances and exits of the dying hero, Day,accompaniedby the
soft sobbingand sighingof thebreezes. It demandsthepresence
indicated, and the increasing power portrayed, as step by step
the sombre Night achieves his dark advantage, until at length
he drowns the sun in the life-blood of his victim, and the black
curtain falls over the tragic scene as Twilight,no longer able
to sustain the unequal conflict,closes her eye in death. All this,
and more, we need before the artist can depict his sunset faith-
fully upon the canvas ; and so of heaven we need still further
countless complications and impossibilitiesbefore we can con-
ceive a faint ideal of that which awaits us. My previous con-
ceptions fell thus short of the reality of the scene which lay
before me as I stood upon thatmountain side ; yet thiswas not
heaven itself, but only one of the first halting-placeswithinthe
ranch of God's infinitude, where homeward-bound souls could
rest and refresh themselves in their migration from the earth,
towards theirFather’shouse of many mansions.
I would pause here, nor further attempt the impossible, were
it not for my yearning for the welfare of my brethren, who are
stillbehind me, and cherish the many errors of the flesh in their
ignorance of thelife upon which I have entered. The conscious-
ness of theinadequatepowers I possess to convey a knowledgeof
.
54 THROUGH THE MISTS
the truth I have found, almost forbids me to proceed, but I will
becontent ifonlyI can in some smallmeasuremakeit knownthat
this existence is not a vague and vapoury state with nothing
more substantial than a cloud in which to lay the foundations -
of our habitations. To us it is as real and tangible as the earth
is to you, and, therefore,when I use the designations of beauty
and grandeur which are familiar to the earth, it is not that I
would indicate this life to be as crude and gross as that which
lies behind me, but rather that the means are not available for
me to convey a just conceptionof its realities any more thanthe
artist has power to reproduce the sunset in all its sublimityand
entirety.
In thosefirst momentsof contemplationI becameconscious of
an enormous increase in my powers of sight, for as language fails
me to express the quality of the scene unfolded to my view, so
also am I powerless to convey an indication of the area over
which that celestial panorama was unrolled, yet from the fore-
ground to the far-awayhorizon I could plainlysee in thathaze-
less atmosphereof eternity,not onlythe efiects in aggregate but
the component parts of each feature which in turn arrested my
attention. Did I say it had its plains and streams? It were
far more true to say my eye wandered over vast continents,
fruitful and picturesque, each bounded by proportionate seas
and oceans, from the poetic billows of which the sting of all
destruction had been torn away. Mansion and palacegleamed
resplendent in the shadowless sunlight, not cramped or circum-
scribed in detail or design, to suit the exigency of space or limit
—-not robbed of grace or beauty by the use of coarse material
having the power to resist the storm and tempest as effectually
as it can blast the architectural dream ;-—what need of such
restrictions in the domain of the infinite, that kingdom where
they refuse to trafiic in the merchandise of tempest or decay.
Each habitation had its terraces and crescents, gardens and
quadrangles,» all its own in such noble and magnificent propor-
tions thatits vision may have made to sleeping Nimrod thefirst
suggestion of the royal and stately Babylon. The spiritual
quarries from which coral and marble, porphyry and alabaster,
malachiteand jasper had been cast out as coarse and valueless,
furnished the substance for each edifice, whilethe gamiture was
workedin multiform mosaics of diamondand sapphire,carbuncle
and beryl, pearl and ruby, amethystand emerald, relieved by
gems of tint and lustre earth has never seen. The carvings were
thework of sculptors who wore the rich mantle of perfect inspir-
ation. a solitary threadof which had fired theidealityof Phideas
THE MOUNT OF GOD 55
and Angela. Egypt may righteouslyhave gloriedin themagni-
.
ficenceofherhundred-gatedThebes; beenproudof theunrivalled
luxuries which found their home in the princely Memphis;
_
A
extolledtheunequalledperfumes compoundedin theroyalZoan,
but in her greatest glory she had never caught a glimpseof such
palauesas these. The gardens of old Babylonwere forgotten in
thecontem lationof such horticulturalattainments ; thestatues
of Apollo, €’enus and Athenein the admiration of which the
Greeks exhaustedtheir enthusiasm,were figmentsnot to be re-
called in the presence of such grace and beauty; the rose of
.
Sharon blanchedits cheek in the‘faceof such rich blossoms ; and
the aroma from the sweet incense of Jerusalem only became a
type of theperfumewafted by thebreezes from thosetrees which
are robedin a livinggreen withouttheexperienceof an autumn
tint.
The scene was animated by the multitude of persons who
were everywhere moving to and fro, not with the hurried step
of him who races to the gamble of the exchange, or the fear
written upon the face of anotherwho rushes to secure thatskill
which may save the life thatis hanging in the balance ; there
was no visible apprehension lest each bush or tree should hide
an enemy, or tremblingdread of some watchful tyrant’s frown ;
on thecontrary,a serenity and leisure which took no cognizance
of time or necessity seemed to sway an universal rule, while a
quiet contentment defied all power to introduce disturbance.
Peoples'of every nationalityintenningled without distinction ;
no cold formality, condescension, or patronage was visible
amongst them,but rathera. recognitionthateach possessed some
power to augment the happiness of his fellow, and that the
societyof all was necessary for joyto reachits full ideal. It was
a sacred, holysightto gaze upon, and again and again, I asked
myself what was the magic power which spread the hallowed
feeling around us? I was" unable to answer this until the soft
winds swept past me and seemed‘ to whisper:
"
The rest from theirlabour to-day-
is the lull when the storm issearoe o'er ;
'.l'h‘e%arejoiningthefriendstheyhad missed,
0111 they 4
ought had been lost everrnore.”
"Ii:thepeace of re-union whichcrowns them.
Whiletheireyesarescarcedryfromtheirsorrow
They have met and are resting to-day,
‘
And therenever can come a to-rnorrow."
My eye moistened, and I bowed lrny head in gratitude as I
received therevelation,and, turning to my companion, I asked 1
56 THROUGH THE MISTS
"
What is thisplace? "
"The Mount of God; one of the vestibules of heaven," he
answered. '
"If this is but a vestibule, what will theglory of the inner
temple be ? ”
“
I cannot tell,” was his modest reply, but it was filled
with themusic of such an intense longing as to waken echoes
in my soul, the cadences of which are even yet vibrating
within me.
"Are there other entrances from the earth. than this? I
asked.
"Yes; many.”
:‘$ndate theyallequalto this?"
I
es-II -
"
They might rightly be called vestibules of rapture,” I
continued; "
but there is one thing that very much surprises
me.”
-
"
And what is that,my brother? "
he asked.
“
To see thedistinctivecolour and feature of each nationality
is retained here.”
“
The erroneous idea thatthiswillnot beso is very prevalent
on theearth; and yet it should not be, especiallywiththosewho
make such a study of the Bible as your country professes to do.
Does not John tell you that in one of his visions he saw: ‘
A
great multitude which no man could number,of all nations, and
kindreds, and people and tongues? ’
Now, seeing that colour
and feature could be his only
TI-IE MOUNT OF GOD 57
"
That was because I had no idea of there beingany other
power here than God." .
"_Neitheris there; but thatpower is exercised throughduly-
appointed ministers. The same thought applied to reading
your Bible, as you have been accustomed to give to any other
book, would have prepared you for this. Jesus, in the parable
of the talents, clearly gave you to understand that the wise
servants should be made rulers over two, five, or ten cities;
He promised Hisdisciplesthattheyshould sit as ju es, and His
followers look forward to the time when they sh reign with
Him; why,then,should you be surprised to find thatwhat He
said was true, and thatsuch oflioes reallyare in existence here ?
Anothercommon error has reference to thecharacterand nature
of thisland, and our methodsof life. Jesus assures Hisdisciples
that there were many mansions in His Father’shouse, Ezekiel
and John saw a city, pilgrimsare reminded that on earth they
have no continuingcity,but are to seek one yet to come, whose
builderand maker is Congregationsare frequentlysinging
of Jerusalem:
“ ‘
When shall-"theseeyes Thineheaven-builtwalls
And pearlygates behold.
Thy bulwark:withsalvation strong
And streets of shining gold ? ' "
'Ihey enter into compacts to meet each other at the fountain ;
anticipate their sweet communions while reclining on our green
and flowery banks, or resting beneaththe shadow of the tree of
life, theyrevel in theglory which willbe theirswhen theygather
at the river, speculate as to what theywill do when theystand
among thatcompany which no man can number,every member
of which willwear a golden crown whiletheirhands shall bearthe
Victor's palm or strike the strings of a sweeter harp than David
ever played ; yet theywould be seriouslyshocked if anyone was
to tell them that all those thingswere really in existence here,
and charge you withblasphemy—txyingto make heaven a place
as gross and material as earth.—Their only conception of our
present state of beingreachingno further than thatwe are con-
tinuallyflyingabout in a cloudlessethersinging‘
Glory I Glory I
Glory 1 '
and have not so much as an empty cloud upon which to
find repose; and that this unceasing flyingand singing is our
eternal rest. However, I must leaveyou at thisgrove untilour
friend Cushna shall arrive, when hewillshow you many points
of interest and instruction." '
While he had been talking‘we were retracingour steps, and
1:212 sen ueaq Ktn mq
‘anon 3.1011! aouo sun I ptre qseg Buguzyqfine SSH] am 391 ‘8ngu.m;
‘Due ‘tr.re3= 1am an an P°°d5'P°£) am apvq at: Sun mm
-
..'P°D SP-1'9-$01 KJFWWWOO
a[oq.a am (In Sngsyel Kuvnupuoo go asodmd mp .10; uogoalgp
J§l'.[10!1'BII; fiugremdo3401 go Jamod sq; ;o 9101!! Sugmamos puns
-Japan no& axrem 0; qflnouaqfiyqsaga rug zmq ‘peum; an axaqm
gugodsq; 13 p9tp‘B91sun no£um 01 psnqeua sea I qogqm 0; mun
T
aql 'ssm8o.mdxaqun; 0:; sown; pm suopnxgdse mu samlnuzgus
SFU. '°m3“J “D ‘I! warn IP91“ 11°F!“
CHAPTERV
THE BONE OF REST
ONE of the great charms of thislife is.thesingular appositeness
I
of every event to thetime and placeof its occurrence : wish and
desire are very closelyinterwoven withthe opportunity for their
gratification. Almost thefirst communicationmade to me after
my arrival was that I should find it to be a land of surprises.
Now that I had time for a little thought and reflection, one of
the chief of these--was found in the perfectly natural condition
of everything—physical,intellectual d spiritual. This was
in nothingmore emphaticallynoticeab e than in my inclination
and surroundingsthemoment after I had lost my guide and oom-
panion. While he was present all my powers were on the gm‘
vinebothto see and hear thelessonshe exerted himself to unfold,
and these succeeding each otherwithsuch amazingrapidityleft
me no time for anythingmore than crude appropriation,while
my memory was called u n to store them-hurriedly for more
mature consideration an reflection by and by. How much
food for calm digestion I had thusacquired,I had not even time
to think,thoughdoubtless it was fully known to my nstructor,
and his departure was due to the necessity for me to pause and
see how far I had travelled in the pilgrimageof knowledge from
thepoint where I had first madehis acquaintance. At all events
my first ideawhen leftalonewas thatnothingcould beso welcome
to me as the one opportunity now withinmy reach.
In the olden life, when my soul wished to throwitself before
themajestyof theInfinite,and thequiet country laybeyondmy
reach, I would turn to Westminster Abbey,and surrounded by
the matchless beautyof its nave, where stone and harmony,
poetry and architecture, symmetry and history are blended in
such unparalleleddesign, throwrestrictionto thewinds, and soar
upwards on thewings of thehallowed associationswhich bathed
theAbbeylike a benediction. I asked no preacherto direct my
thoughts, since the memories of a. thousand years discoursed
withinthepulpitofmybreast;Isoughtnochoirororgamfor
-
99 .
60 THROUGH THE MISTS
in the arches and triforium lingered the echoing cadences of
Jubilateand Miserere sung by pious monks in centuries
by ; I wished to join no congregationsave thatof thosegreat and
noble examples whose bodies lay beneathmy feet. Alone in
such silentgrandeur,in thepresence of thepeace of death,where
thesunbeamsfallingthroughtheclerestorywindows seemed like
ladders dropped by angels whence thesouls of saints might climb
to heaven, my heart was free to make its full confession and
hear the absolution whispered in the silence of that house of
prayer.
It may be that in some of those seasons of reverie and re-
nunciation Eusemos had found a place among the angels and
THE HOME OF REST 6!
conscious ofthefactthatbirds,as well as men, findin paradisea
continuationof theirearthexistence.
The grove ran through the centre of what may be called a
garden park well stocked with large and luxuriant trees,isome-
what low in growth,comparedwiththeavenue itself, but having
far-reaching arms like oaks or chestnuts, beneathwhich were
beautifulbeds of flowers or mosses, whereon numbers of ple
were reclining. Many others were walkingto and fro wi that
languid,carefulgait naturallyassumedin thefirst daysofexercise
after sickness ; others again, were resting on thenumerous seats
dotted about thegrass, as if althoughtheirstrengthwas not yet
so far regained as to allow of walking,yet so reposing theywere
drawing a first invigoration from the life-giving aioma of the
breezes which fanned them. The whole aspect of the placewas
'
that of a convalescent home, and I could not perceive any in-
congruity in the thought that such places could serve a useful
purpose to theweary and heavy-ladensouls of earth,to rest and
recoup themselves after the prostration of life's fitful fever.
The possibilityof thismade me glad,as well as offered more food
for reflection; and seeing a vacant patch of moss beneaththe
branchesof a wide-spreadingtree, I threwmyselfupon it, without
a question as to the right and propriety of- so doing, and gave
myself up to contemplation.
I cannot say how long my reverie continued, or that the
course my thoughts pursued was very definite and consecutive.
I was mostconscious of the fact that I was resting ; not merely
enjoyingone of thosebrief lulls overwrought strengthdemanded
for recuperation, and which was so frequentlyforced upon me in
the other life, but I was filled with a sense of returning vigour
and youth, carrying with at first the suggestion, then a con-
tinuallyincreasingcertainty,thatthereel of lifewas beingrapidly
turned backward,as it were, and thatI was regainingtherobust
health for so many years waning away. It was a surprising, a
delightful experience, and I yielded myself to it readily and
gratefully. I layin a state of semi—enchantrnent ; every moment
brought some new sensation, and a thousandcapabilitiesseemed
to be on the point of unfoldingwithinme, of which I had been
unconscious, had never dreamed of before. Strange feelings
supervened, as if bands were
snapping,restrictions giving way;
and my soul enlarging, expande and rejoiced in its new-found
freedom.
I no longer felt I was the victim of circumstances, for
all contending influences had been withdrawn, and'-something
whispered that their absence was not a temporary cessation 1n~
62
’
THROUGH THE msrs
thesti-uggle,butthatIhadsecm'edavictoryfins‘.landcomplete.
Thestate of mindengmderedby alltheserevelationscan neither
be described to nor appreciated b" those who have not
throughthe blissful experience. very cell in my soul laboured
to absorb the
overpowexs-:1‘?revelation; every avenue in my being
drank, and drinking, '
thirsted for the life-exalting stream
which overflowed me; every fibre in my body thrilled and
trembled under the sweet new functions it was called upon to
perform. While I was thus half-intoxicated with the exquisite
pleasures in which I bathed, the very air playing around me
seemed to be peopled with a hundred fairy V0lCeS which cried:
"
Yield, yield I "
and, nothingloath, I threw myself in fearless
abandonment into theirembraces.and lost my consciousness in
the rejuvenatingsleep of paradise.
I have no idea how long that sleep continued, since time in
7
thisnew lifeis measuredbyresult achievedandnot byrevolutions
of thesun or dial. All I can say is thatwhen I woke, I found all
the transformations which had induced the slumber in their
commencement.had been completed. The furrows had been
kissed away from my face, thesilverthreadsin my hair elimin-
ated; the fountain ofweannesswithinmehadbeendried up.;.
while all the new powers and ca bilitieswere so blended and
dove-tailedinto my being,that ough the same old conscious-
ness and recollection remained-—-thesame individualitywith its
loves, its hopes. and aspirations-—Iwas equallyaware thata new
and enlarged nature had been added by those mysterious in-
fluencesat work upon me—-a nature invulnerablealike to weari-
ness and disappointment.
Perhaps one of my strangest‘experiencesof thislife occurred
at thismoment. I had scarcely amused myself from the power
[got thatslumberwhen I felt thatit was leavingme, never more to
return. ‘
How I knew this I cannot
tellzfgti:the certainty of the
factcould not be denied. Rain, doubt, '
intment, and the
hundred othersensations of earthwithwhi we are familiarised
as beingpeculiar to the body, it is easy to tear one’s self from,
and the partings brings with it a degree of satisfaction. But
Sleep is different. It is the most tried and by far the most
constant friend which poor humanity can possess. Its breast is
a pillowupon which every head may safely lie in weariness ; its
arms are never full, and every outcast vagabondis alwayssure of
its caress.
In its disrespect of persons it comes nearer the
character of God than any other attribute of earth—thesaint
THE HOME OF REST 63
and sinner, the prodigal and thrifty’
, the profligateand prudent
receive from sleep an equal salutation. She has no power to
'udge, and faithful to the work assi ed her, welcomes to her
ouse alike the assassin and his j e, the rival armies of con-
tendingnations, the hunted and the hunter, and bids themrest
beneathher sure protection withouta sense of fear. Some call
her fickle and uncertain, and seek to findin her thatmeasure of
perfection impossible,to be attained by earth, of whom she is a
child; upon themselves let all the blame of her shortcomings
fallsince theerroris theirown for liftingup a standard nothing
mortal has power to reach. Who dares to rise and say she has
her favourites in the familyof man P If any speak and seek to
bringsuch evidence, it will be found thatin her seeming choice
thegreat nobilityof her soul willshine more beautifullybright.
Where would such be found ? Not in thepalaceor themansion
where flattering courtiers or whining sycophants are wont to
seek for placeor power, but in the hovel or the den she may be
found to lingerperhaps in tenderer sym th ,
whileshe seeks to
closetheeyelidswithasurerseal.
pa y
‘Here with her Godlike grasp she curbs the cravings of the
S
hungry stomach,and withher visions makes endurance possible
tilltardy relief brings up supplies; or else, in concert with her
sister Charity,she fingersby thebedof pain, thather anaesthetic
charm may numb the poignant shafts ‘which make the victim
long for ease or death. Within the audience-chamberof her
home what severed hearts have been united, what '
prodlgals
persuaded to return, and what
54 . THROUGH THE MISTS
tolingerinitsadieu? Yetlwasnotsorrytopartfmmsuch
tried and pleasant companionship; it marked a stage in my
ascent of theladder of life. I was grateful for theservice it had
rendered me, but the newly-acquiredpowers were taking hold
upon me, and I was anxiousto secure thepossibilitiestheybrought
within my reach. Therefore we parted with the earnest wish
that every needy sou] would find her as faithful and consoling
as she had been to me, and when in turn they too should part
from her pleasant company that it would be with the fragrant
memories I should continue to cherish.
I had scarcely recovered myself before my attention was
attracted to a man who might be the doctor of the imaginary
sanatorium in whose grounds I had been reposing. He was at
some distance from me when I first saw him, and as he neared,
made frequent stoppages with one and another of the con-
valescents as if enquiringafter theirwelfare and condition. This
gave me an opportunity of observing him before he reached me,
for I felt confident that such was his destination.
Contrary to Eusemos he was rathershort in stature, but being
spare of build it was not so noticeable as might otherwise have
been the case. His face and complexion were Egyptian, with
bright liquid black eyes brimming over with kindness and good
humour, the first physiognomicalreading of it proclaiming him
to be an embodiment of sympathyand tenderness. In age he
might beyoung, but therewas somethingin his actionand move-
ment which made me thinkhe was old—very old, and that his
lithe and youthful vigour were necessary to bear the weight of
that experience so obviously manifest in everything he did.
There was none of thenervousness and excitement about him one
naturallylooks for in young men who are clothedin the mantle
of authority; no impatience at beinghindered, or reluctance to
perform an unexpected duty. On the contrary each and every
transactionhe was called upon to execute, no matter how trivial,
was attended to with a thoroughness which suggested that it
was theprincipalobjectof his care or solicitation. It was evident
thattime was of no importance to him, for he was readyaliketo
smootha couch, help a patient to a more desirable location or
throw his arm aroimd another who wished to take a walk. I
could not hear his voice, but I was confidentfrom his demeanour,
thatnot a littleof thesuccess accomplishedwas due to his cheery
conversation, which seemed to impart the strength of which
they stood so much in need. Any one of these, or numerous
other,services beingrendered, he would tarry awhile,thenwitha
kindlywave of the hand turn away and look for an opportunity
THE HOME 01-‘ REST 65
to lend some other assistance wherever it should beasked or he '
withhis alert perception deemed it beneficial.
It so happened thatI had time to observe him well beforehe
reachedme, and all idea of his beinga strangerto me, or I to him,
had vanished from my mind. I had risen from my couch, but
the half-droll, half-reproachfullook sparklingin his eyes as he
came to meet me, mademe forgetmy previousintentionto apolo-
gise if»I had committed any error in using the floral couch on
which I had taken my sleep, for I felt conscious that I had only
an indulgent friend—shall I say, father-——to deal with. As he
came up, his hand was extended to take mine, which he clasped
and shook in true fraternal greeting, gave his shoulders a very
peculiar and significantshrug, inclinedhis head towards his left
side, and lookedhumorouslyinto my e es, as he asked :
“
May I ofier my congratulationst is time I‘ ”
“
This time? ”
I repeated, taxing my memory as to where I
could possiblyhave seen him before. .
"
Now, now I ”
said he, shaking his head and one finger in a
humorouslymenacingmanner.
"
You have beennapping,and
I caught you at it.”
"
Yes, I have beensleeping,"I replied; "
but I am sorry if I
have caused you any trouble or inconvenienceby so doing.”
“
Hush, hush, hush, hush I Don't apologise,” he said ;
"
thatwhich is natural is right, and never needs to be repented
of. As to trouble and inconvenience,you parted from them as
you came through the mists, and if you wish to renew their
acquaintance, I am afraid you will be disappointed, for they
could not exist in thislife.”
“
I hope, then, that by sleeping I have not interfered with
your arrangements,for I presume you are the friend I expected
to meet me here.”
"
Yes, I am Cushna ; and as to your sleeping,why,thatwas
more an item in theprogrammethana disturbance of thesame."
“
I am glad to hear that. But, tell me, have I been sleeping
long, for I have not theleast idea ? "
"
Neitherhave I,"he replied,withanotherof thosesignificant
shrugs of theshoulders which I found to be indicativeof a vein
of humour passing through his " mind. Then he continued:
“
You see, it maybethatwe are at a disadvantagein thatrespect ;
or, on the other hand, it may be fortunate we have no idea of
time, since, in the first place, we have no clocks here, and then,
if we had, theywould not go."
"
Why not ? "
"
Let me explain. This very pleasant spot is the Home of
s
55 THROUGH THE MISTS
Rest, and all who are here oorne for thatpurpose. Now you will
understand that there was nothingextraordinary in my finding
you asleep. Well, in the long, long ago—how long I have no
idea, but probablyin theearlyyears of earth'shistory—-itis said
thatTimepaida visit to thishome, and was so delightedwiththe
facilitiesfor rest and repose that it stopped, and no one has in-
duced it to move since. That is why I cannot say how long you
slept,andalso thereasonwhyclockswouldnot go if we had them.
Is it not a good one? ”
"
Excellent! But I am surprised-—" ’
"
That is very probable," he rejoined, before I could finish
my sentence. “
Surprise is a native of this life, and whenever
you see her you willfindher facebright withpleasantsmiles,and
she is a. _very delightful companion to grow acquainted with.
When she visits theearth,she frequentlydisguises herself witha
veil of disappointment, and pays her visits in the shades of the
gleaming,so thatbut few people have any idea thatshe is one of
God's favouriteangels. But here you willsoon learn to love her,
and catch yourselflisteningfor her silveryvoicein every dell, and
lookingfor thebrightnessof her comingfrom every hill-top. No
one of the angels contributes so much to our enjoymentin this
life as she does, and her visits are always welcome and
courted." V
A
“
Under such circumstances, I can well understand that
surprises are pleasant things; but I did not thinkit possibleto
sleephere." a
'
.
“
And why not? "
he asked. “
Sleep is the bride of weari-
ncss, and so exemplaryis their attachment to each other, that
slanderhas beendisarmedbeforethem,andno suspicionhas ever
marred theirnuptial bond. Sleep sometimesis coy, butlikethe
rest of womankind, she plays the part in order to excite her
lover's wooing; and he who seeks to win her best regards, can
only gain his purpose in
THE HOME OF REST 67
expect to find an exceptionin thecase of theweariedsoul I The
conflictand thebattle over, does it not stillrequire recuperation
and sleep toregainits healthful vigour? ‘SoHe giveth His :
belovedsleep I '
andin thatsleepthebotmdaryis passedat which
wearinessis compelled to say adieu."
“
Do all persons sleep on enteringthislife? "
"
Not necessarilyI Sleep divides two states of the soul's
developments, as night divides two days. Some persons, when
theyreach this life, have not attained to sud: a standard as to
dispense withit, and theirconditionremainsmuch thesa.me as it
was before, until they are enabled to reach one of the many
homes
68 THROUGH THE MISTS
thanIfe;lIshalleverhavethepowertograsp—-howcanlhope
to move -"
"
I can fully appreciate the feeling which overpower: you,"
hesaid. "What you arel wasonce; and withalivelyrecol-
lectionof my own experience,it gives me much joyto help you at
thecommencementof your journey. As for thetimewhich must
be spent in these-studies, take no care. I told you time had
sto ped, so whatever may be necessary for the accomplishment
of '5 designin you, willnot in anywaydiminishtheremainder.
In thisthearithmeticof eternityvariesfrom thatof time-—wh
you have subtracted all the ages required to perfect your edu-
cation the infinite quantity remaining will always be the same.
Whenever you see anythingdyou do not understand, ask ; and
when you ask stand still, an do not hesitate to.wait until you
have mutered your enquiries. In thisway you will soon learn,
andtoassistinsuchexplanationwillbeasource
ofpleasure to
every soul you meet."
‘
That I have already discovered, for since my arrival I have
done nothingbut uestion every friend I have met."
"
Continue to so; you will then find that knowledge is
more easilyacquiredthan you imagine at t.”
“
I willnot forget your advice. But, me, is it customary
for newly-arrivedpersons to travel as I have done I’ "
"
The law of love, by which alone we are governed,is a very
flexibleone,"he answered, "
and adaptsitself to everyindividual
requirement; thesystem of administrationbeingwitha view to
secure the greatest results in every direction. Therefore the
watchers at the mists scrutinise every soul on arrival, not to
judge—thatbeingno part of theirduty——but to assist to thefull
extent’ of their power. They are skilled in reading character,
learn the tastes and disposition of all who pass them, and flash
their communications to central stations for the peculiar aid
required for each individual; in less time than it takes me to
explain, the most suitable provision is made, and one or more
attendants are despatched to meet the friendin the arena or on
the slopes, which is the appointed meeting-place."
“
How do they recognise the particular stranger they are
deputed to he! in all themultitude passingto and fro ? "
"
y theto theywear."
“
But where so manyare of thesame colourdo theynot make
frequent mistakes?”
“Never. The messengersengagedinthatworkaretoowell
initiated into their duties to make any error. The colours may
appearaliketo you; but tothemtherearedistinguishingshades.
THE HOME OF REST 69
eachofwhichindicatesa correspondingfeature of themind, and
having also certain peculiarities to which individual ministers
are assigned. There is no possibilityof any mistake."
“
Is thisstrictlyinfallibleas a guide? "
“
Yes. That is produced by the spiritual chemistry of the
life theyhave lived. and nothingis able to change or falsify it—-
it is a testimonywhich cannot lie. Directlywe see your dress-
the blendingof pink and blue—we know thatyou have a desire
to learn the truth and an open mind to receive it, since blue
denotes truth and pink charity. There are other indications
thatat present you would not beable to understand,which tell of
yoursearch after truth,and disappointmentin thepast, therefore
whoeversees you willbeanxious to‘ afiord all availableassistance .
in past failures. Thisis whyyou are invited to travel,
thatyou maysatisfy your thirstfor truthbyseeingit as it is."
“
I appreciate your goodness,” I replied, “
and hope you will
not find me a too troublesomestuden ."
"
We are not afraid of that; and now, if you are suficiently
rested, let me give you an insight into some of theservices we are
called upon to render to thedifierentfriendswe have entrusted to
our care in thishome."
With this he rose from the couch where he had been sitting
beside me during our conversation, and placinghis arm within
my own, led me away in the direction from which he came when
I firstsaw him.
“Was I wrong in thinkingthese are the grounds of a con-
valescent home or sanatorium? "
I asked, as we walkedalong.
"
Not very," he answered, “
and I am about to ask your
attention to themeans we employin administeringto therestor-
ationof some who are weak andhelpless.”
CHAPTER VI
A MAGNETIC caomm:
As we walked along my attention was attracted by the chiming
of a pea.lof bellsinthedistance, andsimultaneouslyan irresistible
fascination seized upon me, momentarily increasing, until at
lengthI felt as if was beingimpelled forward by some invisible
but tangible influence to accept the invitation those rhythmic
tongues were issuing far and wide. What thatinfluencewas, or
how it obtainedsuch a masteryoverme, I couldnot tell, andeven
now, withmy more extended experienceof thislife, I am unable
to explain. The sensation produced was novel, enhancing,and
indescribable. Its operation seemed to permeate my whole
being,andto exert itselfequallyfromwithinas without. Neither
was it due entirelyto myrecent arrival,for I perceived thatit had
the same efiect upon my guide as upon myself. By some un-
accountableprocess I translated the voice of those bells into an
appea.l for help and assistance which I alone had the power to
render, and thoughI had no inclinationto hasten in obedienceto
the call, I was certain thatit would not be.rightto delay. But
why should it be me? was a question that I put to myself
again and again. I was entirelyignorant of everythingsun-ound~
ingme, whywas not thesummons to many otherswalkingin the
same direction-gathering,as it were, from every visible point
of the compass? And as I thus queried I scanned the faces of
thosenearest to me, and became convinced that they too were
movingunder theimpulse of thatsame mysterious power. This
discovery served to furtherincreasemyinterest, and excite my
imaginationas to what theresult and explanationwould be.
My companion saw, and no doubt fullyunderstood, the per-
plexityI was enduring,but when I turned andwould have sought
theinterpretation, he merely smiled,and my tongue was silent.
So we went forward in obedienceto theone impulse attractingus
bothby its strange magneticpower.
Presentlyanothersource of gratificationwas afforded me, as
1-
A MAGNETIC CHORALE 7!
throughthetrees I beganto catch in thedistancebrokenglimpses
of a statelypileof buildingswhich we were steadilyapproaching.
Hitherto,I had onlyseen such, as I looked acrossthatboundless
landscape under the direction of Eusemos, but now, it was
evident thatI was _to have the opportunity of inspecting one of
the homes. of paradise at close _quarters. With this a pleasing
of excitementseizedme as I involuntarilyasked myself-
"
Will this be my home? "—a question I at the same time A
in the negative, but how I know not, unless it was
by the power of revelation which is so natural, and yet so in-
falliblya part of our personalityin thislife. Therefore I ceased
to speculate on the ownership of the home, and prepared to
examine its character as soon as circmnstances would allow of
.
my doing so.
Immediatelywe reachedtheopen plain, thecentre and crown
of which it occupied, I intuitivelyknew thatI was lookingupon
theHome of.Rest, or sanatorium,in thegroundsof which I had
enjoyedmy refreshingand rejuvenatingsleep. As the physiog-
nomy of a man affords a certain index to his character and
disposition, so the contour of this home declared at once its
nature and purpose. At a glanceI saw it was a citadel of repose,
a fortress of test, an ambuscade of joy,to every soul thatcame
thatway. Stately and grand in its unassumingmagnificenceas
if its foundationswere laid deep down withintheeternal calm of
God's omnipotence,pure and unsullied in its fabric as theinfinite
and changeless love of its Divine designer, every stone and
feature apparently throbbingwith the spirit of mercy and for-
giveness which hovered around, I felt as I gazed upon it that I
in some mannerhad solved the mystery of thatprofoundattrac-
tion bywhich I had been drawn towards such a desirable centre.
Reverenoe,gratitude, worship and awe, seemed to bethejanitors
who stood as guards at thefour towers which rose at the termin-
gating points of its stately porticoes.
So much of the buildingas was visible from where we stood,
for me to wonder at and admire its beauties,was undoubtedlya
hall of enormous proportions, its shape thatof an amphitheatre.
Three sides were flanked by spacious piazzas of equal length,
carrying out the‘design to a perfect square, the comers being
occupied by four towers which served the purpose of-
entrances
to thehall. Thestyleof architecturewas composite, thecolumns
supporting the roof of the porticoes were Corinthian, their
material more resemblingivory than marble; the plinthsupon
which theyrested were of pinkishalabaster, and massiveenough
to form thecomer-stonesof pyramids,but whereastheEgyptians
72 THROUGH THE MISTS
would have left a Sphinx-likeblank upon theirfaces, these were
panelled with exquisite bas-reliefssuch as the Grecians loved to
carve ; thepedimentswere used as galleriesfor groups ofstatuary,
in the contemplation of which the cc-nvalescent inmates of that
home mightlearn progressivelessons of thelife to which theyhad
been called. In thatself-illuminedatmospherewhich ofiered no
facilityfor the birth of shadows, from the distance at which I
stood the walls of ‘the hall appeared‘ to be built of stone of a
delicate and variable shade of green. I afterwards discovered
that this efiect was produced by a magnificent screen of elab-
orately-carved and perforated marble, draped around the hall
in folds as exquisite and soft as lace, through which the foliage
of a noble‘vine was visible. The towers rose to a considerable
height, terminatingin minarets like polished silver, from which
thebellschimedforththeirmusic;and crowning thehallrosea
majestic dome serving the double purpose of completing the
design andlightingtheinterior.
The wonderful appositeness of every feature of the scene to
each otherwas again impressed upon me ; art and nature being
blendedin such manner as to enrich theharmony. Thatgarden-
like plain so artistically dotted with flowers and shrubs would
have beenhalf-voided of its beautyhad thatnoble structure not
been there; and as for thehall, it needed thatflower bejewelled
mantle of a lawn as a fit settingwhereon to displayits matchless
perfection. Blended togetherthe beautiesof each were empha-
sised, whilethe movementsof themultitude kept the balance of
the harmony swinging. _
Cushna moved forward; and I, enraptured with the scene
and wondering what its next development would be, mechan-
ically followed, until I became comcious that it was not his
intention to enter by any of theapproachesvisible to me. Then
for a moment I wavered, as all my soul called me within that
place and I was doubtful whether he was not leading me else-
where. In an instant he divined my difliculty,and appeared to
bebyno means displeasedthereat,but assuringme he was about
to enter, led me to themain portionof thebuilding,beforehidden
from my sight, and which formed the temporary abode of those
who tarried at this home for rest and recuperation. At that
moment the bells ceased to ring, and I was glad when, without
attempting to show me the numerous apartments opening on
every hand,he motionedme to follow him alonga corridorwhich
led in the direction of the hall. At the end, drawing aside a
richly-embroideredcurtain, he ushered me at once into what I
may legitimatelycall the arena.
A MAGNETIC CHORALE 73
Shall I describe the scene which met my sight? It was a
mountain of faces on every side, and over and around us an
atmosphere of unbroken peace. I was conscious that I had
reached a goal; a period of uncertainty lay behind me. For
thetime I felt satisfied,and drew a deep breathof reliefat having
afaogmplishedsomething,I knew not what ; but my heart was
g .
The flower-carpeted floor of that spacious arena contained a
numberof lounges composed of various aromaticmosses, softns
air, each one designed to produce its own peculiar efiect mag-
netically. Cushna ‘drew my attention to the different odours
theyexhaled, and invited me to throwmyself upon themto test
their comfort, and,'as I complied, brieflyexplained that mag-
netism is the strength and nourishment of the spiritual body.
Then he led me to a vacantseat, and left me in charge of a friend,
who, he said, would interpret the chorale to me.
Rapidly that spacious auditorium was filling up its seats.
Tier after tier, rising one above another,contributed to thatsea
of faces, upon every one of which happiness had set her name in
living characters. From each of the four entrances a steady
stream poured in until the hall was full, ceasing when just one
seat remained for the lastwho entered. Thedresses worn were
of many colours, but only of the lighter shades; all serving to
make the groupings as picturesque as they were varied. The
lowerseats were filledby childrenwearingrobesof spotlesswhite,
or tints of the most imaginabledelicacy; some of‘ the wearers
being of such tender age as to make me wonder how theywere
kept in the quiet order which everywhere prevailed.
Behindthese, thousandsofyouthsand maidenswere arranged
accordingtosomemethodI didnotunderstand. Abovethese,again
were, womenin greaterproportions still; and
finall%,rank after
rank of men to theouter edge of thatwide circle. very nation
upon earthhadits legitimaterepresentationin thatthrong,andall
were so disposed that each complexion added its own influence
to thebalance of thepicture. But themost pleasingthoughtof
all was that every voice would say
“
Our Father"
to the self-
same God, and feel at heart that they were members of one
family. The Jew was not conscious of election, the Gentilehad
lost his hatred, the caste restriction of the Brahmin was broken
down, thehand of theArab was no more againsthis fellow. The
Hindoowoman had dofied her veil,theMahommedanhad lost his
bigotry,Greek and Roman thoughtnot of deadlyfeuds, thehand
of theZulu held no assegai, the Indian had no tomahawk, while
theChristian had sheathedhis sword. Romanist and Protestant
’
note "sounded.
74 THROUGH THE msrs
gavethepreferencetoe’aehother,theEpiscopalianboastedofno
apostolic succession, and the narrow-minded sectarian sat side
byside withthewhilomatheist,whomhe had beforeconsignedto
fireeternal. In such a multitude, withsud: a bondunitingthem,
I could fancy that I was not very farvremoved from the inner
shrine of heaven.
Was it the associationin which I found myself that started
such a. train of reflection in my mind? I know not, perhaps
nevershallknow;
butitdaoft1erwardst]rmesolveditseHl;1r;tfomhn-
promptu hony, in ucing t never-to- orgotten
chorale. Is¥h:d)scarce1yreached its termination before the key
In common with those around me, I raised my eyes to the
_
dome, where a dove of tintless electric brilliance‘poised itself on
outstretched wing,as if to hush thetremor of its rapidflight. In
its beakit held somethingwhich flashedand blazed witha glory
thatpaled the lustre of its carrier, and added perceptibly to the
hallowed light which bathed the hall. With one impulse, but
withouta sound, those thousandsrow and bowed theirheads in
reverent adoration; and when thesilencehad been hushed into’
an awful calm thequickenedsense of thesoul could almosthear,
thatjewelflutteredon theair, andlike a flashof lightningdying
from our sight the dove had disappeared.
Steadily, as a bubble on the air becalmed, thatbrilliant
globule floated,
A mcnrxrrc CHORALE .
75
deeper or higher tones, according to the size of each circle and
the speed with which it moved. The efiect of this blendingof
the bass and tenor was like the mufied music of the ocean's roll
when heard from some distant inland hill. The melody was too
sweet to set to words withoutdetractingfrom its cadence ;_ and
yet, as I listened to its holyinspiration,its greatest charm being
theperfect unison of such diverse nations,religions,and tongues,
I felt thatheaven had accomplisheda triumphin thesetting to
such music the immortal poem of Israel's sweetest singer, and
that I was listening-"to a challenge to earth and heaven to
“
Behold how good and how pleasant it is for brethrento dwell
together in unity I " '
The invitation issued, and the gamut of their variations
being exhausted, the circles ceased their flight, met, embraced
and finally spread themselves as a canopy across the dome.
Then succeeded a ‘duet of the blue and amber ofierings of the
youthsand maidens, risingin thevolumeof its gradualcrescendo,
the sweeps of blue soprano, and curves of’ amber contralto
waking \sweet echoes with the decla.ration—" It is like the
precious ointment upon thehead, thatran down unto the beard
V
—even to Aaron's beard-—thatwent down to the skirts of his
garment."
At'this point the women joined their rosetinted
throbs of a second soprano to swell the trio—-“ As the dew of
Hermon, and as thedew which descended upon themountains of
Zion." Then the full chorus pealed, a thousand children con-
tributingthe brillianceof theirnntinted music, as thecanopy of
circles re-formed, and moved to lend their deep foundation to
the strain.
t
It sounded like a choir of angels singing, with the voice of
far distant thunders, and heaven's own Bourdon serving as. a
double bass to the orchestra of the oceans -roll. All harmonies,
above, beneath,around, with all the chords and voices nature
can command, beingrepresentedin theuniversal confirmation-
“For there the Lord commanded His blessing, even life for
evermore." .
'
The chorus swelled around us with such majestic force and
intensity that every colour flashed its echo toienchance the .
‘glory, until‘the hall was bathed with the
‘perfume of thanks-
giving; then gatheringover thearena,as e final beat of the
lastbarwasreached,aha.rmonyofshadesassweetasthatof
sound was formed, and the cloud ascended as an oflering of
gratitude,for our Father’slove.
Thedomewasnotyetclearofthatprismaticcloudbeforea
‘.
76 THROUGH THE MISTS
chord of even sweeter music fell upon our ears, and I perceived
that the jewels on our heads were chiming the acceptance and
"Amen"
of Gods
Up to this point Cushna had assumed the directorship from
the centre of the arena; being surrounded by a number of
young men and women who moved in graceful order with the
rhythmof themusic, as if in working out some
in a mystic dance- On making enquiry I was informed that
this chorus was but an introduction to the ceremony, sung to
aid those special attendants in producing a suitable magnetic
condition into which to introduce the patients; and looking
intentlyin obedienceto thewish of my instructor, I saw thatall
the
magnetisrns had not ascended; some had been distilled
—-shall say ether-ealised?—and filled the arena like the least
suspicion of a cloud-—-and yet, it was not cloud, since such a
designation conveys the idea of an unsubstantial vapour which
could have been carried hence upon the arms of motion; this
had weight and body through which the attendants moved to
and fro as bathersmove throughshallow water, withtheexcep-
tion thatthisscarce visible somethingseemed to oflerno resist-
ance. Here is a metaphor which willoonveythe idea of what
itseemedtobe: itwaslikethespectr-eofalake,whiclrinits
restless wanderingshad been conjured to pause for a time, that
the spirits of some children of mortality might bathe therein,
and wash thelast traces of theearthaway.
My attention was here called to a man who entered the hall
from the corridor through which I came. His tall and stalwart
form was clothedin a robe of electric grey, over which he wore
a flowing mantle of blue, lined with amber, and gorgeously
embroidered from his loins downwards. His face, complexion,
and hearing.reminded one of an Arab sheik, except that
ha htineas was here re by calm humility. Around his
h , waist, wrists, and ankles he wore circlets of some
amalgam, set with gems that emitted rays of light, thereby
formingsixcirclesofhalo, which invested himwithaome
mysterious power.
As he stepped into thearena a flash of welcome greeted him
from thatimmense assembly. He glanced round thehall, just
"asaskilledconductorwillsurveyhisorchestratoseeifallis
ready for the baton’s wave ; reaching the point where Cushna
awaited him,he merelybowed his head, at which the attendants
turned and left theball by thepassage at which he had entered.
Here I took the opportunity to ask:
“
Who is this? ”
A MAGNETIC CHORALE 77
“
Siamedes,themagneticadeptwho willconductthechorale."
"
An Oriental, I presume? "
H
Assyrian}: -
We had no time for furtherconversation. Scarcelyhad that
single word been spoken before the Assyrian raised his hand,
as if to call his audienceto attention ; for an instant it remained
poised, whilea luminous sea-green cloud enveloped it, thenwith
a majesticsweep he struck a circle, throwingthe halo in the air
above him. A pause, and then another sweep repeated again
and yet again, each motion addinganothercircle to expand and
follow its predecessor. Only a pulse throb marked the interval
between each beat, but that was long enough to change the
colour, as he desired to change the note to form that bugle-call
with which he summoned his army to march to victory.
The challenge had’ not died away before a jubilantresponse
was floatingin the air. It was a martial strain, and one could
almost fancy theyheard the steady and measured tramp of the
approaching battalions as they came in the strength and con-
fidence of their cause to certain triumph. The gentle crescendo
grew in force and volume as each succeeding wave of magnet-
ism rolledinto the expanse above us. 'l‘heirform was no longer .
'
circle and curve and flash,as in theopeningchorus, but following
the example of theAssyrian,each contributioncame in vapoury
strains to form thenovel harmonics of thattheme.
Waves of primrose and blue met and kissed each other into
the life-chord for which they had been born, then blended in
theirnext developmentto form the glory-green of hope ; clouds
of crimson strengthfrom men took to theirembracesthe white
purity of the children’s love, and nursed them into tones of
sympathy; then each one yielding to the other, united in the
pinkof charity. Brown and rose, mauveand cerise, auburnand
grey, green and gold washed over each other, embraced and
eddied round, as each produced the note desired; and having
thus achievedthe first purpose of existence, theyadded to their
music the perfume of duty faithfullyfulfilled, until the air was
weighted with fragrant sounds, changing in volume and in kind
with every chord and combination.
At length the hall itself was full; perfume was crushing
colour and colour crowding sound, but that grand march of life
seemed only half complete. Again the adept raised and swept
his hand, this time throwinginto the transparent clouds around
us variegatedsparksbright withelectricglow,likejewelsflashing
in the sun. An instant’s pause, during which the magnetism
of that host changed the form of its appearance, then perfume,
.
A MAGNETIC CHORALE '79
home, when a nation meets to hanourlthe return of an exiled .
chief or king.
Ashe spread his hands to heaven, every knee’ around
80 THROUGH THE MISTS
No need to wait longerwhen clothedwithsuch authorityand
sanction. He approached a couch upon which lay a young
woman deformed almost past recognition of the human form.
She had appliancesto nearlyevery part of her body,not fitted to
help or render support, but ratherto torture and force her into
dwarfish and unnatural shapes. The eyes had been purposely
turned to make her sight uncertain, while her limbs were com-
pressed and malformed in order to prevent the possibilityof
unaided movement.
Let it behere distinctlyrememberedthatthisdeformity was
spiritual, but to my astonishment at that time, confirmed by
later and considerablyextended experience, I found that in the
persons of these recent arrivals from earth, for whose benefit
and assistance the chorales are specially held, spiritual restric-
tions, arbitrarilyforced upon an enquiring mind with a view of
preventingit fromoverstepping dogmaticlimits,produceupon the
soul a disfigurementin growthas tangible and real as if they
were surgical appliancespurposelydesignedtoefiectsuch horrible
shapes, and the Great Fatherin I-Iis all-embracingprovision has
designed this process of restoration that such oppressed and
strugglingsouls should be at once restored to their normal con-
dition, and enter upon theimmortal life free from thedisabilities
under which they have hitherto laboured. Further, let it not
besupposedthatI am seekingto create a poeticfiction,for which
purpose I allow my fancy to roam in search of novelties or
situations; truth is far more strange than any such ideal the
mind could frame, and in this record I am satisfied to state the
simple facts of God's eternal law, as I have found—and you will
find by-and-by.
My descriptions may jar upon your senses by theirseemingly
vulgarmateriality; theymayeven cause a shock bywhat appears
a coarse portrayalof, and as beingantagonisticto, your cherished
conception of the nature of this life. For that I cannot hold
myself responsible. My attempt is to translate into earth's
prosaic vocabulary, so far as circumstances and means will
allow, some slight idea of the realities and truths to be found in
the poem and the music of this after-life. If the result is but a
thick and guttural jargon, void of melody, and disappointing
to your hopes, blame me not ; the extent of my desire is but to
indicate a very brief outline of what the picture might be if the
facilitieswere at my disposal ; but that outline is true to scale,
as you yourself will find it one day by experience. Should you
attempt to re-translate my record from the physicalinto the
spiritual, thatyou may comprehend the truth as I beholdit, let
A MAGNETIC CHORALE .81
me ofier one suggestion, by attention to which atleast half your
difficulty will be cleared away. Death works one change, and
only one. It is this:
In the process of dissolution everything is altered except
yourself ; old thingspass away and all thingsbecome new, but
you willremain unmoved, unchanged, as theone world makes its
exit and another its entrance in the theatre of your life. This
tranformation is effected in the twinkling of an eye when the
wand of the Magican—Death,is waved. The material will fade
away “like the baseless fabric of a vision," ever after to appear
as a vague and shadowysubstance which must be sought for and
be but dimlyvisible to thenewlyacquiredstate; whilethatworld
upon whose eternal shores your feet will rest, willleap from the
realm of vision into a solid and startling reality,having founda-
tions which never can be removed’since theyare laid deep down
inthe bosom of infinity,and whose inhabitants have solved the
birth-pangsof immortality. Bear this in mind, and read the
following pages in the light of this suggestion, then you will
understand why I have not hesitated to use that language-—
however unworthyfor the otherreasons—which conveys to you
the idea thatthescenes among which I move are, to me at least,
asreal and solid as the earth at present appears to you.
Just another thought which offers food for meditation and
refiection and may help to remove theimpression thatmy state-
ment of spiritual deformity is erroneous _and imaginative.
Parental profligacy, immorality, ignorance, accident, and a
hundred other pre-natalinfluencesproduce physicaland mental
distortions in a child. Why then should it be illogicalto assert
thatin likemanner, spiritualerrors, unnaturalideas, and bigoted
restrictions, generate corresponding malformations and dis-
iigurementsin thesoul, when it is set free from thefleshin which
its shape and linearnents have been moulded? Whether you
may be able to satisfy yourself on the reasonableness of this
point or not, the fact remains the same, and the time is not far
distant when you will recognise its truth and appreciate the
j tice of thelaw by which it is governed. Be not deceived, the
diseasesofthesoulresultingfrompersonalsinare onlyremovedand -
cured by slowandpainfulprocesses; but theunavoidabledefects
caused by other's sin, or force of circumstances, have a speedy
rectificationinsuchchoralesas thattowhichIdrawyourattention.
But to return to my disgression. '
.
Very narrowlydid I watch the Assyrian as he applied him-
self to the removal of those torturing restrictions.‘
At the first,
I must confess, it appeared to be a useless labour of love upon
E
82 THROUGH THE MISTS
which he was engaged, since there was scarcely an indication
of life remaining in the sufierer. Presently,however, she gave
,
evident signs thatshe was stillsensible to the pain theycaused,
but even then I thought it would be greater kindness to let her
die in peace ratherthan disturb her when too late to save ; for
in thatmoment of sympathyI had forgotten that it was impos-
sible for her to die any more, since deathitself was dead. With
more tender care than a mother could have shown to an ailing
.e child,thesoft andgentlehandsof thatphysicianloosedand threw
aside each bond, untilat lengththelast was taken away and she
lay at perfect liberty. She felt the freedom, and, glad to make
an efiort to use it, endeavoured, with considerable success,‘ to_
turn, yawned, and stretched out her arms ; thenfindingthatall
restraint was gone she finallystraightenedherself upon thecouch,
and rolling over fell at once into an easy and refreshing sleep.
The whole movement was the spontaneous action of a person,
who, waking from a troubled dream before suflicient rest had
been obtained, and feeling the terror of the nightmare broken,
at once sinks back again to sleep without‘fully beingroused to
consciousness. .
With what interest and sympathy Siamedes watched her
progress can better be imaginedthan described, untilshe lay in
thatquiet and comfortable repose to which she had hithertobeen
a stranger. Thenhe wassatisfiedand turnedtogivehis attention
to the next case. ’
All my powers of observation were attractedto the one indi~
vidual ; the further work of liberationwould be-more or less a
repetition of what had already been accomplished,and as there
was much I could not understand, I judged a fittingopportunity
had arrived to seek some explanation; therefore, turning to my
companion, I asked: '
.
“
Will’ you explain what these bonds are, and how such
deformities are possible here ? ”
"
I have no doubt," he replied, “
but that thisservice is full
of wonder and amazement to you. It mustrof necessity be so,
until you grow familiarwith our law and mode of existence-
untilyou learn how scrupulously thislife is a corollaryof theone
you leave behind. Hypocrisy, sham and cant are masks which
are torn off as you come through the mists, and the real
man—whether base or noble——stands undisguised, able to
read and to be read of all men. With us no subterfuge is
availablefor theconcealmentof unpleasantdeformity,no matter
whetherit arises from your own sin or theneglectand criminality»
of another. Everythingis known.
A MAGNETIC CHORALE 83
"
To thepractisedeyes of Siamedes, Cushna, and thousands
of such ministers engagedin theirnoble work,thereal authorand
source of every such malformationcan be told at a glance, and
by an inexorablelaw, impossibleto evade, the penaltyand pun-
ishmentof every wrong falls upon the offender. In thisyou will
see there is a balancing of accounts and a righteous retribution
for the deeds done in" thebody. It is a sad mistake to say that
death levels all men, and that this life is a new one, -while the
record of theold one has beenwipedout withthesponge of death.
All life is a continuation of that which had gone before; and
entering here you have but turned over the page to commence
anotherchapter, the story and plot are the same.
"
In thisyouwillfindthatthemistakes of thepast arerectified,
overdue accounts have to be settled, and compensationawarded
to those who have unjustlysufiered. Men are here weighed in
the balances of God,
apipraised by a valuer whose judgment is
righteous, and
aglainstw ose verdict there is no "appeal but that
of repentance. on willfind no briberyand.corruption; every-
thingis sternlyreal ; allmen andthingsare justwhat theyappear
to be.
“
The restrictions binding these friends have been worn in
violence to their better‘judgment, but lackingpower to conquer
the forces opposed to them,theyhave becomevictimsof circum-
stances, and have passed theirlives in an irksomebondage, being
dominated by willsand usages theycould not successfully resist.
If theyhad given a ready consent to custom and dogma, followed
with unquestioning faith where others led, and been content to
crush theright to think,theywould have developed therequired
littleness of soul, without necessity to apply restraint. But
they recognised the God within, and refused to still the voice
calling them to newer, nobler, higher duties, for the welfare of
their kind. .
“
Their propheticutterances were dangerousto a craft,hence,
thegag must be applied ; theireyes saw visions of coming glory
for the weary and oppressed, therefore, their sight must be dis-
torted, lest theinterests of a class beendangered; theintelligent
vigour of the child proclaimed a leaderin the man, and church
and dogma forged letters to cripple his power, and force the
noble stature of thegiant into the contortions of the dwarf. You
can see it was a battleto thedeath,noble liveshave beenhindered
from work——wa.sted, yea worse ; for whereas theywere ordained
for construction and deliverance, being forcibly tampered‘ with
they have been perverted by party bigotry,and compelled to
struggle for existence instead of scattering the blessings they
84 THROUGH THE MISTS
were designed to carryito theirfellows. The result is to be seen
in thewrecks whichlie beforeus. Wasted opportunities, wasted
intellects, wasted lives! For all these thingsthose who are
responsiblemust be brought to judgment.
"
Guiltmust berighteouslypunished,whiletheexcess of pain
which the victim has endured must receive its legitimate com-'
pensation. With‘ the punishment we have nothing to do, the
natural law of thislife is fullyadequate to that,and every guilty
soul will reap the just harvest of the seed he has sown. lt is
that we may take part in the compensation thatwe are here.
Justice demands that an instant liberationshall be given from
those bands, and life must be lavished upon the sufferers until
we have helped to build up and invigorate theirsouls, theneach
one shall reach the full development for which it was designed,
and for which it wept and struggled, but was prevented by the
actionof oppressors.”
“
But where do we find mercy and forgivenessin theadminis-
tration of such inexorablejustice? "
I asked.
“
Every attribute of God has its legitimate sphere of opera-
tion," he replied, "
and the inviolate maintenance of each in its
appointed order is essential to the continuance of the almighty
and all-wise perfection of our Father,but it is impossiblefor any
one of these to usurp the jurisdictionof another. Suppose, for
a moment, that mercy was allowed to withstand justice and
prevailin any singleinstance; theimmediate result would be an
injustice; since to show mercy to the ofiender would be an
injustice to the offended, unless, in turn, you show him mercy
too. Carrythisto its logicalsequence and you willbecompelled
to abolish justice in favour of mercy, in which case punishment
and retribution would become an impossibility; law would be
a dead letter, and sin, freed from fear or restraint, would revel
in its license. But when we see the workingof the attributes of
God according to His Divinely appointed plan, we find how
infinitelywise’has been the adaptationto the necessities‘ of the
human familyin its development.
f‘ Take thoseto whichyou have referred—-Mercy,Justice, and
Forgiveness. Mercy operates on -earth, where patience, for-
bearance,and long-sufferingare so much needed during theearly
stages of theconscious existence of thesoul. Imaginethe catas-
trophe and disaster which would ensue if unerring justice was
enthroned at_ such a crisis in life's history—would there be any
subsequent immortality to record? Unconscious, practically,
of his whence and whither, an untutored experimentalist as to
his powers and capabilities,failureand mistake. thelawby which
A MAGNETIC CHOHALE 85
he shall develop and learn to understand himself, uncertain if it
be right to gratify even the most ardent of his longings, filled
withfear and tremblingat the forces surroundinghim, a volume
of nature beforehim of whose heiroglyphicshe is ignorant though
called upon to read, himself the most profound mystery among
themillionotherpmblems—undersuch circumstances, how often
would earthbeswept clearof -man if justice was appliedto every
transgression of the law: that justice which is perfect as its
Framer ? .
“
No! Thisattributecannot beappliedto such an undeveloped
condition; what men could be fotmdwild enough to imaginethat
it is? Is not ratherthe absence of justice so manifest as to be
used for an argument against theexistence of a God, whileit has
become a proverb among the nations that ‘
Villainyis the heir
to Fortune, but Honesty marries Miss.’
Oplgression,tyranny
and persecution are rampant, that '
Might is 'ght '- is the uni-
versal motto, practically both of politics and religion ; the
affluent and wealthy are the honoured of the nations, the poor
and needy, the curse and bane. Is thisright ? you will ask me,
and I reply, a thousand times no! But even the injustice of
man is not strong enough to cause God to change the action of
His attributes, and substitute Justice for Mercy upon the earth.
“
This universal custom is wrong, and man has gainedenough
knowledgeto know thatit is so ; but God is longasufieringthat
theoppressor may be able to redeem himself beforehe is brought
into judgment. Mercy pleads,whilehope of restitutionremains ;
but once let the law take hold of the offender, and the issue
passes from the court of Mercy to Justice. The mists marking
the boundary line between that state and this. also form the
vestibule of the hall of judgment, and every soul must pass
through and receive its righteous verdict before it enters here.
Mercy has no power to cross that threshold; the soul stands
alone before that inscrutable tribunal, its own witness, its own
judge, hence its life deeds pass thesentence from whichno appeal
is possible."
"
But forgiveness ; what of that1’ ”
I asked.
“
That follows later,” he replied. “
The penalties enforced
bythatJusticeare forwrongscommittedagainstyourfellow-man;
such sins must be redeemed, theyare never forgiven, for no one,
not even God, has power to forgive a trespass against any other
than Himself, such being contrary to His own law. When the
penaltyfor sins againsthis fellowhas beenrighteotnslydischarged,
then the repentant soul has power to ask forgiveness for his sin
against God, which is always freely granted ; but it is requisite
86 THROUGH THE MISTS
thathe be first reconciledto his brother,for only '
he thathath
clean hands and a pure heart '
can ascend to the presence of God
where Christ willsecure his full remission.”
I was silent before the unexpected elucidation of a ditliculty
which had always perplexed me, for I knew.my instructor was
not expounding his opinions, but actual facts which were very
widely opposed to all the ideas and teachings I had ever heard
on earth, and yet they are fraught with the most momentous
interest to every soul who has to pass themists, andin thedepths
of my being It yearned again to discover some means whereby
I could reach earth, and make the revelation for the benefit of
theblindedand theignorant. My friend,however,did not leave
me long to myself, but called my attention to what was passing
in the arena. .
Every'bandage and restriction had been removed, and all
the patientslayfree from the bondswithwhich ea.rthhad bound
them. The order of procedure had beento take themost serious
case first, and so on through the whole, that the resuscitation
of all might be accomplished as simultaneously as possible.
Very earnestlydid I watch the gradual absorption of thatmys-
teriousspectrelakeinto whichtheyhad beencarried,thewithered
limbs and contorted frames expandingand growing as theyfed
upon thatstrangenourishment,untileverytraceofcolourhad been
abstracted from the atmosphere in the vicinity of the couches
whereon they lay. Then rays of magnetismwere drawn from
appointed individuals, according as the msyrian required to
form some combinationspecially adapted to each case, these in
turn being-broken at themoment when the first tracesof colour
seemed to evolve from the sleepers. This, I was informed,
afiorded the naturalindicationof the condition of each soul.
By theexercise of thatmysticpower bywhich he weaved the
unique decorations of that hall, Siamedes now resolved the
flowers, fruit, and bannerets round the arena and seats, and
called them to bathe the sleepers with the mellowed influences
produced by the combinations they had formed. The mag-
netism evolved from each individual had a sympatheticattrac-
tion for the corresponding colour called into service, and was
drawn in billowyclouds around the couches, over which they
rolled to and fro in rhythmictime with the music born of the
returning motion. Sweet and soothing was the lullaby it
ghanted, and the silent hush of the attendant thousands was a
tting accompanimentto the grateful psalmp.
Without a sign or movement from the director, who calmly
watched the scene, the melody concluded, every thirsty soul
A MAGNETIC CHORALE 37
had drank its fill, and the waves of life which yet remained,
lifted above our heads, leaving the sleepers "
beautifulin all
the sonl’s expa.nsion,”and waiting for nothingbut a wakingkiss
to rouse themto a life of which as yet theywere unconscious.
The work was done, the victory accomplished; but the
victor betrayed no pride at the conquest in his deep humility.
I did not need to be told that the final number of that life-
giving chorale was at. hand; but what new powers would it
develop ? Were there still phases of magnetic wonders to be ‘
revealed? other mysteries to be displayed? The thought of
the miracle wrought in the condition of those sleepers filledme
withhope thatI hadmisunderstoodthemeaningof my instructor
'
g theexclusion of mercy from his life ; and, turning to
him, I pointed to the couches, and asked:
“
Is it not mercy whichhas beenshown to these,in liberating
themfrom their condition of sufiering? ”
“
Not by any means," he replied.
"
By what name do you call it then? "
"
Justice. Hitherto they have been the victims of an
injustice theywere powerless to withstand; we have only been
theinstruments of helping to terminate the effects of the wrong,
and introducing theminto a commensurate compensation. You
judg'e‘of justice in the light of your earth impressions: let me
advise you to get rid of that idea. Justice rightly dispensed is '
justness, and such you willever find it withus ; it is the quality
of beingjust carried to perfection, withevery attendant circum-
stance taken into consideration; thinkof it as such, and you will
love its righteousness, in which there is no shade of fickleness,
favouritismor partiality.”
“
Would you not call it justice tempered with mercy? "
“
Nol Strict justice needs no tempering. You have been
in thehabit of thinkingof justice as necessarilyallied to oppres-
sion. It is so on earth, but you willnot find thathere, therefore
you have to learn that with us it means strict tightness, and if
you add any mercy to that on behalfof either party, the adult-
eration produces injustice."
I could see that the error had been mine, due to a miscon-
ception and misinterpretaton of theword accordingto the earth
impressions ; theshadow which had for a time passed across the
firmament of my heaven was dissovled by his explanation, and
my heart again was glad.
The work was complete. Siamedes spread his hands to give
his thanks to God, while every knee again _was bowed as the
joyous flashes winged theirflight. Then, reverentlydismantling
'88 THROUGH THE MISTS
his shoulders of thathalo, he spread it on the air to receive the
throbs of praise and adoration that pealed like a great Amen,
with which it ascended to the Father. ,_
Still thataudiencefingered, the silencegrowing momentarily
more profound ; but I knew theywere waiting for the benedic-
tion that would rouse those sleepers to the consciousness of the
life upon which they had unknowinglyentered—to the recog-
nition of the restoration which had taken place—to the realisa-
tion of the fact that death had touched them,and in thattouch
shackleshad fallenaway,whose weight beforetimehad exhausted,
their energies in a painful but unsuccessful struggle.
What a revelation! It would be a greater surprise than I
myself had experienced. What were their surroundings when
thetideof consciousness ebbedawayand the cloud of oblivionfell
upon them? What a gulf lay between that sleeping and the
waking! How would they realise its certainty—how be con-
vinced of its fact ? Would not thewaking be a dream—-a fairy
dream——more enchanting than the imagination ever conjured
up before? It was a time of supreme suspense to me to
watch that advent into theknowledgeand realisation of immor-
tality,and every sense I possessed was on thealert to follow its
development. ‘
It was not long delayed. The walls before me opened, and
from that are of light crowning the zenith of the pathon which
I stood to contemplate the celestial landscape, 3. flood of glory
fell into the hall, like a harbinger and forerunner of a more
resplendent presence still. I looked, and down the halo-viaduct
beheld a chariot as of burnished silver—flying——drawn by four
steeds of transparent creamy whiteness, gifted with thespeed of
the winds of a hurricane. Time had not opportunity for birth
beforetheequipagewas in our midst, then,pausingfor a moment
while one of its riders stepped into the hall, it turned and dis-
appeared. The glory-road was then withdrawn, the walls were
closed, and my attention was riveted upon the stranger.
He was a young man, scarcely more than a youth; graceful
and noble. The first impression conveyed to my mind was the
strange combination of the innocence of the child with the
wisdom of the sage which formed a very striking feature in his
person. I loved him the instant I beheld him. His presence
inspired my confidence, forbade the approach of fear, but also
whispered a caution against presumptuous assumption. In
him were blended strengthand gentlenesslike a bed of down on
a granite rock, while he ‘emphasised every quality a man would
desire to find in a cherished friend. From his eyes love and
A MAGNETIC CHORALE 89
patiencestreamed in a steady, ebbless flow, his mouth breathed
the fragranceof fidelity and aflection, upon his shoulders rested
the mantle of condescension, and his waist was bound with the
girdle of constancy. He was a monarch, but his kingship was
of service, and his prowess had been gained in lifting up the
fallen.
For a brief moment he paused to receive and return the
salutation which greeted him, then proceeded to execute his
commision by the bestowal of the kiss "which should break the
seal of thatfinalsleep and usher the sleepers into the day which
knows no eventide. Over one and then another he bent his
radiant form, loosing the influence of the refreshing spell which
stillcaressed them,and as theireyes openedupon thebewildering
scene around,he caughteachnew-bom soulinhis strong embrace,
lifted it to his feet, and bade it welcome into a life of sympathy
and compensation. The revelation and recognition of the truth
were simultaneous. It was simplya glanceof enquiringwonder,
followed by a smileof inexpressiblejoy,and all was over.
With one impulse the audiencerose and sang anotherchorus
—this time it was a welcome home, answered by a pathetic
doxology from thankfulhearts, the theme of which, words and
music, I have tried in vain to learn, and then that Magnetic
Chorale was complete.
As the congregation dispersed the new comer lingered in the
hall in conversation with the Assyrian, and I asked my‘ com-
panion :
"
Who is he P "
“
MyhaneneI "
he replied.
CI-IAPTERVII
THE D008 0!’ HOPE AJAR
THE multitude had departed, the hall was nearly empty, the
still bewildered initiates had received the congratulations of
personalfriends and retired to the home from which they had
been so recently carried, the three chiefs remaining the sole
occupantsofthearena; but Ilingeredinmyseat,cherishinga
hope I would not breathe to my companion on account of its
audacity,yet wildlythinkingthatit mightbe gratifiedb some
fortuitous circumstance or unimaginable coincidence. could
not hold myself responsible for its presence, since it came upon
me unsolicited,unexpectedand unprepared—oneof thosesudden
incursions of desire, which, coming on with.a flood, carries the
heart away upon its torrent before resistance is possible, even
were such advisable; but when it came, and I realised the
pleasure of its anticipation,I had no wish to thinkof opposition,
but rather clung tenaciouslyto the idea as if it were the secret
and the key of life. It also resembled a flood in a secondary
manner-—its force was spent in its first wild rush; but as the
moments flew by its current subsided, down, down, and down,
untilthe tiny stream trembledupon thepoint of stagnation,and
theeddy of reactionwhispered all was over. I rose to take my
reluctant departure, when a tongue of light darted towards us
from thelittle group, and my companion said :
Myhanenewould be pleasedto_speakwithyou.”
My expiring hope—my wilddesire was granted. _
I was glad that I had risen when the message came: it
lessened the delay with which I answered it He came to meet
me at theinstant, and side by side, his arm around me, and his
hand affectionately laid upon my shoulder, we approached
Cushna and the Assyrian. As we met, and his arms encircled
me, he spoke but two words 2
"
My brother!”
but when he had
finished there was nothing"more to say——1anguage.had been
exhausted, and comprehension was incapable'
of grasping a
wider expanse.
'
so
THE DOOR OF HOPE AJAR 91
~
Had there been a discord in my past experience? If so, it
was obliterated from my memory by the music of his voice ; if
I had sufiered heartache,it was eradicated,and thewoundhealed
under the influenceof that balm of greeting; if my hopes had
felt a blightingfrost of disappointment,a rich harvest of fruition
sprang into existence under the warmthof that embrace. The
words are not new to earth, but men pronounce them with a
sharp metallic sound; the resonant fullness can only be estim-
ated when heard in conjunction with the perfect rendering
of the music to which I listened. It was a chord that, once
struck, can never die away. It fell into my soul likea plummet
into the ocean, waking in its first plunge a deep and lingering
monotone, but as it sank a chime of melody arose whose virgin
song must echo and re-echo till every fathomin that shoreless
sea of life is filled with the harmony which has been born of
sympathy. Myhanene was silent, as if listening to the rever-
beratious rolling around us ; I was overwhelmed with the stu-
pendous vistas ot the possibilityof feeling, the flood-gates of
which he threwwide open by theutterance of those two words.
Had I thepower, I would not have dared to speak, and thus
assassinate such melody as his voice produced. So brief in its
delivery, it was yet the longest and most eloquent discourse to
which I had ever listened. Even now I am but just able to
comprehend its outline ; to fullyassimilateit will be the study
of eternity. Its echoes are still ringing through the corridors
of my being,soundingthe keynote of my every joy,and will so
continue until I can bear the stillsweeter music of the voice of
Himin whose utterance lies the full chorus of theeternal psalm,
whose lip oneearthgave form such sounds no otherhas had the
glowerto imitate, and who in heaven has skillto wake thestrains
vine.
The Assyrian put an end to my contemplationby askingme
if I had enjoyed the Chorale. k
“
I a.m scarcely in a condition to express an intelligent
opinion on anything,"I replied. “I am in a maze of bewilder-
ment, to which every feature and development of this life con-
tribdtes,renderingme unableto findwords, thoughts,or emotions
capable of adequatelyexpressingmy feelings."
“— I quite understand your position," he responded. “
For-
tunately, you are not expected at present to systematically
appropriate all you see ; but you willacquire the abilityto do
so as you proceed. This ceremony afiords an illustrationas to
the methods we employ for correcting one of the injustices of
earth, as well as the compensation which results to those who
92 THROUGH THE MISTS
have nobly tried to do their duty even when their efiects have
been frustrat ." l
“
Duty would be an easy task," I said, "if a brief vision of
such a consummation could be granted in a lull of the battle,
or during the time of the disappointed warrior’s weeping. But
I would liketo ask if you generallyreceive such visible responses
to your prayers in thislife as thatcloud which fell upon you after
the invocation? ”
“
My brotherI "—-it was Myhanene who replied——“No
fervent prayer should be possible either here or on the earth
without its definite and visible reply. When, in the other life,
you preferred a request to your fatheror a friend, did you not
expect such an answer? "
“
Undoubtedly, from our fellow-man; but then we each
occupied a similarcondition; God beinga spirit, we have looked
for His replyin a. spiritual sense.”
“
You forget thatyour petition was ofiered for your benefit,
and thatyourbeingmaterialnecessitated a material reply. For
instance, when you prayed for food to relieve a famine-stricken
district, you would require Wheaten bread for the sustenance of
the body, not spiritual food to strengthenthe soul."
"
Certainly ! and God would answer that prayer by putting
it into thehearts of Hispeopleto contributetowards thepurchase
of such food.”
"
Do you thinkyou honour God by calling those His people
who refrain from doing a simple act of humanity until He puts
pressure upon them; should not a fellow-feeling have prompted
it without appealing to God for assistance in the matter? "
“
I agree with you in that, but as every good gift proceeds
from Him,such a result would be considered an answer to our
request."
“But you have no direct evidence that your prayer rose
higher thantheroof of theroom in which it was breathed. What
you consider an answer from God was nothing more than an
act of humanityon the part of your fellow-creatures. The Jews
would not have been satisfied without an oral authoritativeand
unequivocal reply.”
"
That was in the days of the oracle, but you must be cog-
nizant of thefactthatsuch has long since ceased, and its revival
would be regarded as unnatural and contrary to the present
Divine methodof procedure.”
"
Not so i Say rather that it has ceased because of the
unnatural and erroneous teachingswhich have gained the ascené
dency. God is '
the same yesterday, to-day, and forever,‘ and
THE noon or HOPE AJAR 93
so long as He is God, ‘
the thingwhich hath been,is thatwhich
shall be.’ The position which the Church in every age should
occupy is, to demonstrate this’truth, showing that the recorded
facts of the past are presumptively true by the evidence of the
correspondingpowers manifested to-day; and thisbecauseGod
lives and is unchangeable, whose works are not for a special
people, time, and place, but like Himselfare for all and for ever.
A contrary position is false and illogical, and exposes the man
who holds it, while contending for an unchangeable-God, to the
ridicule and contempt ofhis adversary.”
"
But where is the necessity for such visible signs since the
complete revelation was made by Jesus? I am-askingnot for
controversy but with a desire to know the truth as you see it
from your higher condition and long experience."
"
Fear not to pushyour enquiries, my brother; it is always
a pleasure to‘ remove a. doubt, or expose an error. As to the
necessity_of visible signs on the earth, we are not called upon to
. decide; it is sufiicient for us that they were ordained in "the
beginning,andhave neveryet beenabrogated. In the revelation
made by Jesus—the question of its completeness we must be
content to waivefor thepre'sent——visiblesignsformeda prominent
feature to which He appealed for confirmationof His mission.
He
promisedalso
thefishould follow those who-believed, for a
simi ar attestation ; is promise was redeemed in the history
of the early Church; such" visible signs were intended, and
ought to be the witness of the same to-day." —
"
Wherein lies the root of these erroneous ideas and misc
(I
T
conceptionsso far as you understand themP "
.
hey have various origins, the first of which is due torthe
false position into which the Bible has been forced by claiming
it to be the Word of God, a. finished and perfect revelation,
instead of taking it at its own value: as containing the
Word of God to a specific people, designed for guidance
under certain conditions, and but a ‘fragment of thatrevelation
which began in the beginning of man’s existence, and will be
carried on to its close. Jesus wrote no law which was handed
to His disciples with a command to keep, neither did He com-
missionanyoneelse to do so after Hisde ure. Hisinjunction
was to preach, and that only as the pirit should give them"
utterance-—that voice of the Spirit being the continuance of
revelation until time should cease, leading His followers into all
mysteries. -
Another source of error arises from the interpretation and
re—interpretation of this most unsatisfactory authority,that it
94 THROUGH
THE noon or HOPE AJAR 95
pity their credulity, and kindlyendeavour to persuade them to
relinquish theirfolly,but themajoityof people, and theteachers,
hold themselves aloof from the blasphemy they speak, and
thunder the guns of warning from the fortresses of tradition
against all who lend an ear to the gospel such oracles proclaim.
The faithof the Church is in these traditions of men. not in the
living,everspeaking God, hence it is no wonder thatthe days of
miraclesare past, and men laughat theidea of removinghillocks.
much less mountains-." .
'
“
Surely you.do not believe in ‘the literal fulfilmentof that
promise ? ”
“
There are mountains physical, mental and spiritual," he
replied, "
and the latter are quite as diflicultqto remove as the
/former, perhaps even more so——aud require equally the power
of God, but it can be done. Have you not just witnessed the
removal of mountains of deformity P "
"
I have indeed."
"
How was it accomplished?"
he asked. "
Not by are
assemb ‘
togetherof the great co e ation and '
ing ‘
e
can doiiibgthing,nothing!’
as our
96 THROUGH. THE MISTS
thingswhichare well withintheircapacitydo men workaccording
to that rule, of faith which you have seem exemplified? Nay,
verily! Rather; forgetting that they are called to the high
privilege of beingworkers togetherwith God, as you have seen
illustrated, they have been educated into the practice of doing
nothing,but askingGod to do it all. When God works for man
it is alwaysin conjunctionwith man ; it is no canon of Divine
law thatthemaster shall do all thelabour whiletheservant gives
the orders. When you ask God to lay the comer—stone, you
may rest assured thatHe willwait for you to get thefoundation
ready. But the earth idea of the matter is that a man has
nothingto do but to tell God what he wants and then wait for
it to be done, and the reference I have already made to the
prayer for food in case of famine, willenable me to show you how
manydifficultiestheyplacein theway,even if God did determine
to do it all.
"
Suppose that£10,000 is prayedfor to relievealocal distress;
how is the money to be provided? We have no gold here ; it
is evident therefore that it must be acquired by an overruling
providence in connection with the commercial life of one of the
petitioners. Well, theDivine interposition takes place,an aban-
doned scheme or an unsuccessful transaction is revived upon
improved prospects, and £10,000 more than was originally
anticipated is gained. What is the result P In his commercial
circle the chosen agent is congratulated as a ‘lucky dog,’ a
‘remarkablyshrewd fellow,’ or something of the kind; the
_money is banked, the recipient pats himself upon the shoulder,
and when he happens to thinkabout the famine fund, consults
withhimself,and finallydecides to contribute £20. It is‘very
evident that both God and the poverty-strickenwill berobbed
by any system of answer in thatdirection.
“
Nowlet me suggest another. Supposeour Fatherdetermines
the money shall reach the poor direct, and for that purpose
commisions some messenger from thislife to bearthegold to the
treasurer in propfiapersona ; if, when asked for the name of the
donor, he was to speak the truth, it would not be long before
they would be ready to repeat the tragedy of Calvary for his
blasphemy. So you see that God is powerlessto intervene, and
reveal Himself to the multitudes, owing to the erroneous -idea
which have been fostered and promulgated by teachers whose
authoritydepends upon the discontinuance of visible signs."
“I am sorry to say your argument is only too true; but
seeing that this error is the gradual accumulation of ages, how
for are individualsheld responsible? ”
THE DOOR OF HOPE AJAR T
97
"Every-circumstance influencing an individual, either one
way or the other, is righteously taken into consideration in the
judgment of the mists; but every man is held responsible for
thefull and right use of theintelligencewithwhich he is endowed.
When one declares his belief in an unchangeable God who will
reward every man accordingto the deeds done in the body, he is
expected to order his conduct accordingto that rule, not to say
thatfaithor beliefis everythingand works have no influencein
salvation; or, again, to affirm thatdid God at one time commu-
nicate with men by visible and oral signs, but now has ceased
to do so because He has completed His revelations. Such
contradictions in word and practice are not flatteringto intel-
ligence, and by no means serviceable in the time of judgment.
Spiritual manhood can only be attained by work which is alike
honouring to God and beneficialto your fellow-man, and that
religion alone is recognised that gains the commendation—'He
hathdone what he could.’
“
Allbeliefsand forms of creed have beenleft behind before
you reachthejudgment,and no man willever beaskeda question
respectingthem,but therecord of your life must show thatyour
love to God has been manifested by your love and devotion to
man before you will have the right or power to enter into the
rest which remains. Siamedes and Cushna will show you some
instances of harvests which have to be gathered here. And
afterwards I shall be pleased to accompany you to some of the
homes of peace. May the rich blessings of our Fatherrest upon
you in your endeavours to acquire the truth. Till we meet
again—Peace."
We had reached the outside of the hall by this time, where
thisnoblemessengerimparted his blessingto each of us and then
departed to continue his mission in other scenes. The Assyrian
also took his leave at the same time, first invitingus to visit his
home when Cushna found a convenient opportunity.
Myhanene had contributed considerably to my store of in-
formation ; his indictmentwas heavy——but true——as regards the
earth, whiletheemphasishe gave to it made me sad but for one
fact———the position assumed in his argument opened a door of
hope before me, and now he was gone I could see the door was
still ajar.
CHAPTER VIII
HOPE BLOSSOMS mro PROMISE
I WAS surprised to see that Cushna was as ready to leave as his
two companionshad been,for it was utterly at variancewithall
my previousexperiencethatsuch a gigantic ceremony or service
could be held and leave no details to be arranged afterwards.
The order withwhich thataudienceseparated was as perfect as
that which had characterised each feature of the Chorale, and
contrasted more than favourably in every respect with the
scenes we are so accustomedto on earth. Therewas no unseemly
endeavours, by voice or gesture, to attract the attention of a
friend; no discourteous interruptions for the sake of a. chance
word ; no rushing to and fro in the crowd to find someone who
was missing; or rudely crushing forward in a futileattempt to
catch a train.
Friends met, without any multitudinous inquiries as to the
health of the absent, or restless, anxious look in the eye, as if
fearingthe reply would be unwelcome ; no farewells and hand-
grips, which fingeredin theimpression thatit was thelast. But.
thestrangest experienceof all was thatI held such longconverse
with the three directors of that service, without a single inter-
ruption or attemptto interfere withour communion. Withthat
burst of welcomehome withwhich theChorale concluded,every-
thing concerning it came to an end; no one individual had
positively anythingelse to do but go. Those who had received
such wonderful benefitswere joined, and led away, by friends,
andtheentire concourseseparated,perfectlyconscioustheycould
meet again individuallyor as mass: whenevertheydesired to do
so without the necessity of inserting any
“
if ”
in the arrange-
ment. We were the last to leave the hall, and while I was
listeningto therevelationswhich Myhanenewas makingto me, I
was c0nscious—-by thatdual power of observation we all possess
—of admiringtheundisturbedaspect of theplace,which bore no
indication of the presence of that great multitude who had
departed. ‘
93
“'10;apymxd 0; so; we sen
axaq;asneooq')[30I[S;s1g sq; xagye asyuaqgoueq; gene: 2 ;o atom
axopxaqz;Sam 31 ‘mos sq; go sapqenb.Iaq8_rqaq; do[aAap0; amp
apzq ptre ‘aoumsgxa areq 2 upnqo Kpsauoq 03, uopgsgnbax om;
P911?!’ 531%? &IaAo Inga ‘Jo; papyaoxdKlsnoxanafioo; ;ou ‘£31119;
93112] ‘e ;o auo sea 91.; '1; go uopumggg ;s.rg aqa, .191}? qotun £194
P9161110-11 1011 919M Spuap} s_tH ‘ma uraq; 0; sxamstre {[11} ozsyaoax
pm: ‘K[9;BJ8d9S auo q:rea use 0; amp aldure s; a.13q1 :.1aq;a8o;
suopsanb mozi Bums 0; Knssaoeu on 5; axaq; req; Jaquxamaz0;
£11 1105 Jaustrq0; a[qe aq ;ou nnqs 1 10 {non ‘fipuag,,
u.--qnq
‘azopq zeq; o; ;q2noq'.; 2 uzmgflaaeqJQABIIpmoqs 1 ;eq; 9302115
5! II-é ‘B99? SF! 1Il°q'9411300111 99139!-‘I 5!‘! W‘!-5 -‘°P“°M I ..
..'II9-*5‘5J!599°9nJ0 ‘O51? 5! P"? ‘I105 [[91
1 se ‘aux qggm s; 91.1 'a1q;ssodsa Kpzyugappure Kpreap se £3/H100
0; qsyn sfiemye an qoyqm ‘uogemxopxg ;o 911I!l[0A ‘B (In suado
Anuanbax;auo3[dl1!}SA‘.IaA2 axaqm‘axaqAnegoedsa‘poqzpmJeuaq
sq; qomn s; amp ‘e ;v uopsanb auo ,,
‘ensue; Am ;o (In aq; 0;
fiuypmonsapanb J9l.‘{1Ouazop 2 maqEumnd auxpe;uaAa.Id qoyqm
aq; 'uoyrredtnoo Aux pasodzamg ,, 1 Agnes tmon ‘fipuag ,,
'K..I0l119I1IKm 01 paneoaxsun aouznsgxa
591 st ‘$119999 wise I .. e on sat MoH—e nofl Imam an S1 ..
“'9lIl‘BO1101! uaqnsgsgux sq; q8noJq1pegxreono& Mona;993;]
sq; ;o eouemyenboesq; Mans: 01 a[qe aq man no.& uaqm ‘£1;
[feqs no.4 mg -;uau1aBu-e1:epun amreu s1; pueqszapun 0; alqe
aq pmon nozfi exopq u.rea[ put ass 0; qonux ameq noA ‘on ,,
,, g non amoq .mo& 0; Sages an axv ,,
,,'uoge.1adn:>a1 ptre
5099101591 .10; asnoq Aem-gfeq;o pup; 2 S Btrpazsgugm uaeqamzq
am uxoqm0;asoq;se qousJo; ao'e[d-BugzsaxLremodmas,2 mq sgsgql
';uau1&o[d1n9pure a.msea[d;agqo Km pug 1 tnoqm 3uoure.‘ua1p{gqo
Inyn pang S; asnoq Kn ,, ’p9'_[[d3.I sq “‘sneau1Ann Aq 101.1 ,,
T13‘! ‘"13
paqaeoxddepeq an qogqm &q yetp 0; uopaoxgp Kmnuoo2 11; ‘Cent:
am [:91 aq se ‘paxgnbua I u g emoq moi! 10:: s; ‘uaqu 's_rql ,,
..'uo9=m-nsu!pun woldI0 nu: sq 0:pug mm n05
51015 990nm put 'pa;saJa;ugJqdaap me 1 amnamasoqm ug .I9‘.}S§S2
999 04 1105 am 0: pmatd sq trans I ., ‘euqsno pres ..‘M°N.,
'-snaq /Ltazqgsasoq;
J0 fiuzmmo onaufiem9111 preatt 10 daelsv H9} I 910m '8rr.rp1znq
sq; ;o amgeu sq; 0; se pzuapuom ;s.n_; 1 uaqm s'e uompuoo [npsax
‘zagnb sums sq; u; -sen am ptmona A§ 'a.m;.tedap
Jyaq; qoo; sapaumgg ptl‘8 auaueqfimaxaqm ‘.132 uado aq; paqoeax
an uaqm ameaopouAuznbasen uopounnoo ;o 11991 sures sq],
56 asmoxa om: smossom :»moH
zoo THROUGH THE MISTS
“
How are you acquaintedwithall this ? ”
I asked.
"
There is anotherstudy opening to you. Now you see how
-wise it is only to ask one question at a time. It is not at all
dificult for us to ascertain all theinformationwe require in such
a case, since, as willbe explainedto you at a fitting opportunity,
there is a delicate threadwhich forms a connection between the
childand his body, and by followingthiswe can make all neces-
inquiries.”
"
How, Cushna I How ? "
I cried, and my heart beatwitha
feverishexcitementengenderedbyhis words—a daring,impulsive
thoughtthatit was possible to throwthatdoor of my hope wide
open and for my prayer on the slopes to be literally answered.
Appalledat thenext moment withmy own audacity,thepower
of movement forsook me, and I waited to hear his answer witha
feeling aldn to that a felon feels when the dread moment of his
verdict has come and his life is quiveringin thebalance. Cushna
certainly did not appear to understand the situation sympath-
etically—on the contrary, a smile of calm amusement played
over his face as he quietlyreplied :
"
Now, how do you thinkwe could do it but by sending for
the purpose? "
“
What 1 Sending someone from here P "
I cried.
“
Of course I Do you thinkanyone on earthwould do it and
report correctly ? "
“
But is such a thingreallypossible ? ”
and therealisation of
my dream_becamemomentarilymore tangible.
“
Why not ? "
he tantalizinglyasked in reply, instead of
giving me a direct assurance.
“
I don't know, Cushna," I cried ;
"
but my heart is tearing
itself to pieces betweenhope and fear. Tellme definitelyif it is
so or not."
"
It is certainly so, my friend,”he replied, "
however hard it
may be for you to realise thefact. Myhanenehas been speaking
to you of an unchangeable God—that implies an unchangeable
communion. Intercourse between the two worlds was enjoyed
by themen of old, and it must needs bethesame now as then."
“
I do not doubt your word ; but what you tell me is so far
beyond what I dreamed was possible—though I have many
times indulged the hope since changing my state—that I doubt
my senses when theyconvey such intelligenceto me. Help me
to overcome my difficulty,and say if you know thisfrom practical
experience? "
"
Yes! It was during one of my missions from Myhanene to
earththatI first saw thesister we are about to visit."
HOPE BLOSSOMS INTO PROMISE IOI
"
Tell me about her. and perhaps your relation willassist me
to grasp this glorious news so far transcending my power of
comprehension."
"
A friend, and fellow—worker, who is still in the flesh, had
made a request of Myhanene, and I was sent with the reply.
During our interview—the nature and manner of which will be
exglainedto
youpresently, I noticed a young woman, standing
'
d one o thecompany, whom I could see was in great need
of help and sympathy; I spoke to her, but she did not—could
not—hear me, and several other means by which I tried to
attract her attention failed. I could not leave her without
trying to do somethingto mitigate her terrible agony, but I was
unable to help her without knowing the cause which produced
her sufferings. To accomplishthis I described her and her con-
dition as I saw it, to the company—byLa means which you will
1earn’presently—shewas recognised and well known to one from
whom I learnedall thatwas necessary, and I promised to use my
bestendeavoursto assist her, withwhat result you willbeable to
form some opinion when you hear her story and see her present
condition."
"
Why,Cushna, would you have me believethatdeathplaces
no obstaclein theway of continued communion betweenthetwo
worlds ? "
“
Not by any means, for such an idea would be very erron-
eous; but, at thesame time, I do want you to understand that
the difliculties are not insuperable. As you have already dis-
covered, the boundary line is markedby a curtain of mist, and
the obstacleswe experience are such as are due entirely to that
condition of things; continually varying according to the
detenninating influences which maintain upon the earth side,
and regulate the state of the cloud. You cannot understand
this for the present, but when an opportunity arises for you
to study the phenomenonyou will be able to appreciate what I n
say. In the meantime it is suflicient for you to know that all
obstaclesmaybeovercome, and thatcommunionbetweenus and
earth is not entirelysuspended.”
“
You have been 'tted to take part in thatintercourse ;
that I might do so—1f such a thingwas possible—wasmy first
conscious desire after I realised my entrance upon thislife. Tell
me, shall I ever beable to gratify thatwish ? ”
“
Certainly,you may,if you desire it ; and I cannot conceive
of a more gloriousworkthanto beengaged in helping to remove
the doubts and fears under which our brethern upon earth are
labouring. I thankthe Fatherfor His favour in allowing me to
I02 THROUGH THE MISTS
take a share in the great work of re-opening this communion
which has been committed to the more powerful teachers of His
love. The work is slow in its progress and diflicultto prosecute,
but the little which has already been accomplishedis working
witha wondrousleaven,and———truthbeingpowerfulto thepulling
down of the strongholds of error—it must so continue until the
gloomof ignoranceis driven away,and thepeacefulandharmoni-
ous kingdom of God established upon the earth witha basis as
firm as we beholdit here.”
“
How soon may I begin? Such.a vocation would change
thedream of my life into a gloriousreality. I was convincedof
the presence of error, but though I sought I could not find the
truth for which my heart was craving——forwhich multitudes of
othersare seeking,wearilyandheart-sick. Now I have foundit
there can be no greater joy than carrying the knowledge back
again for theircomfort and instruction."
“
Wheneveryou are readytheopportunitywillnot bewanting
for you to begin, but till then you must be patient. A very
limited experience will convince you thatgreat skill is required
to uproot error successfully, and plant the truth in its place.
Competency for such a work can only be acquired by careful
training,‘diligentstudy and an extensive acquaintancewiththe
laws andrequirementsof thespirituallifeas you willsee themun-
folded here. It is far better to let the old error remain thanto
pluckit up onlyto plant a new one in its stead. But I am sorry
to say thisis what is beingdone at thepresent time in very many
cases by incompetent persons who have rushed into this com-
munion before they are qualified to do anything beyond the
simplefactofdemonstratingtheimmortalityof thesoul."
"
Is it possible,” I asked in amazement, "
that friends can
return to earth and teach error ? "
"
It is not onlypossible,"he replied, “
but I regret to say it is
an actual fact, thoughit is only just to add that—exceptin the
case of deliberatelyuntruthful messengers, wicked earth—bound
men and women——the error in every case is due to ignorance
ratherthan design. Let me explain how it arises. Every soul
who enters thislife is seized withthedesire you have mentioned
—to get backto earth and make known how vastlydifferent all
is to what theyhad been taught to believe;——at the same time
comparativelyfew have the desire to learn the nature and con-
ditions of our lifeas you are studyingthem. The greatmajority,
beingsatisfied with thingsas theyfind them for a ‘considerable
period, make no attempt to increase their knowledge. With
theirminds to a great extent unoccupied,theypresentlylearnthe
HOPE BLOSSOMS INTO PROMISE I03
‘possibilityof reachingthe earth, and full of the desire to make
theircontinued existence known, theybreak the silenceof death
to find themselves called upon to answer a thousand enquiries
upon subjects respecting which they have failed to gather in-
formation,and theresult is theerror to which I have referred. .
“
Thinkfor one instant of theposition in which you would be
placed, supposing you—at thispresent moment—.-had opened up
this communion, and the question was asked: '
Do children
grow in the spirit world ? ’
or again, ‘
What are the methods
employedto teach childrenin thenext life? ’
or third, ‘
How do
you proceedwhen‘you wish to elevatea spiritin a lower condition
than yourself? ’
To the first you would reply in the light of
your experience-—youhaving seen childrenin the Chorale—and.
say ‘
No,’ which would be an error ; to the second enquiry you
could answer nothing; and to the third you would have to be
content with a simple expression of opinion ; this your friends
would at once acceptas a definite statement,beingled, from their
eartheducation, to believethata kind of omniscienceis acquired
in theprocess of death. I may furtherillustrateand emphasise
thisby askingyou to suppose thatyour desire to return to earth
had been granted at themoment of its conception, or beforeyou
had been instructed in the thingsnow made known to you, and
that during your interview you were asked respecting these
matters, would your replies have conveyed any adequate idea of
thetruthas you would teachit at thispresent moment ? ”
“
Of course not,” I was compelled to answer
“Neither is it possible for others in a like condition to do
justice to theenquiries made of them; therefore I say it is best
ratherto allow the old error to remain, than to pluck it up and
plant a new one in its stead, The necessary corollary of this
ignorance is contradiction, which gives strong presumptive
evidenceof theunreliabilityof thisintercourse to thosewho most
strenuouslyoppose it, and thewhole thingis believedand taught
to be a. device of wicked and malicious spirits to deceive the
unwary." ‘
“
I fullyappreciate thewisdom of your advice to wait, and I
promise you, that—wheneverthe opportunity occurs for me to
break my silence—Iwillnot offer any opinion beyondthe scope
of my actualknowledge. But is it not possiblefor you who know
thesethings,to anticipatesuch ignorantassertions,andso prevent
theirmischief ? ”
“
Sometimes, but not very frequently. Nevertheless, in
theseinstances,we are droppingseeds of truthwhichare springing
up and already bringing forth good fruit. But in the great
I04
I
THROUGH THE MISTS
majorityof cases, we are preventedfromdoingaswe would by the
operation of a very powerful spirituallaw."
"
What is that? ”
I asked.
“
You have already seen thatwe are attractedto each other
by thelaw of spiritualharmonyand fitness. Kindredsouls have
mutual feelings, and the full reciprocation of these makes our
happiness more complete."
“
Yes I I understand that.”
“
That same law of attractionand repulsion exists and regu-
lates the intercourse between the two worlds. Let me tell you
my own experience whenever I have tried to open this com- I
munication. Generally, I have found the persons to whom I
desired to speak intolerantlydogmaticin favour of some accepted
creed, which prevented them honestlyand freely enquiringinto
any new spiritual truths. Such an attitude of mind was by no
meanscongenialto me, and my presence beingequallyrepugnant
to them, a suspicion was engendered which I was powerless to
overcome, therefore I had no choice but to retire and leave such
inquirers to the mercy of those who, in their ignorance, would
affirm the infallibletruth of the accepted cr ." ‘
"
Were you not able to expose theignoranceof such teachers,
and so do away with their authority? ”
“
Not very readily, for the simple reason that their low
spiritual condition more closely assimilated with the ignorance
favoured by the creed. My teachings, being more spiritual,
received no sympathy,were pronouncedto befalse and deceitful ;
I was commandedto retire, withoutfurtherattemptingto disturb
their faith,and leave thework to thosewho had been tried and
thought to be true, because they confirmed those ideas which
had been previouslytaught and professed."
“
And did you leave themI’ "
“
UndoubtedlyI I had no right to force my presence upon
any person to whom it was objectionable. They were seeking,
and they found just what they sought for—-not truth, but a
confirmationof theircreed. They are satisfied; and thoughwe
are cognizant of the fact that theirintercourse serves to ground
theirerror more deeply,whereas it is designed to promulgate,the
truth,we have to be content to wait in the hope of some favour-
able opportunity to correct themistake, and when it occurs, use
our bestendeavours to remedy thee
'
."
“
What prospect have you of realising thathope ? "
I asked,
with some trepidation, for the bow of prornise appeared to be
fading from my sky, as I listened to his enumeration of the
difficultieswhich stood in theway.
HOPE BLOSSOMS INTO PROMISE I05
"
I am sure of it," he replied,witha calm confidencewhich at
once restored my drooping faith. “
Men are now making the
discoverythattruthis infinite, whilecreeds are finite—that,just
as it is impossibleto reduce theillimitableto a geographicalatlas,
so is it uselessto endeavour to embracethewhole of truthin the
most elastic confession of faith. Crumbs of spiritual bread are
falling on the earth, and—'beingfull of satisfaction to hungry
souls—men are beginningto appreciate thatnatural food which
is prepared in heaven. They, everywhere, are seeking, finding,
assimilating,and growinginto a visible spiritual stature. They
are able to understand as they_never did before, lifting their
-
eyes to thehills, praying,entreating for a more plentifulsupply
of thislivingbread ; and themanna is fallingupon such day by
day,-in spite of the Church's ban, or priests’ anathema. The
morning of our hope is breaking, the clouds are fleeing away ;
and when we cry to thewatchmenupon thetowers of Zion, their
responses are full of cheering consolation,biddingus prepare for
thevictorywhichis at hand. .
Truthmust conquer, for it is that
childwhich God surnamed Omnipotent ; but Nature’s maternal
admonitions counsel it to perfect its victory in patience. The
units of its followers are steadilymultiplyinginto tens, thesewill
speedilybegatheredinto hundreds thehundredsinto thousands;
and so the armies will grow, and be oflicered from the hosts of
heaven; then the two worlds will be united in one final effort
which shall usher in the establishment—in a practicalform——of
thekingdom of our Lord and of'His Christ, in which truth shall
reign for ever and ever."
CHAPTER IX
THE HARVEST OF IEALOUSY
‘How far we travelled during our conversation I have not the
remotest idea, but ifthechangedaspectof thecountry formedany
criterion of the distance it was by no means inconsiderable.
When I was at liberty to notice our surroundings I discovered
thatwe were passingthrougha district possessingas its principal
feature a multitude of secluded spots and quiet retreats, but
withoutany indicationof aroadto guidea stranger,and therefore
an interminable labyrinth to anyone who had not a perfect
knowledgeof its key ; but at thesame time a sure asylumto the
weary andthehuntedwho stood in need of such a haven of refuge.
The atmosphere was heavy compared with that to which I had
recently been accustomed; the wind, althoughnot cold, had a
chillinessnot experiencedbefore; thetrees were more sombre in
appearance, with dark shadows lingering beneaththem; the
flowers had lost the brillianceand fragrance which had so im-
pressed me at-theHome of Rest, whilethe influenceof theplace
seemed to whisper thattheseverityof sorrow was just takingits
departure, althoughit was stilla matter of doubt whetherpeace
could be induced to accept thevacancythuscreated.
Presently my companion turned aside and bade me follow
him, threadinghis way as he spoke, through the low hanging
branches of thetrees, which threatenedto hide him entirelyfrom
my view unless I quickenedmy pace and diligentlywatched the
direction he took. A dozen steps behind,our trackwas obliter-
ated, and I constantlywondered by what sign or power Cushna
pushed so confidentlyforward. My attention was also attracted
to a certain moisture apparently exhaled from the leaves and’
which I was convincedwould speedilysaturate us if we had far to
travel under such conditions ; I was further conscious of some-
thingmore than curiosity——almost alarm—as I saw the.colour
graduallyfading,first from therobes of my conductor, and then
from my own, as we advanced. But as I had full employmentin
clearingmy way,I was compelledto refrainfrom askingquestions
11:6
THE HARVEST OF JEALOUSY 107
for the present. When we emerged from thetrees our clothing
nolongerpossessed its delicate blue and pinktints, but had been
changed to dark grey ; and what surprised me equallywiththis
was thefactof its beingperfectly dry in spite of the showers of
dew which had so copiously fallen upon us. As Cushna paused
for me to overtake him, he smiledat my perplexity,and without
waiting for me to ask, proceeded to give theexplanationof such
an astounding phenomenon:
“
This," he said, “
is perhaps one of the most tender and
beneficentprovisions of our Father. Whoever come to. visit or
minister to one of thefriendslocated here, experiencethistrans
formationupon nearingtheend of theirjourney. The object is
to enable us to meet on apparentlyequal terms, by preventing’
them from lmowing the difference in our condition, and thus to
enable us to give them thegreater assistance. As you will soon
discover. in the case of Marie, the state of all at this point of
development,is one that requires the most careful and sympa-
thetictreatment, and the friends employed in the mission are
speciallyappointed by Myhanenefrom among thosemost closely
associatedwithhimself.
"
The conditionof all thoseyou willfindhere is one of repose,
succeeding a period of indescribable agony—-the hush of un-
certainty, following in the wake of the storm of hell—-and the
soul is indisposed to rouse itself from the dreamy numbness in
which it finds its present relief from thatsuffering which, being
scarcelyover, is so vividlyimpressed upon its memory. Hope is
not yet strong enough to counteract the fear that any exertion
mayresult in a return of thedreaded past ; confidenceis not able
to supplant distrust, and the only means by which theycan be
roused from this state of lethargy is by association with the
messengers from the Hills of Wisdom, who inspire the feeble
confidenceof theseneedy ones by theassurance of therealisation
of thathope theyhave gained."
"
Thischangein our appearance,then,isbut anothervariation
of thegreat law of love P "
I asked.
“
Precisely so,” he responded; “
nothingbut love.”
Our pathnow lay down a gentle declivity between the bills,
but beforewe reached thelevel of the valley,we turned, as if to
round a clump of trees having a remarkablewealth of foliage,
and branches which swept the ground ; on reachingthe further
side, however, I discovered that they served to conceal the
entrance to a pleasantdell in which was situated a solitaryhouse
—-the first I had seen in the whole district. The little domain
was a welcomeretreat for one who wished to livea lifeof solitude ;
I08 .
.
THROUGH THE MISTS
a hundred safeguards having been raised-—natural and un-
suspicious-—aga.instintrusion ; and without a trace of path, or
indication of any presence in the vicinity,it was almost beyond
the range of possibilityfor a visitor to make his appearance in
that peaceful dell, except those who by their knowledge of the
homestead gave evidence of their interest in the welfare of its
solitary resident. The garden, grounds, and general arrange-
ment offered every inducement for theexercise and development
of themind, withabundantscope to wean theheart from sorrow,
in congenialand ever varying employment The house was not
a large building—suchan one would have been out of character
in these surroundings——but it was exceedingly cheerful and
picturesque-a mountain home, engaged for the purpose of
repose and restoration, with everythingprovided to make one
forget the past and care nothingfor the future, but yet by no
means a permanent habitation,beingdevoid of that society for
which thehealthymind seeks, and chafes to findinaccessible.
As we emerged from the narrow pass by which we entered,
two ladies were walkingleisurely across the grounds away from
us, witharms afiectionatelyentwined around each other. They
looked like kindred spirits whose thoughts, too deep for words,
were
dtrlawingfrom the well of silence a draught of refreshing
5YmP3 Y-
Their preoccupation gave me an opportunity of observing
thembefore theywere made aware of our presence. From the
moment I beheldthemI was confidentthattheshorter of thetwo
was present in thecapacityof minister-—or should I not use the
more familiarappellation, angel—-following the example of the
Great Teacherin layingasideher rightful state thatshe might by
her sacrificebe the more powerfullycompetent to help her un-
fortunate sister. The taller of the twain bore very conspicu-
ouslytheevidenceof weakness and weariness,and was only too
glad to avail herself of the strength of her companion, so un-
assuminglyplacedat her disposal.
“
Azenahas been here almost constantlysince Marie came,"
said Cushna, as we stood watchingthem.
I made no reply. I would ratherhe had not spoken—awish
my friendwas quick to appreciate, and I was left undisturbedto
witness a practicallesson in nursing and sympathywhich awed
me withits angelic tenderness and unrestrained devotion. Such
a vision of salvation needed no interpreter ; my heart stood still
in its sacred presence, while it made me conscious of a closer
touch with God than I had ever felt before. My soul trembled
with the holy tension put upon it; my feet paused in a direct
THE HARVEST or JEALOUSY I09
refusal to cross the threshold of the temple while the fragrant
incense of such a worship was ascending, and but for Cushna’s
interference I should probably have yielded to my strong desire
rro __
mnoucn ms MISTS
country,"he replied, "
extendingto the region of the hall from
which we have come. This bringsbackto Marie a somewhatin-
definite recollection of a home in which she slept her first ex-
haustion away, after she was induced to leave the place of her
torment. The memory of that brief period—-betweenthe time
when she awoke and her cominghere—Azenauses to inspire her
hope and desire to get away and re-minglein those scenes, and
for thatpurpose theywillremain as long as possible where they
are. We, however, may be of equal assistance in anotherway,
andsoIthinkitiswelltomakethemawareofourpresence
now.”
With this he projected a small but brilliantflash which im-
mediately arrested their attention. Marie's face positivel
THE HARVEST OF JEALOUSY III
thatit was occasioned by her own sin does not alter the fact-
should be entrusted to the tender and patient care of. a nurse
whom a painterwould solicitfromthegalleryof dreams to sit as a
model of charity. If throughout eternity, heaven did no more
than knit such hearts together in the close afiection I had wit-
nessed, it would—-well—thatwould make it.heaven.
“
I am anxious to see theviewwhich Cushna tells me may be
had from thebottom of thegrounds," I remarkedpresently.
“
Yes! You- must see that," she replied. “
It is just like
thatdear old Doctor Grand-pato find thisplacefor Marie.”
“
I don't thinkthathe has much the appearance of a grand-
father,”I said. "
Though every inch of him is a doctor." Yet
there was somethingabout him in spite of his youthfulvisage
which told me thatthatdual epithetwas themost comprehensive
and correct one which could be appliedto him. He had been an
unsolved enigma from the moment I first met him, and theidea
of obtaining a further insight into the character which had so
perplexedme was a very welcome one.
“
No,” she responded. “
Hescarcelylooks old enough, does
he P But thatis by no means due to his lack of ears, it must
ratherbeascribedto theeternal youthwe enjoy. en he came
into thislifehe was botha Grand—paanda Doctor, and thoughhe
has grown so very youthful in his form and bearing, we are
compelled to give him his double cognomen or we should only
refer to half of what he is even now."
"
Has he been here long ? ”
“
Yes! He lived in theearlydays of Egypt. I think"it was
prior to thebuildingof thepyramids."
“
And does he rememberhis earthlife P ”
“
I do not thinkhe has forgotten a single incident either in
his earthor present life, if he willgive himself a moment to recall
it. One of the thingswhich makes him like a grand-"pa still is
A thedelight he finds in gatheringa numberof us togetherand re-
countingepisodesfromhis own experiencefor our instruction and
amusement. He is, I think,themost unselfish man I ever met,
havingno thoughtfor himself,but onlyexistingptoaugmentthe
happinessof every one withwhom he comes in contact. Always
planningnew pleasures and surprises, when he
I12 THROUGH THE MISTS
Marie is here. He met her first on the other side of the mists.
Has he told you ? "
“
Yes, he told me how and where he met her.”
“
But he has not told you how long and diflicultwas his work
before he could induce her to listen to him ; of the conflict he
had withmalignantspirits who delighted in her torture and tried
to frustrate all his endeavours ; you know nothingof his many
failuresto make her come away from such horrible surroundings,
if only for a space, to prove thatno one but herself stood in the
way of her peace, since thelegitimatepenaltyof her sin had been
paid. No one but himself knows theextent of this—andno one
ever will,for it is buried withthethousandsimilarsecrets in the
oblivionof his own breast,neverto bewillinglyrecalledorthought
of again. I have heard somethingof thisfrom Marie ; but, poor
Child,her memory of thatperiod is happilyovercast, thoughshe
has told me enough to show thestrugglewas a fierce one, and the
reward of it will, by and by, benot theleast of thebright jewels
which will sparklein his diadem. When at length he accom-
plishedhisobject,hegainedpermissiontocarryhertohisown home,
where he could watch her as she slept through the prostration
thatsucceeded her suffering,andwhileshe slepthe could scarcely
bepersuadedto leaveher side, lest even in her sleepshe should feel
his absence and be lonely. Such devotion had its reward, and
was powerful in removing much of her weight of trouble. His
determination to make her happy won her confidencefirst, then
her love, and finally was the means of enabling him to be the
minister of her salvation.
“
It is very pathetic-to hear Marie speak of her waking, and
Cushna’s tender but compulsory announcement that he would
take her to her own home where she would be better for a time
thaneven where she was. She was full of fear thatif he left her
she would be drawn back to the agony of the past, and pleaded
long and tearfullyto be allowedto stay. That could not be, and
so he did thenext best thingto it ; knowingshe must be located
here for a time, he searched the district tillhe found thishouse,
which affords from this point the view of which he spoke. This
lovelyvalleyis an incessant themeof admirationfor her, and on
the hill-side in the far away, but yet distinctly visible in the
glory-light which plays upon it, stands Cushna’s house—her
other home, as she always calls it ;—and she delights to stand
here talkingof him, and watchingfor his coming, as hegenerally
does, straight across.”
Thebeautifulpanoramaunrolledbeforeme, thecircumstances
we were discussing, and the close proximityof two of the chief
THE, HARVEST OF JEALOUSY _
II3
actorsin thethrillingdrama, filledme too full for speech—I could
only contemplate how each succeeding incident in my career
bore ever stronger testimony to that law of love which is the
mainspringof thislife. »
“
At the time Cushna called us,” she continued, after a
moment’s pause,
“
we were looking at his home, which Marie
considers the central feature of ‘the landscape, and she was
wondering——"
“How long do you intend to keep her waiting." We turned
to find Cushna had stolen upon us unobserved. How much of
our conversation had been heard we had no idea, but his next
sentence told us that he well knew what its drifthad been.
“
Azena,’.’he said, “
I am sadly afraid thatyou are a little tell-
tale, and I shallbecompelled to administer some correction to
on."
y "
You are a good, dearold grand-pa,and‘deserve to bekissed
for listening——there-—there,"she cried, as she threw her arms
around him and saluted him on eithercheek.
“
Oh, thesechildrenI "
he replied,as he‘ shookhis head at her
in mock gravity; and then,turningto me, he said, “
I thinkyou
had better go and keep Marie company while I give thischild a
scolding.”
'
“
Why, you dear old darling, you would not know how to
'
if you tried,"were thelast words I heard as I turned away.
I was gladto be able to hear Marie's story from her own lips,
but as I neared her and saw her face darken by the shadow of
'
some approachingagony—so changed from its brightnessas she
greeted Cushna—I would have gladlyforegone the recital, if by
thatmeans I could have witnessed a return of her former happi-
ness. But again I was impelled by that mysterious influence
which operates, to carry us over points of diflicultyand uncer-
tainty, always in the right direction, even t_ ough opposed to
inclination and understanding for the time ing. In spite of
the consequences, I knew it was best to go forward and leave
to Cushna's future explanation whatever might transpire of an
incomprehensiblenature. I had already learned so much of the
-developmentof blessingsfrom the-most apparentimprobabilities
as to feel confidentthatall thingsworkedtogetherfor good, and
beganto watch for themanifestationof all kinds of surprises in
every new feature of thelife as it was presented to me. As Marie
came towards me, I was conscious of the effort she, exerted to
overcome the premonition which so visibly enveloped her, and
the unsuccessful attempt she made to greet me with a smile
which died in its birth-throb; but I knewthatmy own faceonly
I!
I14 THROUGH THE MISTS
too faithfullyrepresented my feelings at the moment, so our
interview commenced with a greeting signally ominous of its
tragic termination.
Cushna had made all necessary explanationsas to the object
of my visit, and so, withvery few preliminaries,Marie proceeded
to give me her experienwsas follows :
"
I am an American,theonlychildof a Southernmillionaire,
idolisedby my parents,and pampered, proud and wilfulfrommy
infancy. When I wished for anythingI onlyhadto speak andit
was mine. My education, both by practice and by precept,
taughtme thatmoneywas almighty,and as its supplyto us was
practicallyunlimited, I grew up with the idea that I was to be
obeyed, and no wish I cherished or expressed could ever be
thwarted./ Of course this tended to make me very exacting-
even overbearing—butI was byno means cruel or wickedas the
world would judge. Having the money I had a right to all the
pleasureit would bring,and if my enjoymentwas unfortunately
thecauseof pain to another,I was not to beblamedfor that; it
wastheirmisforttme, andtheyhadno rightto expectme to forego
my desire out of considerationto their feelings. Such was my
philosophy,and I actedupon it. ‘
A.
"
We were church people, my father always liberallycom-
tributingto thevariousagenciespromotedtherefrom; punctilious
in our attendanceat theservices, my name beingdulyenrolledas
a member upon reaching the appointed age. Whenever I felt
inclinedor desired an excuse for breakinganirksomeengagement
I would take a; class in theSundayschool, onfindit necessary to
pay a charitablevisit. It was not often, I allow,but as I looked
upon it as an actof condescensionupon my part to do such work
A
at all, it was not to be expected that I should be anythinglike
regular in‘ my attention to thoseduties.
“
There was never but one girl I could reallycall my friend-—
that was Sadie Norton. Our social position was fairly equal,
but I beinga triflethe older of the two, could rightfullyassume
thepremier place. Then Sadie was not exactlythegirl to com-
mandor lead,so I was in no wayinterferedwithin myassumption
of leadership, and for thatreason our companionshipbecame a
very close one. A fridlyrivalry existingbetweenour parents
was to some extent reflected by us, but without lessening-the
sisterly feelingwhich had beenengendered, and rather -
ened thanotherwise withyears. We were alwaystogether,and
no festival, sociable, at home, or surprise party was considered
completeunlesswe were present ; uponeveryschemeput forward
at the church we were consulted; every philanthropicobiect
THE HARVEST or JEALOUSY 115
sought our patronage, and beforewe were out of our teens every
eligible fellow in the town and country was anglingto catch us.
This latter factopened an avenue for a greatincrease ofour fun;
not that we thought of marrying, for a moment, but we very
seriouslyinterfered withmany otherswho did, and for a year or
two were perfectlyenrapturedat thenumberof matches we were
enabled to break off. Presentlya fineyoung fellow came along,
bringing very satisfactorycredentials to my father and others,
and all the girls in the town set their caps at him. Sadie and
myself determined to go for him as well, and by playing him,
alternately,keep him from anyone else, as well as give him a
teasing. But he tookmattersin a most awfullyserious light, and
beforea monthhad passed made me a formal proposal. I must
confess thatI too felt very serious about the matter, and would
have acceptedhim if thatwould not have ended theromance we
had determined to enjoy. So I laughedat him, and when been-
listed my mother'said, I stood on my dignity,andvery cavalierly
told him I was not of the
I16 THROUGH THE MISTS
cursing them, as the frenzy impelled me ; but after my reason
returned I had strengthof mind never to mention them again.
The magic potency of wealth was pressed into service
in every conceivable form to wean my thoughts from my
sorrow, and so skilfullydid I play the part I had arranged in
the early days of convalescence, that everyone was presently
congratulatingthemselveson matters not reallybeingso serious
as was at first imagined. Theylittledreamedmy composure was
but a mask,and thatin my soul I was plottingand planninghow
to best obtain therevenge which I would eithersecure, or die in
theattempt. Sadiehad been false ; had taken advantage‘of our
temporary estrangementto carry her base design to success, and
she had succeeded withfatal effect. She had deceived Charlieas
wickedlyas she had injuredme, for it was impossibleshe could be
the wife I should have made him. He was not so much to be
blamedsince he had beenmade thetool of her cunningduplicity.
But she should feel the weight of my vengeance. I would find
themif I had to travel theworld in my quest ; I would return her
perfidy fourfold, and take him fromher even if I died in thehour
of my triumph.
“
For five years I continued my secret but unsuccessful in-
quiries, but I never for one moment faltered or forgot my vow.
So perfectlydid I hide my jealousythatmy acquaintancesbegan
tothinkI was really happy again. How little we know of the
man, whilewe rapturouslyapplaudtheactor ; thestage and the
home have not infrequently a
$11!between them quite as im-
passibleas thedivisionbetween ives and Lazarus ; and we poor
simperingmortals laughat thememorised lines,but have no eyes
or ears for thelife-bloodwhich gurglesfrom theheart meanwhile.
I was deaf and blindto everythingbut theone object of my life ;
they thought me happy,_while there was nothing in earth or
heaven could make me so but the man I had lost, and who had
beendstolenfrom me by the base ingratitude of my seeming
frien .
"
Accident discovered his whereabouts——a small paragraph
in an old newspaper, from which I was cutting a pattern ; I saw
his name, learned all that was necessary, and at once began to
formulate a plan for reachinghim. Life from thatmoment as-
sumed something of a hopeful hue; but my excitement very
nearlyruined everything. I would to God thatit had done so.
Having found him, it was easy to go to him, since an old college
friendwas living in the same place, and to arrange to pay her a‘
visit was only a matter of a few days. My next step was more
difficult,as everythingdepended upon our first interview.
THE HARVEST OF JEALOUSY 1:17
“
One rash or false move and all would belost. But even here
fortune——or, as I know it now, misfortune—favouredme. I met
him accidentally, and alone. He recognised me, and spoke
before I was aware of his presence. I saw his agitation, knew
"
his old love was not dead, but by an almost superhuman.effort
I preserved a seeminglyindifferent calmness even when I asked
after his wife. I read volumes in his reply; he had discovered
his mistake, was not happy, and the assurance of it made. me
frantic with delight. He was mine—I knew it-—if only I acted
withcaution,kept my handconcealed,and waited an appropriate
opportunity. We met several times after the same fashion, but
he never once visited me, or invited me to his house. Presently
he asked me to keep a clandestine appointment. I refused.
He urged it for thesake of‘ auldlaugsyne
'
; finallyI consented.
I was lost, but that was the price I had calculated to pay if _I
could win him, and I had done it. In lessthana monthhis wife
and childrenwere deserted, and we were flyingeast.
“
I was happy now thatI had repaid Sad;ie’s deceit in her own
coin. I could never be Charlie's wife, but that was nothing;
I was his, he was mine, and my account with my rival was
square. We were togetherand alone, thatwas all I had craved
for, and my revengeful prayer had been answered. In my
rebellionGod stood aside and let me gatherall thenecessities for
a heaven of my own design, and when theworkwas finished, He
bade me enter. Then, 10 l I found my heaven‘ to be God’s ex-
quisite and perfect hell.
“
Having accomplished my desire, and the tension under
which I had lived so long being over a speedy collapse ensued.
I had never reallyrecovered from my‘ first blow, but my craving
for revengehad given me strengthwhich was only obtained by
heavy drafts upon my constitution. No sooner had I attained
my wish, and thenecessity for duplicityover, thanthetax upon
my vitality put in its claim, and it was evident that I had but
a short future before me. In less than two years I was a con-
firmed invalid, unable to move, whilewe were compelledto face
the awful fact that I was dying. At thistime my fatherfound
me, and reproachingme for the dishonour I had brought upon
his name, vowed if ever Charlie crossed his pathhe would shoot
him like a dog. I pleaded with him, but he was inexorable—
told me Charlie had left me as he had left his wife, thathe had
quitted the town, had gone no one knew where, and thatit was
impossible I could ever see him again. All the old jealous fury
came back at this, followed by brain fever, then delirium, and
finallya blank. '
I18 THROUGH THE MISTS
"
When I awoke it was dark—-—horn'blydark; I could almost
touch theblackness,and I was lyingupon a bare floor, cold as a
block of ice. I called Cha.rlie——-my father—my nurse I But
_
there was no response save the echo of my own voice, which
seemed to mock and rejoice at theterror I felt creeping over me.
Where was I ? Great God! could it be possible thatI had gone
mad, or thatI had been placedunder restraint to keep me from
followingCharlie ? I rose to makewhat inspectionwas possible,
of my surroundings, under thecircumstances, but in the ague of
my fear I fell—fell without the strengthto rise. All my senses
resolved themselves intothe power of feeling; quickened and
intensified a hundredfold that I might contemplate with horror
theprocess of my own petrifaction—voiceless,sightless,sleepless.
“How I prayed for the fever and delirium to return and
conquer theicy terror which crept so slowly,so agonisinglyover
me. Vain prayerl I was a prisoner in the rigid domain of
despair, beyondthe reach of help, or rest, or pity ; the sportive
toy of all the remorseless machinationswhich are germane to
such a state. I was being slowly converted into a block of
frozen—yet living—flesh, and my abnormal sense of feeling
heightened as the infernal transformation went on. Why was
it ? Where was I P Who were my relentless persecutors?
How long before the morning would break? Would the day
bring me relief, or wake me from the agonising dream .7 These,
and a thousand other queries, propounded their unending
enigmas for my additional punishment, till I would gladlyhave
rushed into the arms of madness for rest; but alas! I was de-
privedof even such_a consolation. At lengthmy feet, my hands,
my head, my eyes, my tongue, myheart, my brainwere icebound:
then the furies boiled in my blood, and lashing it into angrf‘
foam by its excessive heat, sent it in maddened catarac’
throughmy veins to finish the exquisite suffering, which I mum
needs lie stilland bear.
“
Of the termination of that period I have no recollection.
Whether I suffered until pain wearied itself out in the intoxi-
cation of its own excessess, or whethertheintensityof my torture
became an anesthetic and lulled me into the sleep of agony,
remains a mystery. I only know that for a space my existence
lay in_ oblivion, but of its duration and nature I cannot say
anything.
“When my memory again took up thethread of life I was
still in the same state of serni-palpableblacknessamid a silence
-which terrified me to listen to; but the sharp agony of my
suffering was over, or, rather,I should say, a respite had been
‘rm: HARVEST or JEALOUSY I19
grantedwhilethenatureof my tormentwasbeingchangedto one,
if possible, of a more agonisingdescription. I was stillignorant
of my whereabouts, or of the characterof,thegreat change that
hadreallytaken placein my career, thoughI was quite conscious
I had gainedstrength,was free fromactualpainand hadacquired
thepower to move if I desired to do so. I also quicklyrecog-
nised how incalculably my condition had improved from that
.which immediatelypreceded my period of unconsciousness, but
I yearned for some degree of light, either natural of artificial,
that I _might discover my surroundingsand make some guesses
as to what had taken place,as well as estimate thedifiicultiesto
becontended with.
“ The durationof thissuspense, in whichmy onlycompanions
were the fantastic shadows of the subterranean gloom, was too
long for me to appraise—it seemed to be centuries, but I know
now that such could not be—but at length——oh1 such a length
—I had my wish partly gratified. I saw a light ; but it was so
smalland far away as to be useless for my purpose. No sooner
did I observe it thanI was consciousof an involuntarymovement
as if I was beingirresistibly drawn in that direction. At first I
experiencedan almost imperceptibleglidingsensation, gradually
increasingin velocity untilI wascarried from my feet and borne
nishing through space as upon the wings of a hurricane. On
and on, league after league, with an ever-increasingmomentum
towards thatmagneticbeaconwhich, expanding as I travelled,
yet appeared to be as far away as ever. ~
"Oh! the fear and suspense with which that aerialvoyage
filledme I It was not thepain of my previous punishment, but
the dread of the consequences which might result, and I was
powerless to avert, was almost as terrible in its effects. Sud-
denly the power by which I had been attracted or impelled,
seemed to be exhausted, and I fell, scared but unhurt, upon the
thresholdof thatlight to find it radiatedaroundtheonlyperson
for whose presence I sighed, and wept, and groaned. It was
Charlie! I had found him—was with him again. Something
told me that the force by which I had been carried hither-—
reluctantly in my ignorance—was by some means connected
withhis intense desire to see me, and in my new-foundhappiness
at our re-union, I wept and reproached myself for the hard
thoughts I had so willinglyentertained against the unknown
benefactor who had come to my relief, released me from my
prison-house, and so brought us together again in spite of my
father'sstrategy and opposition.
“ Thenanothersomethingdashedmy hopesby suggestingthat
:20 THROUGH THE MISTS
what I saw was only an hallncination—thecruel vagaries of a
dream, and that I should presently wake to find my fatheras
inexorable as ever, and Charlie gone I knew not whither. The
thought that such a development might be realised was an
unbearableone; the shadow of such a suspicion could not be
allowed to rest upon me for a moment ; I would take measures
to resolve the doubt at once.
"
I passedinto thecircle of light which envelopedhim. How
much he had changed since we parted. His jet-blackhair was
profusely lined with silver, the once calm face was furrowed,
the brightness of his eyes was dimmed, and his stalwart form
was bowed. At the moment he was thinkingof me, and I was
conscious of his having passed through an ordeal almost as
fierce as that I had been compelled to bear. As I reached his
side he murmured my name, whilehis hand moved as if to make
an attempt to take my own, but lost in the depthof his reverie,
perhaps unsuspecting that I was so near, he did not raise his
eyes to meet my hungry gaze, which was feastingupon the sight
of his presence. Oh 1 how happy I felt. His tone a.nd manner
revealed to me he loved me as much as ever, and made me
fearful to put my project into execution, lest the result should
prove unpropitious.
"
He had not returned to Sadie, but driven from my side had
found this retreat—where it was by no means troubled me or
excited my curiosity—where he had perfected a plan for my
deliverance ; and was he not lost in abstraction,as he nervously
awaited the result—-so lost thathe little knew what success had
been accomplished. I lifted my head and saw that the far-
away look had not faded from his eyes, in which I noticed a
strangely suspiciouslight was beaming. I started to my feet in
horror, and shook him, in my fear that the joy of our re-union
had proved too much, and that his reason had deserted him.
He only shivered as if the room had grown chilly. Then I
questioned my own sanity. Could it be possible my mysterious
journeyhad beenthedelirium of a madwoman'sraving ? ‘
Oh I
God ! ’
I cried, ‘
reveal thismystery, or it will killme. Charlie,
Charlie I don’t you know me P Speak but one word, and tell me
so. I have been ill; but I have never swerved in my love for
you. If you think I have/done wrong, oh! my love, forgive
me, andletme nurse you backagainto health. We willbehappy
yet. Come, let us go away. Say you know me, and I will be
content ; Charlie ! just one word, dear ; say you know me ! ‘
.
“Atthishe roused himself abruptly, picked up a book, and
beganto read withoutso much as a word, a look, or a sign that
THE HARVEST OF JEALOUSY 121
he recognised my presence. I recoiled in amazement, dumb-
founded. He was not mad—but how could I account for this
unwarrantable treatment ? Why would he not speak? Surely
if my presence was unwelcome,he would tell me so ; if he feared
discovery,he would take means to conceal me ; if I was stillthe
same to him as before, he would clasp me in his arms, and greet
me. ‘Anyhow,I could not accountfor my receptionexcept upon_,
the basis of thatcruel suggestion, that I was only the victim of
a dream. God knows my suffering was real ; whether anything
else would prove so should be presentlydetermined, for I would
watch and wait. By and by, I reproachedhim for his conduct,
to try if that could win a response; but he only smiled, and
wearilylaying his book aside, turned to someone whom I could
not see, and said: ‘
Will you tell your mamma that I wish to
speak to her? ’
“
What did he mean? What was any other woman to him
when I was present? Was it possible thathe had gone backto
Sadie after all, andwishedher to beathandto witnessmy humili-
ation ? All my old jealousy was aroused at thethought,and a
sudden frenzy carried me past all restraint, in anticipation of
the coming scene. I felt a stranger enter, but was neither able
to see not hear who it was, a fact adding considerably to the
mystery and terror which possessed me. Was I equallyinvisible
and inaudible to her ? It would seem so, for while I heard
every word which Charlie uttered, and saw every movement he
made, and could understand that the conversation had not the
slightest reference to myself, I was still ignored as completely
as if I had had no eidstence.
'
-
“
Wasit possibletheywere playingan arranged part to drive
me to distraction? Who was this woman? Oh, God! that I
had been equally deaf and blind to Charlie’sconduct as she was
to me. It was not Sadie, but I heard him call her bya name he
never could have given to me. Then I knew his baseness and
treachery,found a fullexplanationof theconduct I had received.
He was simply mocking me. Whether she was cognisant of
my nearnessor not, he was aware of it—had secured my presence
that I might witness his happiness with a rival who had sup-
planted me, as I had taken him from Sadie——thathe might laugh
as he saw how theknowledgeof it would torture me. This was
too much. The certainty of his desertion maddened me ; but to
witness his love passages withmy rival goaded me into a diabol-
ical frezy, and I determined to killhim beforeher eyes. Alas !
ere I had time to move, thelight which surrounded him expired,
and I was left again in that Egyptian blackness,afraid to stir
:22 THROUGH THE MISTS
on account of the terror which came back with my blindness.
“Still I could hear him-—-worse, I could hear her; heard,
without the power to stop my ears, or prevent my knowledge
of what she said and called him. Rage and jealousy tormented
andmockedmy helplessness, untilI preparedto followthesound,
and wreak my revengebylayingthemdead side by side. Horror I
When I would have slain them, I found thatI was as powerless
to move as I was to see, and I was compelledto stand and listen
to his perfidy,unableto make a sound to drowntheechoes of his
caresses.
“
A thousand times over would.I have chosen the gradual
petrifaction of my previous state; the tortures of hell were
increasing; was it possible thatit could hold anythingin store
more excruciating than my present punishment? I prayed to
go mad,thatin my madnessI might findrelieffrom such poignant
pain; but my prayer came backlike a stream of molten lead
fallingupon my head and burning fiery channels into my brain,
increasing my agony yet a hundred fold, and bringing to me a.
consciousness that my actual retribution was but just com-
mencing; that it would continue to increase, and I should be
compelled to bear it, since no escape was possible. I was
chained to him, and for periods of time, as long as eternity it
seemed to be, I was made to endure thisindescribable develop-
ment of excruciating chastisement,_withevery nerve quickened
to a sense of feeling defying description, while memory itself is
not strong enough to grasp its intensity. Madness could not
come to my relief; death could not listen to my pleadings;
insensibilitywas palsied and could not approach me ; pity was
beyondthereachof my wailing,andmercy had not power to enter
the domain in which I was a prisoner.
“VVhat could I do ?—Nothingbut sufierl Why was it that
no one would wake me from such a horrible nightmare P I cried,
but there was none to answer me. I was in all the agonies of
hell without even the poor consolation that I was suffering in
company. I could not bear it; yet I could not escape. Was
thereno possiblelimit to human endurance—nohigh-water-mark
of vengeance, which, havingtouched, I should know thatmy sin
had been atoned for? I must have help from somewhere——
anywhere-——so long as it broke the infernal monotony of my
ever increasingpain.
“
Such a quickandlivelysensehad I of the exquisite tortures
which were accumulatingaround me that I would gladlyhave
served with slavish obedience any power which would manifest
itself to change my condition if only to vary the punishment.
THE HARVEST OF JEALOUSY 123
If cessation was impossible, I would be content to take the rest
of change, and for this I made a last appeal, even thoughmy
prayer returned, as in thecase of thatwhich initiatedmy state of
fury——andI cried ‘
Oh, God or devilI anybeingof pityor remorse-
less cruelty,hear me, and end my torments 1 Take me, tear me,
or destroy me ; drown my reason past allhope of restitution, or,
by one tomadicblast of torture, put an end to feeling and ter-
minate this agony. Hell I Hell I in mercy, take pity on my
condition ; open your gates and let me bathe my sufferings in
your fiery lake. Hell! Hell I I say, in mercy open and let me
As she proceeded withher story I perceived thatthe present
faded from her mind, and she was back again, for the time,
feeling and enduring a recollection of the horrible past. Grad-
uallyshe changed into thewoman she once had beenuntilgreat
beads of perspiration stood upon her face; her eyes dilated
with a maniacalgleam, and she writhedin the sufferings which
had been such a terrible reality. When her strengthgave way
withtheintensity of her last efiort she-fell exhaustedat my feet.
I, too, had been so carried away by her dramaticrecital as to be
oblivious for the moment, as to where we were ; and as she fell
looked nervouslyaround, almost expectingto see thosemythical
gates opening beforeme in answer to her entreaty. It was with
alongsigh of reliefthatI recognisedCushna and Azenahastening
towards us.
“
Hush I "
he said, calmly as though thesight afforded him
intense gratification,"
let her sleep, she willsoon bebetter.”
"
Cushna ! ”
I cried, “
can thisbetrue?”
“
Yes, poor child, it is true ; and much more thatis beyond
her power to tell you. She had beenreaping thatharvest of her
jealousy for more than twenty years when I first saw her.”
"
And you saved her. I can well understand why it is her
chief pleasure to watch for your coming."
But he was too busilyengaged withMarie to offer any reply.
CHAPTER X
AN EXPLANATION
I HAVEa vivid recollectionof thefearful enjoymentand nervous
bravery with which, ‘as a child, I hunted for curios washed up
by the in-coming tide, paddling with my naked feet in
the fluctuating waters on the sea beach. I have no doubt
but that I accomplished the whole gamut of childish
heroics in my adventures ; and I am sure there were interludes
of surprisinglyrapidrecessions, as my watchful eye caughtsight
of some advancingwave calculated to reach out its arms a few
inches beyond its predecessor. Hope and fear, success and
failure, pleasure and disappointment, irregularly alternated in
my experience,until,drenchedwithspray and cold, my guardian
me away from the scene of my exploits, with scarcely
sufficient treasure in my possession to convict me of petty
larceny.
It was an analogous experience through which I passed at
thisstageofmy newlife. I was againbesidethesea.—theinfinite
sea of spirit life. Wave after wave of revelation was rolling in,
breakingupon therocks of my ignorance, and drenchingme with
a blinding spray of knowledge. The mighty force, the rapid
succession, the bewildering unfoldment, left me no time to
appropriate the treasures which were continuously, and but
for themoment, laid open to my view. Strange and unexpected
objects were almost ceaselessly brought before me—revelations
of sight, touch, and hearing came upon me like a flood, and I
could only stand confused, confounded and perplexed before
the mighy force which surrounded—enveloped——me.
I had been told it was love, all love, and that I should be
presentlyable to understand and appreciate it ; but now, I was
likea lad throwninto thewater, unableto swim ; theforce of the
waves and the tide were against me. I tried to profit by the
instruction I had received, but in my inexperience and lack of
the power of immediate appropriation, I found it more natural
to flounderand aimlesslybattle withthestorm which threatened
X84
AN EXPLANATION 125
to engulfme, alternatelyhopingand almost doubtingtheresult.
Such was candidlymy attitude for a brief period at the time
of which I am speaking, Without opportunity for reflection,
events of such an unexpected, and previouslyconsidered impos-
sible character, were being so rapidly unfolded before me, that
witha nature prone to doubt and full of dismalforebodingssuch
as mine was, it was too much for me to reach so near theperfect
idealas to view thedevelopmentsof my instruction withfeelings
of equanimity and calm confidence.
There is a general idea among mankind that by the simple
process of dying we are translated into a condition of omni-
science, and solve every problem "
in the twinklingof an eye."
It was with a sense of deepest gratitude thatI discovered the
fallacyof such teachings, and the wider my experience ranges
themore astoundedI am thatthispreposterousassumptioncould
ever haveoriginated,or foundasanctionin themindsofintelligent
human beings. Every single question I asked, every scene I
beheld, every sound I heard, had its own special revelation to
make, and the rapidity with which each successive wave of
information rolled over me, allowed me no time for recovery
from thegrandeur of its power and scope, before which I reeled
in wonder and amazement; and the same is equally true of the
present as it is of thepast.
What, then,would have becomeof me if thefull floodof the
knowledgeI have acquired—and,let me assure you, I have but
yet beenableto touch themerest fringeof thatstillto beattained
-—had broken over me like a thunder-boltat the moment when
I opened my bewilderedeyes upon the slope where I so unsuc-
cessfully tried to answer the simple query: Where a.m I P Be
not deceived, God ever tempers thewind to theshorn lamb. He
knows our frame, and has ordained thatour soul-expansionshall
proceed under conditions best suited to our state, and which
also tend to magnify His Majesty and love.
Knowledgecan onlybe acquiredas we have power to assimi-
late each successive phase of truth ; it has no force, no life,
no energy, unlessapplied ; and theman who tries to accumulate
it without the correspondinglynecessary strengthto utilise the
same, if successful, would onlyfindhe had gatheredtogetherand
built an edifice which, for lack of support, would fall and crush
him in its ruin. This strengthto wield theweight of knowledge
can only come by steady growth,and therefore if it were prac-
ticable to test the instantaneous, explosive principle—“in the
twinklingof an eye ”-—in its expansion, it could never give the
finite strengthenough to grasp theinfinite; thismust beattained
:26 THROUGH THE MISTS
by the gradual transformation of our lives into the Christ-life.
which in its turn must beconverted into theinfiniteas we further
expandinto the likenessand character of God
When we stand in close proximity to an overwhelming
surprise, I haveno doubt it is theperturbation caused, and from
which we have not had time to recover, thatleads us to suppose
this last event to be the most momentous in our career. Some
such idea as thistook possession of myself as I gazed upon the
inanimateform lyingat my ieet, and which neitherCushna nor
'Azena appeared anxious to disturb for a time. I tried, but
vainly,to reconcilethepainfulepisode I had witnessed withthe
one law of love which I had been assured held universal sway in
this life. The" problem was too deep, too complex, for me to
undertake, and at length I was reluctantlycompelledto put it
aside until I could gain some wider experience than my own to
elucidate themystery.
While I was thus disturbed and perplexed, my .two com-
panionswere calmlywatchingtheunconsciousMarie. Evidently
therewouldbesomethingforthemto do, but the periodforaction
had not yet arrived. Now was the time for waiting—and this
they did in patience——calmly waited and watched, being per-
fectly ready for ministry when required. When that moment
came, withvery tender care and sympathy,theyperformed the
service so well understood, andbeforethetear-dimmedeyes were
again opened we had resumed our journey,leavingthe spiritual
convalescent to the sole charge of thatfnend on whom she had
learned to repose.
I had intendedon my return to ask Cushna to give me time
to study the action of those mysterious dews in changing the
colour of our dresses, to have sought for some explanationof his
powerin findinghiswayso unerringlythrougha tracklesscountry,
and a score of othermatters which had ested themselvesto
my mind, but all were forgotten, and now had but one desire,
which at theearliestmoment I laidbeforehim.
“
Cushna I tell me," I cried, "
how can your
'
cile our one
law of love withthe terrible scene I have just witn ? "
“
I can well understand your dificulty,"he replied, “
and
will try to explain it to you. Never forget that all life is a
growth—agradualtransition from what we are, to what we shall
be, by assimilatingthe influence of every_ experience through
which we pass. Sudden changes are so in appearance only; .
closer ins ctionwillshow theyare all effectsof causeswhichhave
been working,silentlyand unperceived it ma be, and preparing
developmentswhichescape noticeuntilfor upon our attention
AN EXPLANATION :27
bysome outward unfolding. All expansionworks from theinner
to theouter life,but we are naturallyunable to .admit the reality
of anythingwhich lies beyondthescope of observation.
"
Innaturewe are not alwaysaccustomedto findsharpdividing
lines ; the darkest night rises by an imperceptiblegradient into
the glow of the cloudless morning; whileit is very diflicult for
an inexperiencedeye to decide at what moment the tide ceases
to ebb andbeginsto flow; youcannot see themovementbywhich
a flower unfolds its petals, yet the action is going on whileyour
eyes are diligentlywatching.- So it is withthe spiritual life ; it
unfolds, never leaps; it flowslike a stream, never bounds like an
antelope ; its progress'is a steady silentadvanceonlyevidenced
to us as stages are reached.
“
Such hasbeenthe career of Marie. It is impossible for me
to relate, or make you understand how, or by what means, she
has been gradually weaned» from the terrible agony in which I
first found her, a remnant of which you have just witnessed;
you will become acquainted with that in a more practicalform
when you find employmentin a similarmission. Let me for the
present be satisfied by indicatingto you how there is nothing
inconsistent with the law -of love in asking her to tell her
story. The retention of individualitydemandsthatthememory
ofthepastshallneverbeefiaced—thescar ofeverywrongwe have
'
done will for ever remain, till, when we have paid its penalty,
it ceases to bea source of pain—thewound slowlyheals, thedis-
comfort dies away,but thescar endures. ‘
“Marie has now reached this healing stage, and every time
.she tells her story it is like another dressing of her wound-
painful for the present, but beneficial in the result. Every
recital is less agomsing than the last, and the exhaustion it
causesinducesa sleepfromwhichshe derives additionalstrength,
which is very necessary to her progress. Without this she
would becontent to remain as she is, in thelull of rest after the
poignant anguish, without suflicient energy to prompt her to
er progress; therefore what you have seen is but a wise
provision to obliterate the past, so far as the pain is concerned,
and push her on to a happier condition than she at present
Joys.” I
“
But could not thatbe attained by her talkingof the past
to Azena ? ” '
"
No I Not so effectively. Besides, such a course would be
a waste of energy, which you willnever find here. Everything
is made to serve some useful purpose, and so_you have learned
whatwillbe
avaluablelessonbythepresent repetition ; ithasbeen
I28 THROUGH THE MISTS
helpful to others in the past, and stillwillbe when her story is
told again. In this way she becomes a powerful minister‘ for
good, whileothers are workingfor her salvation. Again, so far
she has been limited to her one companion, and must not be
allowed to confineherself exclusivelyto Azena, or she willnever
feel the need of other friendships. Every visitor she has tends
to excite new interests, so that when Azena leaves her—as she
will when the telling of her story does not occasion an after-
sleep by its exhaustion—she will be so oppressed by her lone-
liness as to be forced from her retirement and find congenial
society among those who are in a somewhat happier condition
thanher present home." -
“
And how long will it be before all this can be accom-
plished P ”
"
That varies very considerably—gene1al1yabout the same
lengthof time as thepreviousimprisonment.”
“
Have you any idea how long thatwas ? "
"
Yes I As I have told you it lasted about twentyyears."
"
Twenty years! Oh! what a hell! What an experience!
How I wish she could preachsuch a sermon in theears of earth I
My soul is full of longingto go backagain andburn.these revela-
tions into my fellows. Oh! it is terrible to me’ to thinkhow
blind they are to these awful realities. I want them to know,
to realise, that nothingbut lives——noble, self-sacrificinglives-
and deeds can enter here to help in the determination of their
future. I want to tell them that every wrong must be atoned
for, and thatby him who commits it. That thereis no help, no
escape but every soul must work out its own salvationand thus '
be instrumental in bringing about a reformation whose result
willbethedoingofthewillofGodonearthasitisdonein
heaven.”
'
My companion made no attempt to interrupt me, but as he
walkedbeside me I could see a half-amused,half-regretfulsmile
play across his face, and when I had finished he replied in his
gravelyquiet tone :
“
There are thousands—mil1ionsof friends here who have
beenanimatedand swayedby thefeelings whichnow move you ;
but when theopportunity has come and theyhave proceeded to
carry out their noble desires they have found that which will
yet be your own experience. In the first place, you willnot be
believed as to your identity, andwillbecalled upon to fight a
long and by no means complimentarybattle to prove you are a
messenger from thislife. Next, having gained thispoint in the
presenceof a few, theywillbeginto demandfromyounumberless
AN EXPLANATION 129
signs and wonders to strengthen this proof and gratify their
curiosity. When you have succeeded in this, and your heart is
burning to begin your work, someone else will be brought in,
and’theywill demand thatyou shall go throughthe unwelcome
process again, for the gratification of the late newcomer. In
fact, thisis the normal condition in which theydesire to circum-
scribeour work,and thegreatest care is needed not to drive them
away before we have attempted to sow some grain of truth.
"
When you reachthiseffort youwillfindthattheywillclaimto
know even more about thislife thanyou yourself, and you must
be prepared for contradiction and correction in everythingyou
say ; whilemany of themwillgenerouslyand frequentlytell you
that the error you are trying to teach savours very much
of therealms of darknessbecauseit is opposed to theirteachings
and beliefs. Let me advise you not to grow too enthusiastic
over your anticipated mission to earth ; the great majority of
mankind at present prefer to postpone any definite knowledge
of thislife untiltheyarrive here. But I wish now to draw your
attention to other experiences."
CHAPTER X]
1111 norm or rm: ASSYRIAN
MY friend'sremarksthrewa shade of depressionover my newly-
bom enthusiasm,andstarted a reviewofprobabilitiesin my mind
which rendered me indifferent, for the moment, to his attempt
to change.their theme. But his second endeavour roused me to
a consciousness of the panorama which lay before me, and suc-
ceeded, for the present at least, in putting an end to any feeling
of gloom.
I have said thatmy first impression of Marie'shome was that
it offered every facility,by its ever—va1-ying employments, for
weaning a heart from sorrow; but theidea was onlyan abstract
one, as neither those surroundings nor yet the more beautiful
grounds in which I had met Cushna, at the Home of Rest, had,
consciously, brought before my mind the question of manual
labour in this new life. But the time for this had now come ;
and a fresh surprise carried my mind and enquiries away in
another direction.
We were standing upon the crest of a. mountain——one of a
chain curving itself around a valley sufiicientlypicturesque to
inspire a poet or artist with a dream of Eden. From between
the hills, at the farther end, a silver stream fell in a series of
lofty cascades into the plain, which thus divided into almost
equal portions, was enhanced in beautyby the crystal presence
of the majesticriver. One feature here presented particularly
attractedmy attention, and led me to enquire whether art had
not beencalled to theasistance of Nature to produce thepleasing
result. Near thecentre of thevalley the course of theriver was
suddenlydiverted to theright and left for thepurpose of forming
an island, perhaps about a milein extent, which made a splendid
platformor foundationfor theextensive palaceor mansionwhich
was the principal object of attraction.
"
You are quiteright," said Cushna, in answer to my enquiries
“
thestream has beenat some time turned aside for the purpose
of forming the island."
38°
THE HOME OF THE ASSYRIAN I31
"
But you don’t mean to tell me there is such a thing as
manual labour in heaven--is it not a perfect placeas far as such
thingsare concerned P ”
‘
To answer your last question first,” he said; "
heaven is
not, at present, a perfect place. I know such is the earth idea.,
but it is unscriptural,and has not a shadow of justificationin the _
teaching of Jesus, who told his disciples—-‘ I go to prepare a
place for you,’ which very truth implies imperfection, because
unprepared. On theotherhand, thislife is one in which ‘
every
power finds full employ ’
; the poet is capable of receivin
higher inspirations,but of what availif he may not write them
"
Did the talents of Raphael, Fra Angelico or Turner only unfold
for the momentary span of earth's uncongenial day ? Do you
thinkthatthe dreams of beautyand grace which are here begat
of thegenius of Phidias or Michael Angelo are to be condemned
to lie imprisoned in thesanctuary of their own conception?
"
Whereare themightyarchitects whobuiltThebesand Baby-
lon, Jerusalem, Athensand Rome—have such minds no inspira-
tions when they behold the sites, the capabilitiesand the re-
sources of immortality? Are Handel, Mozart and Beethoven
tired of harmony,or have theydrained the fount of music dry P
One recoils from the thought of what heaven would be without
theactiveemploymentof such great minds as these.
"Let me ask you also, has not the gardener some ideal to
consummate, and shall he be deterred from giving scope to his
genius where it may be '
layed free from the unpropitious
Influences against which be ad to contend on earth? Music
and painting,sculpture and architecture, have had theirplodders
and toilers,_ who have lived and died unsuccessful and unap-
prileciated,quite as much as thelabourers of thepick and shovel.
ey loved theirart, and heaven'scompensationis to befound in
therealisationof theirho . Yes,In friend, thereis room for
workhere ; but what es all the '
erence, thereis no toilor
labour. Our only incentive to work is love, not to earn an
existence, but to roduce an outward semblance of that which
is born within an which prompts and forms the
I32 THROUGH THE MISTS
My first andinstinctiveconceptionof it was a vast floralpyramid,
builtand arranged as a central and finishingefiect in a charming
valley. The base of the building was, perhaps, more than a
quarter of a milein extent, but thegradualelevationof theground
from the water's edge gave it the appearance, from the point at
which I first beheld it, of its beingof considerablygreater pro-
portions thanit was in reality. It was not untilwe had crossed
one of thepicturesque bridgeswhich formedtheapproach,-thatI
could entirelydivest my mind of myoriginalidea, for thepresence
of thenumberof people who were visible was quite as consistent
withtheone explanationas theother. ‘But when ascendingfrom
the river my eye began to penetrate the foliage. I could then
discern thearchitectural arrangementby which the pleasingand
novel effect was produced. Eachstorey,of which therewere ten,
was so constructed as to leave a terrace some thirtyfeet in width
around the whole building; the outer edges being lanted with
beds of flowers, then shrubs, and finallypalms an other trees,
whose branches made arstatelypromenade.
My undivided attention, however, could not be given to the
building,for Cushna had already communicated our approachto
Siarnedes, who came to meet and welcome us as we crossed the
bridge We were also objects df curiosity to numbersof others,
who, I was informed, were anxious to learn who the newcomer
might be, and whether it might be possible I was the bearer of
news from friends stillon earth. I found thatthiswas one of a
number of homes where the souls of those who are wearied in
well-doing,andhave foughtand come 0
"
more thanconquerors
"
might rest awhile,and beministered to, in order thattheymight
enter upon thejoys of heaven withall theirenergies revived and
strengthened, so as to be able to fully appreciate those glories
which further awaited them. Here theygrew strong, while the
vibrationsof the conflictpass away ; experiencethe peace of the
eternal hush after the storm, enjoy the relief of throwingofi the
armour, and enter upon the libertyof repose, never again to be
broken. I was told that the condition of individuals varies
considerablyat such times, but that,generally,theyare limited
in their knowledge of what transpires on earth, and for this
reason, watch new arrivals for information.
Siamedes was not attired as I saw him at theChorale, but had
assumed a loosely flowing robe of electric grey, over which
alternate blushes of pink and blue seemed to beat like pulse
throbs, but he was not the less regal in appearance. The first
time I met him he was arrayedin robesof state ; now, he was the
monarch at home. But oh! what a conception of royalty I
THE HOME OF THE ASSYRIAN 133
formed, as I watched thissubsidiary ruler of the King of kings !
The diadem he wore was one of service, while the sceptre he
swayedradiatedan influence,in the presence of which revolt and
treacherywould have been annihilated; the gems withwhich it
was set excited no greed or-avarice,whileit was wielded not with
a mandate of destruction, but a command to live. The hand of
thetyrant or oppressor could not grasp it, neithercould thestain
of blood ever touch it, for thatemblem of rule Divine has come
from the hands of God, who had Himself engraved upon it the
name of—Lo've.
As I looked upon him I was involuntarilydrawn towards him,
when he threw his arms tenderly around me, and we walked
forward—I,at least, beingperfectlyhappy and contented. How
could I be otherwise ? I was beginningto grow“ accustomedto
the great advantages I had inherited in thisnew life, which was
void of any time limit ; and as page after page was turned over,
I could see how occupations were provided to engage my soul
through the long etemities which lay_ before me. The old
visionaryandinaneheaven had passed away,and in its placehad
been discovered a rest which would bean employment,a worship
which was an unfoldment,an apotheosis onlyto be reached by
the expansion of the divinity, which although unknown had
alwayslain buried withinmyself.
We sauntered along. Why not? I stood on the shores of
theeternalsea, and every step had its myriadof grains, eachwith
its special revelation to make. Every person we met had a
different-life story to tell, and I hadnothingto do but learn.
Now,_we spoke to one whohad but just awoke to understand the
change thathad taken place,and I couldstudy thesame bewilder-
ment in another which I experienced under somewhat similar
circumstances. Anon, we watched one, whose probationary
rest beingover,‘waslookingaway in thedirection from which the
friends were expected, who would escort her to the "
place
prepared"
for her. Every incident had its own peculiarinterest
and charm, as it discovered the methods of God in dealing with
the sons of men on earth, in leading the blind by a way they
know not.
"
Our conversation withthese friends," I at lengthremarked
to Siamedes, “gives me the impression that you do not hold
Chorales here. Is that correct? "
"
Yes I My visitors are the opposite of those you"saw at the
home of rest, and need very different ministrations. They were
victims who succumbed, against their better nature, to creedal
intolerarce ; "theywere overpowered whilestrugglingto get free.
I34 THROUGH THE MISTS
These are conquerors who, following the teachingsand example
of Jesus, have worked out theirown salvation in spite of creed."
"
Then perhaps you can answer me a question which puzzled
me many times in the old life P "
"
I will,ifpossible,"he repliedkindly.
"
Which of all thedenominations,or religionsif you will,con-
tribute thehighest percentage of theredeemed ? ”
"
We recognise but one religion here, thatis——Love ; and all
its discipleshave but one denomination—loversof mankind. No
one of all the man-made religions holds a monopoly of this
attribute. But earnest and conscientious followers of it may be
found in all. Its worship is service to humanity; its litany,
noble deeds, its prayers, tears of sympathy; its sermons, simple
lives, known and read of all men ; its songs are lullabiesto soothe
the broken-hearted; its faith the immolation of self; and its
hope—Heaven. This is the only religion which can write the
passports of heaven for thepilgrimsof earth. Systemsof theology
have no more charm for us here thantheyhad on earth ; but in
every heart there is a latent ideal towards which all mankindis
blindlyreaching out, a vague and undefined hope to which all
the nations are ignorantly aspiring, a settlement of political
problems that is only just beyond the reach of statesmen, a
methodof internationalarbitrationby which peace shall reign on
earth ; these are all generating in the womb of futurity. And
oh! how near thatfuture is ; how soon might all beaccomplished,
if only systematic theology could be cleared away and simple-
minded souls could raise the true standard of the cross that all
the world might see and recognise thatevery diflicultywould be
Evercome, every problem solved, and every ideal attained in——-
esus."
We were by thistime passing througha magnificentvestibule
leadingevidentlyto thecourtyardor garden, which I could see in
thedistance. From eitherside of us ran corridors, out of which
apparentlyinnumerable apartments opened ; and here, I had a
splendid opportunity for noticing the self-luminous atmosphere
to which I have before alluded. In the very centre of so vast a
vestibule one would naturally expect to find an almost mid-
night gloom; yet neither here, nor in the corridors adjacent,
could there be detected the slightest indication of a shadow.
Stair-cases of statelyproportions rose at intervals to theterraces
above, on all of which, whereverfacilityoflered,were foundtrees,
plants, and flowers, in more than oriental luxuriance, inter-
spersed withstatuary and tapestries which bafle all attempts at
description.
THE HOME OF THE ASSYRIAN 135
On reachingthe courtyard I at once discovered the reason of
its being selected as the starting-point of my inspection of the
palace. In the centre stood, or played—I hardly know how to
describeit-——a.n unique aqua—botanicalmarvel which was at once
both tree and fountain. From a coral-tinted basin it rose in a
huge body of water, some four or five feet in diameter, as if
passing througha transparent conduit. At theheight of fifteen
feet, its branches began to reach out in every direction, each of
which was luxuriant withits triple burden of ever-changingleaf,
and flowerand fruit. I say ever-changing,becauseno sooner had
leaf, or flower or fruit reached full development than by some
mysteriouspower it was severed fromthetree, as thoughgathered
by unseen hands, and carried into one or otherof themultitude of
apartments which completely surrounded us. It was an object
lesson in the process of nature, the mighty forces of which were
visibly operating before my eyes. I gazed upon the sight in
amazement,almost awe, and at thesame timemarvel_ledto what
use the products of thiswonderful tree were applied.
As if to answer me, Siamedes stooped and gathered two or
three of the leaves which had fallen at our feet ; in colour they
were of a pale, bright, almost emerald green, whileto the touch
theywere soft and velvety. When I had thoroughlyexamined
them, my companion closed his hand upon them, and as they
were pressed I was conscious of a very soft and delicate odour,
producing a markedand exhilaratingeffect upon me. Then he
openedhis hand, upon which therewas leftjusta traceof moisture
but no sign of the leaves remained. A smile passed across his
features as he beheld my astonishment, and he proceeded to
explain thissingularphenomenon.
"
This," said he, "is the tree, and also the water of life, so
necessary to restore the weary and recuperate the exhaustionof
thosewho come here to rest. It formsa methodofre-invigoration
which is the equivalent of the Chorale. The stream which
supplies and energises this tree, as also many other in similar
homes, is the strongest and richest of which we have any idea;
we are told it takesits rise in thevicinityof thethroneof God, for
it never varies in the constancy of its flow. To us who know it
best and watch its workings, the most marvellous quality it
possesses is its remarkableadaptation to the particularrequire-
ments of every case to which it ministers. It leaves nothingfor
us to do but watch andwait whileit worksa completerestoration.
When its coolingspray falls into theeyes, thefoundationsof the
fountain of tears are completelywiped away ; it lingersupon the
careworn brow until every furrow has disappeared; it drops its
I36 THROUGH THE MISTS
seed withinthebrokenheart, thenlaves it withmelody untilthe
song of victory has bloomed. But come and see some of the
friends who are lying beneaththe benedictionof its waters till
theyrecover from the effects of earth's ‘
fitful fever.’ "
I shall not attempt to describetheapartmentsin which these
weary children of earth were sleeping the shadows away. If
words would serve me for thepurpose, no mind imprisonedin the
limitationsof mortality has power to grasp it. Let it suflioe to
say that love had contributed the handiwork of its devotion;
affection had lavished its choicest treasures; the gems of ease
from every land had been improved upon ; sympathyand skill
had exhaustedtheirstore-houses, untiltheGreat Designerof the
heavens had made that resting-placefor His children touch the
standard of His own desire, and thenpronouncedit good.
On reachingthesecondterraceSiamedesstopped as we neared
the entrance to one apartment, in order to explain to me the
circumstancesofthecase. Here was lyinga motherwhoseawaken-
ing was being watched for by three of her children. She was
the daughterof an ignorant but extremelyorthodoxtradesman,
who had inheritedhis religionas a kindof heirloom. She married
a man who had been set apart by his familyfor thepulpit, but he
himself was too conscientiousto preachwhat to him was but half
the truth, and in spite of the urgent persuasions of both sides,
persisted in followinghis trade as a printer. Withtheadvent of
family responsibilities his newly-bom parental feelings still
furtherwidened thegulf betweenhimself and orthodoxy,and he
gave up the last idea of becoming a preacher. His wife was
fearful, but her love was real. Whispers of his state of mind
beganto beheard in thechurch, and for thesake of othershe was
requested to resign. His wife went with him. Then theman's
disappointedparents,seeingtheirhopesfastdriftinginto oblivion,
laid theirheads togetherto try and restore thewanderingsheep,
and after much prayer theycame to theconclusionthatGod had
ordained a little trial as a means of securing the backslider’s
return. They thereupon visited his emplo er, and by a few
slanderous suggestions secured his dis ’
Nine months of
graduallyincreasingprivationfollowed,inwhichthethreechildren
were augmentedby a fourth, but therighteous parents dare not
help them to resist the chastisements of God by affording any
relief. But the wife never allowed the fire of her love to go
down ; no murmur was ever breathedfrom her lips ; no anxious
inquiry if he had succeeded, when his weary footstepssounded on
her ears like music at night, lest her asking should increase his
disappointment.
THE HOME OF THE ASSYRIAN 137
One by one she parted withevery little treasure, which from
her girlhoodshe had learned to prize, thatshe might contrive to
lfind somethingfor those still more precious treasures God had
entrusted to her training. Stilltheywithstoodthe entreaties of
the church, for theyfailed to see that their misfortune was the
willof God, and half—suspected it had more to do withthewillof
a much less generous parent. It was a heavy battle theyhad to
fight for years ; at most thehusband's success secured but a bare
existence, and the childrencontinued to come untilthirteen had
called her mother. Bravely she bore her part, putting orth
almost superhuman endeavours to make bothendsmeet. "
God
knew what was best, and in the end all would come right if she
did but do her duty." So it was thatthemidnighthours saw her
Eending,patching,darning; morningfoundher weary,plarming,
oping.
In the lonely hours of the day, when the children were
at school and her husbandat his work,she was weeping,praying,
and longing for the rest which never came. One by one three
graves had been opened before her, and heaven received three
darlings over whom her mother's heart yearned with an ever-
strengtheninglove. Yet for the world she had her smiles, and
few people ever dreamed of the struggle with which she had to
contend. She was not conscious of how she was over-taxing
herself ; she onlyknew how much more was needed thanshe had
time or strengthto accomplish. But rest comes at length. The
fieroenessof thebattle, theceaseless turmoil,theunendingstrife,
thehope deferred grew too heavy for her shoulders, and whileyet
comparativelyyoung she sank beneaththeload.
As he finished his recital, he approached and drew aside the
rich hangingswhich fell across theentrance, and we stood within
theapartment where thisheroine from life'sbattle slept, watched
over most lovingly-——ca.n I say, patiently-—by those three who
had a right to call her by that sweetest name a woman knows.
The eldest was a youthjust short of manhood, thenext a girlnot
much his junior, and thethirda lad just entering on his teens.
In their robes of almost untinted whiteness, they looked like
angels waiting there, not bright and brilliant in their persons,
but witha soft and subduedhalo breaking from them,enough to
show they were no denizens of earth. Two other friends were
there besides, but Siamedes made me to know that these were
ministers whom Myhanene had left in attendance, when he
received her from the body and brought her there.
The only sounds which broke the silencewere the soft kisses
the children pressed upon her lips, and cheeks, and forehead, as
I38 THROUGH THE MISTS
thoughtheywere impatientfor thatsleepto end thattheymight
hear her voice again. Ever and anon I saw the flush of excite-
ment rise on each eager face as she turned or moved upon her
couch, and I discerned that I had been brought here to see her
wake. Presently she breathed a sigh, stretched, tumed, then
stretched again. The attendantsgentlydrew thechildrenaway ;
Siamedes left me, and took his placebeside the couch. Slowly
he waved his hand over thesleeper’sface,which now I could not
see, but from themovementsof lierbody I thoughther sleepwas .
nearly,if not quite, at an end.
Another stretch, a quiet moment, then a long-drawn sigh,
followed by: "
0—h de—-ar; why—where am I ? f’
“
MotherI “
cried all thechildrenin chorus, as theybounded
forward to embraceher.
But I was outside. That meeting was too sacred for me to
stand and gaze upon.
Shortly afterwards the curtains were again drawn aside, and
she wasledforthto takeher first glimpseof—shall I say,heaven ?
What else could it have seemed to her? Whatever it had
previouslybeen, it was undoubtedlyheaven now to the children
who clungso closelyaroundher.
How beautifulshe looked in her newly-foundstrength and
peace, which clothedher like a. robeof sweet repose, and thecon-
sciousnessbreakingupon her thatshe couldneverknowweariness
and weakness again I
As theystood upon theedge of theterraceamong theflowers,
for her to take a survey of the surroundings, I was surprised to
find thatMyhanenewas at her side. In theconcentrationof my
attention upon her, I had not noticed thatit was he who led her
from theroom. Where and how had he come ? When I hurried
out he was not there-—hehad not entered since from the terrace
—how had he come ? Siamedes joinedme at thismoment, and
I referred my query to him.
"
Myhanene brought her from earth,” he replied ; “
and
therefore it was for him to be the first, after her children, to
welcome her." —
“
I had no idea thathe was here."
"He was not. When I saw her waking I sent for him.”
“
Does he live near, then?”
"
Near and distant only exists spiritually here," he replied.
“
But I see you are not yet acquaintedwithour methodsof com~
munication and travel.’,'
ll
No.8)
'
“
You remember," he continued, “
when you were at the
THE HOME OF THE ASSYRIAN I39
Chorale, Myhanene projected a flash of light when he wished to
speak to you P ”
ll
140 THROUGH THE HISTS
reminded me of my conversationwithCushna about crossingthe
mists. But he was away, having left me as soon as we passed
the bridge on our arrival. I mentioned thematter to Siamedes,
and dated to venture the hope, thatif she was drawn back,and
anyone followed her, I might be allowed to bearthemcompany.
"
I will send for Cushna,” he answered; “perhaps he will
undertake the mission, and take you with him."
I saw themessageof lightflyupon its errand,thenits response,
and almost immediatelyCushna himself was beside us.
I was now to witness a second awakening,which might have
been as beautiful and peaceful as the other; but, oh, how
difierent I
My reader, thinkof these experiences of mine as you may-
classthemin thecategoryof fictionifyou choose—-butformercy's
sake hear me as I plead for self-restraint when you mourn the
absence of a loved one called away. God knows the cry of a
brokenheart is bitter,but remember,if thefirst dutyof a follower
of Christ is love, thesecond is self-abnegation. Your loss is their
gain, then I ask you ratherto rejoice, for great is their reward.
If you reallylove them,calm your grief,for thediscardingof the
body has not disturbedtheseat of love, and your agony vibrates
on its chords as much as ever, and reachingthemwhere theyare,
it disturbs theirrest and postpones theirhappiness. Remember
whilehere their joy corresponded to your participation therein;
do you thinktheyare so immediatelychanged that they could
gaze in rapture upon the Saviour’s face, perfectly conscious of,
yet indiflerent to, your agony? If you grieve for love’s sake,
calm yourself; if you weep for sentiment and fashion, you may
continue—that will never reach them where they are. Love,
pure, unselfish love has thispower, and it is to thisI now appeal.
You would not weep if you could stand for one brief moment
where I have stood, and see the thingswhich I have seen ; you
would thenbecontent to let theloved ones rest in peace upon the
~
bosom of theirGod ; and thereforeI appeal to you, dry up your
tears and let them rest until your morning breaks, and your
shadows have flown away.
By thistime therewas not theslightest doubt about thesleep
being at an end, and I could see that with every fresh sign of
consciousness the lines exerted an increased influenceupon her.
In her half-sleepshe murmured several names as thoughshe was
beingcalled but was too weary to rouse up at present ; thenshe
reluctantlywoke into a dazed, ha1f—petula.ntstate ; next a hazy
recollection seemed to seize her. Shuddering, she turned in the
direction in which the lines were running, at the same time
THE HOME OF THE ASSYRIAN I41
vacantlyresponding—-“I'm coming, dear.” Then she rose from
thecouch, thecords momentarilyincreasingtheirpowerover her ;
slowlyshe moved at first, but every step augmentedher strength
and speed ; anxious marksbegan to show upon her face as she
drew thehangings aside and steppednipon the terrace. Her ex-.
citernent now grew intense, she hurried forward, and I would.
have interposed to save her from throwing herself over, but
Cushna held me back. Mistaken love was carrying her to such
an agony as I little dreamed of then; and no one had any right
to use force to restrain her. All we could do was to follow and
save. She reachedtheedge of theterracebut did not hesitate or
waver. She threwherself over and was gone. '
Cushna graspedmy hand, and bade me come across themists
upon a mission of salvation.
CHAPTER XII
ACROSS ran msrs
FOR thefirst time, which was perhaps due to what Siamedes had
said to me, I realised thatwe were not walking; and my rapid
passage through the air was as pleasant as it was novel. There
was no eflort in my flight,in fact I was not aware of exerci '
any power of locomotion at all. Cushna held my hand an
perhaps exerted whatever force was necessary to ca.rry us on our
way. For a considerable time he did not speak, or give the
slightest indicationthathe was conscious of my presence.
Our transit was certainlynot an instantaneousone ; perhaps
I was not yet capable of makingsuch, or it may have been due
to othercauses—I cannot tell ; but when I saw themists onlya
short distancein front of us, a thousandquestionsrushed through
my mind, while a thrillof excitement took ssession of me.
Under my changed conditions would the offer itself as a
surprise, or not ? At what distance would it be? Should I
lrnow thefirst placeI sighted? Which, if any, of my acquaint-
ances should I see first? Should I see London at all?
We drew close to the mists but made no sign of descending
to pass thro h them,at which I was somewhat surprised, until
I remem Helen saying,thatin goingbackto earthwe cross
over~’them. Yes, we were above themI Now for the grand
secret from the reverse side of life I What would it be ?—-what
would it reveal? Why——l
We had passed them. It was dark and I was disappointed.
I would much rather have crossed in the daylight on my first
return. It was so cold, too—I felt thechillpass throughme, and
for a moment I hesitated to go forward. I had no idea at what
distance, or in which direction the earth lay; in all the gloom,
whether far or near, there was no beacon-lightto attract my
attention. Cushna urged me on for a time, then halting, stillin
the darkness, asked me playfullywhat I thought of my view of
earth from the immortal side.
“
I have not seen it yet," I replied, “
norgrceiveany sign
of it unless these indistinctand confused soun arise from it."
34!
ACROSS THE MISTS :43
“
That is just what I was expecting. You have fallen into
theone great error of mankindin misunderstandingtherelation-
ship which exists betweenthe physicaland the spiritual sides of
life. This arises from want of thought, and forms the greatest
stumbling-blockin theway of communicationbetweenourselves
and those left behind; and its discussion opens up the whole of
thisquestion. In thebody theyfailto grasp thetrue difierenoe
existing between the spiritual and physical conditions, very
erroneouslyimaginingthatthe latter is the superior of the two.
Theyhold thatto throwoff thebody is to give up all advantages,
all powers, and all achievements. Work,progress, and develop-
ment cease, and thesoul becomesvisionaryand intangible,being
incapable of following any of the pursuits for which the earth
afforded it every advantage.
“
Deathputs downits foot andsaysto themightyinfluencesof
themind-‘ Thus far, but no farther’
; thegrave opens its jaws
and cries to theswellingocean of human capability—‘Here shall
thyproudwaves he stayed.’ In the body theyare ableto attack
and overcome difliculties,but we have lost thepower of doingso,
havinglaid it down at thegrave. Such is thedelusion cherished
by one section of humanity; our church friends form another.
They suppose, and very correctlyso, thatif communicationwas
to be opened the stream of revelation would be continued, but
they fondly imagine that God has said His last word in that
respect, thereforeargue thatany attempt to break the silenceof
thetombis an artificeof thedevil to destroytheirsouls. Now a
.
little quiet and impartial reasoning would soon disturb the
foundationsof boththeseobjections and opens thedoor to more
light upon the subject.
"
In the first instance the brain is not the mind, but simply
the convenient instrument by which it operates under certain
circumstances. Between thetwo thereexists an impassablegulf,
so deep and darkthatthewisest man has not discovered by what
means they are connected. To base an assumption upon this
ignorance is theheight of folly,and equivalent to declaringthat
theviolinist is dead becausethe strings of his violin are broken.
The second, or church side of the objection, is, if possible, the
more inconsistent of the two. They»worship God as unchange-
able ‘
withoutvariablenessor shadow of a turning,’which know-
ledge of Himis derived from theimmutabilityof Hislaws. The
Bible is interwoven in its warp and weft with the ministry of
angels. The reappearance of Christ after death is the very
comer stone of their faith without which it would be vain, and
yet theydeny the possibilityof an open communion and declare
:44 rrinoucn THE msrs
thatthischangelessGod has changed, or at lmt thisone lawhas,
and that angelic ministry has ceased."
“
You are quite right in your indictments,"I said ;
"
but I
failto see what connectionthishaswithmy not beingable to see
theearth——thatis, if we are withinsight of it."
“
That which puzzlesyou is capable of a very simple explan-
ation,andyouwillthensee thatthetwoillustrationsare grounded
in one truth. Our theologicalfriends do not believe in angel
ministry, becausewe are insensible to their sight ; you also are
unableto appreciateour present oontiguity to earthfor the same
reason. Why is this? Simply because you have changed the
stand-point of your observation, and in doing so have become
invisible to "earth and the physical,whiletheyhave at the same
time become equally imperceptible to your spiritual sense. To
yourselves you are bothas real and tangibleas ever, but to each
otheryou are as unreal as you have beentaught to considerus to
be. So you have to look for earth now as to you a visionary,
intangible, and almost immaterialworld,-and as such I willpoint
it out, whileyou, as a spiritualbeing,willremain thesubstantial
and real. Is not thiscontrary to all your ideas P ”
"
Certainly ; but like most other people my ideas were hazy
and unsatisfactory.”
"
But you thoughtof us as invisible, immaterial,impalpable
creatures ? ”
Julsuppose I did, wheneverI gave any thoughtto thesubject
at ."
"
So we are to themgenerally,and so ane theyto us ; thisis
due to thefactthatthepoint of sensationof resistanceis different.
Now you will be in a position to understand what has been a
mystery. You still continue to be as real and tangible as ever,
but everythingelse is altered. The spirit-worldhas becomethe
objective and natural, while earth has changed to the invisible,
to a greatextent. Thatwhich formerlywas solid andobstructive
to you is now no longer so ;—buildings, trees, and even the
physicalbodies of men are no more to us than the purple haze
which wraps itself around theshoulders of a mountain, and ofier
no more resistance."
“
Why, Cushna l ”
I gasped, as the revelation unfolded
itself,and followingthemotion of his hand, I graduallyperceived
the visionary outlines of objects surrounding us, “this is the
greatest surprise of all I How can I understand it? "
"
You must be patient," he replied. "
A student does not
understand a language as soon as he has mastered thealphabet;
but thatdoes not hinder him from continuinghis study, if he is
ACROSS THE MISTS
‘
:45
wise. No man knows how he is able to think,but every searcher
for knowledgeis gladto use his brain, in spite of theexplanation
whichliesbeyondhis reach. So must we actin our development.
Every successive stage through which we pass will have its
mystery,but eachin turn willbesolved, and give placeto greater
problems,untilall our powers havingbeenunfolded, we shall see
God. If our friends on earth would recognise this, theywould
fulfiltheirmission better."
“
I can beginto see now thedifficultyof reachingthem; but
is it not possible to do somethingto correct theseerrors ? ”
"
Yes! Love conquers death,and thatone great law which
governs and controls everythingwith us, is also the means by
which we may reach and save mankind. Sympathy,whether
pure or impure, base or noble, holy or unholy, has a natural
attractionfor that which is like itself, and its power is not des-
troyedby thegrave, as you have seen in thecause of our present
mission. Love linkssoul withsoul, and has power to bridge any
gulf if it is only strong and true. This is partially admitted on
earth. For instance, it is allowed thata motherwho is with us
may becognizantof thecontinued welfare of her child,thenwhy
should theydeny thepossibilityof informationbeingcarried the
other way ? The experiences of the child cannot be of any
assistance to themother,but thoseof theparent would make an
inestimabledifierenceto thechild. Why thenshould theuseless
knowledgebeordained, and thatwhich would behelpful denied ?
Is this the usual method of God's procedure? The telegraph
wire willcarry a messageequallywellin bothdirections,why,then,
if love can pierce the mists from earth, and cry
‘
come back! '
should it not beable to travel withequal force theotherway,and
cry
‘
come forward '2‘ ’ ”
'
“
Still,thereare difficultiesin theway."
“
Yes,but by no means insurmountable, becausenot natural.
They arise entirely from the misconception I have referred to.
Give us on the earth—side a base of operation which would exist
if thesimpleteachingsof Jesus were followed, and therest would
bevery easilyaccomplished."
“
I ratherwish I,had first returned by daylight. I thinkthe
darkness causes me more confusion than I should otherwise
experience." ‘
“
Another mistake l "
my companion replied, with evident
amusement. “
You are not yet able to grasp the full situation.
Everythingyou see thatis real is spiritual,but thingsare not quite
so black as theynaturallyappear in contrast to the shadowless
life you have grown accustomed to lately. There are signs of
K
:40 THROUGH THE msrs -
daybreak all around us, and there is no doubt that the sun is
nsin ."
"gDoyou mean the spiritual sun P "
“
Yes! The Sun of Righteousness, which will chase away
thenight of selfishness, ignorance,bigotry,and superstition, and
establish on earthpeaceand goodwillto man."
“
What does the cold, keen air indicate? "
“
The degree of charity registered by the spiritual ther-
mometer.”
“
Look at thatshadow moving,Cushna ; what is it ? ”
“
A man,” he replied, "
in whom there is no spirituality,
therefore we see him as a dark shadow. As one becomes more
Christ-like the body becomes illuminatedwith a lambentglory
which corresponds to the shadowless light of paradise.”
“
Is thatalwaysso ? "
“
Always. The amount and quality of light radiatingfrom a
man, declareshis real condition. We do not need to betold, it is
impossibleto deceive us, becauseit is impossibleto tamper with
the witness."
What a flood of light thissimpleincident threwupon a whole
host of Bible passages which rushed throughmy mind with the
rapidity of thought; the prophecy of Isaiah, "
darkness shall
cover the earth, and gross darknessthe people ”
; the postulate
of St John, that“
thelight shinethin darkness,and thedarkness
comprehendeth it not "; and the terribly clear declaration of
the Saviour—" This is the condemnation,thatlight is come into
theworld, and men love darknessratherthanlight, becausetheir
deeds are evil.” Then there involuntarilypassed through my
mind other words which gave emphasis to the vivid illustration
afforded me by his remarks:—" Yeare thelight of theworld ; a
city thatis set on a hillcannot behid." What anotherrevelation
was here opened up before me of the awful sublimity and
realityof life.
My companion did not leave me long to think over these
thingsbeforehe recalled to my mind the particularreason of our
visit, andindicatedhis wish to turn his attentionin thatdirection.
As I followed him my eyes became more accustomed to the twi-
light in which we were moving, and though everything still
remained indistinct and shadowy, I was enabled to trace their
outlines better and understand what it was we were passing.
CHAPTER XIII
Two u.LUs'rRA'r1oNs
PRESENTLY we entered the precinctsof a cemetery. I could see
the vapoury monuments standing like grey-clad ghosts to guard
thecouches whereon the dead were sleeping. At a little distance
from us was a woman, who, at thefirst glance, I identifiedas the
object of our solicitation. She was standing at the side of a
newly-madegrave, upon the mound of which I presently dis-
cerned anotheryoung woman, sitting withher head buried in her
hands, weeping. No explanation was necessary to tell me this
was one of thefriends whose uncontrollablegrief had drawn this
sister-soul back from peace and happiness to an experience the
nature of which, at present, I had not the slightest conception.
I was more than interested. It was my first object—lesson as
showing the power of love in conquering death. Those fine
purple lines, to which I have before alluded, were brighter and,
stronger now, binding their souls in closer union, while I saw
continuous flashes ofsympathydarting.to and fro, thoroughly
read and comprehended by the one, but by the other, alas, un-
heeded and unknown, so oblivious was she of her heart's desire.
How I yearned for the power to break the last traces of that
barrierdown, and see themfall into each.others’ arms, thechasm
of their tears bridged over, and. the gulf destroyed. In. my
sympathyI grew so eager to try and accomplishthis,thatCushna
drew me back,lest my impatiencemight destroy what otherwise
was withinthebounds of possible achievement. He was as calm
and unmoved as thegravestonesaroundus ; withouttheslightest
trace of feeling or emotion, until I began to wonder whether he
could really be the same man who had betrayed such depth of
feeling towards Marie. I discovered later on that his calmness.
was but the placidity of confidence, every power he possessed
was on the alert, waiting and watching thathe might render the
more substantial service whenever the moment for doing so
arrived.
It was a patheticsight to see the love of the weeping sister
entwine itself around that spirit’s form, in spite of the evident
:47
:43
‘
THROUGH THE msrs
reluctance of the one to yield to the influence of grief. Poor
child,'whata difierent lot hers might have been at thatmoment
but for the flood of that misguided sorrow! That she realised
thiswas onlytoo plainlyvisible. Her love had not changed, but
’
oh, if she had but rested a little longer I If she had but gaineda
little strength,or knew in what way she could minister and be of
service to themoumer ; but now she was helpless ; she was made
to suflerin witnessing the agony, withoutany power to minister
thereto. The triumph of grief became momentarilyapparent,
the ever-contractinglines had drawn them side by side, and the
arm of the immortal passed unfelt around the tremblingform of
her less fortunate sister ; lips, too much of heaven for fleshto feel,
pressed theirkisses upon thatthrobbingbrow in vain attempt to
sootheand calm, until I wondered how it was possible for a veil
to hang between them.
Now appeared to be Cushna's time for action-, and he at once
made our presence known, at the same time encouraging our
friend to speak to her sister, ‘a proceeding which, strange as it
may appear, she had not yet attemptedsince our arrival. At the
-
sound of his voice she turned witha half-inquiring, half-incredu-
lous look, as if to ask "if she cannot see me, how can she hear? ”
but he persuaded her and promised his assistance, by which it
might be possible, at leastto make some little impression,untilI
saw she beganto hope even whileshe trembledwithfear.
Gently withdrawingher a.rm, she anose, then threw herself
upon her knees before the‘weeping girl, looked steadfastlyinto
her face, and murmured:
"
Sarah l—dear l—Sarahl "
-
The sound was soft and musical as a summer's zephyr, and
was successful, I think,even beyondCushna's expectation. The
girl lifted her head, the tears for a moment ceasing to flow. She
looked around as if uncertain whether the echo of her own grief
had deluded her, or she had reallyheard a voice. Love wrestled
with fear, and doubt with strong desire, until fear and doubt
prevailedand grief resumed its’ sway.
Thesuccess, however,was beyondall anticipation. Something
had been done, and thespeaker was by no means dauntedat the
final result. Had she not sto the tears for a moment ?
“
Speak again,” said C enoouragingly.
Again the soft voice sounded, but this time it was accom-
paniedbysuch an intensityof love and pathos,whichsurelymust
destroy all doubt in the mind of thesister.
"
Sarah, dear l—don't weep ; it is I,Lizzie. I felt your grief,
and it has broughtme backfrom heaven."
TWO ILLUSTRATIONS _ ,
149
This time thevoice was heard more distinctly} her head was
raised before the message was half completed, and the eyes, still
swimming in tears, were anxiousl turning‘in every direction.
No one was visible ; where could e sound come from P There
could beno doubt about it ; theold, familiartones were too well
known to her for that,thoughtheycame so softlyas to be"scarcely
distinguishablefrom her own thoughts. Ah, there might be the
solution. It was just what Lizziewould have said, and memory
had deceived her until she imagined she again had heard her
voice. To save this second disappointment, Cushna now drew"
near and threwall his influenceupon the girl whose mind was so
divided, at the same time telling Lizzie to call her once
I50 THROUGH THE MISTS
In vain did Lizzietry to make her presence known ; her soft
and gentle voice could not possibly be heard in the clamour_of
such authoritativeprejudice. She waited for a moment's quiet
at her sister's side, when she spoke to her again, but if her voice-
was heard. it no longer fired thenew-foundjoy—thecold waters
of bigotryhad too efiectuallyquenched thatto be rekindled, at
all events for the esent. At thisdiscovery, she, too, began to
weep ; earthr fromheaven ; thechasmwhichfor one brief
moment had beenbridged over, and seemed so bright withhope,
had again become a blackand impassablegulf, and the ignorant
assumptionof friendson earthacquiredthepower to dim thejoys
of paradise.
Cushna’s attentions were now directed to draw Lizzie away
from the house where the influences of attraction had entirely
ceased to operate, love having been supplanted by intolerant
superstition. Under these circumstances, his pure and unselfish
devotionhad thegreater force, she turned towardsthesympathy,
and as in the case of Marie, her grief gave place to exhaustion.
Cushna now flashed for assistance, giving her into the charge of
friendsto carry backto Siamedes where she would sleepagain.
ft"How long will she sleep this time? "
I asked, as they
le us.
"
I cannot say ; probablyas long as before ; thetime varies
according to circumstances."
“
Will she come back here again ? "
"
That is very possible," he answered ;
“
I have known some
friendscome back three or four times. Othersare so fascinated
by thismistaken grief as to be held prisoners by it, and almost
defy any power to draw themaway."
“
How different it would have been if it had beenpossiblefor
her sister to have seen as well as heard her.”
“
Not at all ; it would only have been taken as another
evidence of thepoor girl's insanity."
"
_When we left thegrave I thoughteverythingwould end so
happily." _
"
I was by no means hopeful of such a result ; experience
teachesme otherwise. I should grow more sanguineif I could see
a dispositionon thepart of mortals to admit thepossibilityof our
havingattainedto some knowledgeat presentbeyondthemselves.
But we cannot expecttoo much fromthemso longas theyimagine
our onlyemploymentsaresinging'
Glory,glory,glory,’or writhing
in unutterable torments. They fight the battle, we wear the
crown; they perfect reason and knowledge, we rest from our
labours. They hold us in the relative estimation of antiquated
TWO ILLUSTRATIONS 15:
volumesupon theshelves of life'slibrary,out of date, not reliable
guidesto follow,and certainlyextremelydangerousto consul ."
“
Does not this discourage you in your work? ”
"
No ! Our knowledge of the government of God shows us
thatall the erroneous ideas of men can only delay, theycannot
prevent, thesuccess of truthultimately. Theyattachan undue
importance to theearth-life, and transferthe great advantages,
which are the peculiar features of this estate, to the earth con-
dition when they do so. With them everythingis determined
by the three score years and ten; the temporal governs the
eternal; the finite controls the’infinite; the thingswhich are
not, are placed in jurisdiction over the thingswhich are. We
know better and, therefore, can wait, if needs be ; at the same
time, we are not unconscious of the advantage of a right
commencement.”
“
Is not that a somewhat dangerous doctrine to preach?"
I asked. _
“
Why so? It is the truth; and I have no fear of con-
sequences when the truth is spoken. If the declaration of the
love of God is not strong enough to draw all men unto Him, the
suppression of that truth, or the foundation of any system of
terror willnever drive men to Him. When God has formulated
a plan of salvation, it only shows you how man arrogates all
knowledge to himself when he dares to step in to revise and
correct it.” ‘
“
I should almost shudder to think of the way some men
would live,” I replied, 7‘ if they were assured that the wrongs
of life might be rectified afterwards."
“
Thatis becauseyou are onlylookingat one side of thetruth.
Let us see how it would work out if everythingwas told. Sup-
pose for a moment that the communication between the two
worlds was a recognised fact,and Mariewas able to tell on earth
thestory of her experiencesin both,as you have heard it, do you
thinkmany of her hearers would care to cultivate her jealousy? "
“
No I ”
I answered. “
If they could hear it as I heard it,
no one would dare to face the consequences.”
"
Then why fear the proclamationof the whole truth, seeing
that it is but the application of righteous sequence-—‘ whatso-
ever a man soweth that shall he also reap,’ but theharvest will
be a natural not a vindictiveone.”
"
You are right, Cushna,” I was compelled to acknowledge,
“
my idea was unjust, becauseignorant."
"
Now,” said my companion, “
I will give you a glimpse of
a brighter side of our work,where you willsee a cause for hope,
I52 THROUGH THE MISTS
and all those results obtained which you looked forbetween
Lizzieand her sister.”
My thankshad scarcely time for expression beforewe entered
a room almost as tangible as ourselves. This fact considerably
perplexed me at the time, but I afterwards discovered it to be
due to thespiritualityof the man, who used it as a study. The
house was one of those modest artizan dwellings which abound
in the southern outskirts of London, constructed for occupation
by two families,and the particular room was the one designed
for a kitchen on the ,upper' storey. The plate rack served for
theshelves of a very modest library,whilethefurniture consisted
of an arm-chair, couch, and table, at which sat a man who had
scarcelyyet reachedtheprimeof life, evidentlydeeply interested
in a book. Cushna bade me watch the different effect of his
speakingtothatwhichaccompaniedLizzie'sfirstwordstohersister.
“
James ! "
he said, in a voice scarcely above a whisper.
Instantly the reader raised his head, looked at us with a
smileof welcome, and answered 2
“
Oh I Cushna ; is thatyou ? "
"
Yes! Are you busy?”
“
Not if you want me," was thereply.
“
I wish to show this brotherhow easilywe can speak with
you, so I would like you to write a message for us.”
The Look was laid aside, paper and pen were at hand in a
moment, and he was waiting to begin. In the delight of this
new revelation everything else was, for the moment, crowded
out of my mind. All was so very natural, that I almost forgot
I had passed into the world of spirit. There was not even a
shadow between the two states now——they were not two any
longer, but only two aspects of one.
"
Perhaps you would like to give the message? ”
Cushna
_
suggested.
"
I would, but thisdisclosure completelydrowns my powers,"
I replied.
“
Then I will. Let me see, what shall I say?”
“
This is a good opportunity for one of your impromptus,”
said the waiting scribe.
“
Very well, then. You may call it :
‘
THE PASSAGE OF DEATH.’
Oh. brethrenof earth,
Where the soul has its birth,
At the thought of the Jordan who quiver
When I fell asleep.
I found thatthe deep
Was the wave of a cloud—not a river.
rwo ILLUSTRATIONS :53
Men say thatthe tomb
Lies hidden in gloom,
Whence demons and devilsforth sally :
I came throughthe place
In running my race,
And I tell you thereis not a valley.
They say, as a guard,
_
At a gate thatis barred.
An angel is standingin state ;
I passed o'er the ground,
But no obstaclefound.
So I tell you-——thereis not a gate I
No gate where men quail.
No darklow’ring vale. ‘
No river your course to resist ;
I felt but one clxi1l— _
Then a hush—all was still,
And I stpod on the s1opes—Through theMist.’ "
There was no slip, doubt, or uncertainty from the beginning
to the end of the message ; no wonder or amazement expressed
on the part of the amanuensis, who wrote as calmly as a clerk
receiving letters by dictation from hisemployer. I realised in
those few minutes that if no other link existed in all the earth, ‘
that one was quite suficient to hold the two estates of life in
an indissolublebond of union, and capable of beingstrengthened
_
until all the errors of the flesh should be corrected, and the last
rebelliouschildof earth had answered to his Father'sinvitation
—“ Come.”
The writing finished, it was read over, then placed aside to
be added to a volume of such messages, which, from time to
time, were being received from members of the large band of
spirits at whose disposal that truly inspired teacher placed his
services. This accomplished,he asked :
“
Can I do _anythi_ngmore for you P "
“
Not for thepresent.”
“'
Shall you see Zangi soon ? ”
“
I can send to him if you need anything.”
“
Youmight tellhim thatAylmeris not verywell,and I should
begladif he willlook at him.”
"
What is wrong P A”
Z
"
Oh ! nothingmuch, but it gives him an excuse to ask for
mg]-II
“
Tell the child that I will let him know at once. God bless
ou.”
'
y
I was informed that to such an extent had communication
I54 THROUGH THE MISTS
been opened with this familythat several of the children could
converse withus almost as readilyas thefather. Yet there was
nothingto distinguish them from the ordinary run of mankind.
The privilegewas a sacred one, which entailed a great responsi-
bility,so it was never paradedbeforethevulgarcrowd, to gratify
a morbid curiosity. Comparativelyfew were made acquainted
with the astounding facts, and fewer still were theywho were
permitted to be present when any such interview was held. In
the presence of this familysome of our friends had even been
able to assume a solid body, as the angels did of old, and min-
ister to medical and other requirements. The attachment of
this little fellow (only eight years old) for Zangi, arose from
gratitudefor theinstantaneousreplacementof a dislocated ankle
which the doctor had said would be weeks before he would be
able to use it.
“
Cushan ! ”
I cried in amazement, “
will there ever be an
end to the surprises you are unfoldingto me? Why, you speak
as if the whole thingwas as natural as passingfrom one street to
another."
“
It is even more so," he replied,"
when we havethenecessary
basis of love to work upon, and a waiting mind to answer when
we speak. The man who hears us will be heard by us, and be
responded to when he calls. This was the secret of the old time
prophet’sinspiration,in thisincidentyou have witnessed nothing
new, but have simply been made aware that the old methods
and advantages have not been changed or ended. I know it is
strange and surprising, but that is because mankind has erred
and strayed from the truth, having sold theirbirthrightof open
communion for a mess of ecclesiastical pottage, not because
God has changedor Hissystemofgovernmentin anywayaltered.
But thedaysof error in thisrespect are numbered. Thischannel
of communication is but one out of thousands which have now
been opened, and are being used constantlyby us to ‘
ring out
the false and ring in the true.’ "
"
No one needs to be told thatcreed and reason are at vari-
ance ; it was this that kept me outside the church all
m life.”
y“ One of themost flagrantillustrationsof thisis to be found
in the position the Church has almost universally assumed in
the matter of spirit communion. It is taught as an article of
the faith that evil spirits possess, and exercise, the power of
communicating with man; they can appear to, converse, and
enter into compacts with, and even take possession of the
bodies of those who are in affinity with themselves. But holy
TWO ILLUSTRATIONS I55 .
men and women who have passed from earth have no such
powers or privilegesafforded them,thepermission forintercourse
in theircase havingbeenwithdrawnlongago becausethemission
of such had been fulfilled. Directly you bring your reason to
bear upon such a“doctrine you explode it ; without saying any-
thingabout the changeless character of God, which must ever
be borne in mind. It makes Him to be arbitraryand unjust in
the most cruel sense, in granting to His enemies advantages
which He witholdsfrom His friends; it gives enormous facilities
for temptation to the powers of darkness, but denies the same
liberty of action to the ministering spirits attendant upon the
children of light; it opens wider avenues in the road to de
struction, while it closes up one of the brightest paths which
lead to life ; yet all the while they say
‘
God is no respecter of
persons,’ that ‘
He willethnot the death of a sinner,’ that ‘
He
will save to the uttermost all who will come to Him,’ but they
are not able to see thattheir theologyplacesa great stumbling
block in theway of all who try to come.”
5‘ But is it a fact," I asked, “that evil spirits have equal
facilitiesfor communicationas the good ones ? "
“
If you will remembertwo very simple truths,” he replied,_
"
theywillaid you to solve many otherwisemysteriousproblems.
First, there is no bondage of force in any condition of our life.
You have already seen illustrationsof this. Every soul is free
to make.its own choice, but they naturally choose that which
is most congenial. On earth the meadows are the natural
habitationof the sheep, thewater of fishes, and the air of birds ;
it is not necessary——nor is it attempted—to placeany restrictions
to prevent any one of them from tresspassing on the domain of
the other, it being quite sufficient that they are not constitu-
tionallyfitted for it. So it is with us; a sinner can no more
dwell in theregion of thesaint thana sheep can soar upwardsin
company withthe eagle. ,
"The second point for you to remember is: the power of
sympathy. This is almost omnipotent. As you have just seen
in the case of Lizzie, so it is all through creation, like attracts
'
like. In the absence then of any deterrent force, when this
attractionof sympathyhas been established, whetherit be of a
holy or unholy nature, the souls naturally gravitate towards
each other ; but no soul from our side is ignorant of the fact
that it is individually responsible for whatever results there-
from. With the present erroneous ideas which exist, it is not
surprising that the lower and ignorant spirits find the greater
attractionto earth."
I56 THROUGH THE MISTS
"
Then you regard the present state of your communication
withearth as beinga somewhat deplorable‘one ? "
“
Not by any means. The present time on earth is charac-
terised by a great thirst for lrnowledge—there is an earnest
spirit ofenquiry after truth. In thehumansoul therehasalways
been a natural craving to tend the veil which hides immortality
from vie_w—a craving born of the inspiration which forebodes
success. Daringsouls, regardlessof theanathemasof theChurch
have pushed the enquiry forward until the veil has given way
and thelightisstreamingout. But theenquirers, whilebreaking
free from errors in one direction, are generally found to hold
witheven greatertenacitytootherswhichlie in anotherdirection,
so that the attraction they form is not with spirits whom the
truthhas made entirely free, but lower minds who stand in close
aflinitywiththeir own desires.
“
A word ofcautionI must give you here, and thatis how‘very
necessary it is to draw a‘ distinctionbetweenthosewhom I have
termed the lower friends on our side and the lowest. We are
not yet, at all events, divided into two classess—'good and evil‘;
but the methodof division that I have pointed out naturally
suggests almost innumerablegrades of conditionsthroughwhich
it would be quite impossible to draw a dividingline Now- the
class of souls attracted by these enquirers are spiritually in
aflinity with themselves. but by reason of their life with us
they can teach many truths which will prepare the way for
higher andmore powerfulministers to follow them. The present
outlook, therefore, is not at all a cheerless one, but, on the con-
trary, full of hope and promise." »
CHAPTER XIV
‘rm: RELATIONSHIP or swap ro DEATH
BY thistime we had recrossed the mists, consciousness of which
recalled my desire to ascertain the relative position-of the«two
states to each other. My companion at once acceding to my
request, led me to a suitable point for making the observation.
I had grown accustomedto the gloom overhanging the shadow-
land by this time and as again the lights and shades blendedin
a soft twilightover the boundary, I had no diflicultyin gaining
my information.
Again I could see the error of speaking of the two conditions
as two worlds, since they hold the same relationship to each
other as the sea bears to the land, while the mists are but the
spray and vapour which arises as. the waves of the one break
upon theshores of the other. Stillthe smileis very unsatisfac-
tory, but I know of none to suit my purpose better. On the
immortal side that vapoury curtain hung in calm repose, but
towards the earth it swelledand rolled like the restless wave of
a flowing tide. At one time it would simply ripple along the
shore, at anothergatherstrengthand throwitself afar, whilein
its recession I could see it bearingout to sea the souls of those
for whom it had been commissioned. Some were reached in
thegentlewash and flowafter theforce of its breakingwas spent,
the keels of their barques being gently lifted from the sands of
time, then drifted away peacefullyin the mist on to the ocean
of eternity. Over some the wave broke in all its strengthand
fury, making their frail crafts to creak and plunge in wild com-
motion as the moorings were torn away and each unprovisioned
boat was swept alongto battlewiththesurf of an unknownsea.
What a transforming miracle was wrought during that
momentary immersion in the mists. As its copious baptismfell
upon each,it washedall the tawdry subterfugesof thefleshawa ,
broke the chrysalis of the soul, letting the true man come fo ,
some to the resurrection of life, many, alas I to the resurrection
of condemnation. I saw the judgment then. I saw there men
:57
158 THROUGH THE MISTS
who had lavished wealth upon themselves and made great
professions that they might win esteem, and rank, and fame,
as they lulled their clamorous consciences into slumberby the
hope that a magical process of chemistry would somehow be
found, by which the world's esteem and approbation would
transmit itself to the soul. But the mists dissolved thathope,
and the tremblingego came forth naked, ba.rren and pauperlike,
for only deeds of pure unselfish love can be carried throughthat
ordeal which all have to pass. .
WhileI was engagedin makingtheseobservations,my atten-
tion was several times attracted to persons who were passing
either way, not throughbut over the mists, as we ourselves had
done. Of itself therewas nothingin thisto excite my curiosity,
since theirerrand might have arisen from a similarcause to our
own, or been occasioned by a multitude of other reasons. But
at least half of these travellers were attired in such peculiar
robes as to make it very doubtful to me as to which estate of
life theybelonged. For some time I tried to solve the problem
myself, as to who they were, but all my explanations were
unsatisfactory, so at length I referred the question to my
companion.
“
Those are sleepers
THE RELATIONSHIP OF SLEEP TO DEATH 159
:‘That is precisely what I wish you to understan ."
‘
But I——'’ '
“
I am perfectlyprepared for your astonishment,"he replied ;
"
but what I tell you is neverthelessa fact; thisyou would have
comprehended more clearly had you been content to have gone
home before starting on thistour of enquiry.”
“
Home?" I answered, as another flood of enquiries and
associations surged around me at the mention of that single
word, for, as he breathedit, it seemed laden with music, peace,
and fulfilmentof every desire thathad ever disturbed me ; but
I crowded it back for the present thatI might learn something
$ore?ofthis new revelation. “
How should I have known it
en
)9 .
-
"
Because there you would have touched the point of re-
collection, and at that, the whole experiences of your sleep-life
would have been restored to you.”
“
But it seems incredible,"I replied.
“
Things are not always what they seem," he said. "
Let
us speak of this matter a little, and I thinkyou will soon see
that the door of possibilityis at least standing ajar, if not wide
open. To beginwith,man is created in theimage of God, which
of course is in a spiritual ratherthana physicalsense, for God is
spirit. This offshoot of, emanation from, or begotten of God
which becomes man then, partakes of the characteristics of its
source or origin. ‘
He thatkeepethIsrael shall neitherslumber
nor sleep,’ and the mind is like its God——possesses the inherent
quality of continuity of action or operation. On earth the
physical body is the organ through which the mind works, but
beingonlycapable of a limited amount of labour beforeweariness
ensues a period of rest and recuperationbecomesnecessary. The
spirit is stillwilling,it is theflesh thatis weak, so night has been
ordained to meet therequirements of the body ; but there is no
night in heaven, simply becausethe spiritual part of man never
wearies, therefore has no need to rest in the sense in which the
body demands it. Now, as sleep is a state of unconsciousness
impossibleto attain in theimmortal spirit, it is absolutelyneces-
sary that the latter shall be withdrawn in order that the body
may secure the former, and since there is no physicalrestriction
in the spirit-state, what more natural than thatat such timesthe
communion between kindred souls‘ should be resumed ? ”
"
What is the difference, then, between sleep and deathP "
"
Very little indeed, so far as leaving the body is concerned;
but in the case of the sleeper a provision is made for return, by
means of the life-line, a bright electric hair-line, very similarto
-15111; Suo[aq1 Supnp aa'e[d nazrea, seq asmo:ua1u;0N suaddeq
Suyaatu geq; xemauaqm 1aq;o qoea go uo;;;u8o:>a.1 fenmm 1391;;
&q panefnfiaxJaq;aSo;[eaqmm uo;un—911;aq1;o K0;sq; ‘MON ,,
uamaaq u; u_reB1a fiuqrep .xaq zaaux mm aqs
req; Sugaq adoq K[uo .I9I2[ 's.naaA A310; sdeqxad .10 ‘lfiugq; ‘£3,uaM1
.10; no sang .I9I{1)0IlI Sugumoxn sq; J,nq ‘p[o s.rea& aaxq; J0 om;
mq uaqm sagp pfiqo paAo[—qomn pure K[uo uv 'auo uouxuxoatm
Ire stream on Kq ‘seen 12 asoddns am 191 'q3eap ;o Bap; sq),
Sugmaxqqo Kq pamoas Kqajaqz uopqosuoo pm; a8e1u1eAp'e sq;
93951999 0% 9IQ!5'=‘5°d‘”!9Q P111046 1! P9131-mil9Q ‘U10PFIO9 999%
;1 'u9Jp[]qo u; An-ezauafi prmo; sq 0; are q:>_rqA\ ‘xaquxauxaz01
sapnapuaz 1'e.m;'eu sq; 3II§SS9.Id9.I ueqz, Jaqnex Bupasxgp Kg ,,
It i
THE RELATIONSHIP OF SLEEP TO DEATH I61
val; themotherhas continued to thinkof her baby-child,while
the angel has but dim recollections of the girl—mothershe knew
in the long ago. But instead of these hopes beinggratifiedthe
child beholds a strange woman, with face wrinkled with care,
hair silvered, and form weakened and bowed, until she fails
torecognisetheparent she haswaited for. What of themother?
In that woman,
‘
beautiful in all the soul's expansion ’
is it
possible she has regained her child? No I indeed death did rob
her, and there would be no power in heaven to make a restora-
tion, if such were thefactsof thecase. ThankGod theyare not!
“
Now just let us turn to the realities which exist and learn
how much better God is in such cases thanmen imagine. When
thechildis brought here, thelove—lines are attached,withwhich
you"havenow grown familiar; but in thiscase thereis a counter-
actingagent brought into action to prevent any undue influence
beingexercised until such timeas thechild is able to understand.
This is accomplishedby theguardian angel of the little one, who
now becomesher instructor, nurse if you will, and part of whose
duty consists in developingthe love which at present maintains
between her charge and its mother, for no severance of love is
ever permitted to take place on our side. This can only be
effected by the sin of the mother placingher out of sympathy
with the child. Here it is that the sweet ministry of the sleep-
state comes in with its continued communion, which can laugh
at death, and at least one-thirdof the lives of parent and child
are spent in each other’scompanionship, ignorant as themother
may be of the fact.
"
The child, however,is satisfied,becauseher love is built up
and strengthened, while the earth experiences of the mother
becomes valuable object-lesssons which the guardian is ever
careful to use in the education of her charge. Months pass by,
and at length the still aching heart of the mother cries out:
‘
Oh! I if I could onlysee her in a dream, it would comfort me! '
and she knows not that her prayer is the first vibration of her
sleep—memory which all this time has been striving to translate
itself into her wakinghours; but so it is. The prayer awakens
anotherhope :
"
Begotten by some deep-found faith
In love's unknownmysterious bowen,
Which feels
omniggtento'er death—
Nor earth, nor ll, restrain: its powers.
"
God hears theprayer—Hehad heard and answered it, when
He laid thefoundationsof thegovernmentof life—afewmornings
L
I62 THROUGH THE MISTS
later the mother wakens with a dim recollection that she has
seen her child, and is consoled thereby. It was just her own
darling. Of course it was, beingthe memory of one of her first
interviews. Now the dreams will become more frequent, the
child will grow, the s1eeper’s memory will become clearer, the
communion more intelligent and rational, until, at the time of
parting, the kiss will be the usual one with which a child is
dismissed to school, given with the perfect consciousness that
she will be home again at the appointed time."
“
Why, Cushna!" I exclaimed, as he paused, “you will
wipe away even the remembranceof deathif you go on."
“
If Jesus tried to do so and failed,”he replied, “
I can never
hope to succeed. There are very few of his professed followers
who appreciate the fact that he never in any single instance
voluntarilyused the word in relation to the change of states.
‘
She is not dead, but sleepeth’
; and theylaughedHim to scorn,
knowing that she was dead. '
Our friend, Lazarus, sleepeth, I
go that I may awake him out of his sleep !’ Death?—there
is no death ! it is swallowedup in victorysince Jesus hathbrought
life and immortality to light. ‘
God is not the God of the dead
-but of the living.’”
"
You said there was a second difliculty in the way of the
universal knowledgeof thissleep-life,"I suggested. A
"
There is a second and unnatural obstacle in the way, and
this is much more formidable than the one I have referred to.
It is created and maintained by the Church, which could not
possibly exist upon its present basis if the sleep-life were recog-
nised, therefore the natural tendencies I have spoken of as
existing in children have to be checked and crushed as wicked
superstitions which are the work of the devil. These seeds
sown in the young grow up and produce a harvest of bigotry
almost insurmountable in the man. This is due to the position
which the Church has gradually assumed, thatit is :
‘
Finished all that God has promised.’
and therefore there is no further revelation to be made. This
compels the preacherto drop therole of prophet, and assumethe
position of priest or lawyer ; there is no counsel of God to pro-
claim, he has only a written law to enforce ; no need for him to
be in advance of his flock, leading like an Oriental shepherd;
there are no new pastures now into which the sheep can beled.
Instead he must play the English part and follow the sheep,
who are more under the influence of dogma than of shepherd.
The duty of theprophet is to stand upon thetower, watchingfor
THE RELATIONSHIP OF SLEEP TO DEATH 163
both the day-star and the enemy: but when the full day of
creed has come, and there is nothing more to expect, what need
to occupy thetower any longer ? Now, let me applythese illus-
trations. The modem preacher is fitted for his position by a
course of college or university education; in logic, classics, the
theology of school-men, and the creed he is to expound; such
is the lawyer.
"The prophet has alwaysbeenselected entirelyfor his power
to receive and transmit the new revelation which God declares ’
’
to the world. ‘
Hear now My words,’ says God, '
if there be a »
.pro het among you, I willmake Myself known to him in a vision,
1
an will speak unto him in a dream. Here is God's provision
for a continual revelation, and the slee —state is the university
from which it shall be promulgated. Theteachingsof Jesus are
in perfect harmony withthe law of Moses in thismatter——' Take
no thought how or what ye shall speak ; for it shall be given
you in thatsame hour what ye shall speak '
; and Peter, on the
day of Pentecost, urges the same Gospel truth :
“ ‘
This is that which was spoken by the prophet Joel-
"
And it shall come to pass in the last days, saith God, I will
pour out My Spirit upon all flesh: and your sons and your
daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions,
and your old men shall dream dreams; and on My servants
and on My handmaidens I will pour out in those days of My
Spirit: and theyshall prophesy.”'
It was in thesleep-statewhere
God met Solomon and blessed him with His gift of wisdom ; it
was in a dream by night that Joseph was warned to flee into
Egypt with the infant Christ; and in the same condition was
told to get back again, for theywho sought the life of the child
were dead. What more need I say? The facts are plain; if
the doors of the sleep-state are thrown open, a wider revelation
will be given. which will carry away the creedal institutions of
earth, and thevocation of the priest willvanish."
"
But surely you would not counsel men to put faithin the
vagariesof every dream ? "
9
"
Certainly not, my friend; I thinkyou have forgotten that
I hinted at the necessity for encouraging and protecting the
natural tendencies to be found in children. .Like every other
gift of God, thisrequires most careful developmentandeducation
before it can become totally reliable in its operation."
"
But how can a distinction be drawn between the true and
the false ? "
"
That is not at all difiicult to decide. In the Old Testament,
'
when God first promised a prophet, He very carefullylaid down
:64 THROUGH rm: msrs
a rule by which the true man should be known from the pre-
tender: '
When a prophet speakethin the name of the Lord, if
the thingfollow not, not come to pass, that is the thingwhich
the Lord hath not spoken, but the prophet hath spoken it
presumptuously; thou shalt not be afraid of him.’ Jesus
confirms thisrule when he says :
'
By theirfruits ye shall know
them.’ Confidence in a prophet would always be regulated by
the value of previous utterances, while the standard of trial
would always be the cross of Christ. This, however, is not the
beginning. First of all, men have satisfactorilyto establish
the factof such a revelation, and thismust and can be pursued
exactly on the same lines as the investigation of any other
strange phenomenonin the domain of science. Once obtain an
impartial and full enquiry into the evidence already available,
and thenimmortality will be at once removed but of the region
of belief and take its place before the world as a scientific
demonstration. But in attemptingto get this,all thethundersof
ecclesiastical anathema are hurled against you because the
establishment of this fact would be a necessary death-blow to
their systems ; and mankind are not yet free enough from
superstition even to pursue such an enquiry which the Church
pronounces to be one of the wiles of the devil."
“
What a boundless gospel you open to the vision I "
"
This is the gospel, and is it not such an one as we might
expect from a God of Love? It is the gospel lost in Eden;
faintly seen and but dimly comprehended by patriarch and
prophet of old ; its day-break glories were sung by the angels
in ‘
Peace on earth, goodwill to men
’
; for a moment it shone
withnoon-dayglory around thelife of Christ ; thentheshadows
of systematic theology began to obscure it, and the twilight
has deepened into night, in the darkness of which men could
scarcely recognise the Nazarene if they met him. I only tear
away the clouds a thousandssects and creeds have conjured up
to obscure the sun, and free from prejudice invite you to see
‘
what manner of love the Fatherhath bestowed upon us,’ free
from any of the limitations devised by man. But now thatwe
have spoken so much of this phase of life, come and see it for
yourself."
CHAPTER XV
THE CITY OF COMPENSATION
DURING our conversation we had been walking in a beautiful
valley lying between the mists and the slopes upon which I
found myself on my arrival. As I did so, listeningto therevela-
tions my companion was unfolding for my benefit, many and
varied were the thoughts that flashed through my mind. One
of these made a deep impression upon me, and deserves a place
in this record on account of the influence it exerted. It ran
somethingin this way :
On earth, when a felon is torn by the law from home and
friends to pay the penalty demanded by his crime, man—with
all his faults and unjust ideas-—has made a provision for the
convict to be visited at stated intervals by his friends,in addition
to the correspondence which is allowed. I know the visits are
not frequent, and thatthe correspondence is restricted, but the
provision is made ; and is it possible that frail, fallibleman can
be more merciful than God? Can God by any means inspire
an act of humanity He Himselfwould be unwillingto perform?
Can the creature, under any circumstances, manifest a greater
degree of charity than the Creator? The thought quivered in
my mind but for an insta.nt—to have given it lodgment would
have dishonoured the Infinite Love ; but it lingered long enough
to accomplishits mission, for as it left it carried away the last
shadow of doubt. From thatmoment I was satisfied thatsleep
is the trysting-placewhere severed souls may meet again.
Some distance to our right lay a beautifullywooded district
towards which the great majority of our sleep visitors wended
their way. Turning our steps in the same direction, I soon
discovered that behind thatnatural screen lay a more populous
centre thanI had yet met with in my new life. There was also
something, too, so half-familiar about the surroundings as to
cause me more thanonce to look around and assure myself where
I was in reality.
I knew I had never visited
th;placebefore,and yet nothing
I
I66 THROUGH THE MISTS
was strange or unexpected to me, a fact the very opposite of
every other experience I had hitherto enjoyed. I stood occa-
sionally to admire lovely nooks and rustic spots with which I
seemed to be thoroughlyacquainted, or addressed and returned
congratulations to passers-by with the readiness of a life-long
intimacy,yet it was impossible to recall when or where we had
met before. Presently, however, I solved the difliculty to my
own satisfaction.
The whole confusion of mind was due to the multitude of
scenes through which I had so hurriedly passed, and the varied
subjects which had been crowded throughmy mind without any
possibilityof quietly digesting them. This, no doubt, was the
cause of the confusion so inextricably jumbling the two lives
togetheryet leaving both equally familiar.
Several times I turned to my companion, with a hope that he
would help me out of my dilemma, but seeing he was buried in
one of his brown studies I refrained from disturbing him, and
walked on in silence.
Just before we reached the trees, we turned by mutual
impulse away from the more frequented parts into a secluded
haunt which somehow, I knew, would lead us to the most pic-
turesque view of the city lying before us. I led the way, there
was now no need for a guide, since every step grew more myster-
iously familiarto me. Down into the lovely little glen, across
the rose-clad bridge which sparmed the rivulet, where I must
stand a moment to listen to the flute-like music of the silvern
cascade; then up the flower-dressed bank again towards the
moss—covered boulder which stood directlyin my line of vision.
Never mind, it was soon rounded, and
There was no need for question then ; standing beside that
rock I touched the point of recollection which Cushna had before
referred to ; all along thatwalk the preparation had been going
on, and in one flash the clear memory of my sleep-lifehad been
restored to me. Around me lay scenes dear to me from infancy.
Oh, what an explanation that one moment made of half the
mysteries of my life I How often had I wakened from my sleep
with a dull sense of forgetting something,for the loss of which
my heart felt heavy, but my memory was powerless to recall it ;
I had sighed to renew some sweet companionshipI had formed in,
the "vagaries of a dream"; I felt confident that someone,
somewhere, understood my wishes and fostered my "foolish
whims," but where and who was it P Some unknown influence
was alwaysworkingupon me to "
do this"
or
"
go there.“ My
friends looked pitifully upon me, regarding me aspthe victim of
THE CITY OF COMPENSATION I67
strange fancies from which I had not power to break away.
Frequently, when I was visiting the poor, I would come
across the face of some sufierer which was quite familiarto me,
yet I knew I had not seen it on earthbefore. Life had abounded
in such mysteries, which in my solitude I had tried, in vain, to
probe; I knew that in some far-away court a man lay ill and
starving, but how I was aware of it I oould never tell. I was
conscious thatif I walked along a certain street at a given time
I should meet such and such anvone, of whose existence I was
ignorant apart from my "strange fancies,” but I would go and
meet them; "there was no need to tell their stories-—I knew
them. I simplyperformed my mission and passed on.
A thousandimpulses, strange as these, had been the ruin of
my life in theestimation of my friends,whiletheirdevelopment
and indulgence had considerably aroused the pious fears of my
family,exercised the professional acumen of several_physicians,
and been the subject of serious conversations and many
prayers of devout clergymen; but all of no avail,the combined
effect beingto increase ratherthandiminish the malady. I was
accused of lackof natural affection, was not amenableto reason,
despised the oommon—sense thingsof _life, and in the anxiety of
my friends to protect me from myself it was always a mystery
how I escaped the doom of an asylum. Was I happy? No!
Two ever-present difliculties prevented that. The unnecessary
suffering and starvation of my fellows, and an insatiablelonging
for somethingor someone which I could never define—a craving
of the soul I did not know how to gratify—a hungering
for
solrtne unknown sympathy for which I knew not where
to see .
But a great part—-perhaps all—of the mystery had at length
been solved, the key had been found, and henceforththe enigma
of life would be easilyread. Was it a tear of gratitude which
dimmed my eye as the realisation burst upon me ? Perhaps it
was, for thereis one joy at least which can onlyfind an adequate
expression in thelanguage of tears.
"
Cushna, my friend," I cried in my ecstasy, "
I know it all
now; but none of the revelations you have made to me can
compare with this."
"
Why I do you mean to say you know this place? ”
“
Know it I Why, I am truly at home now. My earth
life was not real; that was sleep—sleep in which I restlessly
dreamed of this—nowI am awake. Yes I I do know it I Hence
forth I have to enjoy fulness of life in a condition where solution
follows mystery as naturallyas fruit comes after flower."
:68 THROUGH THE msrs
"
Now you can understand all we have been speaking of
respecting the dual life."
“
I can,” I replied, "
but how was it I did not rememberit
even after my death? ”
"
Because you have been carefully prevented from touching
the point of recollection until themost opportune moment."
“
The place seemed to grow strangely familiarto me as we
were coming along," I said. “
I was about to ask you the cause
of it several times, only you were thinking.”
"
Yes! I did not wish to make any explanations. It was
much better for you to learn it as you have done ; and now you
feel yourself at home, you will be able to dispense with my
services.”
“
I do not at all like theidea of losing you,” I replied.
"
You will not do that; I shall see you by and by. In the
meantime you have many friendshere you willwish to see, and
any of themwillbe able to make what explanationsyou desire."
He was gone—but I was not alone. How could I be in the
midst of scenes every one of which called forth a multitude of
experiencesthathadlainburiedunconsciouslyinmyminduntilnow.
Who is able to understand the mind? What undreamt-of
histories, revelations, and possibilitieslie stored away in its vast
abyss,into whichtheintellect can findno light to helpit penetrate.
Consider but the corridors of memory, and who can estimate
what priceless tablets of the past are waiting our discovery?
Are thererecords of being,of zeons, of epochs, reachingbackand
backuntilat lengthevery individualsoul mayread its genealogy
and trace each step in its adventurous pilgrimagefrom God?
Who can tell? But who can doubt but that the mind holds
secrets which thefickleflesh could never keep-—secrets which are
too infinite to whisper into the ear of mortality ; theirweighty
import, quiveringon thesensorium,would shatter it, andleave it
deaf to every othersound. Earthunderstand themind of man !
Why, in comparison, it has scarcely yet been able to grasp the
idea of its conception. But in thecalm hours of sleep, thatsubtle
embryon steals away to Paradise, where its generation is con-
tinued within the womb of love, until the fulness of its time
arrives ; then the soul is called away and in the birthof death
inheritsthepossessionsofa largerself——thememoryofanotherlife,
the knowledge of unexpected powers. How can the full beauty
of the plant_andflower be seen when the seed has onlyjust been
discovered ? How can we know the oratorio when theoverture
has but just commenced P How can we paint thesummer wh
we have only felt the frost? Neither can we. who have only
THE CITY OF COMPENSATION I69
watched theflutteringsof the wings of ‘mind against the cage of
earth,describethemajestyof its soarings in the congenialatmo-
sphere of heaven.
My meditations were brought to an abrupt ending by the
sound of a well-known voice close behindme 2
"
Hello, Mass’r Fred I So yo’s here at last."
“
Yes, Jemmy,here at last.”
“
I got’n idea you wam't oom’n ronn’ dis road for a bit.’
Ain't it beau’ful? Has you been up de mount’ns ? ”
“
I scarcely know where I have been, Jemmy,I have seen so
mu ."
“
Did you see an’body you know yet ? ”
"
Not here ,' but I have onlyjust discovered thatI know the
place. Cushna never told me ; he let me find it out for myself.”
“
Dat’s jus’like ’m ; he keeps on s’prisin’ you all de time.”
“
That's been my experience," I answered, "
ever since I
arrived.”
“
N’ber min’, Mass’: Fred, you s‘ll soon see someb’dy now.
We’llsoon fin’ you when I fetch ’m."
Away that dear old friend went to convey the news of my
arrival, and left me to recall the pleasantmemories of thatcom-
panionship. I cannot attempt to recount the multitude of
incidents which crowded around me in connection withhim, but
I willmentionone lesson he taughtme, which, I think,must have.
exercised an unconscious influenceupon me in thelower life. It
arose from my expressing surprise that negroes retained their
colour in thislife. The dear, good fellow replied, thatit was all
of the goodness of the Lord, that every colour, as well as every
dime and kindred,should be found in heaven; and thenhe went
on: There were many people who hated niggers and thought
theyought not to betreated thesame as white folks,theywon't
-
go to school or church with them, won't eat with them, or mix
withthemin any way, but when theygot to heaven theywould
find that niggers were as good in the eyes of the Lord as white
folks, and theywill have to mix withthemthen.
I shall never forget his glee when he wondered—what the
white folkswilldo if theyobjectto climbthegoldenstaircase be-
side theniggers,for there'sa mightylongprocessionof "
darkies,”
and theyare going up all the time. Then again, he continued,
looking more serious, it would have been mighty hard on the
nigger if the Lord had changed his colour, for everybody would
have laughedat hin; and said, “
I told you so," and thatwould
have made him feel awful sick. But the Lord would not have it
so, thereforeHe left everybody in theirnatural colour untillove
I70 THROUGH THE MISTS
reigned. and no one thoughtanythingabout thetint of another’:
skin.
I thoughttherewasa volumeof truthin hissimplephilosophy,
which wiser men would do well to consider.
That familiarphrase of the whilom slave, which seemedto
come to his lips as the natural reply to every perplexity—"it's
all of thegoodnessof theLord "—led my thoughtsaway from the
individual to the city which lay before me-the city so full of
newly-foundmemories, and which, from my own experience, I
had learned to call the City of Compensation, owing to the fact
thatit possessed more features of thatcharacterthanany otherI
could recall. In my old life I had been frequentlydriven to the
verge of atheism,by a fruitless attempt to reconciletheincongru-
itiesoflifewiththeidea of a just and merciful God. Why should
theman who was born blind be compelled to bear theignominy
of begging his daily bread. with the hundred-and-one other
hardships which fall to the lot of poverty ; while the man who
layin thelap of indolenceand luxury should possess all thephy-
sical blessingsnature could crowd upon him? By what law did
genius and want find such attractionfor each other. while intel-
lectual incompetencyand wealthwalkedhand in hand ? Where
was thejusticein a life of vicarious pain, which had its origin in
another’s sin? Where was the righteousness which threw its
influence on the side of the tyrant and oppressor, while the
honest saint was left withoutsign or answer to his cry?
I was not by any means theonlyone who had beenperplexed
by such enquiries, but from my new vantage-ground I could
interpret these problems in another and better light. Earth is
not the Omega as well as the Alpha of life ; in fact, it is not the
whole but only part of the first. It is his ignorance and a false
estimate of earth which makes man attach an unduevalue to its
condition. Thingsassumeda very diflerentaspect in theexplan-
ations my memory afforded in my newer state. I remember
how I had seen the blind man enter that city while his body
enjoyed its sleep, and how at a glance I learned thathe himself
was not blind, the defect layin theinstrument throughwhich he
operated. It is only on the mortal, the transitory, side thatthe
gaoomexists ; on theimmortal his visionis unclouded ; therefore
‘
hours of darkness only correspond to another’s sleep. His
memory may not be strong enough to bring back to earth the
consciousnessofwhat haspassed,but whoshall saytheresignation
of thesechildrenof darknessmaynot bedue to theechoes of their
_
sleeglife,which still reverberatethroughtheirwaking hours?
thiscity the ears of thedeaf are unstopped, the tongues of
THE CITY OF COMPENSATION
‘
17].’
thedumb are loosed, themaimedleap, theidiot understands, the
paralysed forget their infirmity, and the bed—ridden feel their
strengthreturn ; such are some of the kindnesses of the Lord to
the unfortunates of earth,.duringtheir hours of sleep ; do I not
rightly call it a city of compensation?
These are memories of gratitude and hope; but there are
othersof even more weightyimport, which for the warningsthey
convey, I dare not pass by in my message throughthe mists. I
have often been a witness in this city of a mother pleadingwith
her child to keep the yet unfulfilledpromise which was sealed in
thekiss of death,but since forgotten or ignored ; I have seen the
mask of friendship torn from the face of hypocrisy ; heard the
lying tongue convicted by its own utterances; seen the base
intriguer exposed before his victim; have heard the '
_
counsels of love to wayward children; witnessed the sympathy
and afiection lavished upon the unfortunate and the prodigal.
and listened to the assurances of the presence of loved ones—
unseen and unheard—-in the hour of trial and temptation. I
have seen the continued communion of souls, which the chill of
deathhad no power to break ; and the meeting of friends, who,
in theirdespair, had vainlyimaginedtheywould never look upon
each other’s face again.
Oh, ye of earth, who received from the closing lips of some
loved one, the trust or commission theycould not linger here to
execute, I bid you recall how sacredly you vowed to perform
those farewell promises which you have since neglected, as you
have forgotten the body which crumbles in yonder grave. That
is not your father,mother,friend,which is lyingthere ; theyare
not dead I Theyare not away I In thesilentcorridors of sleep,
you are still meeting them night by night. They know your
perfidy,and thatyour word is broken ; time after time theyhave
earnestlypleaded withyou, whilejust as often has your promise
been repeated, until not one, but a hundred broken oaths are
registered against you on the tablets,of your soul. Stand still
for one moment, and you will feel the weight of these unheeded
vows lie upon your conscience untilits stillsmallvoice cries out
in agony, bidding you to keep your word. Why do you not
take heed? It is not now a matter which lies alone between
yourself and friend ; he has been called into theinner sanctuary
of God, who will Himself now defend His saint, and exact the
retribution of your deceit.
When thehour of morning calls you back to earth, how fre-
quentlydo theechoesof your lastassurancecontinueto ringwithin
your ears ? Quit you like men be strong ; arise and keep your
:72 THROUGH THE MISTS
compactin spirit and in letter before the weight of your perjury
grows too heavy for your soul to bear. And ye who weep, look
up I Hush the voice of your mourning, and dry your moistened
eyes. The loved ones have not gone away ; theirkisses are still
lingering in freshness upon your lips. Those tender tones, like
the departing vibrations of imagination, which steal over you
when first you open your eyes, are not all illusions; your dear
ones have been withyou. You carried to themlast night tidings
of your home below, and they have told you of theirs above.
Can you not feel thepressure of theirembracesaround you still?
and that they expect you will keep your tryst to-night. Oh,
no I They are not lost ; but Jesus loved themso, he drew them
just a little nearer to Himself,where theycould rest in peace :
"
Beyondthe heartache and the fever."
Their exaltation has not ended—it has only changed the
hours of your communion from the uncertain seasons of earth's
day, to the cairn and peaceful hours of night. Think for one
moment : Are you not conscious how much their love for you
has strengthened? So, too, has the atmosphereof theirpresent
lives worked out a like result in you; and this,nurtured and'con-
tinued, will lift you up, and drawing you withthemselvescloser
to God, will finally bring you where they are. They are still
more yours in thisholiercommunionthanever you knew before ;
but theyhave been honouredin theirelection to thathost whom
Christ employs as
“
ministering spirits, sent forth to minister to
them who shall be heirs of salvation."
\.
CHAPTER XVI
com: up HIGHER
Ir an angel had visited me on earth—andwhen I say angel, I do
not mean one of those inestimablesaints of whom we are accus-
tomed to speak as angels in,disguise, but a real, live, orthodox
angel withshiningraiment and snowy wings—-andtold me thatI
possessed so many friendsin thewhole realm of creation, I could
scarcelyhave believedhim. But by thistime I was beginningto
know how next to impossibleit is for man to understand much of
his real self on earth. Let him for once get but a momentary
insight into the true condition of thingsand he willbe humbled
to thedust, and theprayer of faith—notin a lifelesscreed, but in
the living God who is immanent, real, tangible to the soul-—
would be “
lead Thou me on.” At the flood of its revelation,
coming like a tidal wave-—as thereturning memory of my sleep-
life had just overwhelmed me—it would carry away all tyranny,
oppression and selfishness. It would need but one glimpse, one
baptism, one blow ; the victory would be won and the real
brotherhoodof man forever an established fact.
HithertoI had not beenable, consciously,to call any man my
friend in the truest sense of that word; not because I had no
desire to do so, for God can witness to the agony.withwhich I
mourned my loneliness, but circumstances would not permit it.
Those, who by virtue of position might have filledsuch a place,
looked upon me as a crank, withscarcely theright to be at large,
withouta singleinterest in thelegitimatepursuits of life, and the
victimof a morbidcraze which led me to spendmy leisure among
the vulgar poor. With my hatred for conventional hypocrisy,
how could I hope to find congenial friendship with these? I
could have purchased a hundred associates from the enormous
class who sell their companionship for cash considerations, but
cant and flatteryis not food for hungry souls, nor is the slavery
less degrading because its fetters are of gold. I might have
found manytrue and congenialhearts down thecourts and alleys
I so frequently visited—and secretly, more than once, did I
In
:74 THROUGH THE msrs
realise something of what it might have been-—-but the insuper-
able barrier of society, which forbids the brotherhood of man,
stepped in.
Not that I feared very much for myself, but the open recog-
nition of such acquaintanceships would, added to my many
other "
eccentricities," have established the desired missing link
of evidence and thewalls of some private “
house,of retirement "
would have put an end to the little sunshine I was able to carry
to such miserable places. I was friendless in life’, there was no
doubt about it. It was my cross, a sad and heavy one, but I
tried to bear it, and I found it grew fighter when I became the
friend of others much less fortunate than even I myself. That
lonelylonging,was it not theearth vibrationof the friendshipsI
enjoyednightlyin thisotherlife ? How thecompensationof the
one struggles to heal the wound it finds withinthe other1 Here
I had so many friends, dwellers on both sides of life, that all
attempts to formulate a. plan by which I could speedily visit
themended in failure,so at lengthI determined to let the matter
arrange itself.
There was one buildingin the city that possessed a peculiar
interest for me, and thitherI turned my first attention. It was
the rendezvous of those street arabs who, in large cities, earn a
precarious living by selling apers and matches, and to it they
attached the designation 0
“
The College.” Many were the
nights I had spent in this placewatchingthe delight with which
the visitors appreciated the provision here made to counter-
balance the hardships of their other life, and listening to the
fnultitide of experiences which everyone had to recite. Here,
too, it was very seldom but one or more of the bright spirits of
still higher regions came to minister to these little hungry and
ragged Wanderers. At such times the difiiculties of their fate
were alwaysthethemeof discussion, and the angel-teacherwould
patiently and lovingly show and illustrate how “
these light
afilictions, which are but for a moment, work out a far more
exceeding and eternal weight of glory "
; workingin season and
out of season to groundhis audiencein thoseacts of reciprocative
kindness which so uniformlymarkthe dealings of thisclass with
each other.
Men wonder where these children, gutter-bred, learn these
acts of humanity and consideration, which for purity of motive
put so-called Christian philanthropyto the blush ; where they
are taught to help to beareach other's burdens—where theyare
first instructed in the practical application of the golden rule?
I can answer theenquiry. Theyare instructed in theelementary
coMi~: UP HIGHER :75
schools of heaven, to which theyare summoned whiletheirbodies
lie asleepin darkcomers and doorways,under barrels or carts, or
in the outhouses of your Christian city. Angels, who have
learned the deeper secrets of the love of God, meet with these
_
despised and outcast children there, teach themthegeographyof
home, and show them the surest way to reach that rest which
stillremaineth. How could theirbare and chilblainedfeet scale
the sharp and icy points of your cold theologywhilethehowling
winds of fierce damnation raged around with threateningforce.
They would slip, fall, and theirlittle souls lie in mangledmasses
at thefoot of some precipice of sectarian contention ; theycould
never enter heaven bysuch a path. But do not fear ; theangels
know the road, and in the lessons of their dreams these little
pilgrimsare travellinghomewards throughthegreen meadowsof
forbearinglove, led along by the once outcast Jesus. You need
have no anxiety about their welfare because they fall short of
your sectarian standard, when you shall enter you willfind many
finch whom you once knew waiting to sing you-.r
"
Welcome
ome.”
A hundred happy voices hailed me as I passed through the
tapestries hanging across the entrance, and in a moment I was
surrounded by a group of friends who were anxious to embrace
me. No need for circumspection here ; I could lift the joyous
urchins in my big,clumsyarms and kiss and pet themas I chose,
for were we not brothersand sisters all ?
It seemed almost impossible to realise that those laughter-
making children were the same that but one or two short hours
ago, withhungry stomachsand shiveringbodies, were struggling
in the hurrying crowds of busy cities, pleading piteously for the
unsympatheticpasser—by to ‘buy a paper or box of matches in
the hope that the transaction would secure a meal. Yet so it
was. And I wondered what the consequence would have been if
theveilcould have beenlifted before theeyes of one of thosewho
impatiently pushed the child aside; if he had been made to
understand that in one short hour that unwashed, uncared—for
gutter-snipe would be in the company of some of the angels of
God, in the land of compensation? If the simple truth of the
night advantages of these day—frustrated ones could only be
known, how different their lot would be! What a messenger
service would be established across the mists! But would not
the removal of the hardships necessitate the cessation of the
compensation? If so, the mitigation of the evils of the body
would be purchased at thesacrificeof thewelfare of thesoul, and
thatwould bea price too high to entertain. No, it must not be I
I76 THROUGH THE MISTS
God knows best ; but heaven forbidthatthisidea of theircom-
pensation should restrain the hand outstretched to rescue or to
save. God's ministry is to counterbalance man's neglect. but
thehagvlestof such omission the man willbe compelled to reap
an .
,
y
Theseire-unionshaveanotherand,insome
rsapecm,perhaps,an
even more pleasant side than the one I have welt upon. The
former comrades and companions of these children regularly
meet with them again, and are made to minister to their less
fortunate friends. Very touching it is to listen to their recital
of the pleasures into which theyhave entered, and the contrast
of theirpresent life withthe one withwhich thelistener is alone
acquainted. Hope is inspiredin thegloomysoul, and a thousand
speculationsmadeas to thewhyandwhereforeofsome apparently
untoward event, until the young immortal cries :
“
But it will
beall right ; it must be all right ; and when you come here (and
thatwon't belong now) thenwe’llrememberto look and see how
it come all right." By such means are they comforted, and
consolationis distilledinto theirlives, whichstrengthensthemto
beartheirotherwiseintolerableburden. ‘
I had not finished my salutations before the curtains were
again drawn aside, and another visitor entered, whose appear-
ance caused even more excitement than‘my own. I did not
know at first, but I afterwards recognised thatit was he—Arvez
—who had carried my little charge from my arms when I lay
upon theslopes. I also recalled several previousvisits which he
had paid to “
The College," and then I becameconscious of the
object of his present mission. The coming dissolution of the
bodyisin everycase known on thisside oflifein advance,whether
by accidentor fingeringdisease. At thistime theharvest of life
can be ascertained, the condition of the soul on ent '
im-
mortality be known, and its first dwelling-placeassigned. rom
henceforth the soul about to be born is conducted, during its
hours of sleep, into its new surroundings, and so made familiar
withits cominghome. This was themission of Arvez, therewas
not one in all thatassemblagebut knew it ; every eye was fixed
upon him, every child crowded to get near him; upon every
face was written the hopeful query :
"
Is it I ? ”
Was it a shade of disappointmentthatpassedover thosefaces
when the messenger found and designated the lad he sought ?
If so, can you wonder at it? They knew the sufierings, the
privations,and thehardships of thefortunate one would soon be
over; for themselves, no one could tell how long the struggle
would last, or how fierce it yet might be. Nevertheless they
COME UP HIGHER g
177
showed heroic courage in thegeneral assent theygave to thecry
of joy which broke from the lips of a companion who knew the
fortunate lad well.
“
It's LimpyJack; but I'm most as gladas if it wor me.”
There was no appearance of accident or deformity to justify
the sobriquet by which his frienddescribedhim, but thatocca-
sionedno astonishmentin my mind,for thereason I have already
explained, that the deformities of the body are not perpetuated
in the soul.
Immediatelythe decision was known, the group opened that
the lad might go to Arvez, who lifted himin his arms, con-
gratulated, and kissed him, at which another cheer broke forth,
making the placeto ring. That kiss was the seal of deathupon
his brow, an evidence of which would be conveyed to the body,
so thatthesign could be known and read on earth thathe would
soon be called to heaven.
The boy who announced his name followed him as he came
forward, and when the cheer died away,looked up at Arvez and
asked :
"
Is he acomin' soon? ”
“
Presently; as soon as we can bring him away,” was the
kindly response.
"
Jack,you won't go and forget us when yer come, willyou P ”
"
In cours’ I won't ! Why, won't I come here reg’lar,like I
does now? In cours’ I will."
“
All right Jack; I'lltrust yer ; an’ when I wake I'lltry and
rememberyer acomin',an’ I'lllook arter yer tillyet do."
"
God bless you," said Arvez, as he kindlypatted thatfaithful
littlehead. Then he turned away to carry thelad to see his new
home. I was anxious, if possible, to know their destination, so
turned towards the door where Arvez was waiting for a moment.
"
Where do you take him 1’ "
I asked.
“
To the house of a sister who is not altogetherunknown to
you ; will you go with us ? "
h ‘;I shall be delighted," I replied; “
but will he live with
er.
” ‘
"
For the present. He needs instruction and guidance, and
she will undertake that duty."
We travelled what must have been a long distance, but the
process of aerial locomotion is by no means wearisome, and the
time was pleasantly occupied in listening to the multitude of
questions propounded by the lad, and patiently answered by
Arvez. There was no necessity for me to speak, for the answers
so kindly given to the boy were full of information to myself,
I
:78 THROUGH THE MISTS
whilelwasmorethanonoeamazedatthecareandpatienee
which were expended upon replies to question that on earth
would have sorelytaxedtheequanimity oftheinostforbearing.
We wsed by several cities of oomiderablesize, whose many
-beautieswere a never-failingsource of admiration, not only for
Jack, but for myself as well. Every object was but another
evidence of the pleasures yet in store for me, when the oppor-
tunity should be afforded for leisurely
CHAPTER XVII
A roe-rass AT noun
It was evident, however, thatno one of all these cities was to be
our present destination. On and on we sped ; every instant un-
foldingsome new beauty,callingforthsome deepernote of admir-
ation or bathingus in themore profounddepthsof silentwonder,
untilwe reacheda range of hillswhich seemed to beclothedwith
all thefragranceand thegloryof hope’s ideal fruition.
Here we paused. Beneathour feet, upon thegentledeclivity
near the foot of the mountain, stood a single house, not large
compared with many I had latelyseen, but perfect in the pos-
session of every feature an artistic soul could desire. It was like
is realised dream in which some weary painter, musician or poet
had sought—-and found—rest. Nature herself had been the
gardener of the landscape lyingbefore us. I do not mean the
unkempt, entangled and disordered nymph which earth calls
Nature, scatteringweeds, briers and thistlesin wildconfusion all
around,but thebeauteousangel, who, timidattheresult of man's
disobedience,withdrewwithallher kindredhost to heaven,where
she could perfect her handicraftin unmblestedfreedom, andwork
out in veritable fact and -am lified minutiae the sketchy dreams
and ideals which should be rn within the expandingsouls of
men. Here Colour had wooed, won, and lived in sweet fidelity
withMusic. Before me laythenatalbowers of Beauty,Enchant-
ment, Harmony,Grace, and Rhythm,each of whom held court
in one or other of the hundred odorous halls of grove, or hill, or
mountain pass. Echo and Song chanted their roundelay upon
the heights for which the lake rippled its approbationin silvern
tones; birdsof dreamlikeplumagewarbledtheiranthemsin trees
of evergreen luxuriance, throughwhich the breezes breathedthe
fragrant perfume of the flowers ; whileover all, theheavens un-
rolled theircanopy of atmospherictones and tints which have no
’
names or counterparts on earth.
Several friendscame to meet us as we approachedthehouse,
among whom I recognised a lady who frequently visited "
The
College "
and was a great favourite with the children. Jackno
I10
I80 THROUGH THE MISTS
sooner saw her than he bounded forward with every demon-
stration of afiection. There was no shyness or vulgarityin his
demeanour-—thischild of the gutter——for had not the sleep part
of his life been given to educating and preparing him for ‘the
duties and pleasures of this home, and though the alternate
circumstances of his wakingstate had compelledhim to assume a
low disguise, his royal antecedents had been discovered, and his
right was undisputed now.« He was the son of a king brought
home from exile, there were no enquiries as to where he had
wandered and what his associates and position had been,enough
thathe was found, and thoughhis visits could be but transient
foriabrief space, all knew thathis absence could never again be
or ong. .
Congratulationsand rejoicings occupied theinterval between
our arrival and Jack'sdeparture, for the morning on earth soon
recalled him to the sale of matches, and the tearing cough was
rapidly snapping the cords of life. Oh, what a contrast in the
two conditions! How ignored on earth, how rejoiced over and
welcomed in heaven! But some willask me why no knowledge
—no recollection of thefact,if factit is l I answer, becauseyou
have been schooled to think and still foster the idea that all
dreams are the vagariesof the brain, and that the sleep life is a
myth and fantasy. God gave to Solomon the promise of his
wisdom in a dream, and used the same means to bid Joseph to
take the child Jesus into Egypt, and if He changes not He uses
thesame vehiclenow, but ye despise them,thenchargeyour folly
upon God. That is my answer to your why?
When thetime came for Jack'sdeparture Arvez accompanied
him as far as the boundary, but I remainedin order to gratify a
desire I had long entertained for a talk withour hostess. Arvez
was quiteright when he told me thatshe was not unknownto me.
PersonallyI had met her on many occasions as she ministered to
thehabituésof "
The College,"but therewas a deeper sense than
thisin which I knew her ; had not her poems been almost my
only companions in the solitude of my earth life? She had
seemed to understand life, as I knew it, with its deep soul-
longingsand unalleviatedheartaches,likean almost kindredsoul,
but she had conquered and found a calm for which I vainly
searched. I had learned from the memorials given to the world
after her decease thatshe had been born in thelap of thechurch,
but her father, who was a clergyman, cherished his creed as
thoughit was a Divinelysilkenthreadfor thepurpose of leading
pilgrimsto theirhome, not as a barbedor iron fence thatwould
tear and manglethe unwary.
A POETESS AT HOME 18!
Her education had been in theministry of love, as beingthe
centre and circumference of all true religion, and under its ever-
broadeningand deepening influenceshe had been carried out as
upon the bosom of a majecticriver into theinfinite ocean of her
God. Yes, she drifted out, but as she glided heavenward she
sang—told all her deep experiences,reflected backagain thesun-
light which fell upon her soul, thusher voice came withwonder-
fully soothing influence upon the storms and troubles which
encompassedme. She seemed to know the heights and depths,
the lengthsand breadthsof the wondrous love which strung her
heart, and when thestorms swept over her she would sing of the
calm, and so deftlyinterweave the two as to leave no room for
doubt as to our safety. When thenight of trialwas blackand no
friendlygleam shone out to guide her feet, she possessed those
wings of faith by which she could mount up, and far above the
gloom, look ahead to where the Sun of Righteousness was rising
with glorious promises of the day. From such Alpine heights
her song would come with no uncertain sound, a guiding voice
lelagingmore benighted souls to follow her as she had followed
‘st.
I had followed her, and now I stood beside her for the first
time upon her own level. Was there any wonder I should wish
to stay behindand pour out my soul in gratitude for all she had
done for me.
We watched Arvez and his charge untiltheydisappearedover
thecrest of thehills,then,turning,she graspedmy handandsaid:
“
Now we can talk, and I may welcome you.”
"
And I may thankyou for all you have done for me, by your
pen," I answered.
“
But those thanksare not due to me, my brother,theyare
God’s ; He filledmy cup so full of mercies thatit must needs over-
flow ; and whatever music sounded in my verses was not of the
cup but in thefallingblessings withwhich thegoblet filled.”
“
I know it," I replied, "
and my soul does magnify His
name ; but I cannot beunmindfulof thefactthattheform of the
receptaclehas much to do withthesweetness of themusic."
“
Yes, thatis so,” she answered, witha far-awaylook in her
eyes and a softened tone which was scarcely audible, “
but even
then the thanksare doubly His, for did He not form the cup as
well? Come into the garden,” she added, as if not wishing to
pursue the subject further, “
where we may talk among the
flowers. Is it not compensation for all earth's toil to be recom-
pensed with such a home as this? ”
“
It is indeed, but yet thisis scarcely your ideal of heaven."
I82 THROUGH THE MISTS
"
Nu, not myoldideal ; but I can see where I,in common with
all mankind,made a great mistake. We are not afraid to recog-
nise factsor admit a doubt here for fear of exposingsome weak-
ness in our teachings, so I can face the difiiculty which would
sometimes rise like the shadow of a fear, as I contplated the
sudden transference of a soul from earthinto the presence of the
'
. Thenitwasaconstantstruggleforfaithtogainanything
like a clear conception of heaven. If you tried to listen to its
music there was always a kind of dread thatone might hear a
discord from some inharmonious voice, which had not yet had
time to learn the song; you could never look steadilyupon its
citizenswithoutthetremor of a fearlest one should befoundupon
-whose raiment the semblance of a stain remained. The death-
bed, especiallyin some cases, seemed too near the throneto be
quite safe."
"
And now? "
I queried.
"
Now, I can best compare the earth idea of heaven to the
experienceof a mountaineer,who, at daybreak,startingfrom the
inn, takes a longinglook at the peak he desires to reach. Faith
takes one mightyleap, andstandslikea monarch upon thetower-
ing height, laughingat the toilerswho are climbing,resting, and
anon, slipping, so far behind. But faithis not the tourist, and
in its gigantic leap has carried forward nothing but its own
imagination; he who exercised it is stillamong his fellow travel-
lers, and, spite of it, willbe compelled to climb thesteep ascent
with carefultread, or he willnever reach his goal. Yet faithis
good ; for it gives, by its confidenceof success, buoyancyto the
step, and conquers the thousanddoubts which others willsufler
owing to thediilicnltiesof theway."
“
If then,it were possible for you to write again, you would
sing these later experiences? "
"
Possibleto write I "
she exclaimed,withsome slight amaze-
ment. "
Why may I not write now, as well as others sing?
Genius of every kind in themortal state can onlyexperience its
birth—thegrowth,expansion, and fruition remain for us. One
note of music was once breathedbelow by angel lips, but earth
has never heard thefulness of her song; drildlikefingers twang
thestrings,but theharpcannot betunedin theconflictof worldly
'
discords ; how then,can fleshpronounce judgmenton theanthem
of theworlds? Thank God. I can and do stillwrite. I learned
on earth the letters; I am now trying to spell the words with
which I shall write in the by and by my songs in heaven ; and
since you have heard my first, let me singyou one of my present
sonnets."
‘A POETESS AT HOME 183
She turned and ran into thehouse as she said this,but almost
instantly returned carrying a book, from which she read the
following,which I append by her permission:
" WAITING:
Waiting now u n thethreshold.
sdnstwithin e porch of life ;
e from all thestorms and tempest,-
Hushed the discord and thestrife; -
Stilledtheheart withits wild beatings
.Cslmed thehot and fevered brain :v
Waitingnow, and resting sweetly,
TilltheMaster comes again.
Wai '
.
where theripplingwavelets
Of li e's river lave my feet:
Washing05 thestains of travel,
ErethehlasterImaygreet:
Tillthe voice is full and mellow,
And I learn the sweet, new song;
Till the discord is forgotten,
That disturbed my peace so long.
Waiting,tillthewedding garment,
And.thebridal wreathis here ;
Tillour Father'sfeast is ready,
And the bridegroomshall appear
Till the seeds of life have blossomed.
And theharvest-home we sing;
Gatheringup my life's long labours
For my bridal offering.
Oh’! ’tis not as men would teach us-
Just one step from earth to God ;
Passing throughthe death-valeto Him.
Inthegarbthatearthwetrod;
Called to piaise Him whileaweary,
Or to sing, whileyet the voice
With love's farewell sob is broken.
Could we, fitly,thus rejoice ?
No! we wait to 1ea.rn the music,
Wait. to rest our weary feet;
Wait to learn to sweep the harp-strings
Ere theMaster we shall meet ;
Wait to tune our new-found voices
To the sweet seraphic song :
Wait to learn thetime and measure.
But thetime will not be long.
Wait to understand theglory
That willshortly be revealed ;
Till our eyes can bearthe brightness
When the book shall be unsealed.
:84 THROUGH THE MISTS
Oh I thevision would o'erporwer us.
If it suddenly were given
50 we wait in preparation,
In thevestibuleof heaven,"
As she read,or, rather,breathedforththelines of her poem,we
were walkingdown the hillside, but she graduallydrew me away
into her condition of oblivion to external surroundings, which at
their best were but the inanimate properties of heaven-calm
tributaries to the soul of heaven itself ; but in her voice which
thrilledme withits fervent pathos——in those eyes, which looked
away in patient yearning down the vistas of hope—I seemed to
catch a glimpse of heaven itself, and it absorbed me. Her
recital was a calm confession of trust in God, and thoughthein-
flectionsof her voice sounded as if she was far away,yea, even in
thenear presence of her Master, she lingered over each recurring
“
waiting ”
as if she drew from its deep spring the full sweetness
of theassurance that“
theytoo serve who onlystand and wait,”
and was reluctant to turn away from the refreshing draught.
She had forgotten me—everythingsave her God, with whom
again she was holdingsuch sweet communion, and thecontinued
utterance of her lips was like thespontaneous ebullition of over-
flowing music generated in her soul, Someone has said “
a
somnambulelike an angel seems, in the unconscious grace with
which she moves," but I was looking direct upon an angel, en-
tranced by an ecstatic vision of a heaven brighter than she had
ever seen before. I dared not speak, not even when she ceased to
read, but hangingon theinspirationwhichenvelopedher I walked
beside.
How long thisreveriecontinued I shall never know, but when,
at length,she drew thedeep breathwhich roused her to the con-
sciousness of my presence, I was surprised to see how far we had
wandered. She did not speak, but raised her beamingeyes, as
if to watch the homeward flight of her reflections;and I was by
no means anxious to break the sacred silence on which they
floated.
"
Do you not think,”she presently asked, "
that those are
sweeter thoughtsthan the mistaken ideas we held on earth ? ”
“
Indeed they are ; but if at present you have only reached
the vestibule, what willtheglory of the inner sanctuary be ? "
“
I cannot say ; neitheram I in a positionto understandif any
of our friends were to try and explain it to me. It is impossible
to clearly comprehend that which we have not seen, and the
attempt to do so only fosters incorrect conceptions. I cannot
see, and so I am content to wait until my eyes can bear the
A POETESS AT HOME 185
brightness of the revelation ; in the meantime I have much to
learn, and many sweet enjoyments to gather on my way to
holiness."
“Then you think there are still other preparatory stages
before you reach the final home? ”
“
Oh, yes! There are others, how many I have no idea.
The question which sometimes occurs to me is: Shall we ever
reach the last? Is there a final? Since God is infinite, is it
possible for us to arrive at any limit ? Think how far we were
from holiness when we commenced our pilgrimageon earth, and
what a trifling distance we have yet travelled, then you will
understand that there must yet be innumerable such stages
before we can hope to stand in the undimmed splendourof His
presence. Wit‘h the new powers and greater knowledge which
my new life has given me, unfolding a wider conception of His
purity and my own unworthiness, I sometimes think it will be
almost necessary for the remembrance of our earth life to pass
away before we can bearto look upon His face;”
“
But you do not thinkour identity willbe lost ? "
“
No I We can never lose that; thatwould be to annihilate
ourselves. But when I think of the searching power of those
eyes which are too pure to beholdiniquity,if theconsciousness of
what I have been is not lost before I am called upon to bear it,
thatsacred beam willcall to my memory reflectionsof my once
sinful self suflicientlyintense to stain my purity and turn that
gaze away."
“
What.shal1 we do then?. "
"
I know not. That is one of the problems to be solved in
the higher light ; for the present we have to wait ; it is enough
for me to know that
'
God is His own interpreter,
And He will make it plain.’ "
"
When you thinkof_ such a consummation,do you not wish
for theintervening stages to hasten by thatyou may obtain it P ”
"
Yes ; and yet, no ! ”
she answered slowly. “
That is the
absolute ideal of every true soul, which, in common with them,I
am anxious to reach. But at present I have not the capacity
to appreciate and enjoy it, so thegift would be too overpowering,
and would only crush, instead of elevate me. You must re-
memberthatone who has beensuccessfullyoperatedon for blind-
ness can onlybe initiated into thelight by degrees. We have all
been blind, and God’s light willonlycome as we are able to bear .
it. He is too wise to allow any possibilityof disaster. So the
I86 ,
THROUGH THE MISTS
climaxof anticipationan onlybeattainedwhen thesoul has, by
process of natural growth, reached its full stature, and that is
certainly not yet. As for waiting—well, I am somethinglike a
child who recognises his inferiorityto a man, but the conscious-
ness thereofby no means lessens his present joy. The longing
for autumnfruit nevermars thebrightness or spoilstheperfume
of summer showers. Neither does my great desire to meet my
Fatherface to face
A POETESS AT HOME 187
“
Your conversanoe with my writings," she replied, "
I88 THROUGH THE MISTS
tongue of the roué, its balm should be~employed to heal the
broken heart ; I would use it as the key of hope to release the
prisonerof fear, buildit up as a tower of refuge for thetempted,
make it the one consolation for the bereaved; it should become
the anchor of the merchant, the restraining power of the spend-
thrift,thecurb for avarice, and thefetter by which I would hold
the brute. I would gatherthenations togetherthattheymight
hear the requiem its cataracts would sing as they buried war’s
‘alarm; I would marshal earth’s battalions side by side and
march them throughits perfumed spray, to wash the curse of
caste and colour from each soul and leave them brothers all.
Fear, punishment and retribution I would hold in long restraint,
while I tried to charm each wanderer homeward, as I sang the
legitimatemusic his Fathercomposed to win him back from sin
and misery to his rightful home and heritage.”
At this point our conversation was broken ofi by a ray of
light flashingacrossour path,like a clear sunbeam,shiningabove
the soft glow to which I have before referred. My companion
raised her head and exclaimed joyfully:
“
Ah! here is Myhanene! ”
"
Where ? ”
I asked eagerly,for as yet he was not visible,
to me at least, and I hoped I might be able to see his coming
withthatinstantaneous flight that Cushna had told me of.
hi
“
He willbehere directly,"she replied ;
"
thatrayannounced
mg!
“
Who is he,” I asked, “
that his coming always seems to
make everyone so glad ? "
"
You have seen him then? ”
“
Yes ; I have seen him twice‘, but as yet I know very little
about him.”
"
The more you get to knowhim, themore you willlove him,”
she answered. “
He is one of those pure and consecrated spirits
who make heaven wherever theygo. His presence adds lustre
to brightness just as that flash illuminatedour path, and the
atmosphere around him is fragrant with the presence of Jesus.
He came away from earth as a child,and theinnocent simplicity
of thechildremains upon him still. In him we can see what sin
has robbedus of, and the type of soul which would be found but
for our disobedience. By the purity of this childlikenature he
has been able to approachso near to the Master as to fit him to
becomea messenger between the next condition of life and this;
a link is thusformed thatholds the two in close communion."
"
Do you wish me to infer that there are diflicultiesof com-
municatiofi between this and the higher states, many ways
A POETESS AT HOME 189
analogous to those which exist between this and earth?"
“
No, not exactly that. The word difficulty conveys an
erroneous impression to your mind, and yet it is perhaps thebest
I can employ. Words derive shades of meaning from the local-
ities, surroundings, and circumstances in which they are used,
and the difierent condition of the two persons using the same
word frequentlycauses misunderstanding and confusion, especi-
ally when one employs the word to denote or describe a some-
thingof which the other is entirely unacquainted. My failure
to convey to you just what I desire is the very illustration I
need to explain what I mean by Myhanene's forming a link
between the two states of our life.
“Theexpansionandpurificationofthesoul naturallyelevates
it, and with thatelevation comes an enlargement of.powers and
capabilitieswhich need to be gratified; clearer conceptions of
God’, deeper insight into His workings, with the solution of '
mysteries, and capacity to discern how the complex present is
workingout theperfect future. These new powers and develop-
ments have to be educated so that each stage of life forms, as
it were, anotherclass in theschool of eternity,and as each study
absorbs the whole soul of the student you will understand what
I mean bylinks or intermediarieslike Myhanene, who hold us
each to each. Theystand betweenthe two, minstering to both,
without beingquite absorbed in either."
“
But is he not a ruler of some placesin thelower condition? "
"
Yes, you may rightly designate him as such, but he would
not wish you to give him such a title, for thoughhe does rule.
his sceptre is one of affection, and he prefers to be considered as
friend. counsellor, or tutor at the most. His oflice is one which
naturallypertains to his condition of life.”
“
From my brief experienceof him I can readilyunderstand
you. His methodof performing an oflicialfunction has already
been a revelationto me."
“
And every time you see him you willreceive an additional
revelation," she a:nswered. “
He is a living exposition of the
Master’s injunction—‘He that would be the greatest amongst
you, the same shall be servant of all.‘ But here he is."
CHAPTER XVIII
TEE FAIILY OF HEAVEN
As Myhanene came towards us my companion’: designation
of him as a living epistle of humilitylingered in my mind, but
I also thought I could detect the realisation of another ideal‘
raised by Jesus, to which His followers should strive to attain
—“ Ye are the light of the world ; a
:3thatis set u a hill
cannot be hid." Shiningwiththeself- 'atinglustre 0 spiritual
truths which he had learned and assimilated in the greater
altitudes of his brighter home, how could he be other than
welcome; coming as the rophet of thatlife which lies before
us-like an advance to indicate what we shall be when
we reach those heights.
Having folded us each in his embrace as he breathed his
salutation,he turned to me and said : _
“Arvez told me you were here, so I came to ask you to
accompanyme to a festival to which I am going.”
"
You are very kind to thinkof me," I replied;
"
in thepress
of all your duties I should have thought you would have for-
gotten me long ago."
"
We never forget here," he replied, with such a peculiar
emphasisuponthelatterwordastoimparta volumeofmeaning
to it.
“
Surely I know it, and ought not to have given expression
to such a thought,after all theexperienceI have had, especially
withArvez and thelittle fellow we so recentlybrought here from
'
The College.‘"
"
Poor darlings; how lad such children are to come away
from their hard and
THE FAMILY OF HEAVEN I9!
“
Yes,” he answered reflectively,"and what an amazing
compensation. Sometimes I almost wish I could feel what
passesthroughthesoulofsuchanonewhenfirstherealiseswhat
has taken place,and fullyunderstands thereality of thechange.
What a revelation of the love of God must seem to overwhelm
them. Whenlthinkofitlcanahnostfeelgratefulthathehas
permitted man to sin, becausenothingelse could have opened
up the possibilityof sounding the matchlessgraceof His full
forgiveness and restoration."
"
When you came, Myhanene,I was wishingto ask a question
about thatboy,which perhaps you would answer." '
“IfIcanIwillbepleasedtodoso."
"
Why was he brought here above all otherplaces—hadhe
nowhere else to go ? "
“
He had nowhere else to go,” he replied, “
not thathe was
an outcast, but because he, like every other person, is subject
to a law. The earth-lifeproduces types or qualitiesof soul, and
every qualityhas a provisionmade for it here ; in eachcondition
thereare souls who are speciallyattractedto us and we to them
-—these become our friends and companions. Our sister, here,
finds that attraction in this little waif from earth, and so will
love, cherish, and help him to understand the elements of his
new career.”
“
Perhaps I did not make my meaning clear," I replied;
"
I wondered if he had no father,mother,or otherrelativehere
to whom he would naturallygo? ”
“I understood your meaning well. You have fallen into a
very common error, and one which I had better explain and
uproot at once, or it will involve you in diificulties by-and-by.
You must now learn to draw a distinction between relation-
ships of the body and those of the spirit ; the latter being the
only ties we recognise here." _
"
Do you mea.n———"
"
That one is our Father,even God, and all we are brethren,’
he replied, before I had time to finish my question.
“That mustbetrue in a sense," I answered, "but I cannot
forget thatone of thecommon ideals framed of heaven is to have
thefamilycomplete. Am I to understandthatthis,likeso many
‘
others,is an erroneous one? ”
“
Very erroneous, and ahnost impossible, since heaven could
not exist under such circumstances, from the simple reason that
to complete any one familyyou would be compelled to break at
least two others in order to furnish the parents to the children.
Then consider the variety of tastes. dispositions and spiritual
I92 THROUGH THE MISTS
developmentwhichyou findin thesame family,and theprovision
made in thislife to minister to each under the most favourable
circumstances. Selfishness is eradicated and our happiness
augmented tenfold more by the absence of those we love, when
we know such secures theirwell-being,thanit would be by their
presence and the sacrifice of advantage which would necessarily
ensue.
"
Every individual soul born into our life has become,by its
life on earth, self-conditioned, and God has provided for it,
having respect to two facts only,first, the law which ever works
to secure holiness ; and next, themeans to attain thatcondition
under the most favourable circumstances to the individual.
Think for a moment of the endless complicationswhich would
arise if your ideal could be put into execution ; then, I am sure,
you willsee how impracticabletheidea becomes,and thatby no
othermeans could happinessbe secured to us thanby this,God's
own appointed law.
“What the future holds I know not, but develop as it may I
can only see the possibilityof forming groups of twin souls in
the one great familyof heaven, until many other stages have
been passed. Such kindred souls are by no means unusual, and
in their influence act and re~act upon each other, and so are
drawn together in a communion of which the earth friendship
can form but a very faint conception. There relationships are
rightly termed blood-relationships,°but flesh and blood cannot
enter thislife, and thereforekinship has to be liftedinto another
and more spiritualbond—of God theFatherwe are born into the
spirit and thus become brethren and sisters of the one great
familyof heaven."
“
Would you preachthisdoctrine on earth ? "
"
Of course I would ; it is truth and ought to be proclaimed.
Is such not thegospel of theChrist, extendingthehorizon of the
familyto earth's remotest bounds, destroying in its unrollment
the distinctions which exist between class and class, erasing the
animosityofnationsandobliteratingall tracesof colour, language
and time? Would not such a recognition be the charter of
‘
Peace on earth, and goodwill to man ? ’
Would not the feud
between capital and labour, the tacit understanding between
nations that might is right, and the doctrine of the survival of
the fittest find their natural termination and solution in the
influenceof such a revelation ?
“
In otherwords, if we had a free course to preach thisgospel,
can you tell me any more direct methodof answering that sen-
tence and supplication in our Saviour’s prayer that the earth
THE FAMILY or HEAVEN :93
is continually repeating——-' Thy will be done on earth as it is
done in heaven ? ’
That granted, what would naturallyresult ?
The recognition of theone great factthatpure affection, whether
between members of the same familyor not, is an attribute of
the spirit, not of the flesh, and can only be secured or dissolved
by spiritual approachment or estrangement. God, who is
Spirit, gives birth to such relationships, and '
whatsoever God
hathjoined togetherno man can put asunder.’”
“I must bow before your reasoning," I replied, “but to
return to our little friend. Is it possible that he will never see
his parents again? ”
"
I cannot by any means say that,” he answered. "
First,
becauseI am ignorantof who or whathis parentsare ; andsecond,
becausewe do not know what infinite possibilityour Fatherhas
in reserve for future revelation. But sometimeswhen I meditate
on what may be, my vision seems to catch a glimpseof a glorious
possibilitywhich, I feel certain, lies well within the scope of
God's great and boundless love. In such visions I have seen the
last repentant soul of earthapproachthethrone,whileall heaven
was silent in the presence of the awe-inspiring joy that by His
forgiveness of thislast sin God was about to add the final touch
to the glory of the redeemed——and with breathlesswonder we
looked upon each other, and on Christ, asking in mute antici-
pation what the attendant revelation—-theclimax of all redemp-
tion——-would be.
“
Heaven oornpletel Who can understand, anticipate, or
picture it? Every group and every circle perfected! Every
prayer answered, every ideal attained, every soul saved ! Each
change throughwhich we have passed from glory to glory having
transformed and re—adjustedus as we grew in likeness more and
more in the image of our Divine Head. Then I have thought
thatwhen every piece in the complicatedmosaic of infinite love
shall be placed in its God-appointed position of the eternal
design; when the mighty doors of that final revelation shall
swing back, thatwe may enter the very presence of our Father,
and behold Him as He is, then we shall find that between the
days of the flesh and that re-union there has been some subtle
connection by which every familyhas again been united, to pass
the throne complete. in the great review of all peoples, clirnes
and tongues, chanting theone universal anthem of thanksgiving.
Oh ! what a sight. The fathers of every race in the van of its
vast battalions, and after them their families complete, linking
on with those who follow, until every age, and kindred, and
colour shall be included and not one soul be absent from the
N
I94 THROUGH THE MISTS
countless family,who shall cry
‘
Our Father'
to Him who bids
them ‘
Welcome home.’ "
“
Do you thinksuch a consummationis possible? "
“
Yes, and it is the only way by which I can imagine that
God can bring all thingsinto subjection to Himself as He has
promised. If only one soul, even Satan himself, shall at last be
alienated from God, He cannot be all in all, so far as I am able
to understand the meaning of the kingdom,for where the Spirit
of the Lord is, there is liberty,but to grant such libertyto only
one alien soul would be to risk again the ruin of the whole by
his influence, and thus again necessitate another scheme of
salvation; to lose but one solitary soul from the family of
mankind would shatter the attribute of God's omnipotence,
because He could not remain Almighty if, while He willed the
salvation of all, He failed to secure the one that would then
remain estranged.
“
Yes,In brother,it is possible for such a consummation,for
is it not de ed that‘
God willhave all men to be saved,'_and
furthermore, that '
as in Adam all died even so in Christ shall
all be made alive ’; the two ‘
alls '
are co-extensive, and it is
an act of basest injusticeto our Fatherto entertain for but one
moment the thought that His scheme of redemption would not
be as complete and efficacious as the necessity of sin demands.
God so loves humanity that He has provided a way of escape,
and having done this, and also being able to save to the utter-
most, do you thinkit reasonableto suppose He will be thwarted
in His design-?
THE FAMILY OF HEAVEN I95
"
You know not, my friend, what joy this knowledge gives
to my soul," I cried; "
when I met Eusemos he began to open
thisdiscussion to me, but it seemed too much, too glorious, and’
I feared to press it lest it should by some means fail in all it
seemed to promise to me ; since thattime Cushna has shown me
much which has revived and strengthenedmy hopes ; my sister
here, and again yourself, have bothunfolded more of the Divine
mind in thisdirection, untilwhat was once a hope onlybecomes
- a knowledge, for I feel theweight and truth of your communion,
which is not a discussion but a revelation, for which I am more
thangrateful. There is stillanotherpoint, however, upon which
I would ask for infonnation, if you will yet permit me to
press anotherquestion.”
“
Ask and ye shall receive,"was all he replied,but in his_look
.
and tone there was a volume of meaning that made me almost
forget my question for the time. They were the words of the
Master's promise, and in theutterance thereseemedto beso much
of the spirit and influence of the Christ that involuntarilyI
turned to see if any addition had been made to our company.
When next I looked upon Myhanene, I thought his face seemed
even softer than before, a deeper expression beamed from his
eyes, and a presence rested upon him before which I bowed my
head, even whileI feltmore desirous thanever to ask myquestion.
"
Would you also teach this truth on earth P ”
“
Yes! ”
he answered, "
I would declare the whole counsel
of God, simplyand unreservedly."
“
Where, then, would be the restraining power from sin ? ”
“
Such a gospel, would change that entirely. Now men are
taught to come to God from fear of the torments of hell, but I
do not think that is God’s ideal way. If I understand Him
aright He would have them drawn by the story of His love,
ratherthan driven to Him by the lash of terror.”
“
But the animal element is so strong in human nature, I
~ am afraid, that without some restraining power it would be
diflicult to keep the masses in check. and if they heard the
doctrine of final salvation for all, what incentive would they
have to live moral, not to say righteous, lives ? ”
“
I say I would declare thewhole counsel of God, and I have
full confidence in its sufliciencywithout any fictitious invention
or device of man. The truth, as we know it, is quite enough for
every purpose. Let me recall to your mind the case of Marie,
which you saw ; does it require any more than the knowledgeof
her punishment to be an effectual warning against jealousy and
the evils which spring from it ; and yet Marie's punishment is
I96 THROUGH THE MISTS
not eternal. She has passed its ordeal, and the poignancyof it
is wearing away, until presently she will take her place and
position among the saints in light, nothingremaining by which
her sin will be recognised by those with whom she associates.
“
Now I willask you to try and cast your mind forward across
theages untilwe reach the time of which I told you I sometimes
catch a glimpse,,'when earth's family shall be all redeemed.
Marie will be there, white and radiant. and holy as any in all
-that countless throng. No soul looking upon her will be con-
scious of thatgreat sin which has been atoned for and forgiven ;
but will she herself then have forgotten it ? ,
No I The pain of
the sin will be gone, the punishment will be over, no trace of it
will remain to be read by any curious beholder. but the scar——
thememory——willbe there, and for herself eternity willnever be
able to wipe out its recollection. Imagine what the regret of a
soul will be, brought into close contact with Christ and God,
feelingto overflowingtheintensityof thelove wherewithHe hath
loved us, and yet to know thatit has sinned against and grieved
such love. Such knowledge would have a. restraining power
from sin, or at least thisis God‘s provision for so doing ; surely
He knows best, and there I am quite content to leave it. But
we must go.”
CHAPTER XIX
5
THE SANCTUARY OF SILENCE
I HAD food for reflection. The infinitude which every new
experience opened to me, and the rapidity with which each
succeeding one overwhelmed me, proved to be such a weight of
glory that I almost wished to rest from the liberty and love
continually unfolding with ever-increasing wonder. Standing
in the presence of thisgospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, as inter-
preted by these angel friends, how truly and literally could I
endorse Paul’s conclusion, that even under the most favourable
conditions on earth men but “
see through a glass darkly";
yet in all that had been made known to me, the most careful
attention was given to show that all the difference lay in the
interpretationof theword which had beendelivered : in no single
case had a revelation been made to me in _violation or substitu-
tion of that word. Another fact I invariablynoticed was that
whenever Scripture was quoted, the words and teachingsof the
Master always had pre-eminence, and were regarded with
authorityto which the writings of the Apostles only occupied
a very secondary importance, a system of precedence entirely
at variance to thecustom withwhich I was so long familiar.
'
This rule was so impressed upon me that upon more than
one occasion I mentioned it, but alwaysto hear the same reason
advanced for its adoption. Jesus Christ was the Mediator of
the new covenant, and so was able to speak with more power
and authorityas to its scope, methods, and the conditions by
which its privileges could be secured. This being so, it was
alwaysnot onlythe safest, but thesimplest way to "
hear Him ”
A
rather than to listen to what others had to say about Him. If
any doubt or difficulty existed, every child who seeks to know
the mind of the Father,as revealed in Christ, could ask of Him
and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, the Comforter, by whom
theMaster promised to reveal to His disciplestheinner mysteries
of God, and to bring all thingsto our remembrance.
As I say, I had abundant food for reflectionas I walked with
197
:98 THROUGH THE MISTS
Myhanene amid the flowers and trees of those hill-tops, which
have never been swept by storm ; and he, with that sympathy
and intuition which endears him to all who know him, fathomed
my mood, and came to my assistance in a communion of silence,
which yielded a richer harvest of information than language
could have borne. There are conditions of the mind when its
yearnings are too heavy for ‘words to raise into utterance, or
too ponderous for the tongue to wield ; they lie, like the un-
known treasures of the sea, in the silent caves of our own deep
experience, where the fathom-lineof language has not yet had
lengthenough to reach ; but theywho wish to see and under-
stand thenative worth and strengthof thesesoul-longingsmust
dive into the depths of sympathyin which theylie, and b the
lamp of kinship read the mystic hieroglyph which plea for
light and truth.
Such silences he had no doubt sounded many times before,
my frame of mind was one with which he was by no means
unfamiliar,and witha generosity I can never repay, he came to
my assistance. Simultaneously,he seemed to throw both arm
and soul around me, external objects faded from my sight, while
I was drawn into a rapt communion in which I could read his
inmost soul. I have never yet been able to satisfy myself with
any explanationof thatunique experience, neither shall I here
attempt such a fruitless task. With regal condescension but
childlikeliberalityhe led me into the palace of his experience,
where he threw open the doors of rooms furnished .with royal
luxuriance, and tables spread with every viand for which my
soul was hungering-—biddingme enter in the name of Christ,
and eat, and drink, and live.
With shoes from off my feet I acceptedhis unspoken invita-
tion, passed across that sacred threshold, wandered through
those halls of fellowship, and banqueted on truth, while the
orchestra of his heart wooed me with angel music, set to that
petition from Gethsemane’sprayer—“ That theyall may be one,
as -Thou Fatherart in me, and I in Thee, that theymay be one
in Us ”
; and so I listened, wondered, and ate; I bowed my
head and worshipped, in therealisation of the possibilityof how
a prayer could find its rich fulfilment.
I have no recollection of any external events of thatjourney
in theshape of eitherdirection, distance, or landmarksby which
we passed : since that time I may have grown familiarwith its
varied scenes, have paused to study the multitude of lessons
which its flowery beds could teach, have lingered in other con-
templations under the trees I passed with Myhanene,‘but I do
THE SANCTUARY OF SILENCE 199
not know it. Theisurroundingswere blotted out in thepresence
of the reverie, and of that I have been able to keep no other
record than one full cup of rapture, whilethe overflowhas gone
to bless some othersoul.
I remember, however, a question which passed across my
mind during the ecstasy of thatcommunion, to which I received
no reply either then, or since ; yet still I keep and treasure it,
for I am well assured it will be answered and I shall realise all
the glory which the answer will reveal. The voice came as an
accompanimentto themusic of thatprayer, rising withinmyself
as if it were the tongue of some inward prophet, directing my
gaze to a glory too bright for me to look upon, and I asked
myself: "
If this communion with a servant be so sweet, what
shall I feel when the Master is my host ? If when on the way
to Emmaus, the heart of the disciples burned within them, in
spite of their fearful, crushed and wounded souls-—even when
theyknew him not-what willbe the fervent heat when I shall
see and know the Lord? "
I remember how I pondered over
the thought—how I wished for the knowledge, even while I
feared, and then I hoped—yes, while I hungered—that many
stages might yet intervene before I was permitted to clasp His
sacred feet, and give my soul sufficient time to purge itself and
grow strong enough to bear and comprehend the weight of such
wondrous bliss.
“
This is the place?”
“
N01 N01 not yet,” I cried, as the announcement of my
companion roused me from the sweet reverie by which I had
been so completely engrossed, and in the startling confusion of
themoment, I was conscious of thepresence of. a fear-tingedhope
thatHe whom I so longed to see was near, while I was equally
swayedby a regret thateven such a denouement should end the
pleasure which.had so entranced me.
Myhanene smiledat my discomfiture, and I thoughtI could
detect something in his look which told me how perfectly he
understood all that had been passing throughmy mind, but he
very quietly said :
"
My experience in this life has taught me that it is always
best to reach the mountain's peak before attempting to under-
stand the view, or satisfy myself as to _the effect the scene will
produce upon me when I get there."
The double entente of his remark was not lost upon me, but
thespell havingbeenonce broken, thedoor of my reverieclosed,
and I foundwe were standingupon th‘e.crest of a hillin thepres-
ence of a scene which demandedall my admirationand attention.
200 THROUGH THE MISTS
Before and beneathus lay a plain of such exquisite beauty
as I can find no words to describe, and of such extent I cannot
trust myself to estimate, but I distinctlyrememberwondering
as I gazed upon it whether it might not have been permitted
to theimmortal Homer, during the pilgrimageof his sleep, to
stand where I was standing and drink in the revelation which
created his picture of thatElysiumwhere‘:
“
Joys ever young, unmixed with ain or fear.
Fillthewide circle of the year; "
where all the heroes, passing without the pain of death-——lest
even thememory of it should bring a shadow upon theirjoy :
"
For ever rest
Upon thenever-witheringbanks of flowers."
It may have been so, who can tell, for if it is part of God's im-
mutable law thatHe reveals Himselfto prophets in dreams and
visions of the night (note Numb. xii. 6) who shall deny" the
possibilitythatthepropheticdoorinheavenhasnot alwaysstood,
and still stands, open to the songster as to the preacher-seer?
The harvest of thepoet's vision,
With all its subtle web of music metaphor
And perfumed-imagery,is not the climax
Of any earth-sownseed ; neitherevolves
From “
modes of. thought"
evolved by helpless molecules.
The poet has a. soul. So when the warder, Night,
Opens‘the door, called Mortal, of his prison-house,
And bids the seer rest, withinthe cell of sleep,
This soul takes wing, and throughthe fields
Of his Elysinm——Heaven—-orwhat you will,
He roams, entranced, by angel-tutors led,
Gatheringfresh vision seeds of embryonictruths
With which to enrich the hope-aureoledgospel
He prophesiesin song, thathe may help the oppressed
To toil and wait the dawn of better days
Of which his eyes have caught the breaking rays.
It must be so. Did not David and Paulcarry back to earth the
knowledgeof such visits, and was not thetheory,which had been
explained to me, of sleep in perfect harmony with ‘such an
hypothesis? More than this, how often had I in my old life
wrestled with my memory, striving to tear from out its mystic
chambersome coveted experienceof the night thatonlylingered
in some il1—defined vibration in my mind? Were these experi-
ences unique to myself? I who had no poetic element in my
THE SANCTUARY OF SILENCE 201
composition? No! No! As I gazed upon the scene before
me, now admiring its indescribable beauties, and again
questioning myself with the multitude of thoughts which
spontaneously presented themselves, I became more than ever
impressed with the fact of how completely the two conditions
inter-sphere each other for those who have eyes to see and ears
to hear, and my understanding opened to the appreciation of
the declaration, "
Ye must be born again," before one is able to
participatein therevelationof theworld of spirit, as thenatural
man becomesabsorbed in the world of matter. -
Save for the two brief remarks I have recorded, my com-
panion made no attempt to disturb my contemplation, but left
me to drink in all the knowledge I could appropriate without
assistance, a pleasant method.of tuition universally adopted
here, leaving the mind in the first place to adapt and assimilate
thatto which it naturallyopens, to which is added emphasisand
strengthbyrepliesandexplanationsto the queriestherevelations
call forth.
I had divined the meaning of the exclamation which had so
startledmeat first,and knewthat,for thepresent,we had reached
theend of our journey. I had been invited to a festival, but of
its nature and purport I had not the faintest idea, and the
conversation and communion we had had by the way left me
no inclination,even had theopportunityoccurred, to make any
further enquiry in relation to the matter. From the appear-
ance of the place I was of theopinion that it was somethingof
a floralféte we were about to witness. for the location chosen
was a veritable enchanted home of floriculture.
Every tree,’ shrub, and plant bore flowers of size, colour,
perfume, and beautyof which many. were unknown to me, and
far exceeded anything I had yet beheld. Trees of the palm-
like species raised trunks of transparent amberand pink, while
from the extremities of their branches fell large variegated
waxen bells, like canopies, above the heads of those who sat
beneath.’ No tree in all the plain but had its bloom, and no
flower but retained its distinctive odour, which could be ascer-
tained and enjoyed at will. I gazed with wonder, too, upon a
novel use thisvast display of flowers was put to. Clusters, and
beds. and terraces were formed into seats of soft repose or
galleries and orchestras, from which strains of celestial music
were already floatingupon the air, while the vast concourse of
peopl&-gatheredfrom I knew not where, since withinthe whole
range of vision no buildingcould be seen———patiently waited for
theadvent of some comptrollerof proceedings.
202 THROUGH THE MISTS
"
Since there is nothing without a purposehere,” I asked
my companion at length, “may I know what is the special
object of thisgathering?”
"
Certainly. It is a time of examination—graduation—if
you like it better. Some, perhaps many, of the friends here
assembledhave becomeentitledto promotion,and thisgathering
is for thepurpose of testing them; if you prefer the idea;it is a
)udgm'ent da ."
_
"
Why dzyou speak indefinitely of the number of the for-
tunate ones ; do you not know them?”
“
No! we do not know themuntil the test is applied; when
allwho teachthestandard willbeeasilydistinguishedbya result
against which there can be no appeal; but the great majority
of theassemblagehave come to witness the translation and join
the thanksgiving. You have already beheld the awakening
-
which ensued in the caseof some new arrivals, so I thought it
would be equallyinteresting for you to see thisnext change."
“
I am intensely interested,” I replied, "
but now I under-
stand the gatheringbetter I am more impressed with the idea
of watchinga wedding festivity thana parting ceremony."
"
That is due to the correct appreciation in the minds of
everyone of the change about to take place. Here you see a
repetition of the scene you witnessed at the home of the boys,
where every child wished and hoped to be promoted to the
higher life. Such would be the result on earth also if the birth
of death was correctl understood. Each change produces a
furtherdevelopment0 power in the man, of which there can be
no cessation, and at the same time separates him from all in-
fluences which would be a hindrance in the future, while he
is introduced to the companionship of others who are able to
stimulate him to greater spiritual attainments. Those who
will leave their friends here presently will not besevered from
them; the love existing between them will still continue, for
those who ascend will be like mountain guides, who carry
with them a cord by which they can assist their friends
behindto make an easier ascent."
At this moment a soft sound, like the vibration of a silver
bell, reached us; as far as I was concerned it had no meaning,
and would have passed unnoticed, but to those in the plain
below it was full of impor‘t—-a signal for the commencement of
thefestival It was like a buglesoundingthe “
fall in.’.' Every
orchestrafbecame tenanted, and at various points large com-
panies of singers gathered together in marching order in such
arrangement as to indicate that the central point of the
THE SANCTUARY OF SILENCE 203
displaywould benearwhere we were standing. The assembling
gave me an opportunity of forming an estimate of the vastness
of themultitude which had beenbrought together.
Never beforehad my eyes rested on such a concourse swayed
by one common impulse, animated by the self-same joy,_-free
from a single shade of jealousy. A second chime sounded from,
the invisiblebell, in answer to which a thousandinstruments, as
soft and sweet of tone as most of them were strange of kind.
breathedforth the overture of thatservice. Now the voices of
thechoristers blendedwiththemusic, and eachof thecompanies
moved forward witha rhythmicmotion thatwas neithermarch
nor dance, but rather a gliding complement emphasising the
measureof thetheme. Thenall thegreatcongregationsurround-.
ing us took up the chorus, and for the first time in my new life
I listened to the song of theredeemed, which surged around me
like thesound of many waters, which was poured forth to “
Him
who hathredeemed us and washed us from our sins, making us
kingsand priestsunto God and to HisFatherfor ever and ever."
Whether thismusic was sweeter than thatof the magnetismsI
had heard first in the Home of Rest I am not even now able to
determine; they were both perfect of their\kind, so far as I
could form an o inion, and only differed from each other as the
beautyof the ower varies from the grandeur of the sunset’s
lory.
g
The musical part of the service was not of long duration, or,
in the multitude of influencesit wrought upon me, I was lost to
every other sense than the magic of ‘this new-found charm, so
that its termination ca.me all too soon; but as its final echoes
were dying away,and thecongregationstood withbowed heads,
.
as if waiting for a benediction, Myhanene touched me, and,
turning, called my attention to an orb of light that was falling
like a meteor towards us from over themountainswhich towered
peak over peak in thefar away. I turned to ask my companion
for an explanation, and found that he had been transformed in
his appearance, and stood beside me arrayed‘ in all the glory
withwhich I had first beheld him. Neitherof us spoke, but as
theorb alightedon thehill-topnear us, mantlingthe whole with
a radiance with which I was almost afraid to be enveloped, he
motioned me to stand and watch whilehe went to greet theone
who led theshininghost who stood around us.
I was alone among the heavenly beings, the most lowlyof
which were of equal rank withhim who had just left me ; this
I could well ascertain by their colour and brightness, for I was
becomingso conversant withit as to determine easily..
But who
204
.
THROUGH THE MISTS
and what was the station of their chief ? That he was greater
and mightierthananyone I had yet met I needed not to be told;
thehomagepaid to him by my friendwould have revealed that;
but it was also proclaimed by the diadem of glory he were as a
distinctivebadge, in addition to his individual brightness,which
outshone all else. In his hand he ca.rried a large crystal globe
thatremindedme of thebright, but tiny,jewel I had seen ca.rried
by thedove in the MagneticChorale. As I looked upon it, even
from the distance at which I stood, it seemed to blush and
palpitate with a power I could not define—if life were visible
I should caH it life,——perhaps holiness, perhaps love, it might be
all three combined,but it so impregnated the atmosphere as to
render it difficult for me to retain my position.
I have no words to describe thatangel chief, and it is better
not attempted; but I, even amidst the awe with which his
presence inspired me, fell a victim to thehabit I have contracted
of asking the how and why of everything, and found myself
trying to solve the problem that, given the fact that eternal
progression of the soul was the law, and every angel in heaven
had once been a man, how long would it require for one in my
position to reach the point at which he stood? I gave it up,
however, and ‘recalled myself to watch the more immediate
proceedings.
He took up his position on a kind of natural platform just
below me on the hill-side, while his attendants gathered around
and behind him, like a court in the presence of a monarch. I
vainly anticipated he was about to address the congregation,
and at once wonderedwhat a lecture, speech, or sermon in heaven
would be like ; but not a word was spoken; the experience was
ratherthe reverse, for as he stood, his eyes slowlypassing over
the great assemblage, I felt the unutterable joy of listening to
that great revelation, “
silence in heaven," which forms one
chapter in that "
mystery of godliness” that cannot be trans-
lated into language’. In the temple of holiness not built with
bands, which is eternal in the heavens, there is a sanctuary of
silence, into which, no matter how many may enter, they can
bring no vibration of a sound—the eternal hush ever remains
unbroken.
Here the soul bows itself in worship, and in answer to its
prayer of perfected faith, listens to the voice of the Eternal
Father, who reveals Himself without a cloud between. It is
here the eyes are opened, and, for the first time, "
the pure in
heart see God.” It was in such a worship this congregation
bowed, and I among their number. Were they all within that
THE SANCTUARY OF SILENCE 205
sanctuary of silence? Not by any means. I did not understand
it then ; from the threshold the great majority of us stood and
listened to the unbroken and profound peace thatdwelt therein,
but we heard not the voice of the Fatherspeaking ; thiswas the
test, thestandard by which to measure thesouls to be promoted,
the declaration of whose adoption would be visibly pronounced
by and by.
The silence ended with a spontaneous and universal deep-
drawn breathof gratitude, like a fervent Amen which could not
beconfinedwithinthesoul, and I felt——all felt—thatin thatquiet
some great mysterious change had taken place; that some had
passed again, not from death,but from life into life more abund-
antly ; but how or who had thus been changed from glory unto
glory no one but theywho had heard the voice could tell.
We were not kept long in suspense. Scarcely had thesound
of that Amen died away, when the angel chief stepped forward
to theedge of theplatform,and floatedhis crystalglobeupon the
air. Overthecentreof themultitude it expanded,and,stretching
itself like a cloud of light, gently descended towards the wor-
shippers. So thin did the mysterious film become, that pr -
sently it was entirely lost to sight, but still the sense of smell
could trace its odoriferous perfume, sweeter by far than all the
flowers, and I knew that,thoughunseen, it had a mission which
I watched to see made known. It reached its goa1——fell like a
dew of benedictionon all, but some—ma.ny—were changed by
its influence until we, as well as they,could read in no unmis-
takable language their title clear to advance.
At this moment another company of immortals descended
from thehillson my right to theplain,chantinga song of welcome
to the friends theywere to accompanyto theirnew home ; this
song was answered by a jubilate from the assembly, during
which the chosen ones arose, were joined by the choir above,
and the festival was over.
CHAPTER XX
BEULAH LAND
WHEN the visitors, whom I can onlydescribe as beingfrom the
hillcountry and beyond,had retired, theywho were left behind
on the plain—insteadof
BEULAH LAND »
207
you ca.n understand about him at present; if I were to try t6
explainhis rank,station and duties, I should onlybespeakingin
enigmas, so I am afraid you must be content with his name
om -ll
3!‘ Have the friends who were-—promoted—I can find no
otherword to express my meaning-—goneto bewithhim ? ”
“
No ; theyhave passedinto the vicinityof thehome of our
sister, the poetess—where I found you.”
“
And I should like to ask,if I may,where does Omr_a live ? ”
“
That you can never know except by sight, and I am not
sure that I could lend you strength enough to catch even a
distant glimpse of his home ; you have seen the power of his
glorywhen subduedinaccommodationto thesurroundingsof this
estival. but thebrightnessof his estate is thenativepuritywhich
radiates from the holiness which is part of those who dwell so
much nearer to God. But while I cannot hope thatyou willbe
able to define his home, if I can onlysucceed in pointing out its
splendour,it willbe anotherrevelationto furtherstimulate your
aspirations,and furnish food for reflectionby and by.”
“
y soul thirsts for the knowledge," I replied; “
but I
have seen so much that I almost fear to tax my recollection
farther; stillyou know what is best,-and I am content for you to
decide."
“
Come then,withme ; every cup in heaven is filledto over-
flowing. You rememberthepromise of Christ—youmust realise
it here——‘ to him that hath shall be given,’ yea, even
‘
good
measure, pressed down and running over,’ neither is there any
need to beanxious, for theoverflowcannot belost ; your memory
may not recall it at once, but when the need arises it will be
‘forthcoming; therefore, come on, and look as far as possible
along the pathwayof your future unfoldment."
I must confess thatI was timorouslygladto hear his decision.
I longed to beholdthe glorywhich should be revealed,but I was
conscious of my own weakness and inabilityeven as he spoke of
it, and questioned myself as to what the effect would be when I
stoodin its presence. Nevertheless,I hadconfidencein myguide,
as well as an inward assurance that I was beyondthepossibility
of injury,so withnervous reliance I took his proffered hand and
we started on our new journey.
Howlongour companionshipwouldlast I had not theslightest
means of knowing, but I was.ever increasinglyaware that the
longer I spent withany one of these friends the more hopelessly
I fell in arrears with the queries suggested by their presence.
Therefore,thoughthescenes throughwhichwe passed weremore
208 THROUGH THE MISTS
than sufficient to call forth all my powers of admiration and
observation, my thirst for information was still greater, and I
speedilybegan to tax his generosityfurther.
“In”my intercourse withour sister," I said, "
she seemed to
give expression to opinions which difiered considerably from
those I have heard expressed by others; was I correct in my
conclusions, or do you thinkI misunderstood her? "
“
I*have no doubt you are quite correct," he replied; "
we
have very marked‘differences of opinion on some points."
"
How is that? I surely expected to find all such divisions
at an end here." ’
“
Thereis a vast distinction,my brother,betweendifierences
and divisions. I know that on earth difierences of opinion
frequently cause very painful divisions, but it is not so here,
where we have learnedthat‘
thetruthbut makes us free.’ Below
it is held as a cardinal principle in practice that the geologist
shall appraise a dogma. at exactlythe same value and according
to theestimate of the theologian,or he is regarded as an atheist,
and is rightfullyshut out from thecompany of the faithful; and
the same rule.is more or less stringentlyapplied to every other
branch of learning. How absurd. Did not the same God Who
inspired the pen inspire the rocks ; did He infuse ink with the
whole revelation and leave the rest of chemistry a blank; was
Hiswillbequeathedentirely to theprinting press, and the other
manufacturesleft in pauperism; were the confines of His love
left to the discriminationof a bookbinder,and theartistic world
ignored ; has the Illimitableand Infinitesubmitted to absorption
by a
slewishnation and left no possible record for astronomy to
read .
“
As the macrocosm,so you will find the microcosm has its
arrangementin order to produce thenatural harmonyfor which
it has been designed. We have arrived at the knowledge that
no man can grasp—much less rnonopolise—thewhole of truth,
but every mind appropriatesits own congenialmolecule ; by and
by thewhole of thisvarietyof thoughtwill begatheredtogether
as a florist arranges his flowers into a choice bouquet—every
individualmind will then give utterance to its natural tone, and
the volume of the whole will create and produce the perfect
harmonyof truth’sfull chord. In accordance withthisyou will
find there is still a variety of opinions upon minor matters-
preference for shades of thought regulated by the conditions of
different individua.ls-——butyou willnever meet withanyone who
willcall blue pink,or blackamber."
"
There was no room. neitherwas I in any mood for argument ;
BEULAH LAND ,
209
to my questionshe simplymade a pronouncementin reply,which
for the present I received, intending to make it the subject ‘of
reflection first, then discussion afterwards if necessary, when
suitable oppo'rtunity should occur.- There was also another
reason which prevented me from pursuing our conversation
further for the present. For some time, while listening with
close attention to my friend,I had becomeaware thatas we sped
onward the atmospherebecamelighter, until, as he concluded. I
found I had quite lost the power of speech. I was overwhelmed
with sensations strange and indefinable——not unpleasant, but
rather the contrary ;—I had entered the domain of some in-
vigorating, irresistible happiness, which buoyed me up and
carriedme forward withan increasingimpetuswhichoverpowered
and silenced me. The sense of weight, of fear, of doubt, of
everythingsave an inexpressiblejoy,had left me. _
— I looked at my companion and then realised that the buoy-
ancy and impelling power was due to the eflort he was putting
forth to give me of his strength to ascend. But I presently
becameconscious thateven he was growinglimitedin thisrespect,
therewas for an instant a perceptible waver in our flight,but he
threwhis arm around me and drew me so close to himself thatI
becameirradiatedwithhis own brightness,whichthrilledthrough
me, seeming to bid defiance to all weakness; then, by a single
eflortof his will,likealightningflash,he bore me acrosstheinter-
vening space, and we alighted upon the peak of some azure-
tinted, celestial mountain. How far we travelled upon that
flashof willI shall perhaps never know,but it gave mean illustra-
tion of the speed at which it is possiblefor Myhaneneto journey,
and the methodby which he reached the home of the Assyrian,
whichhad prevoiuslycaused me so much astonishment.
Heaven lay unrolled before me. I can find no other word to
conveyeven a crude suggestionof thescene-—itspurity,its beauty,
and its peace—-inits presence all that I had before beheld paled
intoinsignificance. From our feet a mighty plain stretched into
the far away, bathedin a soft, unchanging,pulseless light, that ,
bysome miracle may once have kissed the pearl and made it
blush with all its modest loveliness. Then, in the distance-—
however far theeye might travel-—undimmed,distinct and vivid
as theforeground, thererose to view chain on chain, and tier on
tier, the heavenly mountains-—-countless hills on which equally
countless terraces were spread——terraces large as plateaus, each
vieingwiththe otherin mansions, parksand flowers,like models
of angel cities standingin galleries Divine, all canopied withthe
smile of God. Each terrace was bathed in its_ own distinctive
0
210 THROUGH THE ‘
MISTS
glory, the brillianceincreasingwith the ascent. The sight con-
veyed to my mind the idea of a grand celestialstaircase leading
to thethrone-roomof the Infinite. At eitherextremityof those
steps, as thoughto preserve the balance and complete thedesign
of the heavenly architecture, rose the peaks of intersecting
ranges, like regal janitors, bathedin atmospherichues, '
in theirascent into tintless glory where unsullied crystal pillars
formedthebackgroundof thevision, bearingupon theirshoulders
a structure that blazed and flashedlike a diamond reflectingthe
llght of some eternal sun.
Myhanene.when he hadgivenme time to drinkin therapture
of the scene, called my attention to that home of indescribable
magnificencein the distance, and simplysaid:
"
That is Omra’s home."
But this,I was told,was not heaven upon whichmy eyes were
feasting; it was but the Beulah Land or link betweenthelower
and a higher conditionof thesoul's development. My friendhad
crossed that almost illimitable plain—in the near foreground of
which he pointed out his own home to me—ascendedthatdivine
staircase, and with Omra stood, as I was then standing,to look
upon scenes more glorious yet beyond; Omra had gazed u In
otherspurer still; but how manylaybetweenthatpoint and
I cannot learn, yet up these successive galleriesof holiness each
soul must climbbeforeit can besatisfied,and see Himas He is.
Myhanene would now have carried me to see" his home, but
such an ocean of bewilderingmajesty overpowered my sense of
comprehension that I prayed him to take me back.
CHAPTER XXI
HOME
EVERY detail of thislife is educational. When one has oppor-
tunities for retirement to meditate upon the knowledge he has
gained, he is overcome by the mass of information which here
naturallyunfolds from a single episode, as also the unanimity
of testimony to enforce the one great law by which this life_is
governed, even thoughthe contributingagenciesappear to have
no possible connection witheachother.
It will be rememberedthat one of the first incidents which
attracted my attention after my arrival was the action of that
poor woman tryingto make her way towards homesforwhichshe
was unfitted ; Eusemos explainedthetheoryof thelawoperating
upon and preventingher carrying out her desire ; Cushna after-
wards illustratedit for me in thecase of Marie ; and now Myhan-
ene had given me a practicalexample of it in my relationshipto
theentrancingscene whichlaybeforeme. There wasno external
power presentto preventme reachingsuch abodes of rest,theway
was open, and I wassure I should find a welcome if I could only
reachtheirportals; but that“if "
was theall—suflicient“why”
I
did not gratifymy heart’sdesire. There was no more barrier to
my breathingthelife atmosphere of those heavenlymountains
thanthereis on earth to prevent the Laplanderfrom sharingthe
beautiesof the tropicalsummer; the onlyreason was in myself,
my present nature was unadapted to the surroundings, hence
they were not congenial to me; so, while it was heaven in a
measure to Myhaneneand his friends,I was overpowered——sha.llI
say, uncomfortab1e—a.ndanxious to be away. “
But whileI wasstandingon thoseheights,withmycompanion's
arm stillaround me, Ilearnedone sweet lesson more completely
thanI had ever anticipated——thetender sympathyand humility
with which those higher, holier natures render assistance to the
weaker. Oh! the devices, the resources theyhave at command,
and the readiness and the unostentation with which they are
brought into requisition to stimulate and encourage one to put
forth every endeavour to reach all possible developments and
correspondingadvantages 1 Their love takes hold upon thesoul
like a mighty magnet, and it feels wooed and lifted—u.nless the
III
212 THROUGH THE MISTS t
Divine influence is wilfully repudiated and released—almost
againstitself into continualre-birthsof holierbeing. Thereis no
patronage, no attempt to kindle a feelingof indebtednessfor the
service theyso willinglyperform, but theycommence-—andcarry
on theirmission—as if solicitinga favour. and all theadvantages
were theirs. Whatevertheymayhavedone,theyhave a. wonder-
ful power and aptitude of makingyou feel—no matter how great
your enjoymenthas been—thatby far thegreater happinesshas
accrued to them. '_
'
Whatwas it thatpromptedEusemos toshowme thatpanorama
of the country, or Cushna to give me the delight of witnessing
the Chorale ? Why should Siamedes instruct me in respect to
the nature and condition of the sleepers, or Myhanene carry me
to behold the delights-in which he lives? I had no claim upon
them,no power to render them,in theleast, any compensation;
there was only one motive, one reason—-love, thatgreat master
impulse which sways its unchallenged sceptre throughout the
whole domain of immortality! I knew it—--felt it. The one
desire which actuated all with whom I had been brought into
contact. had been to prevent my becomingtoo satisfied at the
outset of my new life with the conditions with which I should
find myself surrounded, whatever theymight prove to be. Ac-
tivityis thenatural heritage of the soul, excelsior its motto, and
holiness its goal; thus their united endeavour had been to
arouse in me a great desire to reach out after the ideals which
ever lie on before ; to realise the fact that the legitimate satis-
-factionof man can only be achievedwhen, like the Psalmist of
old, he awakes to the consciousness that he has attained to the
likeness of God. -
Yes! I had learned that lesson, and as I gazed upon the
vision before me, I felt conscious that their object would not be
altogetherfrustrated, at least in my case. The wish to be able
to roam those fields of bright glory,which were the home of my
friends, but yet so far from me, was born within me, and I
determined thatmy hope should not be crushed or thwarted by
any object or duty which must necessarilylie in between, but
throughall and everything,I would press on until my feet had
climbedunto this goal of my first desire in heaven. Myhanene
prophesiedthatthe sight would fire my aspirationsif I could but
attain to it, and he was right—these aspirations now were all
aglow; I was anxious to find my present home, that I might
understand from whence I was to commence the stupendous
ascent. I knew not where I should find it——hitherto, had never
given it more than casual thought—butI longed to reachit now.
HOME ‘
213
Wherever it might be,it could be no more thantheresting—place4
for a sojourner; whatever its pleasures might be, I had gazed
upon others for which my soul would pant, ‘
as the hart panteth
after thewater-brooks'
; howeverrich its beauties,I had beheld
greater, the memory of which could not be effaced,and I should
never rest contented tillI called themmine.
Then thequestion involuntarilysuggested itself——“ Shall I be
contented then? "—but so it would ever continue to arise if I
attempted to answer it, so I pressed it down, and determined to
bound my first ideal here. But as I came to this conclusion, a
shadow passedover my mind as I thoughtof what an almost in-
terminable distance might lie between me and the object of my .
desire. Myhanene was instantly conscious of its presence,
though he did not speak, but I felt a thought which proceeded
from him that opened out beforeme into another reverie-
revelation thathad more influenceand consolation than words.
Thereis but one wayfor allmankindto travelon theirpilgrim-
age to God ; theearthstages had been tampered with and ren-
dered difiicultto trace, but from wheremy feet were standingthe
waywas clearand unmistakable. It was thewaycalledStraight,
whose engineerwas God Himself,and it bore Hisstamp and seal,
even as we findit upon thefaceof Nature. At thispoint Nature
became to me the interpreter of grace, and my soul drifted with
its flow into the ocean of another revelation. What man can
stand withwatch in hand and say——-“ The day is dead, and night
is born ? "
Who can divide accuratelytheseasons as theycome
and go ? Who is learned enough to fix the boundary of sleep?
The early frosts of winter are sandwiched into autumn’s golden
days, and spring dovetailsher sunshine into icy blasts ; daylight
comes backwithinsinuatingpulses, stealinga footingunobserved
upon thecheek of night ; theopeningleavesput forthso stealthily
that even though we stand on guard to watch, we should be ,
compelled to say——" It is not ; yes, it is.”
In Nature there are no leaps and bounds, no cul—de-sacs or
chasms,or sharp divisions in its great law of progress ; theorder
is, unfoldment from within,stimulated by the appropriation of
congenialnourishment from without. Thissame developmentis
also observable in the stages of life, so far as theycome within
the cognisance of mortals. Who is learned enough to discover
the instant of being, or tell the time of the soul's departure ?
Who can say when unconsciousness unfolds into consciousness,
or theinstinct of the babe gives placeto intelligence ? Who can
define when responsibility»is born, or draw a line betweeninfancy
and boyhood ? So the parallelof nature and soul might be con-
2:4 THROUGH rm: msrs
finned. But enough! If the same law is evident at the com-
mencement, and continues as far as man can trace it, by what
right do we assume that any change occurs beyondour ken?
fhven the same God as Creator and Preserver—Authorand Fin-
isher-—and He unchangeable, why not the sa.me law, and that
Immutable ?
The thoughtconsoled me, gave me strengthand peace. The
distance between me and my ideal was no doubt great ; but it
would bereachedbya naturalprocess of which theduration, to a
great extent, lay in my own hands. "
God is no respecter of
persons "; there is no royal road or cros-country cut to the
throne reserved for an elect few, but One Way, which is "
the
way, the truth, and thelife," and he who makes the attem t to
climb by any other willbe cast out as a
"
thiefand a rob r.”
No, no. thered-handed assassinneitherbylip or heart confession
can take one leap from the scafiold—untaught,still trembling,
and withlips from which the echoes of profanity have scarcely
died away—into the presence of that God who is "
too pure to
behold iniquity." '
Salvation does not guarantee a. sudden transition from de-
bauchery to the white-robed throng, from , the ribald jest of
profligacyto “
sing thesong of Moses and theLamb ”
; it means
"
acceptance in the beloved” when the penitent prodigal has
carried out his determination to arise and go to his father—has
made the pilgrimagefrom the far country to the homeland;
passed the cross where he receives the promises and becomesan
inheritor of that faith which “is the substance of thingshoped
for "; adopted into the familyof saints and entering into the
companionship of Christ, who will never again leave him or for-
sake him,he willbeled on from gloryuntoglory,at eachsuccessive
stage his soul unfolding that purity and holiness which will
ultimatelyenable him to :
"
Dwellin theeternal Light
Throughthe Eternal Love."
My companion was by no means anxious to terminate my
visit even though I had suggested it. He was happy—so happy
—there ; it was.his home, and when I had an interval eitherin
my reverie, or wonder, to bestowon him, I was conscious of the
[intensity of his fervent wish thatit was mine a.lso—but it could
not be for thepresent, so next to that,he allowedme time to look
upon it until the enthusiasmwas strong within me, which de-
clareditshouldbeas soon as I could rise to itsrequirements; then
a gentle pressure of his arm indicatedhiswish,andI turnedaway.
HOME 215
"
How long have I been here—in thislife? "
I asked, when
my power of speech returned to me.
“
Only a few weeks accordingto the computation of earth,"
he replied. “
Why; are you tired? ”
"‘
No! I shall never be tired'again, I can feel that; but I
have learned so much and been so interested that I have never
given a thoughtto timevbefore."
"
Why have you learnedso much ? "
he asked.
"
Thatis a questionyou could answer best,”I replied.
"
It is simply because you have asked so much. Your
earth-life was one long note of interrogation; not so much to
your fellow-men, for they did not understand—could not have
answered—-you; but your queries were to yourself, to us. Now
youhave commencedto findtheanswers in thelittlewe havebeen
enabled,at present, to do for you. But, remember,we have only
begun,we shall begladto continue presently; in themeantime I
willtake youto your home,where you mayrecallyourexperiences
so far,whileyou rest for a whileand get rid of thoseinfluencesof
the body which stillclingto you, and would prevent your enjoy-
ment of other revelations thatawait you.-"
“Home/’ I repeated; “did you hear my wish then, as I
stood upon the hill? I have been so interested that I had not
given one thoughtto thisuntil I was looking upon yours. which
made me wonder what distance could lie between the two.
Was my thoughta premonitionof what was comingnext ? "
"
Perhaps it was," he replied ;
"
come and see."
Our way led through a succession of picturesque groves,
alternated by lovely dells and glades, where we passed by few
individuals, thus enabling our communion on many themes-to
be undisturbed,but I willnot weary you with their recital here. .
I have volumes of greater experiences yet to relate, and if this
effort but achievesits object, as expressed in the earlier pages, I
will come again and continue my pleasant task. As we walked
along, I observed every now and then the bright thought-flash
speed away from my companionin advance of us, whileever and
anon a response came back, telling me that while he was in-
structing me, he was also holding converse with some distant
friend. At that time I was unskilled in reading such corres-
pondence and was therefore entirely ignorant of its nature, but
whatever it might be it only aroused a passing curiosity in my
mind at its novelty—my interest was entirely centred in the
subjects.we were discussing.
In passing throughone glen, which from its extreme beauty
excited my admiration and put an end to our communion, we—-
216 THROUGH THE MISTS
to me suddenly and unexpectedly—cameacross Cushna, Arvez,
and several other friends who were unknown to me. These, at
Myhanene’ssuggestion, joinedus, as he evidentlydid not wish to
linger on the way. Shortly afterwards we met Eusemos and a
company of choristers, who greeted us with a song of welcome ;
theytoo joined us, and we went forward listening to theirmusic
until we encountered Azena, with a large company of women,
who came to meet Myhanene when theyheard he was coming
that way. Otheradditions were constantly being made to our
numbers, many of the -friends bringing instruments, others
wreathedin flowers, as I had seen themin the festival, untilwe
becamethecentral objectsin a longprocession, joyful and exult-
ant in the songs theysang to welcome my companion, whom I
could not wonder theyloved so well.
Presentlywe‘entered a narrow valley between two ranges of
hills,at theextremityof which we ascended a gentle slope whose
summit commanded a view of a city magnificent beyond any
earthlycomparison. In appearanceit looked as if.builtofpinkish
alabaster, in design a regular square, with avenues running
east and west, north and south,sub-dividingit into numerous
sections easilydistinguishablefrom where we stood by thebroad
divisions,andluxuriantinthemassoffoliagewhichrobedthetrees.
Thebuildingswere elaboratelyornatein character,andthough
of a considerable height, were in themain but of a singlestorey,
withflat roofs, serving the double purpose of garden and prom-
'enade. Each palace-—for only such a designation conveys
anythinglike an adequate conception of theirproportions-was
surrounded by grounds of considerable extent, which in their
arrangement displayed the varied tastes and designs of their
residents, but the whole completed such a perfectly harmonious
picture that Myhanene's ideal of the ultimate harmony of dif-
ferences spontaneously flashed upon my mind. Everything
everywhere, as far as the eye could reach, proclaimed wealth
luxury, and repose ; and as I looked over the wide area of the
city I askedmyselfif it were possiblethatI should findmy home
in such blissful abodes as these.
As we paused to survey the scene achimeof bells added their
welcome to the music with which we were surrounded. This
appeared to be a signal for all the city to turn out of doors, and
the whole multitude came forward to meet us. One of the first
was Helen, and close behind her came one and then another
whom I had known in those horrid dens and purlieus of London.
Some of themwere persons to whom I had been sent by that
mysterious influence of which I had spoken and that I could
I
I
HOME 217
never understand ; some I had helped byreading‘to them,while
to others I had beenof service in other ways ; withsome I had
talked and tried‘ to solve theirdoubts, endeavouringto reconcile
theirpainfulsurroundingswiththe consistencyof a God of love ;
to othersI had attempted to explainmy vague ideas of heaven or
sought to give them some little solace by expounding my hazy
theology; the recognition of more than one brought to my
memory a forgotten promise we had made to meet each other
"
beyondtheriver," to which theywere true of purpose, whileI
could onlyclaim to be so by accident.
As I looked upon these well-rememberedfaces-—in spite oi
the marvellous changes which had been wrought upon them-—I
felt thattheirnumberhad somehow multiplied considerably,for
thoughevery singleindividualwas well known I had no idea the
aggregate was half so great. They were no longer paupers, as
when we par_ted, but in theinterval, had sornehow—-—andthereis
onlyone how—beenconverted into kingsand queens, priests and
priestesses to God the Father, and I felt more than honoured
now to renew our friendship.
- When I had come to an end of the more personal congratu-
lations,themusic swelled again into a chorus,'in which thewhole
multitude joined,of welcome home. It was at thismoment that
I realised that all this ovation was on my account, and yet I
couldscarcelybelieveitsountilI turned to Myhaneneand asked :
"
Is thisreallyfor me ? ”
"
Yes, my brother!"
he replied, “
in this city you will find
your home for the present, and our friends have come to bid
you welcome."
Then I understood thatthethought-flasheswhichhad excited
my curiosity were only signals, and our meetings with Cushna
and otherfriends along the pathwere parts of an arranged pro-
gramme, I,all unknowingly,beingthe central object.
The procession re—formed, but this time upon a much more
imposingscale, and I was led forward. thehonoured one insuch
an honourable company, withMyhanenestillat my side and my
more immediate friends and acquaintances grouped around.
Tears of joy and gratitude were my only response to the cul-
stirring welcome accorded to me, and the tokens of affection
lavished, upon me on every hand; even the bells seeming to
become instinct with life as they breathed forth a sympathetic
tulation.' Turning down one of the nearer avenues I
could see our leaders passing into the grounds of a palace so
exquisitelylaid out as to engage my attention beyondall others,
_
even when I first caught sight of them in the distance. But
218 THROUGH THE MISTS
when I reached theentrance, and its full beautyburst upon me.
I paused bewildered,to ask what place it was.
“
Home," was
theonlyword my companion spokein reply,and led me forward
under the influenceof such an ecstasy as one is sometimes per-
mitted to experiencein thedomain of dreams.
On nearingthe house I perceived thatthe draperies which in
thislife serve the purpose of doors. had been drawn aside, in-
dicatingthat all were welcome to enter; but the multitude fell
backto the right and left, theirsong ceased, and Myhanene took
my hand and led me on. On gaining the entrance I saw the
spacious porch fill with a company which might have been the
angel host at that festival I had so recently witnessed. The
central figurewas cladin robesoflight,thoughI didnot recognise
him, for my eyes, as yet, were too unused to look upon such
brightness. AgainI paused,but my guide, diviningmy thoughts,
answered, “
It is Omra "
; therewas no time for more words, we
were nearlyat the crown of the steps, and in anothermoment I
felt an inexpressiblethrillof joyas his arms were thrownaround
me, and he exclaimed:
"Welcome, our beloved one, in the name of our Father;
enjoy thyrest "
; then he raised my head and kissed me, while
theassemblybreathed"
Amen." ,
I did not speak. What could I have said? Who could find
language appropriate for such an occasion ? But there was no
awkward pause, or feeling of discomfort that something was
expectedwhichIdidnotknowhowtoperform. Omraavoidedthat.
"
What a multitude of friends you have with you," he re-
markedinapersuasivemanner,asan invitationtoviewthescene.
At the foot of thesteps, in a distinctivegroup, stood all those
London friendsof whom I have already spoken, and to these he
drew my special attention, saying:
“
My brother,the Lord has promised that ‘
theywho sow in
tears, shall reap in joy ’; in these, our friends, I wish you to
beholdthefulfilmentthereof. Here you maysee, so far as it has
yet beengathered,theharvest of your life's work. You went to
them bearingseed more precious than you could estimate, and
thoughwith a tremblinghand and an uncertain knowledge you
scattered it, stillas theword of God it accomplishedthatwhereto
He sent it ; now your day in the harvest field is over. your work
done ; you return to the God who sent and commissioned you,
bringing your sheaves with you. In the name of Christ who
redeemed us, I thankyou for your ministry of lovefor inasmuch
asye did it to these ye did it also to Him.”
In vain did I assure him thatinthelittle Ihad beenable to do
HOME 219
I had been most greatlyblessed ; thatthe ministry to which ne
referred had been the bright spots in an otherwise most intoler-
able life ; thattheenjoymentswhich naturallyaccrued were far
more thancompensationfor anysacrificeit mighthavedemanded;
whileI was painfullyconscious of how much I had omitted to do
in comparison with the trifle accomplished. He knew all about
it, as I should understand when at leisure to study the‘record of
my work, which had been kept and was open to my perusal
within. There I should see the nett results so.far. compiledby
one too wise to err in judgment or estimate. Then he gave me
his benedictionand departed, leavingMyhaneneto furtherintro-
duce me to my home.
I wish I could find words to convey even a faint idea of the
beautyand completeness of thathouse, but if I attempted it I
should fail,even at theoutset. So thatmust pass. But thereis
one matter to which I must refer, because of its serious import
to those still in the flesh. Jesus Christ, speaking of the many
mansions in His Father'shouse, said to His disciples, “
I go to
prepare a place for you." But what about the furnishing
thereof? This is a thought which had never once crossed my
mind until I entered my new abode; then another great reve-
lationwas made to me. Every article of iumiture, ornamentor
decoration, was most vividlyassociated with—-asthoughit had
been manufactured from—some act, word, or feature of my
earth-life. -It was a terrible truth to learn ; how I wished I had
known it earlier!
One of the rooms contained a series of pictures giving the
record to which Omra had referred ; at a glance I could see the
result was by no means perfect. The original design, in every
case perfectly vifible, was always more or less spoiled in the
equally apparent errors. In them I could easily detect the
weaknesses I still laboured under, and the numerous defects
which would need to be remedied before I could reach that
higher link of life, from the view of which I had just returned.
In studying thisrecord, I could fairlyestimate the workthatlay
beforeme. but was also consciousof thefactthatsuch a homeand
surroundings wherein to undertake the task must in themselves
be calculated to contribute half the success. Then again what
inestimable advantages were available in the new and larger
facultieswhich I had becomepossessed of ; what companionships
should I enjoy; what experience could I not consult?
Myhanenepresentlyled me t one’doorway,over whichthe
curtains were closely drawn. would have entered there, for
some invisible power took possession of me; a voice from out
220 THROUGH THE MISTS
thesilenceseemed to call me, and I pausedin answer to its cry.
But claimingmy attention to otherobjects, as if ignorant of my
wish, my guide led me up to the roof, from which I could take
another view of the city, and one which, in the time to come,
would be the most familiar and valued from its associations.
The air, and theinterest theviewaroused, overcame theagitation
I felt in passingthatforbiddendoor, and when I had grown quite
calm, my companion said:
“
Now, my pleasant duty is at an end for the present ; come
withme one moment, and thenI willsay adieu.”
When we again reached thatdoor he waved his hand for me
to enter alone, thenpassed out and was gone. r
I knew what he meant. In that room one was waiting to
welcomeme home, for thetouch of whose vanished hand,and the
sound of whose voice my heart had ever cried and groaned; one
who had sacrificedher life in givingme mine 1 one whose absence
had sadlyunfittedme for thebattle I had beencompelledto fight ;
one whose name I had frequentlycalled upon in the darknessof
my desolation without any answering response. Had she but
beensparedto me even for thefirst few years, so thatthepresence
of her memory could have remained with me, how different
might my life have been ; the misanthrope might possibly then
have becomea man, playinga manlypart in the regenerationof
the world, and accomplishing some little work worthy of re-
membrance. But alas! theshadow born with me could not be
dispelled, and the burden of its gloom was the cross which was
now to be finallylifted from my shoulders.
Reader, when I was at the home of theAssyrian I stood, like
I
you do now, upon the threshold of such another meeting ; but
you willrememberI told you when thatmomentcame, whichwas
too sacred for a stranger's eyes to look upon, I turned away that
I might not profane theoccasion by my presence. Now I would
ask you to pardon me if I should leave you here while I pass
through the draprries; and for the first time in my whole
existence, that I know of, gaze upon thatlong-sought face. The
ground across this slight boundary is far too sacred to me for
strangers’ feet to tread at present ; the vision awaiting me too
holy to ofier for public inspection. For me earth’s fitful fever
now is over ; I have safelyfound my way, by our Father'sgood-
ness,
“
Through the Mists,” and for the esent. wishing you an
afiectionate adieu, I raise these silken olds, to find myself at
home within the loving arms of—MY Momma.
THE END.
